



Download Request: Select Items: 500-767
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  20:42:37
Send To:







Terms: (terror! )


Source: UK Publications
Project ID: None



                               1 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           August 10 1988, Wednesday

Forces face 83 riot attacks; Internment anniversary; Northern Ireland

BYLINE: RONALD FAUX

SECTION: Issue 63156.

LENGTH: 477 words


Demands for tougher measures against terrorists have been made after violent
demonstrations in Belfast marking the seventeenth anniversary of internment.

The ritual celebrations resulted in 83 attacks on security forces on Monday
night and 42 people were arrested.


Thirteen appeared in court in Belfast yesterday on public disorder and riotous
behaviour charges.

Eight Royal Ulster Constabulary officers were injured in clashes. The police
force said that more serious, widespread trouble had been avoided by quick
action.

The violence brought a strong response yesterday from the Rev Ian Paisley,
leader of the Democratic Unionist Party, who demanded the introduction of
internment for Republican terrorists.

Mr Paisley said the RUC had achieved a 95 per cent success rate in bringing
Protestant terrorists to justice, but the force's success among the Republican
men of violence had been negligible. The difference, he said, was that the
police were able to go into Protestant areas to get evidence.

Rejecting the call by the Northern Ireland Police Federation for even-handed
internment, Mr Paisley said such a move would be unjustified and would
antagonize the Protestant community.

'The facts are that the process of law works in Protestant areas', he said. Last
year 11 murders were attributed to 'loyalist' organizations and 20 people were
charged while republicans committed 69 murders but only eight were charged.

The DUP party executive's answer to the recent upsurge in violence included
calls for capital punishment, more resources to fight the IRA, search and seize
operations in Republican areas, stronger border security and stiffer prison
sentences for terrorists.

A crackdown on terrorism on both sides of the border was demanded by the Rev
Stanley Whittington, President of the Methodist Church in Ireland. He was
speaking yesterday at the funeral of Mr William Hassard, aged 59, a father of
four, shot dead by the IRA on Thursday with another man as they worked at
Belleek RUC station.

Soldiers who survived the IRA bomb blast at Inglis Barracks in north London will
pay tribute to their murdered colleague on Thursday. A full military funeral
will be held at the base for Lance Corporal Michael Robbins, aged 23, who died
in the explosion on August 1, before he is buried in a private family ceremony
away from the barracks.

Irish police and customs officials have smashed an IRA smuggling racket and
seized illegally imported cattle hormones worth Pounds 250,000 at a farmhouse in
Co Monaghan.

Mr Kevin Boland, a former Irish cabinet minister, appealed to the Dublin
government yesterday not to extradite Robert Russell, a Maze prison escaper, to
Northern Ireland later this month.

Britain views the case as a test of the Irish administration's willingness to
hand over terrorist suspects.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                               2 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             August 14 1988, Sunday

Extradition for IRA suspect; Patrick Ryan

SECTION: Issue 8558.

LENGTH: 131 words


LONDON: Britain is seeking the extradition of Patrick Ryan, the former Irish
priest who is suspected of being one of the IRA's leading figures. He was
arrested last month in Belgium for travelling on a false passport.

Lawyers in Whitehall are preparing a case which is likely to include charges of
assisting terrorist attacks in Northern Ireland.


Ryan, 58, was last Friday remanded in custody for a month by magistrates in
Brussels. If the extradition bid fails Ryan could still be deported to Britain.

A Foreign Office spokesman said last week: 'We have a number of charges we may
be able to put.'

The spokesman said the request for Ryan's extradition would probably be filed
within a month. Under Belgian law he can be held virtually indefinitely.(
Insight)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                               3 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             August 15 1988, Monday

Soldiers press for new car plates; Government promises urgent review of security

BYLINE: MICHAELE EVANS, in London, MICHAEL DYNES, in Ostend and RONALD FAUX in
Belfast

SECTION: Issue 63160.

LENGTH: 873 words


The Government promised yesterday that the future of distinctive number plates
for cars belonging to servicemen in West Germany was being 'urgently' considered
following the murder by the IRA of a soldier in Ostend.

BAOR servicemen are pressing to be allowed to have British number plates on
their private cars so that they will not be so identifiable.


Mr Archie Hamilton, the Minister of State for the Armed Forces, who is on duty
during the holiday of Mr George Younger, the Secretary of State for Defence,
promised that the matter was being looked at, two days after the murder by two
IRA gunman of Warrant Officer (Class 1) Richard Heakin.

He was shot while sitting in his car, which had a British Forces Germany (BFG)
registration number, on the way to catch the Ostend-Dover ferry on Friday
evening.

Yesterday Belgian police confirmed that they have managed to compile photofit
pictures of the two IRA gunmen who fired five bullets into Mr Heakin, the
regimental sergeant-major of the 1st Battalion Royal Regiment of Wales.

However, they said that they had not issued the photofit pictures to the public
because of conflicting accounts between the four witnesses to the attack on
Friday night of what the two assailants looked like.

The terrorists had been sitting on a bench at the side of the N10 dual
carriageway, waiting for a BFG-registered car. Mr Heakin was attacked as he was
stopped at traffic lights, just three minutes' drive from the Ostend ferry.

Police in Ostend appealed to people, who may have been in the area around the
time of the killing but had since travelled to Britain, to contact them.

They said British service authorities had been co-operating closely, supplying
information on a number of terrorist suspects.

Meanwhile, Mr Martin McGuinness, the vice-president of Sinn Fein, the political
wing of IRA, told an anti-internment rally in Belfast yesterday that IRA
killings on the Continent will continue.

Mr McGuinness said IRA battalions in The Netherlands, West Germany and Belgium
'speak for us. They speak with one voice. It is the only voice the British
understand'.

He told the cheering crowd: 'When Mrs Thatcher said in her interview (in
Australia) that these people are never, never, never going to win, we say we are
going to win because we have a greater determination than the 30,000 armed thugs
who patrol our streets and harass our people'.

Military sources made it clear yesterday that the growing wish among servicemen
with the British Army of the Rhine was to change to an ordinary British number
plate.

One young soldier driving his car off the P&O ferry Princess Marie-Christine at
Ostend said: 'The number plates have got to be changed.

'We stand out a mile away. I've been thinking about breaking the law and using
British number plates instead. I would rather get done for breaking the law than
get shot for complying with it.'

The wife of one serviceman said: 'You don't really appreciate how dangerous
these number plates are until something happens to one of your friends. Then it
becomes really traumatic, and you get very paranoid.'

Mr Hamilton, in a statement clearly intended to reassure worried servicemen,
said that the Government's 'prime concern is to take the right decision in the
best interests of the safety of British and civilian personnel serving in
Germany'.

Mr Hamilton said: 'If we do decide to seek withdrawal of British Forces Germany
number plates, we shall need to consult the German Government very urgently.'

A report, recommending a number of options, by a team of Ministry of Defence
officials, who reviewed the security risks of continuing with the distinctive
number plates, was completed recently. Mr Younger ordered the review after the
deaths of three RAF servicemen in The Netherlands in May.

The present registration system was arranged with the West German Government
under a Status of Forces Agreement, signed in 1951. Mr Hamilton said that there
were also 'positive security advantages' to having a distinctive number plate.
Although he gave no details, the BFG plate, which has white lettering on a black
background with the letter 'B' at the end, helps the guards at the many barracks
in Germany to recognise an approaching car instantly.

Mr Hamilton said the use of German number plates would present a number of
practical difficulties, such as legal requirements over exhaust systems,
insurance requirements and duty-free petrol. The cars would also still be
recognizable because of right-hand drive steering.

An examination of the issue in 1980 concluded that the present arrangements
should be maintained.

Mr Hamilton said: 'It was felt that the balance of the argument lies with the
present system. No decision has been made under the present review, although the
Ostend shooting will be taken into account.'

Mr Martin O'Neill, Labour's spokesman on defence, accused the ministry of
dragging its feet in reviewing security for armed forces personnel abroad. He
said it was vital steps be taken quickly to minimize the risk.

He said: 'The urgent review that George Younger promised on May 3 seemed to be
gathering dust in Whitehall until this tragedy.'

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                               4 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             August 19 1988, Friday

Charities left 15m pounds in will of hotel magnate; Leopold Muller

SECTION: Issue 63164.

LENGTH: 230 words


A charitable foundation is to be established to distribute a Pounds 15 million
bequest to English charities from the estate of Mr Leopold Muller, the founder
of the De Vere hotel chain.

Mr Muller built up the group from scratch after settling in Britain as a refugee
from his native Austria before the Second World War, after the death of his wife
and two daughters in Nazi concentration camps. He died in June, aged 86.


Mr Michael Garston, Mr Muller's solicitor and one of the executors of his will,
said last night: 'He was always very appreciative of the refuge given to him by
this country.

'It was his wish that the wealth which he had created should ultimately revert
to his adopted country to do good for others.' From the small beginnings of a
restaurant in the Edgware Road in London, De Vere Hotels and Restaurants grew
into a chain of 14 hotels, including the Grand Hotel, Brightonobject of the IRA
bomb attack at the 1984 Conservative Party conferenceand the Connaught Rooms and
the Mirabelle restaurant in central London.

Mr Muller shunned publicity, preferring the quiet life and forbidding the
appearance of his photograph in newspapers. With no surviving close relatives,
he had always intended to leave the bulk of his fortune to charity, Mr Garston
said.

He did not know whether Mr Muller had given to charity while he was alive.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                               5 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            August 20 1988, Saturday

Zia's funeral raises fears of threat to foreigners' security; Theory grows of
Pakistan military's involvement in sabotage of aircraft; Death of President Zia

BYLINE: From NICHOLAS BEESTON in Islamabad and ZAHID HUSSAIN in Karachi

SECTION: Issue 63165.

LENGTH: 800 words


The growing belief that President Zia's death in a plane crash may have been
part of a plot by disgruntled Pakistani military officers has increased concern
for the security of international dignitaries, including the Foreign Secretary,
Sir Geoffrey Howe, when they attend the Pakistani leader's funeral today in
Islamabad.

While no concrete evidence has emerged to identify the suspected saboteurs of
the aircraft, foreign and Pakistani sources are coming to the conclusion that
the attack could not have been orchestrated without the consent or the support
of elements in the armed forces.


Senior diplomats and Pakistani officials held talks in Islamabad yesterday over
the security risk to the foreign leaders at today's funeral, who also include Mr
George Shultz, the US Secretary of State, and a number of world leaders. One
diplomat said: 'The worry is that Zia's death was either a coup in itself or
part of a coup which is not over yet.'

It is not clear what President Zia's assassins hoped to achieve by killing him.
Elections which he promised would be held on November 16 are still going ahead
and no figure has emerged from the military who could be identified as his
successor.

The new Army Chief of Staff, General Mirza Aslam Beg, who was flying in an
accompanying aircraft, is considered a career soldier with little political
ambition.

However, observers of Pakistan's armed forces, the best organized and most
powerful institution in the country, have noted growing dissatisfaction among
junior and middle-ranking officers up to the rank of colonel over their
treatment by General Zia in the past two years.

In particular, they cited discontent among the soldiers for the preferential
treatment given to senior officers, who are rarely punished for incompetence or
corruption and who stifle promotion. Observers admit, however, that it is
difficult to get an accurate picture of the highly secretive working of the
Pakistani military hierarchy to assess the extent of the disgruntlement.

But the speculation that some officers may have been behind the assassination
prompted one diplomat to warn that 'foreign dignitaries could get caught in the
process' of a power struggle.

British officials refuse to discuss the security arrangements for Sir Geoffrey.
Britain's decision to be represented at the funeral by him was taken to show the
respect that London held for its relations with the late Pakistani leader. But
his arrival is expected to cause headaches for British and Pakistani officials
responsible for his safety.

All civilian and military officials involved in presidential trips, as well as
the personnel of the Bahawalpur airport from where the plane had taken off
minutes before the crash, have been detained for questioning.

A remote-control device detonated shortly after take-off is said by experts to
be the likely cause for the explosion.

They rejected a theory that the presidential plane may have come under missile
fire, pointing to the fact that the C130's four engines were intact.

Press reports yesterday said that explosives may have been placed inside crates
loaded on to the plane at the last minute.

Planes used on presidential flights are fitted out before each trip with
containers filled at airport hangars with chairs, tables and other furnishings
and the explosive may have been placed in one of the containers.

Mr Aslam Khan Khattak who, as senior Cabinet member, heads Pakistan's interim
Government, told the Senate on Thursday night that he had had advance warning of
Pakistan's enemies attempting to assassinate leading Pakistani politicians.

Analysts have all but ruled out the theory that his arch-rivals in Moscow and
Delhi would have played any part.

It is still possible, however, that supporters of the Soviet-backed Government
in Kabul, who have been blamed for a number of terrorist attacks inside
Pakistan, may have organized his assassination.

NAMES BLOB

Caretaker team: Pakistan's national emergency council comprises: Mr Khattak, the
Cabinet Minister; Sahabzada Yaqub Khan, the Foreign Minister; Mr Nasim Ahmad
Aheer, the Interior Minister; Mr Mahmoud Haroon, the Defence Minister; Mr Wassim
Saffed, the Justice Minister; Mr Nawaz Sharif, the Punjab Chief Minister;
General Fazle Haq, the Frontier Chief Minister; Mr Afarullah Khan Jamali, the
Baluchistan Chief Minister; General Rahim Uddin Khan, the Governor of Sind; Mr
Akhtar Ali Kazi, the Sind Minister; and General Aslam Beg, Admiral Iftikhar
Ahmed Sirohi, and Air Chief Marshall Hakimullah.

Afghan deaths: Between 600 and 800 people died in the rocket attack last week by
Afghan rebels on a Soviet-Afghan base at Kelagay when huge stocks of munitions
and fuel exploded, diplomatic sources said yesterday.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                               6 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                August 22, 1988

A decade of deaths

LENGTH: 284 words


The IRA has killed more British soldiers in the first eight months of this year
than in any comparable period since 1979, a spokesman for the British Army in
Lisburn confirmed yesterday, writes David Hearst.

Apart from five British servicemen killed in IRA bombings and shootings in
mainland Britain and Europe, a total of 21 members of the regular army, three
Royal Ulster Constabulary officers and 10 members of the Ulster Defence Regiment
have died this year.


The comparative table, right, shows only those who have died in Northern
Ireland.

The civilian column includes personnel connected with the security forcesm such
as prison officers, as well as Republican and Loyalist paramilitaries.

Of the 68 deaths this year, the IRA has claimed responsibility for 46.

--------------------------------------------------------------------
 A decade of deaths
 --------------------------------------------------------------------
 Year      Army     UDR     RUC     Civilian     TOTAL
 --------------------------------------------------------------------

 1979      38       10      14      51           113 1980       8        9
     9      50            76 1981      10       13      21      67
 111 1982      21        7      12      57            97 1983       5
 10      19      44            77 1984       9       10       8      36
       64 1985       2        4      23      24            53 1986       4
      8      12      37            61 1987       3        8      16      66
           93 1988*     21       10       3      34            68
 --------------------------------------------------------------------
 * Up to present
 --------------------------------------------------------------------

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               7 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                August 22, 1988

SDLP leaders vow talks with Sinn Fein go on

BYLINE: By DAVID HEARST

LENGTH: 838 words

DATELINE: BELFAST


Talks between Sinn Fein and the Social Democratic and Labour Party will
continue, despite the latest IRA atrocity in which eight British soldiers died,
leaders of the SDLP pledged yesterday.

Mr John Hume of the SDLP began his talks with Mr Gerry Adams, president of Sinn
Fein on January 11. The two leaders, who took everyone by surprise by agreeing
to talk about a negotiated end to the conflict, have had discussions lasting 24
hours at seven meetings.


But since the talks began the IRA has killed 46 people.

Both Mr Hume and Seamus Mallon, his deputy, another key participant at the
table, vowed that the talks would go on.

Mr Mallon said: 'It is because of the atrocities like Enniskillen and yesterday
that the talks are needed now more than ever before.

'We are not going to get called off them until we decide that we are not making
any more progress.'

But some people ask, what progress is the SDLP making, other than to provide
Sinn Fein with a political platform which the electoral process has never been
able to get for it, north or south of the border?

It is easy to find critics of the talks. The Northern Ireland Office view is
coloured by its own efforts to get the SDLP and Unionists around a table to talk
about an 'internal settlement' which loyalist leaders Mr James Molyneaux and the
Rev Ian paisley appear to be offering, even though it appears to be little more
than an idea first canvassed in 1975.

After months of patient step by step negotiation with the two Unionist leaders,
Mr Tom King, the Northern Ireland Secretary stormed out of his first meeting
with Mr Hume, because neither side found themselves talking about the same
thing.

One Northern Ireland Office source said about the meeting: 'We have spent 11
months dragging Unionists to the pitch, only to find that the opposition has
gone off with the ball.'

The Unionists themselves may have been expected to be apoplectic with rage. But
this has not happened. When they appear to have most evidence of it, they have
notably refrained from repeating their usual taunt of the SDLP rising to power
on the backs of the IRA campaign of violence.

The Unionist leaders have said only that the dialogue with Sinn Fein will have
to end before their own talks with the SDLP can start.

This may seem to confirm that the talks have their tacit approval and it is
known that at least one senior backroom member of a Unionist party has seen, and
approved of, the document that Mr Hume handed Mr Adams. This contained the
SDLP's analysis of why violence was hitting the Republican objectives of
'liberating' the six counties from the British presence.

At the heart of Mr Hume's bid to bring about an 'end to all military' activity,
a phrase designed for Republican ears, is the assumption that there exists
within the leadership of the Republican movement a group of people who know that
the Long Ware is incapable of achieving its objective of a British withdrawal,
no matter how many soldiers return home in coffins.

This is now said to include a wider and more varied group than Gerry Adams and a
small clique of advisers, who on their own would be incapable of influencing the
IRA. While talk of splits is probably rightly dismissed within Sinn Fein as
British wish fulfilment, senior figures are first to admit that the debate going
on inside the movment is intense.

It is expressed in different terms. A day before the Enniskillen bomb, Mr Adams
outlined in stark terms to his party conference how Sinn Fein had failed to
represent the views of ordinary working class voters in the South and how it had
to start form scratch 'building a political base.' Ever since the ending of the
policy of abstentionism to the Dail in November 1986, the phrase has grown in
importance for the Republican families that are the backbone of the IRA
campaign.

In what state would the Republican movement be if peace broke out? The only two
issues on which it has any experience of campaigning in purely political terms
in the South is extradiation and Section 31 legislation banning interviews with
Sinn Fein from Irish airwaves.

Does Sinn Fein have an economic policy worth the name? Apart from expecting the
principal victims of the war, the Protestant working class, to suddenly become
good Irish brothers, after Britain had withdrawn, what brand of socialism would
its own flock accept, given the historic splits between Belfast and rural
Republicans?

The closer the prospect of a ceasefire gets, the worse the picture becomes. The
process could take years, and in that time the IRA has every incentive to 'put
it up' as Mr Martin McGuinness, vice president of Sinn Fein, told the Republican
rally to commemorate the 17th anniversary of internment last week. But he was
talking to a crowd about 40 per cent down on last year which was down on the
year before. The ghetto is shrinking. The long war is getting longer all the
time, and it is not just British security policy that is facing a crisis.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               8 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                August 23, 1988

King finds no new weapon at hand: Initiative to blunt IRA could end up 'a bit of
everything'

BYLINE: By DAVID HEARST and JOE JOYCE

LENGTH: 606 words


Mr Tom King, the Northern Ireland Secretary, yesterday spent his second day
attempting to assemble a package of measures which would have some effect on the
IRA campaign, but government sources warned there may be no major initiative.

One source said: 'It may end up by being a bit of everything.'


The Irish Opposition leader, Mr Alan Dukes, urged Britain to resist pressure for
the re-introduction of internment on the grounds that it would be neither a jsut
nor effective response to IRA violence.

Closely mirroring the views of the Irish Government and most polilticians in
Dublin, he argued that internment would heighten political and social tensions
and become a propaganda tool for terrorists.

Mr Dukes suggested instead that an intensification of intelligence gathering by
security forces and the denial of any assistance to terrorists by Irish people
were required to defeat the violence.

He also proposed that the British and Irish Governments stopped 'dragging their
feet' on the formation of a political forum in Northern Ireland.

Article 9a of the Anglo-Irish Agreement under which the RUC and the Gardai
co-ordinate their intelligence gathering, threat assessment and operational
response to incidents, is already bearing fruit.

The find by the Irish police at the weekend of a new generation of 70
lightweight high explosive mortar bombs in a coal bunker in a field in County
Kildare was of considerable significant to the RUC.

A lightweight mortar bomb contains only a half a pound of Semtex high explosive,
compared to the 50 1b mortars packed with home-made explosive. This means that
the IRA is developing small, lightweight mortars of devastating power. It also
means that its supply of Semtex is greater than ws realised.

The Gardai has this year found 130 pounds of Semtex, 254 firearms and 137,561
rounds of ammunitions. This is a major contribution to the RUC's battle, but the
cross-border co-operation is long term.

In the short term, it appears likely that Mr King and the security forces will
decide that the SAS should be used more often to protect security targets in an
attempt to engage armed IRA units, as happened at Loughgall.

The shootings of IRA members there delayed the IRA campaign that is now being
unleashed on the province for about six months, during which time casualties
suffered by the IRA mounted.

On the legal front, the RUC is pressing for action to end the suspect's right to
silence.

Some officers of the RUC have argued that if the right to silence of a suspect
detained under the Prevention of Terrorism Acts was ended or curtailed for
specific scheduled offences, there would be more convictions in the Diplock
Courts. Other more senior officers argue that while sitting in front of a silent
man for seven days in the interrogation rooms of Castlereagh Holding Centre is
frustrating, the Crown has to prove the truth of what he says.

An Phoblacht, the Republican movement's newspaper, recently reprinted an article
on how to lawfully resist RUC interogation techniques. The article told readers
to give only their names and addresses and to resist any invitation to engage in
political discussion with the detectives.

A blanket end of the right to silence would be a draconian step. It could amount
to selective internment under the law for people convicted for lesser offences,
like IRA membership, rather than for murder.

However, the change could be limited to introducing an offence for people caught
in suspicious circumstances - with walkie-talkies, for example - who failed to
give an account of their actions.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               9 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            August 23 1988, Tuesday

Navy man dies in Belfast car bomb inferno; IRA bombing campaign

BYLINE: DAVID SAPSTED and RONALD FAUX in Belfast and RICHARD FORD in London

SECTION: Issue 63167.

LENGTH: 1078 words


A Royal Navy recruiting officer was killed in central Belfast last night when
the IRA bombed his car with a booby-trap device.

The murder, soon after the Prime Minister put internment back on the political
agenda, represented another serious blow to security arrangements in Northern
Ireland.


It came less than 72 hours after the Omagh bombing, in which eight soldiers were
killed.

Later last night, an Army bomb disposal team carried out a controlled explosion
on a suspect car bomb outside Woodburn police station in west Belfast. The
driver was forced by terrorists to drive the vehicle containing a bomb to the
station, one of the most fortified buildings in the city.

Police would not immediately name the Royal Navy man, killed in rush-hour
traffic as he drove from the Queen Elizabeth Bridge towards the Protestant
section of Belfast.

As the blast occurred, ministers began assembling a package of tough
anti-terrorist measures and the Prime Minister said nothing had been ruled out
in the fight against the IRA.

'We are on the side of law and order, ' she said. 'You do not tell your enemy
precisely what it is you are going to do, ever.'

A senior officer in the Royal Ulster Constabulary said the latest death
represented a serious breach of security cover. Three other people were thought
to have been injured.

The man was understood to have regularly left his private car in a public car
park outside Belfast's central security zone, close to the Navy's recruiting
office in Howard Street, but the Army refused to discuss security arrangements
for recruiting staff, who are generally retired naval personnel.

People at the scene said there was 'an enormous bang'.

Mr Crispin Rodwell, a photographer, was driving 50 yards behind as the Ford
Capri pulled away from traffic lights. He said: 'As it went to move off, it
disappeared in a ball of fire. It was immediately underneath a flyover and the
debris ricocheted off the underneath of the flyover.

'There was a woman in a silver Golf which veered off the road and hit one of the
flyover supports. Some other cars stopped and some guys jumped out with fire
extinguishers.

'They tried to put out the fire but they could not get anywhere near. They were
beaten back by the flames. It was just a fireball.'

The IRA claimed responsibility and described the victim as a British soldier.
Earlier reports that he was a member of the Ulster Defence Regiment proved to be
unfounded.

Last night Mrs Thatcher was said to be 'saddened and angry' at the latest
killing of a member of the armed forces.

The bombing in Belfast will add to the already intense pressure on the
Government to formulate a convincing response to the latest wave of IRA violence
against the security services.

However, ministers will not wish to act hastily and will complete their full
review of security before announcing any new measures.

Earlier, the Prime Minister said during a visit to Plymouth that a thorough
review of all security matters was under way.

At the weekend, government sources said she had been pursuaded against the
immediate detention without trial of Republican and 'loyalist' suspects. With
surprise a key element in the successful operation of internment, government
security advisers have clearly decided that the uncertainty now surrounding Mrs
Thatcher's views may disrupt the IRA's activities.

The Government and its security advisers are intent on creating maximum
confusion on the issue, while focusing on changes in the criminal law, actions
to starve terrorists of funds and an increase in surveillance operations. Other
anti-terrorist measures are being considered by Mr Tom King, the Secretary of
State for Northern Ireland, and his security advisers.

Changes in the law, including ending the right to silence, tougher sentences for
terrorism, and reductions in remission, are some of the measures already under
discussion.

Ministers are also preparing an order to make all those standing for next year's
local government elections in the province sign a declaration renouncing
violence.

Ending the right to silence would enable Northern Ireland's Diplock Courts to
make their judgement on an accused person's refusal to speak.

Senior figures in the RUC and Army also want the Government to reduce the 50per
cent remission that operates in the province. In Britain it is only a third. The
system of 50per cent remission was introduced 12 years ago on the basis that it
was impossible to operate a parole system.

Mrs Thatcher is also preparing an offensive aimed at curbing the flow of funds
to terrorists. A special force, involving the Inland Revenue, Customs, and the
Department of Social Security, is to be set up in the province to co-ordinate
the fight against paramilitary racketeering.

Mr King visited some of the soldiers injured in Saturday's Army bus explosion in
Omagh, Co Tyrone, yesterday, and told them: 'Violence cannot win. If it does, it
is the end of civilization. As a democracy the United Kingdom is not prepared to
concede to terrorism.'

As he was speaking, the RUC denied claims by the Rev Ian Paisley, leader of the
Democratic Unionist Party, that the road on which eight soldiers were killed had
been placed out of bounds to the security forces. Police confirmed that the
desolate stretch of road was barred six months ago to prominent 'loyalist'
politicians because of the threat of IRA attacks.

Security forces in Ulster were angered by Mr Paisley's suggestions that
increased activity by the IRA had resulted in border regions becoming no-go
areas for the police.

After a two-day tour of the border area last week, Mr Paisley said he had seen
no police patrols of roads and encountered only two permanent checkpoints. The
areas had been 'surrendered' to the IRA, he said.

The Army said: 'There are absolutely no no-go areas for the Army in Northern
Ireland.'

Police and Army sources also dismissed reports that Mr Ken Maginnis, the
Official Unionist MP for Fermanagh South Tyrone, gave Mrs Thatcher the names of
those responsible for the bomb attack on the A5.

Mr Maginnis admitted he had not been able to provide that information. He had
merely given her the names of four or five well-known members of the IRA
hierarchy.

The eighth victim of the Omagh bombing was named yesterday as Private Alexander
Stephen Lewis, aged 18, from Salisbury, Wiltshire. He was single.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              10 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                August 26, 1988

Britain seeks curb on Semtex

BYLINE: By RICHARD NORTON-TAYLOR

LENGTH: 320 words


The Foreign Office has asked Czechoslovakia to control the supply of Semtex, the
explosive used in the 200lb bomb which killed eight soldiers in Sunday's IRA
attack on a bus in County Tyrone.

Semtex, a powerful explosive extremely difficult to detect, is being used
increasingly by the IRA in its intensified campaign against the British presence
in Northern Ireland.


It is supplied to the Provisionals by Libya, but Czechoslovakia is believed to
be the only manufacturer.

The Foreign Office first approached the Czechs on August 4, before last
weekend's outrage, asking them to co-operate in preventing killings in Northern
Ireland by investigating how Semtex reaches the IRA. The clear message was that
Prague should control its export to Libya.

The Government also wants the Czechs to change the way they manufacture Semtex,
by adding material which would 'mark' the explosive so it could be traced by
metal detectors or scanners. There has been speculation that the Czechs are
considering this.

Prague has told the Foreign Office it will consider Britain's concern. Whitehall
is hoping for a more substantive response next month.

Semtex was discovered in January this year among weapons found on Malin Head in
Co Donegal. It was also found in a Marbella garage two days after three members
of an IRA active service unit were killed by the SAS in Gibraltar in March.

Last weekend a cache of 67 home-made mortar bombs, each containing half a pound
of Semtex explosive, was found buried in a field during a routine police search
near the village of Kilcock, west of Dublin.

Security forces also discovered quantities of Semtex after four shipments of
weapons believed to be from Libya were landed in the Republic in 1985 and 1986.
The advantage of Semtex is not only that it is hard to detect; it is also light,
given its high explosive power, and easy to conceal, move, and plant.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              11 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             August 28 1988, Sunday

Security tightened to cure fatal lapses; IRA bombing campaign

SECTION: Issue 8560.

LENGTH: 1489 words


BRITISH intelligence agents provided detailed advance information about the
current IRA terrorist campaign which was ignored by members of the security
forces in Northern Ireland, according to senior defence sources.

The extent of the security lapses was spelt out to the prime minister last week
and reflected the anger of senior officials at a death toll 40 servicemen and
police officers this year which they believe could have been largely avoided.


The warnings were heeded at a senior level but the information was largely
disregarded by police and military personnel on the ground.

'When there is information that an attack is imminent and you have a Royal Navy
officer going to work in the centre of Belfast by a regular route and parking
his car in the same place, then it is quite frankly bloody stupid, ' said one
intelligence source, referring to the murder in Belfast last week of Lieutenant
Alan Shields, a naval recruiting officer.

A drive to ensure that members of the security services exercise greater
vigilance is among the key measures agreed last week between Thatcher and Tom
King, the secretary of state for Northern Ireland. The measures, which have not
been officially announced, are nothing like as radical as many Ulster Unionists
would like.

'Mrs Thatcher is determined to improve the situation but has been surprisingly
cautious. She is insisting that all the measures must not be simply cosmetic but
must really work, ' said one official involved in the talks.

Internment, proscribing Sein Fein, the political wing of the IRA, 30-day
detention periods without charge, and big troop reinforcements have all been
ruled out for the time being.

Instead, there will be increased use of undercover experts in the province,
legal changes that have been on the drawing board for some time, and a
re-education drive aimed at the security services.

Intelligence. The deployment of extra agents is vital. The cell structure of the
IRA has been refined after a series of setbacks, thought to have been the work
of informers.

One worrying factor is the organisation's increased technical ability, thought
to have been acquired from Libyan experts.

Surveillance. Once the preserve of the SAS, surveillance duties in recent years
have been increasingly taken over by the Royal Ulster Constabulary. Last week,
however, it was agreed that the SAS would take a more prominent role.

Legal reform. The authorities know the identity of most active IRA members,
including the two leaders of the current campaign. But last year only 234 people
were charged with terrorist offences, less than half the figure for 1986 which
itself was an all-time low. This reflects the difficulties of obtaining
convictions under current laws.

New measures increasing the power of the courts and undermining the financial
resources of the IRA will begin later this year and a new Prevention of
Terrorism Act will be brought before parliament next March, making it easier to
convict terrorists and their supporters.

A defendant's 'right to silence' is expected to be removed. Prisoners cannot be
forced to speak while in custody, but in court police officers will be able to
point out any refusal to co-operate.

The 50% remission of sentence at present enjoyed by all prisoners in Northern
Ireland is also likely to be brought in line with the 30% applied elsewhere in
Britain.

Education. Ministers believe that the police, military personnel and civilians
working in the province have become complacent. In many cases members of the
security forces fail to take even the most elementary precautions. A
re-education programme will now be launched.

The warnings given by British intelligence were a direct result of the seizing
of the ship Eksund last year with 200 tons of arms supplied by Libya on board.

An intelligence operation was launched to find three previous shipments. The
information collected included details about the new campaign, which was to
begin with the bombing of the Royal Anglian regimental band in Gibraltar. That
operation was thwarted, but it was learned of other planned attacks including
likely targets, timing and the methods to be used.

Two outrages in particular, it is believed, could have been avoided. The first
was the killing of the Hannah family, a husband, wife and their six-year-old
son, who were blown up by a landmine on the Dublin-Belfast road in mistake for a
High Court judge.

It is understood that soldiers at an observation post spotted suspicious
activity on the road shortly before the Hannah family drove past, but police
were not notified until it was too late.

An army investigation is also believed to be close to establishing that human
error was to blame for the attack on an army coach eight days ago in which eight
soldiers were killed and another 27 injured.

It is believed the army failed to notify the RUC about the route the coach was
taking. Had it done so, the route could have been checked and any details about
IRA activity in the area passed on. The RUC collates all such intelligence, but
passes it over to the military only on a 'need-to-know' basis.

Dr John Alderdice, the leader of the Alliance party of Northern Ireland, last
week discussed both incidents with General Sir John Waters, the general officer
commanding in Northern Ireland, and Michael McAtamney, the deputy chief
constable of the RUC.

Alderdice said: 'I was told that any difficulties were in the realms of
individual failure and human frailty.'

Members of the Ulster Defence Regiment, which patrols 80% of the province, also
told Insight last week that soldiers travelling around Northern Ireland are
regularly put at risk by security lapses.

They claimed that UDR drivers are regularly required to travel from one base to
another in 'civilianised' cars without armed escorts, radio sets, or personal
protection weapons. Several times a week vans loaded with 30,000 litres of fuel
for outlying bases, which are not allowed stockpiles for fear of terrorist
attack, also set out with a similar lack of security.

The cars and vans not only have telltale markings that identify them but they
are also sometimes serviced at garages in republican areas and at some bases are
parked within view of main roads.

Covert surveillance teams, which rely on total secrecy to work safely and
effectively, are also said to be at risk. Although a variety of vehicles should
be used to take small groups of men to a particular area, the entire
surveillance team is often piled into the back of one transit van, with the men
dropped off at intervals, increasing the risk of discovery.

After the coach bombing, drivers were instructed to stick to routes that had
been previously cleared, take radio sets with them, and check in when they
reached their destination. Bases were also told to exchange 'civilianised'
vehicles every six months.

One UDR man said: 'These kind of measures are imposed after every serious
incident, but within a fortnight things are back to normal.'

An army spokesman in Northern Ireland said last week that the security of bases
and methods of transport were kept under permanent review. He added: 'Human
weakness is probably the best weapon the IRA has.'

In concentrating on killing British servicemen, the campaign is relaxing
tensions in the IRA that had arisen between military hardliners and those
inclined towards a political solution.

The IRA is better armed than ever before. The key to the campaign is Semtex, an
odourless, easily malleable plastic explosive which is stable, requires no
booster charge, and can be used in far smaller quantities than the old-style
fertiliser mix. The IRA is known to have a considerable stockpile supplied by
Libya.

In addition, the IRA has a new supply of rocket-propelled grenade launchers and
rifles, particularly Kalashnikovs.

The RUC knows the rifles are new. Eight weapons recovered after an IRA unit was
killed by the SAS at Loughall in 1987 were found to have been used in seven
murders and 12 attempted murders. Weapons recovered recently have no such
history.

Security sources believe the IRA has about 30 gunmen directly involved in the
killings, but they are backed up by 10 times that number and have the ability to
sustain the present campaign for another three months.

'They generally plan the big attacks months in advance and even then only around
one in five attacks is successful, ' said one source. 'There is a lot of
evidence that they are prepared to abort an attack if they cannot get away with
it. These are not push-button merchants. The longer the campaign goes on the
greater the risks become and they simply do not have enough activists to take
many losses.

'They are getting older. A lot of them were born in the 1950s. By their
standards, they have lost some really good people in the past 18 months.'

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              12 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           August 31 1988, Wednesday

Ignorance makes easy prey; IRA bombing campaign

BYLINE: CONOR CRUISE O'BRIEN

SECTION: Issue 63174.

LENGTH: 1335 words


It has always been advice worth heeding: 'Know your enemy.' I fear that, even
after nearly 20 years of fighting the Provisional IRA, the British authorities
still don't know their enemy.

This thought is prompted by the announcement last week of the first concrete
measure taken in response to the current wave of intensified IRA terror. The
measure announced is the introduction of ordinary civilian British licence
plates for the cars of British military personnel travelling on the Continent.


I can imagine the wolfish grins and cut-throat jokes of the IRA Godfathers, as
they listened to that announcement. Henceforward all cars with British licence
plates travelling on the Continent are 'legitimate targets' for the Provisional
IRA. If civilians get killed in an attack on such a car, Sinn Fein will say that
the regrettable civilian casualties were the direct result of a British
government decision to camouflage military traffic as civilians. And that
contention will look quite plausible to a good many people, both inside and
outside Britain.

There has long been a division of opinion within the ranks of the Sinn Fein-IRA
conspiracy, about the expediency of certain kinds of attacks on civilians. Only
certain kinds: all Sinn Fein-IRA people agree that civilian casualties incurred
in the course of attacks on the security forces are acceptable. As one of the
leaders put it about 10 years ago: 'There will always be civilian casualties in
the urban guerrilla war.'

The difference of opinion concerns the deliberate and random infliction of
casualties on the civilian population. Some of the IRA leaders favour this as
the most efficient means of obtaining the IRA's objective: British disengagement
from Northern Ireland. Others, especially at the Sinn Fein end of the thing,
believe that such operations are politically counter-productive, alienating
people who would be generally supportive, as long as the security forces were
the primary target.

The licence plate decision helps to get Sinn Fein-IRA off the hook of that
debate. There is now a large category of British civilians those travelling by
car on the Continent armed attacks on whom can be justified, with some
credibility, as part of a military operation.

If you were thinking of a motoring holiday in France or Germany this autumn, you
would do well to hire a French or German car. British licence plates, after last
week's decision, might make you a target. Those who made that decision don't
seem to have given much thought to what the IRA are actually like.

More generally, I fear that most British politicians have only the haziest
impression about the social and political context of the Provisional IRA's home
territory: the Catholic areas of Northern Ireland. We heard, for example, last
week from Roy Hattersley about what the effect of the re-introduction of
internment would be in the minority areas. Internment would be disastrous, Mr
Hattersley thought, because it would alienate 'law abiding people' in the areas
concerned.

I imagine that, in Yorkshire, the expression 'law abiding people' may have a
fairly straightforward and stable connotation. In Northern Ireland, this is not
the case, and it is especially not the case in the Catholic areas. If by 'law
abiding people' you mean people who are not themselves in the habit of breaking
the law, by acts of commission, then there are many such people in the areas in
question. But if you confine the use of the term 'law abiding' to people
prepared to co-operate with the police and other law enforcement agents against
malefactors of all descriptions, then the number of the law abiding, in those
areas, dwindles to vanishing point.

Specifically, people in those areas are not prepared to co-operate with the
police against the IRA. On the other hand, many of them have a high propensity
to co-operate with the IRA against the security forces and the Protestant
community.

As Seamus Mallon, deputy leader of the SDLP put it last week: 'The British
already exercise the most stringent powers in Western Europe ..there must be no
further repressive legislation ..the root of the problem is the inability of the
security forces to obtain evidence to convict ..one reason for this is that the
whole security operation does not command respect and support within the
community.'

Mr Hattersley is right to the extent that the re-introduction of internment
would be followed by large scale protests among the population of the Catholic
areas. But 'the alienation of the law abiding' is not what would be involved.
What would be involved would be a general alliance, for a particular propaganda
campaign, within different shadings of a community whose members refuse, in all
circumstances, to co-operate with the security forces.

I don't know whether any British politicians are beginning to realize the extent
to which they and the Dublin government were conned by the SDLP at the time of
the genesis of the Anglo-Irish Agreement, which was of course the brain child of
the SDLP leader, John Hume.

The agreement, if you remember, was supposed to be aimed at 'isolating the men
of violence' by ending 'the alienation of the minority.' Nothing of the kind has
happened. The violence has increased throughout the entire lifetime of the
agreement. The men of violence, far from being isolated, have been engaged in
cosy and protracted converse with the SDLP.

The SDLP still refuse to advise their supporters to give evidence against the
IRA; they also oppose any legal changes 'repressive legislation' which might
have the effect of compensating for the inability to obtain evidence. These SDLP
positions are inherently helpful to the IRA, providing them with a layer of
respectable cover.

But the IRA are also helpful to the SDLP. As Danny Morrison publicity director
of Sinn Fein and a participant in the Sinn Fein-SDLP talks put it this month:
'The SDLP's negotiating power rests on the back of the armed struggle.' I think
most people in Northern Ireland, in both communities, see the matter in
precisely that light. But few people in Britain seem to have noticed what is
going on.

Seamus Mallon, on RTE radio on Saturday, having ruled out internment and
all-over 'repressive' responses to the IRA, indicated that the correct response
has to be a political solution. The Unionists, said Mr Mallon, in a revealing
phrase, would have to 'come out of their trenches' and join in discussions with
the nationalist parties of all Ireland, about an all-Ireland solution. In short,
the Unionists will have to surrender. Until they do so, the violence will
continue, through no fault of the SDLP, which will continue punctiliously to
denounce each individual atrocity, in its immediate aftermath.

The IRA, with discreet and deniable assistance from the SDLP, has made
considerable progress since November 1985, the date of the Anglo-Irish
Agreement. Most Catholics approve of the agreement, not as an 'active
reconciliation' the formula that appeared on the label but as a goal scored
against the Protestants.

The SDLP and the IRA were given about equal credit for that achievement. And
both are now demanding, each in its own language, further advances at the
expense of the Protestants, further moves towards a united Ireland. As the
Protestants are not about to throw in the sponge, the stage is being set for
even greater violence.

I don't think the IRA can be beaten without the simultaneous introduction of
internment on both sides of the border. That cannot come unless and until the
Republic, for its own reasons, decides that it is necessary to bring back
internment. Republican reactions to last week's extraditions may stimulate
thinking along those lines. The modern IRA is a greater potential threat to the
Republic than any subversive organization previously known. In any case,
contingency plans for internment should now be placed on the agenda of the
Anglo-Irish Inter-Governmental Conference.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              13 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            September 2 1988, Friday

Arrested IRA men linked to troop attacks; Gerard Thomas Hanratty and Terence
Gerard McGeough

BYLINE: JOHN ENGLAND, PAUL VALLELY, HOWARD FOSTER and STEWART TENDLER

SECTION: Issue 63176.

LENGTH: 1173 words


The arrest of two suspected IRA men in West Germany has been hailed as a triumph
by the security forces tackling the recent outbreak of terrorism

It is thought that they are linked with several attacks by an active service
unit on British servicemen in West Germany, The Netherlands and Belgium


One of the suspects, Terence McGeough, has been banned twice from entering
mainland Britain under the Prevention of Terrorism Act

In an interview Mrs Thatcher said she was not satisfied with the operation of
the Anglo-Irish agreement, saying that she wanted better border security

Anti-terrorist experts in Britain believe the arrest in West Germany of two
suspected IRA men could damage the successful IRA active service unit on the
Continent.

The arrests are being hailed in London as a triumph in the hunt to find the unit
which has stalked and attacked servicemen in three countries this summer.

Gerard Thomas Hanratty and Terence Gerard McGeough, both aged 29, are being
linked by the West Germans to attacks which began in The Netherlands, moved into
West Germany and ended on August 12 with the murder at Ostend of RSM Richard
Heakin, of the Ist Battalion, Royal Regiment of Wales.

McGeough was yesterday described by the security forces in Northern Ireland as a
topflight IRA terrorist trained by the Libyans. He is wanted for attempted
murder.

In New York last night, the FBI said that charges of arms smuggling for the IRA
were outstanding in the US against McGeough.

He was indicted in 1982 with other men on charges of conspiring to smuggle arms
to the IRA and exporting arms without a licence, the agency said.

German security officials believe a revolver taken from one of the arrested men
may prove to be the weapon used by two men to kill RSM Heakin.

Ballistics tests are to be carried out with information supplied by the
Belgians. Yesterday the Federal Prosecutor's office also linked a rifle found
with the men to the Roermond and Duisburg attacks.

Information from the car in which the men were driving and their personal
belongings may give police clues to the safe houses used by the active service
unit and their travels in recent months.

The men were held by a lone Customs officer when they were driving into West
Germany in a car hired from Mainz, West Germany. The two were studying a map.

Unknown to the officer a handgun was hidden under the front seat of the car as
he approached it but the men did not open fire.

The Peugeot car was found to hold three Webley revolvers and two Kalashnikov
AK47 assault rifles. Police will try to discover whether The Netherlands has
been used as the men's base or if they have been living in West Germany and
crossing into the Low Countries to mount their attacks or retrieve the weapons
from an arsenal.

The hire car was rented last Monday and police must piece together the missing
two days when the car and its passengers vanished until the time they crossed
into Germany on Wednesday.

Hiring the car may have been the prelude to a new attack which was never
launched and other members of the IRA may have been awaiting delivery of the
guns.

West German investigators have been joined by two Scotland Yard detectives, one
from Special Branch and another from the Anti-Terrorist Branch, and
investigators from The Netherlands and Belgium.

There are no plans for extradition from West Germany but the British detectives,
liasing with the Royal Ulster Constabulary, will be keen to find any links to
the bombing at Inglis Barracks, north London, in which one soldier was killed.

The IRA attacks in Europe began on May 1 when three off-duty RAF men were killed
in two attacks, by car bomb and gun, within hours at Roermond and Niuew Bergen
in The Netherlands. Two days later a bomb was defused outside the oficers' mess
at Rippon Barracks, Bielefeld.

Nine soldiers were injured on July 13 by a bomb at Glamorgan Barracks at
Duisburg, West Germany, and on August 5 another bomb exploded at Roy Barracks,
Ratingen, in West Germany.

The European attacks began after three IRA terrorists were killed by the SAS in
Gibraltar in March. The three are believed to have been operating from Spain in
concert with other members of an active service unit who vanished. Yesterday
Hanratty and McGeough were held in separate high-security prisons in West
Germany. Late on Wednesday a West German federal judge ordered the two to be
held on suspicion of taking part in the bombings of British army barracks in
Duisburg and near Dusseldorf in July and August.

The two men are also facing charges of attempting to murder 11 soldiers and a
German woman injured by the blasts, as well as a German policeman.

One of the AK47 rifles has been identified as having been used in an attack on
three RAF men in Roermond in May. One RAF man was shot dead and two others were
injured.

Yesterday Herr Alexander Prechtel, for the Federal Prosecutor's Office in
Karlsruhe, said the same rifle was also used to open fire on the policeman who
tried to halt the BMW car after the Duisburg attack.

McGeough, from Dungannon, Co Tyrone, was twice banned from mainland Britain
under the Prevention of Terrorism Act.

The capture of McGeough, who was yesterday said to have maintained silence
before West German interrogators as he was transferred to a maximum security
prison, provoked an undisguised glee among security sources in Northern Ireland.

The suspected terrorist is said to have been one of a corps of senior IRA
volunteers who received military training in Libya.

Hanratty, from Andersonstown in West Belfast, has been eluding police since 1984
when he jumped bail while facing charges of conspiracy to murder. He is also
wanted for illegal possession of firearms.

The Government has asked the RUC for a report for Mr Tom King, Secretary of
State for Northern Ireland, on shooting of the three Provisional IRA terrorists
at Drumnakilly.

In Dublin, there is deep anxiety at the concentration by Britain on security.
Politicians are emphasizing the need for continuing effort to be made to bring
development on the political front.

Mr Roy Hattersley, deputy leader of the Labour Party, yesterday supported 'hot
pursuit' operations across the border.

He said that when the working of the ministerial conference is reviewed in
November, there should be an understanding that across the border pursuit of
terrorists would be treated as if the border did not exist.

The following attacks on British service personnel have been linke d to the two
Irishmen held on the Dutch-German border.

May 1: Three RAF men killed in gun and bomb attacks at Roermond and Niuew
Bergen, The Netherlands.

May 3: Bomb defused at Rippon Barracks, West Germany.

July 13: Nine soldiers injured by a bomb at the Glamorgan Barracks, Duisburg,
West Germany.

August 5: Bomb explodes at Roy Barracks Ratingen, West Germany. Three suffered
minor injuries.

August 12: RSM Richard Heakin murdered at Ostend.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              14 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           September 3 1988, Saturday

Time for a few questions ..; Inquest into the Gibraltar shootings of three IRA
terrorists; Spectrum

BYLINE: TONY DAWE

SECTION: Issue 63177.

LENGTH: 1047 words


It is now 16 months since the SAS made its most dramatic intervention in its
12-year campaign against the IRA, ambushing and killing eight terrorists who
were attacking the police station at Loughgall, Co. Tyrone.

In that time, there has been no public inquiry, no investigation whatsoever,
into the shooting. Even yesterday, officials in police and Government could not
say when an inquest would be held into the deaths. The same uninquisitorial
process is certain to follow this week's shooting of three members of the IRA's
mid-Tyrone unit in Omagh.


Yet starting next Tuesday, a parallel incident, the shooting of three IRA
terrorists by the SAS in Gibraltar, will be examined in the glare of
international publicity as the Gibraltar coroner opens an inquest which could
last five weeks.

To many people interviewed on the streets of Gibraltar and Britain, the hearing
is incongruous. They argue that the terrorists were planning a bomb outrage
which could have killed hundreds: members of the Royal Anglian Regimental Band
taking part in a ceremonial parade, tourists watching them and children and old
people in establishments nearby. The SAS were dutifully protecting civilians and
members of the Armed Forces by their actions.

But unlike the men shot down in Loughgall and Omagh, the terrorists killed on
The Rock last March 6, Mairead Farrell, Danny McCann and Sean Savage, were all
unarmed. The car they had parked and which was thought to contain a bomb was, in
fact, empty although explosives were subsequently found in another car they had
left in Spain. Unlike Loughgall and Omagh, the three were shot in a main street,
overlooked by half-a-dozen apartment blocks, in a holiday area.

If any one of us had experienced the terror endured by Stephen Bullock, a
lawyer, and his family on a Sunday afternoon stroll, we would want a public
investigation into what happened.

As he passed a children's playground with his nine-months pregnant wife and
small daughter, a man pushed past, a pistol sticking out of the back of his
jeans. Seconds later a police car, siren blaring, roared past Bullock and almost
simultaneously he heard shots and saw a man and a woman (McCann and Farrell)
falling backwards. He and his wife stumbled to the ground and wedged their
daughter between her upturned push chair and a low wall as more shots were
fired.

Their alarm at what they thought was gang warfare on the streets of Gibraltar
was shared by the coroner, Felix Pizzarello, who announced immediately that he
would hold an inquest with a jury. He did not consult the British authorities,
whose representative, the Governor, was away at the time.

His prompt decision caused some concern in Whitehall but that was tempered by
the realization that an inquest would remove the need for any other form of
inquiry, like those being demanded by some politicians in Westminster and
Dublin. But Whitehall's concern turned to alarm when a story reached ministers
that Pizzarello, in discussions with officials on The Rock, had declared: 'If
this is murder, then the jury will be instructed to bring in that verdict.'

A subtle campaign began to discredit him, culminating in the announcement by
Downing Street hours ahead of one by the coroner that the inquest, originally
planned to start on June 27, would be postponed. The British Government would
have preferred a friendly judge to conduct the hearing but Pizzarello has stood
his ground and his first ruling, at a preliminary hearing in July, was both fair
and middle-of-the-road.

He steered a path between the Government's demands for total anonymity for the
seven SAS soldiers involved and rival claims that no harm would come to them if
they appeared openly by ruling that they should be seen by the jury, lawyers and
himself but not by the Press and public.

His decision, coupled with recent events in Ulster, has led to speculation that
the soldiers will not attend the inquest. But reports that this week's shootings
in Omagh were carried out, not by the SAS, but by a different Army undercover
unit may help take the pressure off them.

Whatever the speculation, the soldiers seem almost certain to appear at some
stage of the hearing. The Government is committed to co-operating with the
inquest, although it would dearly love to influence it, and the absence of the
soldiers would be a clear indication that the authorities have something to
hide.

But when they do appear, they will not be treated with kid gloves by Pizzarello.
He has suffered enough indignities from the Government over the affair to be
determined to conceal nothing, except the most delicate security information.

He will want to know what instructions were given to the SAS men before they
flew to Gibraltar to carry out their operation, which followed months of
surveillance by police and security services on The Rock, in Spain and in
Britain.

He will want to know if they were given orders to 'shoot to kill' or whether
they were supposed to try and take the terrorists alive.

He will want to know why the killings occurred in such a public place. He may
discover that the SAS planned to confront the terrorists as they crossed the
runway between The Rock and the frontier with Spain, where they could have been
isolated more easily. Farrell and McCann were three minutes' walk away from the
runway when they were shot and some blunder or panic may have precipitated the
operation.

Because it occurred in a busy street, Pizzarello will be able to call a score of
civilian witnesses. Some have already told journalists that the three were shot
without warning. One, Carmen Proetta, who lives in a flat overlooking the scene,
has claimed that Farrell and McCann tried to surrender before being shot.

The coroner will want to know whether warnings were shouted and whether any
attempt at surrender was made.

Pizzarello will be determined, above all, that the hearing many wish could be
averted will have one specific achievement in addition to establishing the
facts. It should ensure that, however atrocious the IRA's activities in Britain,
her colonies and her bases, the security forces will not seek retribution on the
open streets anywhere, not just Gibraltar, without total justification.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              15 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            September 5 1988, Monday

SAS marksmen interviewed; Shooting of three IRA terrorists in Gibraltar

BYLINE: TONY DAWE in Gibraltar

SECTION: Issue 63178.

LENGTH: 430 words


The seven members of the SAS involved in the shooting of three IRA terrorists in
Gibraltar last March have been interviewed in Britain by the Gibraltar coroner's
investigating officer, in preparation for their appearance at the inquest which
opens tomorrow.

Chief Inspector Manolo Correa has taken the men through their statements and has
raised further questions which the coroner, Mr Felix Pizzarello, wishes to ask.


One issue to emerge has been the soldiers' lack of precise information about the
operation, which was apparently launched in haste because of fears that the
terrorists had brought forward a planned car bomb attack.

More details are expected to be given by the SAS commander in charge. He is
expected to deny the men were ordered to 'shoot to kill'.

Final preparations are being made for the soldiers' appearance at the inquest.
There will be tight security around the Supreme Court building and in the hotels
being used by lawyers and the press.

Parking will be banned in the streets around the court and armed men will guard
the building from the rooftop and at street level.

A canopy has been set up at the back of the building so the SAS men can be
driven to the back door and alight without being seen.

The sight of sandbags being carried into the court by troops has so alarmed
parents of children attending a nearby primary school that they have sought
official permission to keep their children away.

It may be weeks before the soldiers actually give evidence. Legal argument
between lawyers for the Ministry of Defence and for the families of the
terrorists, and the swearing-in of the jury, could delay the hearing. The fear
of reprisals by the IRA is so great among Gibraltarians that many called for
jury service are expected to keep away from the court.

Security sources in Gibraltar confirmed yesterday that pictures had been taken
of a fourth member of the IRA terrorist gang involved in planning the car bomb
last March. The pictures were taken as security agents monitored every move
being made by the gang.

They show a woman carrying out surveillance on the Royal Anglian Regiment's
ceremonial parade. Sources refused to confirm whether she was Siobhan O'Hanlon,
an IRA activist.

West German security men expect to be told tomorrow by Belgian ballistics
experts if one of three Webley .38 revolvers found when IRA suspects Gerard
Hanratty and Terence McGeough were arrested at the West German-Netherlands
border last week was used to kill Warrant Officer Richard Heakin in Ostend on
August 12.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              16 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 6, 1988

Six top ANC men make legal history

BYLINE: By VICTORIA BRITTAIN

LENGTH: 674 words


South African legal and political history will be made in London today when six
senior officials of the African National Congress begin to give evidence in the
trial of their colleague Ebrahim Ismail Ebrahim.

It is the first time ANC officials have given evidence in a political trial.
They are able to do so because of an unprecedented move by the Pretoria Supreme
Court in allowing evidence to be taken on commission in Britain because these
witnesses would be arrested if they entered South Africa to appear in court
there.


The Pretoria regime alleges that Mr Ebrahim is the most highly placed ANC member
to go on trial in South Africa since Nelson Mandela and his compatriots were
gaoled in the Rivonia trial in August, 1962.

Mr Ebrahim was kidnapped at gunpoint in Swaziland in December, 1986, by two men
who said they were from the South African police. He served 15 years on Robben
Island for ANC activities in the 1960s. After his release he lived in exile in
Swaziland.

The six ANC officials will give their evidence at an undisclosed venue in London
to rebut the prosecution case. It is based on various policy meetings where Mr
Ebrahim was said to be present and on documents alleged to have been obtained by
a South African spy who infiltrated the ANC Lusaka headquarters.

One of his team of four lawyers is Mrs Priscilla Jana, who was banned in 1979
and had her South African passport taken away. She arrived in Britain last week
with a passport for two weeks issued for this hearing.

She said yesterday: 'The defence evidence will refute the false evidence given
by four secret witnesses. In any ANC trial in South Africa the evidence is
always led by witnesses unnamed even to defence lawyers and sometimes even
hooded in court.

'The evidence made out the ANC to be a terrorist organisation whose members
attacked targerts indiscriminately. It is part of the pattern of daily
allegations in South Africa against the ANC to which they can never reply.
National executive committee members cannot, of course, be quoted in South
Africa.'

Three of the six witnesses are members of the executive: John Nkadimeng, Jacob
Zuma and Ronnie Kasrils. The others are Johannes Mkhwanazi, of the banned South
African Congress of Trades Unions (SACTU), Vusi Khumala and Totzi Memela.

It is the first time the ANC has ever appeared in such a trial which relates to
the most sensitive areas of policy and organisational structure.

The ANC men will give their evidence to two state counsel, Mr H. Prinsloo and
Mrs Van der Walt, who were appointed by Justice H Daniels. He is the judge who
has been trying Mr Ebrahim and two other men on charges of treason, attempted
murder and terrorism arising out of landmine attacks in Eastern Transvaal in
1986. The two other alleged ANC guerrillas are Acton Mandla Maseko and Simon
Dladla.

Counsel for the state and defence will have the right to cross-examine the
witnesses two of whom are South African police officers, who gave state evidence
during the trial and are also in London. They are Warrant Officers FJ Pienaar
and NJ Deetleefs.

In a letter to Mrs Jana smuggled out of prison last year after his disappearance
Mr Ebrahim made his first contact with the outside world with a description of
the mental torture he was subjected to.

'On January 9 1987 I was transferred to John Vorster Square and my interrogators
promised to put me under heavy mental strain. Warrant Officer Deetleefs said if
I survived it I would not be a human being.

'I was put in a special cell. Very little air came in. In an hour or so I felt
mentally tired and weak. I was exposed to sharp and piercing noises. On the
fourth day I was a mental and nervous wreck .. it completely wrecked my nervous
system.'

Mrs Jana said yesterday that the kidnapping of her client showed South Africa's
total disregard for neighbouring states. An appeal challenging the jurisdiction
of the court is still pending on this issue, but cannot be heard until the
current trial is over.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              17 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 8, 1988

Commentary: If you can't beat them contain them

BYLINE: By HUGO YOUNG

LENGTH: 1043 words


The inquest in Gibraltar is a modest but necessary event. It is very unlikely to
fulfil the more lurid apprehensions about what it might reveal. As a show-trial
of the SAS it will be a flop, and as a forum for inquiring into the
anti-terrorist strategies of the British Government it will not begin to fit.
And yet it is a happening which matters. It protects the values of a world in
which the terrorist cannot now, or perhaps ever, be defeated.

It will be a limited sensatin for several reasons, the first of which is that
the SAS men who killed the IRA gang last March seem set to testify. After much
prevarication, ministers have seen that by appearing, duly protected, the
British agents have a better chance of getting the right result. Were they to
stay away, it would be hard to persuade the jury or the world that this wasn't
just a shoot-to-kill policy transferred to the global stage.


The SAS story is likely to be plausible. A taste of it was judiciously leaked
beforehand, indicating that only a piece of police incompentence prevented this
being an arrest rather than a shoot-out. But almost any story could probably get
the SAS off the hook, in a court where the rules of the game limit the scope for
thorough investigtion. In the end, it will take a clear verdict of unprovoked
murder to cause Britain serious embarrassment; and in the circumstances, that
won't be available.

Another helpful factor is the timing. Whitehall manoeuvred for postponement of
the inquest in the expectation that delay variably takes the heat out of public
reaction to shocking events. But his delay has achieved more than that. during
it, the IRA offensive has been resumed on the Continent, in London and in
Ulster.

Every IRA atrocity, the 'accidents' as well as the murders of the military,
renders temporarily more acceptable the actions taken against terrorists
generally. When we see the families of the dead terrorists laying wreaths in
Gibraltar, the matter reverts from the legal to the more cosmic realm. In the
eye of eternity, these people are not mourning relatives who deserve the
smallest shred of sympathy. They were planning the mass murder of the innocents.
However shocking it would be were the SAS found, in law, to have committed
murder, that would never erase the moral truth about the motivation of
terrorists Farrell, Savage and McCann.

The Gibraltar verdict, therefore, is unlikely to have the political or
diplomatic resonance which was once anticipated. It will not be followed by any
further judcial inquiry. The case will be laid to rest alongside the rotting
bones of many other unresolved depravities which are buried in the history of
the 20-year Irish war.

Some people contend that the inquest, with SAS involvement, should not be taking
place at all. Either they argue that its very inconclusiveness, reinforced by
the strict constraints which government lawyers are placing on what the SAS
witnesses may discuss, will make it at best a predictable nullity, at worst a
whitewash. Others, alternatively, think the opposite: that this and other
appurtenances of the liberal state have no part to play in the terrorist world.

Some ministers certainly seemed to feel this in the early days, which is why
they went so far so publicly to discourage the SAS from testifying. Sensibly,
they thought again. But every new atrocity attracts new support, even if only
temporarily, to the case against mobilising the institutions of democracy.
'Unitl terrorism is defated' sneaks into the public mind as excuse and
justification for whittling away at normal procedures. 'Terrorism will be
defeated', said Mrs Thatcher, with eyes blazing, the other day. Even though she
commendably declines to perform the destructive political gestures by which
Unionists would urge her to secure that defeat, she states the premise on which
policy is based.

She has to say it, but one hopes she doesn't believe it. It seems so manifestly
the case that Irish terrorism cannot be defeated, by the military methods which
now predominate, that the business we have to be in is damage-limitation.

The reality is roughly as follows. A massive military commitment can contain the
IRA but cannot eliminate the terrorist. If he is ever to be eliminated, it will
be by political action. The impediments to such action are as great as they have
ever been. The Unionists oppose it. But in the South, also, there is a leader
who cannot be trusted. The speed of Mr Haughey's complaint about the IRA deaths
in Omagh, contrasted with his pedestrain responses to British or civilian deaths
anywhere, announce a man who is not concealing his integrity beneath some
necessary policital cunning, but who possesses too little of it to make him
worth doing business with.

Once cannot, therefore, look forward to the ending of terrorism. We shall live
with an appalling impasse. This is bloody and expensive and a deplorable
political failure. The task of containment, with no foreseeable end, imposes a
terrible burden on Britain's military volunteers. But for all the familiar and
unchanging reasons of history and geography and religious perversion, that's the
way it is.

In these circumstance, the British have one duty above all others. We cannot get
out of Ireland, but we can do our best to quarantine British life from the Irish
effect. This would seem to be the one positive task still within reach, and it
becomes more imperative rather than less when terrorism proves inextinguishable.
The battle now requiring the most avid attention of the citizen is to prevent
the rules of the terrorist war reaching into Parliament, the courts, the media
and the other mainland institutions.

The quarantine cannot be complete. There are terrorists on the mainland too. The
palsy already reaches unnecessarily wide with some of the provisons of the
Prevention of Terrorism Act. Ministers cannot be relied on to withhold their
pressure from the media whenever the Irish question looks like being treated in
a way they do not approve of. Nor do the really approve of what is going on now
in Gibraltar. Nonetheless, Cornoner Pizzarello, late of Wadham College, Oxford,
is doing more than many people to uphold the British way of life.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              18 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           September 8 1988, Thursday

British on run from security; Athletics; Seoul Olympics

BYLINE: From PAT BUTCHER, Athletics Correspondent, Nihon, Japan

SECTION: Issue 63181.

LENGTH: 336 words


You can always notice the advent of the Olympic Games: the tabloids suddenly
realize that athletes exist, and the British team runs into security problems
abroad.

'They should be so unlucky, ' would be a good paraphrase of what Frank Dick,
Britain's national director of coaching, said yesterday about the conditions at
the Nihon Aerobics Centre, some 37 miles outside Tokyo.


Dick, who was largely responsible for persuading the British Amateur Athletic
Board and British Olympic Committee to use Nihon as the pre-Olympic holding
camp, is lording it over everyone here as a result of his success, maintaining
that the strict security is to everyone's advantage, 'even the Press'.

The worry is that the Japanese Red Army faction might get wind that the British
and United States athletics teams are here, and try to make headlines out of a
terrorist attack.

Being here makes a lot of people feel important, though none of them are
athletes. Take Sue Crehan, for example. She was added to the Olympic team in the
marathon two weeks ago, and told that there was a 10-kilometre training path
around the camp.

'All we have been able to find is an 800-metre path, ' Crehan said. 'To get a
good run in, we have got to go on the road outside and be accompanied by a
police escort. When I go out for a long run, I usually have to dive into the
bushes at some point. But I was told the police would carry my toilet roll.'

Apart from these eccentricities, the camp is a millionaires' paradise. Behind
barbed wire, it contains a 400-metre running track, a swimming pool, weight
rooms, jacuzzis, tennis and badminton courts. It costs only Pounds 200,000 to
join the golf club. And there is a green fee on top of that.

The athletes will stay here for anything up to the first week of the Games,
depending on when their event begins in Seoul. And there will be competitions,
including British, United States and Japanese athletes, in nearby Chiba on
Sunday and either next Tuesday or Wednesday.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              19 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           September 12 1988, Monday

Squeezing out the IRA; Pressure for political progress in Ulster

BYLINE: PAUL VALLELY

SECTION: Issue 63184.

LENGTH: 1067 words


Security will again be the first issue for discussion at tomorrow's meeting of
the Anglo-Irish conference in Dublin, which has been brought forward at the
request of the Irish government. Once again the IRA will have succeeded in
setting the agenda.

The meeting will hear reports from Sir John Hermon, head of the Royal Ulster
Constabulary, on new Special Branch intelligence which indicates that the IRA is
planning substantially to intensify its campaign of bombing and shooting in the
province over the next four months. For their part Irish ministers will also ask
for more details of the SAS ambush at Omagh in which three IRA men 'on active
service' were killed.


But, following talks between the most senior ministers in the Dublin cabinet and
leading Northern nationalists on Friday, the Irish foreign minister, Brian
Lenahan, will be pressing with renewed determination for further political
initiatives in an attempt to restore balance to the conference process. It is
not that Dublin ministers think security should not have immediate priority, but
they suspect that for Britain it is the only priority. The mistake of this
approach, they feel, is that it tends to deal only with the symptoms and not the
cause.

Perhaps that is a little unfair. Certainly among ministers and officials at the
Northern Ireland Office in Stormont there is an awareness that progress must be
made in a host of 'non-security' areas if the climate in which terrorism
flourishes is ever to be removed. But Dublin feels that at Westminster the
politics of Northern Ireland all too easily become the politics of the latest
atrocity, giving the IRA control over the Ulster agenda.

It is in the belief that such temptation must be strongly resisted that the
Dublin cabinet has pressed for an early meeting of the conference to throw the
spotlight back on to the political process and underscore its belief that the
real answers to the Northern Ireland problem can only be political. Its meeting
on Friday with a delegation from the Social Democratic and Labour Party, led by
John Hume, threw up a number of ideas for potential progress. But it also
highlighted the relative failure of Dublin's and the SDLP's most recent
strategy.

Their long-term aim has been a new all-Ireland round-table meeting at which all
elected parties, including Provisional Sinn Fein, would discuss the future of
the island. To attain this it was necessary to draw both the Ulster Unionists
and Sinn Fein more fully into the political debate.

To this end the Irish Prime Minister, Charles Haughey, extended an unprecedented
direct invitation to Unionist leaders and John Hume opened direct talks with the
Sinn Fein president, Gerry Adams, and other Provisional leaders.

The talks between the nationalists ended with statements of position by both the
moderate and extremist parties. Sinn Fein could not agree with three key SDLP
points: that IRA violence was counter-productive and must stop; that the one
million Ulster Unionists had a de facto veto on any plans for unity on an island
with an entire population of only four million; and that the Anglo-Irish
agreement now committed Britain to a neutral position and to withdrawing from
Northern Ireland if its people eventually voted for that. As for Haughey's
approach to the Unionists, the Official Unionist leader, James Molyneaux,
expressed interest but was outflanked by the Rev Ian Paisley, who said his
Democratic Unionists would never talk.

Privately, Haughey and Hume, if a little disappointed, are unsurprised. Sources
close to both say that the fruits of both initiatives were expected only to be
long-term. On Friday they met to discuss their next steps.

In a statement after the three- hour meeting they reiterated their willingness
to meet, separately, with Unionist leaders 'without any preconditions and with
full respect for the convictions of all the parties involved'. But they also
expressed a determination to wrest the debate back on to familiar areas
including fair employment, cross-border economic and social cooperation, and
help for the province's economically disadvantaged areas.

At the top of the list was finding new measures to increase Catholic confidence
in the administration of justice in the North the conference decided at its last
meeting to draw up proposals on this from both sides and these are to be
discussed tomorrow.

Urgent attention must also be given to improving relations between Catholics and
the security forces, which SDLP sources say have deteriorated seriously in
recent months. They will also be pushing for aid to the poorest areas to be
extended they want the recent Pounds 10 million government grant to West Belfast
to be a regular, not a one-off, payment and similar consideration to be given to
Londonderry, Armagh, Newry, Strabane and Omagh all areas of high Catholic
unemployment and high IRA activity.

There has been progress in these areas already, though it receives little
publicity. The new RUC code of conduct and the new police complaints board are
good examples. On the economic front the International Fund for Ireland is a
success; a new strategy for that was decided at the last meeting of the
conference. All this is as important as the improved security cooperation,
though that too has had great successes in communications, liaison and in
greatly improved arms finds.

But Dublin thinks further progress is needed because that is the only way to
show to ordinary people that a solution in Northern Ireland lies outside the
violence of the IRA or a mere security response to it.

In November the Dublin and Westminster politicians are committed to a review of
the workings of the conference, which is currently under siege from a wide range
of opponents. Undoubtedly it would be simple enough to choose any one of a
number of political perspectives and pick holes in the whole business but that
would be to miss the point.

The agreement is predicated on pragmatism, not on philosophy. Those engaged in
the fight against terrorism in the province are clear that it has brought
unprecedented improvements in cross-border security and extradition
arrangements. But it is only when it begins to bear undeniable fruits in the
area of social justice that the IRA will find itself deprived of the environment
of hopelessness which it needs to continue to flourish.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              20 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 13, 1988

'Worry link' for civil service

BYLINE: By DAVID HENCKE, Westminster Correspondent

LENGTH: 563 words


Government 'worry lines' for civil servants to voice their fears about being
terrorist targets will be the main weapon to calm nerves after the bomb attack
yesterday on the home of Sir Kenneth Bloomfield, the head of the Northern
Ireland civil service.

The lines, agreed 18 months ago between the civil service unions and management,
may come into their own as Northern Ireland's civil servants begin to feel that
they are once again on the front line.


The bomb attack yesterday was the first for seven years on a civil service
target. Only one civil servant has been killed; Ms Judith Cook, assistant to the
British Ambassador to Dublin, Mr Christopher Ewart Biggs, died when his car was
blown up in 1976. Sir Brian Clubbon, who was then the permanent under secretary
at the Northern Ireland Office, was badly injured in the same attack.

The last campaign against senior civil servants was in 1976 and 1977 when bombs
were defused at a number of homes in Belfast, and the most recent attack was in
1981.

Round-the-clock government protection for civil servants is not widely provided
because they have not normally been targets.

Most of Northern Ireland's 23,209 civil servants work in the Northern Ireland
Office, which recruits nearly all its staff locally. Together with health
service jobs, administrative jobs form a higher proportion of work in Northern
Ireland than in the rest of Britain.

The Northern Ireland Office covers social security, health, unemployment,
planning, transport, housing, industry, finance and agriculture; work done in
separate departments in Whitehall.

'Staff in social security offices are unlikely to be targets as many of the IRA
or loyalist recruits are likely to be drawing their dole money from them and do
not bite the hand that feeds them,' said one civil servant.

Even the National Audit Office, which scrutinises Whitehall efficiency, has a
separate executive organisation in the province.

The only big national departments with a presence in Northern Ireland are Inland
Revenue, Customs and Excise and the Ministry of Defence, which has been steadily
reducing its civilian staff over the last decade from more than 4,000 to a few
hundred.

This makes the remaining civil servants more nervous.

At the annual conference of the Institution of Professional Civil Servants this
year one big complaint was that ministry cars were too noticeable.

The Government is said by unions to have responded constructively to many
proposals to improve security and protection.

The 'worry line' allows civil servants to report anything suspicious; discuss
problems their children or wives have; and express concern if neighbours are
taking too close an interest.

Government agreements allow civil servants who find the problems too acute -
particularly those from the mainland - to be transferred back to England at the
ministry's expense. Only a handful have so far taken advantage of this.

Up to five days extra 'stress leave' is also given to civil servants posted to
the province.

Nevertheless, one Northern Ireland civil servant now working in London said
yesterday: 'You are mainly on your own there to arrange your own security.

'They give you plenty of advice like varying your way to work. The trouble is
that at places like Aldergrove Airport there is only road to get in.'

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              21 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           September 13 1988, Tuesday

'Cynical' bomb shocked SAS; IRA shooting, Gibraltar inquest

BYLINE: From TONY DAWE, Gibraltar

SECTION: Issue 63185.

LENGTH: 872 words


The huge bomb discovered after the killing of three IRA terrorists in Gibralter
was 'even more cynical' than the security forces had imagined and would have had
a devastating impact on the colony, the inquest into the shootings was told
yesterday.

The 141lbs of Czech-manufactured Semtex explosives found in a car in Marbella,
Spain, could have been detonated from outside the territory and would have
caused one of the most violent attacks on a city by the Provisional IRA, Mr Alan
Fereday, a forensic scientist, said.


A claim that the SAS was ordered to carry out a 'shoot-to-kill' operation in
advance of the killing of three IRA terrorists in Gibraltar was strongly refuted
yesterday by the commander of the SAS team.

The commander, known as Soldier F, refused to accept a claim that the SAS
represented 'the unholy high priesthood of violence charged with dangerous and
brutal duties in the cause of the State'.

Mr Patrick McGrory, representing the families of the terrorists, told the
Gibraltar inquest into the deaths that the unleashing of the SAS on the
terrorists was 'like signing their death warrant'.

Soldier F said: 'The actual bomb that was found was even more cynical than we
ever imagined in our wildest thoughts'.

Mr Fereday, of the Royal Armaments Research and Development Establishment, Kent,
said he examined a Spanish report on the Semtex explosive, detonators and timing
devices found in a car in Spain which had been hired by the terrorists.

He said: 'I am in no doubt that the device found in Spain is solely attributable
to the IRA'. He said Semtex, the detonators and the timing devices had been
found in other IRA bombs and that the integrated circuits in the timing devices
bore the same batch numbers as a series of IRA bombs, including one found with
the gang which planned a series of seaside bombings in Britain in 1985.

Mr Fereday said the 141lbs of explosives would be 'absolutely devastating'. It
was 'one of the most violent bombs that the IRA had ever produced in a city
centre.'

A security scare surrounded the appearance in court of Soldier F, who gave
evidence from behind a heavy 15ft-high curtain so that he could be seen only by
the coroner, jury and lawyers. A trick of the light made it possible for his
reflection to be seen on a door behind the curtain by some people at the back of
the court.

After being informed, Mr Felix Pizzarello, the coroner, told the press and
others in court: 'If by any chance a glimpse is obtained or reflection seen of
the witness, I need hardly tell you that you must not in any way describe or
sketch them'.

Soldier F clashed several times with Mr McGrory during nearly four hours of
cross examination. At one point, Mr McGrory accused him of drawing up documents
relating to the events of March 6 several days later.

When challenged by Mr Michael Hucker, representing the SAS, Mr McGrory said: 'I
am going to put a great many more things to this witness indicating that he is
not telling the truth. My instructions are that a plan was devised sometime
before March 6 that, if this active service unit came into Gibraltar, they would
be killed.'

Mr Hucker said: 'Soldier F has been accused of telling lies in this court. I
object to that in the strongest possible terms.'

The SAS commander stressed that the aim of the operation was 'to arrest the
Provisional IRA active service unit so that they could come before the courts
and be properly dealt with as criminals and receive their just deserts for the
sort of operation they were attempting to mount here in Gibraltar'.

Soldier F said that when the SAS team was given control of the situation by the
Gibraltar police commissioner it was on the point of arresting the terrorists
'in an ideal situation' when the three unexpectedly split up.

'In that sort of situation, you have to arrest all three together and as close
in time as you can possibly manage in order to minimize the threat', he said.

'We did not know which of the three had an initiation device (to explode a
bomb). We did not know which of the three would employ it. With the threat that
these three people posed, you could not risk the lives of the people of
Gibraltar by going on a two-one hunt.'

Soldier F, who was not present at the scene, said: 'The SAS are trained to fire
very accurately and in some circumstances, mainly associated with the role of
counter-terrorism, to be able to fire very quickly if the threat merits it.'

He said SAS officers could probably fire six bullets each in as little as three
seconds. A total of 27 bullets were fired at the three terrorists.

He confirmed in evidence that the SAS officers had flown to Gibraltar several
days before the shootings. They had left later on the day of the shootings
without giving statements to the local police. He said that a Gibraltar police
officer flew to Britain about three days later to take statements.

The Sunday Times is being referred to the Gibraltar Attorney General for
possible contempt proceedings after publishing remarks made out of court by
Professor Alan Watson, a pathologist who gave evidence, and for speculating on
Mr Fereday's evidence. The inquest continues today.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              22 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          September 14 1988, Wednesday

Dublin says use of internment is 'not on'; Anglo-Irish conference

BYLINE: PAUL VALLELY

SECTION: Issue 63186.

LENGTH: 498 words


A number of specific new security measures were agreed at a meeting of the
Anglo-Irish conference in Dublin yesterday, but the introduction of internment
without trial to combat IRA terrorism was ruled out by the Irish government.

Mr Brian Lenihan, the Irish foreign minister, told a press conference, to which
English reporters were not invited, that the introduction of internment had been
excluded from consideration. 'It is not on', he is reported to have told the
Irish media.


British politicians, including the Prime Minister and Mr Tom King, Secretary of
State for Northern Ireland, have, in recent weeks, indicated that, so far as
British security policy is concerned, internment is one of a number of measures
under consideration.

One British source said yesterday that was still the case. However, security
experts agreed that internment could be effective only if it were introduced
simultaneously on both sides of the border.

Mr King was in buoyant mood yesterday after a series of meetings in Dublin,
including talks with Mr Charles Haughey, the Irish prime minister, and with
British and Irish security chiefs.

He said: 'I've been encouraged by our discussions today. We dealt with a number
of practical issues and I hope that they will be of considerable benefit'.

Mr King said he was conscious of a real political will in Dublin to fight
terrorism. Co-operation between the two governments and their police forces was
at its strongest yet. Details of the new measures could not be disclosed.

However, a previous security trawl of more than 30,000 premises in the South
proved highly effective in detecting explosives in transit to the North.

It is understood that the cache of explosives, mortars, rocket-propelled
grenades, guns and ammunition found by the Royal Ulster Constabulary in
Londonderry yesterday was the result of a cross-border intelligence operation.

Patrick Ryan, a suspected member of the IRA who was arrested in Belgium last
June, has asked for political asylum, a justice ministry source said yesterday.

Ryan, aged 58, of Tipperry, a former missionary in Africa, was arrested in
Brussels on June 30 and charged with possession of a false passport and using a
false name. Britain has asked for his extradition.

Police allege that Ryan is a key link in the IRA's European operations and
masterminded its gun-running across the Continent.

A Pounds 1.5 million security operation is being launched to protect the Prime
Minister and her Cabinet from IRA attack during the Conservative Party
conference in Brighton next month.

The Grand Hotel will be turned into a virtual fortress for the conference as
part of measures to prevent a repetition of the IRA bomb attack which killed
five people in 1984.

Security for the conference, which takes place from October 11 to 14, will
involve up to half of the 2,900-strong Sussex police force. Details of the Prime
Minister's itinerary will not be disclosed.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              23 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           September 19 1988, Monday

Spanish officer to appear at IRA inquest; Gibraltar shootings

BYLINE: From TONY DAWE and DOMINIQUE SEARLE in Gibraltar

SECTION: Issue 63190.

LENGTH: 394 words


Vital evidence about the IRA bomb which was found in Spain and intended to be
detonated in Gibraltar will be given to the colony's coroner this week by a
senior Spanish police officer.

The move comes after high-level diplomatic moves between Britain and Spain on
the eve of Mrs Margaret Thatcher's visit to Madrid. The Spanish government has
agreed to send the police inspector to Gibraltar although it refuses to
recognize British rule there because of its claim to the Rock.


The decision is more a sign of international co-operation in the fight against
terrorism than of any softening of Spanish policy on Gibraltar. The Spanish
authorities are also eager that their role in tracking the three IRA terrorists
on the Costa del Sol before they were shot by the SAS should be widely known.

The sending of the Spanish officer to Gibraltar will be welcomed by the British
authorities who wanted the inquest to be given first-hand evidence of the
terrorists' movements and the 141lb bomb they planned to detonate. They regarded
the evidence as essential because no bomb was found in Gibraltar after the
terrorists, who were unarmed, were shot.

The inquest has been told British security services were convinced the
terrorists had just planted the bomb and possessed remote control detonators
when shot.

It has taken six months of diplomatic manoeuvring to persuade Spain to
co-operate with the inquest. The diplomacy began with Mr Eric Thistlethwaite,
the colony's attorney-general preparing a 'commission ragatoire', a form of
legal questionnaire, which was then submitted through Foreign Office channels to
the Spanish courts.

The Spanish officer is expected to be called by coroner Mr Felix Pizzarello
after members of the Gibraltar police force have finished their evidence this
week.

Eye witnesses, including Mrs Carmen Proetta, who featured in the Thames TV
programme Death on the Rock, and Mr Victor Adams, the British tourist who
received a flesh wound from a bullet which ricocheted, are not expected to give
evidence for several days.

It will not be the first time that the Spanish authorities have been represented
in a Gibraltar court. In a civil case last year they unsuccessfully claimed a
Pounds 20,000 Gibraltar lottery prize after confiscating what turned out to be
the winning ticket from a woman entering Spain.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              24 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          September 21 1988, Wednesday

Let Ulster speak; Commentary

BYLINE: PAUL BEW

SECTION: Issue 63192.

LENGTH: 919 words


The public debate in response to the latest spiral of IRA violence has been a
depressing one. There has been much discussion of options, such as capital
punishment and selective internment, which are quite simply not on any realistic
political agenda. What is needed is the implementation of a sensitive political
package designed to reduce some of the causes of Northern Ireland's instability.

First, we need to know the true situation there. The Anglo-Irish Agreement has
ushered in a more unstable form of direct rule, largely because it has failed to
isolate Sinn Fein and the IRA. The IRA has substantially increased its violent
activities as have Loyalist killers and, more important, Sinn Fein has held its
share of the vote: 11.4 per cent in last year's general election against 11.8
per cent in 1985, on the eve of the agreement.


Hence the decision by John Hume, leader of the Social Democratic and Labour
Party, to open up protracted talks with Sinn Fein at a time when the Government
hoped for a very different Unionist/SDLP dialogue leading to internal
accommodation between constitutional parties.

Gerry Adams of Sinn Fein can now afford to praise the 'educative effects' of the
Anglo-Irish Agreement because it has created a new distrust between the British
government and the Unionists. In Sinn Fein's view, the evidence suggests that
Britain's resolve to stay in Northern Ireland is weakening, and that the IRA is
now working with the grain of history.

In this new and unexpected context, what can the Government now do? There is no
magical panacea in the security field; rather it is a question of political
strategy. The key point to grasp is the vital importance of separating the
perceived process of creeping unification from the process of internal reform.
In the pursuit of 'equality of treatment' within Northern Ireland, the
Government is entitled to push through reforms in fair employment and other
areas which are opposed by significant numbers of Unionists.

However, it has failed in terms of political actions, not sweet words to
underline its commitment to the principle that a united Ireland can come about
only through the consent of a majority in the North.

The device for doing this lies easily to hand, and is on the statute book. The
1973 Constitution Act specifies that there will be 'periodic' (ten years is
mentioned) plebiscites on unification. The commitment to hold one in the near
future and another ten years from now would send a signal to the Unionists, the
constitutional nationalists and the Provos that Britain accepts the democratic
basis of partition.

The people who say the Provos can be defeated only politically are correct; the
problem is that having weathered the challenge of the Anglo-Irish Agreement, the
Provos have emerged with renewed self-confidence. As Adams said recently: 'The
British always adopt stiff upper lips in these circumstances. There is a long
history of them putting up an intransigent front while making arrangements to
go.'

A 'border' poll would send an unmistakable signal that this is not the case. The
poll in 1973 produced 591,000 votes in favour of the UK link. This is more than
the combined Unionist vote of 380,000 in the 1987 general election and implies
at least a degree of cross-community acceptance of the Union.

For this reason, some SDLP people will criticize the holding of such a poll, but
they will continue to support the agreement and will be no less likely than they
already are to reach that elusive internal deal with the Unionists.

It is important also to have clarification of the Opposition's position. Labour
is at present committed to 'unity by consent', but doubts exist as to its
sincerity. Kevin McNamara, Labour's front-bench spokesman on Northern Ireland,
has recently rather optimistically expressed a desire to be the last Northern
Ireland Secretary, and this seems to suggest an incredibly short timetable for
the winning of such consent. This, and similar statements by McNamara, add to
the general air of instability in the province.

The Government should simultaneously move to alleviate the material basis of
nationalist discontent. Too much of the concern so far has been with the purely
symbolic and cultural expressions of alienation; it is to be hoped that no one
believes the recent aid package to West Belfast is enough.

As the Northern Ireland problem becomes more, rather than less intractable, the
Government's options are progressively narrowing. It can govern more sensitively
and with more reflection and here measures to improve the way Northern Ireland's
business is handled at Westminster are highly desirable or it can make impotent
denunciations of violence and wildly optimistic comments about an imminent
political breakthrough.

There are other means in the long term of deepening the respect of the two
traditions within Northern Ireland. So far the Government's policy has raised
fears within the Protestant community without mollifying them and raised
expectations among the Roman Catholics without satisfying them.

The immediate problem is for the Government to make it clear that it will not be
moved on the principle of majority consent.

This can be done without detracting in any way from policies which it has
already entered into to improve the condition of the minority community, or may
be persuaded to enter into in the future.

The author is Reader in Politics at The Queen's University, Belfast.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              25 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 27, 1988

Futures: The flights of alarm - Worries over a plan to ship plutonium by air to
Japan

BYLINE: By WALTER PATTERSON

LENGTH: 693 words


Does plutonium make you yawn? The British Government is hoping so. A
hare-brained, hair-raising plan is much easier to implement if no one's paying
any attention. Sometime soon, as inconspicuously as possible, the Government
will approve a proposal to fly separated plutonium from Britain to Japan.

Every three weeks or so a consignment of some 200 kilograms of plutonium -
enough for at least 20 atomic bombs - will leave the Sellafield site of British
Nuclear Fuels by road for Prestwick Airport, where it will be loaded aboard a
cargo Boeing 747, to fly over the North Pole to Japan. Similar flights will also
commence from France. By the year 200 at least 45 tonnes of plutonium will have
been sent from Europe to Japan.


Routine air-shipment of a material so uniquely hazardous raises safety and
security implications of unparalleled gravity, as a film on ITV's This Week, to
be transmitted on Thursday evening, makes clear. The film includes rare archive
footage of the extraordinary clean-up procedures after the plane-crashes at
Palomares in Spain in 1966 and Thule in Greenland in 1968, which scattered
plutonium over the landscape.

No cask has yet been certified safe to carry the quantities of plutonium the
proposed flights would entail. Concern in the US, particularly Alaska, has been
so great that earlier this year the plan had to be amended to re-route the
intended flight path completely outside US air space.

The programme also includes film of US exercises rehearsing responses to
terrorist attack on plutonium transport, a grim possibility the US takes very
seriously. If a shoulder-launched missile brought down a plutonium-laden
aircraft, the consequences, both immediate and long-term, could be devastating.
If even a fraction of one shipment were to fall into the wrong hands it could
cause an enormouse political and diplomatic crisis.

Why, then, should Britain and Japan want to transport so much separated
plutonium so far so rapidly? The plutonium will come from Japanese reactor fuel,
reprocessed in BNFL's Thermal Oxide Reprocessing Plant (Thorp). Thorp, still
under construction, but two years behind schedule, is now not expected to start
up until 1992. Japan's nuclear authorities say they need the plutonium for fast
breeder reactors. But Japan's electrical utilities are on record that they do
not expect fast breeders to be economically competitive until 2030.

Japan already has a substantial inventory of separated plutonium, from BNFL and
from Japan's own small reprocessing plant at Tokai Mura. Japan is building a
larger reprocessing plant at Rokkasho Mura, planned to be in operation by the
mid-1990s. Why it should require a further 45 tonnes of separated plutonium by
the year 2000 remains a mystery.

BNFL insists that reprocessing the Japanese fuel will make a handsome profit.
But a sizeable percentage of the capacity of Thorp is reserved for reprocessing
the spent fuel from Britain's own advanced gas-cooled reactors.

Profits for BNFL in this context may translate directly into higher costs for
British electricity users. Lord Marshall, chairman of the Central Electricity
Generating Board, presenting the annual report last month, noted that its
results were undermined by an unanticipated extra cost of Pounds 97 million for
reprocessing in the past year.

On September 15 the CEGB revealed that it may build a central storage facility
for spent AGR fuel at its Heysham site. One clear implication of this proposal
is that after privatization the CEGB's successor company may seek to renegotiate
or event to rethink its plans to have AGR fuel reprocessed in Thorp. The CEGB
does not want separated plutonium.

Marshall has declared that the CEGB has no interest in continuing to fund fast
breeder research at Dounreay, and the Government has announced that it plans to
shut down the Prototype Fast Reactor by 1993.

Yet even as Britain winds up its own plutonium programme it is to begin
exporting plutonium by the tonne, turning bomb-material into a routine commodity
of international commerce. Don't ask why; it's all so humdrum, and the
Government knows best.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              26 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                                The Independent

                          September 28 1988, Wednesday

Leading Article: Diplomacy in the national interest

SECTION: Leader ; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 526 words


IT is no easy matter to decide how national interests are best served when
dealing with governments which ignore the norms of international behaviour. Iran
is a case in point. In June the Foreign Secretary, Sir Geoffrey Howe, told the
Commons there could be no fundamental improvement in Britain's overall
relationship with that country 'in the absence of substantial and sustained
changes in Iranian behaviour'. In recent years, he said, Iran had flouted
international and consular agreements; harassed and assassinated its opponents
and fomented instability abroad; supported groups committed to sabotage and
terrorism; defied the UN's authority; and attacked international shipping. Now,
three months later, a substantial change has been detected.

Anglo-Iranian relations have been uneasy or worse since the Islamic Revolution
of 1979. Warned during the siege of the American embassy that they might face
similar treatment, British officials subsequently operated under the protection
of the Swedish flag. They were all withdrawn in stages in May last year
following the beating up by Revolutionary Guards of Edward Chaplin, a relatively
senior diplomat, in retaliation for the Iranian vice-consul in Manchester being
charged with shoplifting. The Iranians behaved appallingly at that time,
deliberately scuppering British attempts at damage limitation. Even so, the
Foreign Office should arguably have left one official in Tehran to balance the
Iranian charge d'affaires who remained at his post in London. Recently two
British diplomats have visited Tehran to take soundings, and yesterday talks
began in Geneva between British and Iranian officials on the normalisation of
relations. On Friday Sir Geoffrey and his Iranian counterpart, Mr Velayati, are
expected to announce an agreement in New York.


Yet apart from the cessation of hostilities in the Gulf, and with them the
attacks on commercial shipping, it is hard to see any significant change in
Iran's behaviour. Assurances have been given, the Foreign Office argues, that
British diplomats will be safe in Tehran, and have now been accepted. Yet if the
west allows Iraq to get away with its chemical warfare against the Kurds and
with an aggressive negotiating position in the peace talks with Iran, Western
diplomats could again be vulnerable. The real change seems to be at the Foreign
Office, where Sir Geoffrey and senior officials have belatedly decided that
proper representation in Tehran would be good for Britain.

The French, more pragmatic in these matters, agreed in June to resume full
diplomatic relations, even though their embassy staff had been under virtual
siege for several months. Both strategically and commercially, Iran is an
important country with which Britain has a long association. Large contracts for
its post-war reconstruction are there to be gained. Two British subjects, Roger
Cooper and Nicholas Nicola, languish in Tehran jails. British hostages are held
in Lebanon by groups reckoned to enjoy official Iranian support. On any
calculation of the national interest, the return of British diplomats to Tehran
is overdue.

Leader Page 18

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1988 Independent Print Ltd

                              27 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                                The Independent

                            October 1 1988, Saturday

Special Report on Northern Ireland 6: World views of Ulster fail to follow the
Whitehall line

SECTION: Home News ; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1177 words


SIR GEOFFREY HOWE interrupted his meetings with heads of state and foreign
ministers at the United Nations this week for a special session on Northern
Ireland with the American Press, a sign of how seriously ministers take US
public opinion on events in the province.

With its world influence and its large population of Irish origin, the United
States has been the main target of Government efforts to explain its Northern
Ireland policy. But reports from Independent correspondents in Europe make it
clear that Ulster's drawn-out crisis evokes responses from the Press and public
which, in some cases, run counter to the view from Whitehall.


Any sympathy for IRA violence is restricted to tiny extremist movements on the
Continent. In Italy, even the extreme left appears to have shed its romantic
illusions about Irish 'freedom fighters', while the Communist Party loathes
terrorists as agents provocateurs of the ruling classes. IRA bombings which kill
civilians recall to Italians their own history of neo-fascist terror.

In Belgium, there was some sympathy at one time for the Republican cause in
Ireland, partly as a result of Belgian experiences of foreign occupation in the
Second World War. Today, however, there is no sympathy for the IRA, either
politically or in the mainstream media, although some of the parties to the left
have shown some support for the Republican cause.

Despite the lack of any support for the IRA, there is a feeling in a number of
European Community countries that the conflict in Northern Ireland is
essentially a political struggle. This can affect the way in which news from
Ulster is reported.

Italian media, for example, use the term 'terrorist' with some care in reporting
on Ulster - in contrast to their reports on domestic political violence. Some
French media speak of 'nationalists' when covering the IRA and their
sympathisers, while others relate the activities of the Ulster 'nationalists'
with the acts of the French resistance during the Second World War.

In West Germany, the UK Government has come under criticism for failing to try
to solve the Northern Ireland problem by political and economic means. 'At the
moment there is no recognisable Northern Ireland policy in London, only military
reactions,' Stuttgarter Zeitung complained recently.

American opinion must, however, remain the Government's main concern,
particularly given the political clout of voters of Irish origin and the
fund-raising activities of such organisations as the Irish Northern Aid Society
(Noraid), which raises money for Catholics in Ulster, including the IRA.

A significant point seemed to have been scored for the British Government when
the Mayor of New York, Ed Koch, returned from a six-day visit to Belfast and
Dublin in July and announced: 'I do not believe that the British are an
occupying force. My impression is that the British are trying to play a
constructive role.'

But, despite the intense efforts of the British officials to persuade American
opinion that the IRA is a terrorist organisation, their attempt at getting the
Government's point of view across is not always successful.

Several major US news organisations, including The New York Times, consistently
refer to IRA members as a guerrillas, rather than terrorists, in their
editorials and news stories. There is a quite wide belief that the struggle
against the IRA involves more than a British attempt to impose law and order and
suppress terrorism.

The New York Times, which syndicates its news and editorial service to hundreds
of local American papers, explains that it has always called the IRA
'guerrillas', and that no significance should be given to the term. But the
choice of word has long been a sore point with British officials.

The Washington Post and New York Times have both said in recent editorials that
the lack of trust in the system of law enforcement in Northern Ireland in the
wake of the Stalker-Sampson shoot-to-kill controversy is weakening the
Anglo-Irish agreement.

It was to counter the widespread belief in the American media that Mrs Thatcher
has distanced herself from the Anglo-Irish accord that the Foreign Secretary met
the American Press this week. The meeting was also designed to counter a recent
trend to sympathise with the nationalist view.

According to Sir Geoffrey's speaking note, he told the Americans that there was
'much misunderstanding of (the) British role in Northern Ireland,' - most
commonly that Britain is a colonial power. The Provisional IRA wanted 'to force
the choice' of Northern Ireland's future within the United Kingdom and intended
to create 'a revolutionary socialist United Ireland'.

British ministers have faced occasional demonstration abroad from IRA
sympathisers, most recently in August, when protesters brandishing placards
calling for British withdrawal greeted Mrs Thatcher in Sydney.

In the Middle East, Israelis use the conflict in Ulster principally as a point
of reference for their own difficulties, andremarks by David Mellor, then junior
foreign office minister, brought the suggestion that he would be better to solve
Britain's problems before preaching to others.

One of the most interesting shifts in foreign perceptions of Ulster has occured
in the Soviet Union.

For the Soviet press, Ulster has traditionally been merely an 'imperialist
outpost' and there has been sympathy for the IRA. 'One cannot help noting that
terror was imported by the British army into Ulster, and that the activities of
the provisional IRA are a response to that massive terror,' one traditionalist
Soviet analyst noted. But perestroika seems, however, to have spilt over into
Soviet attitudes to foreign troublespots.

The turning point seems to have been the Enniskillen bombing last year. Tass
news agency described it as a 'barbaric act' and said the IRA 'employed methods
of armed terror'. The outspoken language marked a final break with the
previously ambiguous phrases on IRA killings, though criticism of the British
presence, which Soviet media still refers to as 'the occupation force',
continues.

Some observers argue that Moscow's growing hostility to the IRA is based not
only on the fear that socialism's image might be damaged if the Soviet Union is
tarred with the terrorist brush. Mr Gorbachev has shown himself unwilling to get
embroiled in supporting liberation movements of any kind - if only because such
support is a potentially expensive distraction from more pressing problems at
home. Among these is the Armenian- Azerbaijan problem in the southern territory
of Nagorny Karabakh, where the army has been brought in to keep violence between
the communities under control, so some of the problems of Ulster may seem
disturbingly familiar to the Soviet leadership today.

Reports by Patricia Clough in Bonn, Steve Crawshaw in Moscow, Leonard Doyle in
New York, Charles Richards in Jerusalem, David Paskov in Paris, Michael Sheridan
in Rome, David Usborne in Brussels.

Home News Page 16

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1988 Independent Print Ltd

                              28 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                                The Independent

                            October 1 1988, Saturday

Special Report on Northern Ireland 1: 20 years of undeclared war

SECTION: Home News ; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 2126 words


Twenty years ago, on 5 October, 1968, a civil rights march in Londonderry was
broken up by police with batons and water cannon. Northern Ireland's near half-
century of political isolation was over. The march was the start of what has
become the United Kingdom's 20- year undeclared war. In this special four-page
report, The Independent chronicles and analyses those two decades of violent
turmoil.

In the autumn of 1968 a civil rights movement emerged in Northern Ireland to
highlight the disadvantages faced by Catholics in housing, employment and
electoral rights. A season of marches was prompted, in particular, by the case
of a 19-year-old single Protestant girl, who was allocated a council house in
Caledon, Co Tyrone, in preference to a Catholic family.


The march, which took place in Londonderry on 5 October, was instrumental in
putting Northern Ireland on the political agenda. Television cameras were on
hand to record the RUC wade in to the march with batons flailing, injuring
scores of demonstrators.

Subsequent marches demonstrated that the Stormont regime could not handle
peaceful protests confined to civil rights issues.

From that autumn, Northern Ireland has suffered two decades of death and
destruction.

1969

April: Bernadette Devlin, 21, elected MP for Mid-Ulster.

Terence O'Neill, an old Etonian and former Guards officer who had attempted to
bring political change to the province, resigns as prime minister. May: James
Chichester-Clark takes over.

12 August: Start of five days' rioting triggered by loyalist march in
Londonderry; Violence spreads to Belfast. Seven killed, 750 injured. 1,505
Catholic and 315 Protestant families forced out of their homes. 275 buildings
destroyed.

14 August: Army called in.

October: B-Specials disbanded following report by Lord Hunt into Ulster
policing. Loyalists riot in protest declaring the Rev Ian Paisley their leader.
Ulster Defence Regiment formed to replace B-Specials.

December: IRA splits into Official and Provisional wings.

1970

Brigadier (later General Sir) Frank Kitson sent to command Army in Northern
Ireland.

April: Paisley elected to Stormont.

June: Paisley elected to Westminster.

August: Social Democratic and Labour Party (SDLP) formed.

September: Provisional IRA bombing campaign starts in Belfast. Two RUC officers
killed.

First arms arrive from USA - notably the Armalite, a light, easily concealed
rifle. It was the first effective weapon the Provisionals obtained.

1971

January: Tarring and feathering of petty criminals and soldiers' girls

February: First British soldiers killed by Provisionals. First assassination
attempt on a politician - John Taylor, a junior minister at Stormont responsible
for security, was shot 17 times, including five bullets in head, but survived.

March: Chichester-Clark resigns. Brian Faulkner takes over.

Ulster Defence Association, a Protestant paramilitary force emerges.

August: Internment without trial starts; IRA leaders escape round-up.

Violence escalates - 17 killed in period of 36 hours.

SDLP launches civil disobedience campaign.

Britain found guilty of 'inhuman and degrading' treatment of internees at
European Court of Human Rights.

December: 15 Catholics killed by loyalist bomb at McGurk's Bar, Belfast.

1972

30 January: Bloody Sunday. Army under pressure to crack down on Catholic
marchers in Londonderry. Paratroopers, believing they were under fire, shot dead
13 men, seven of them under 19.

24 March: Stormont government replaced by direct rule from Westminster.

21 July: Bloody Friday - IRA bombs kill nine in Belfast.

31 July: Operation Motorman - Army dismantles IRA 'no-go' areas in Londonderry
and Belfast.

IRA ceasefire breaks down.

December: Controversial juryless courts, named after Lord Diplock who
recommended them, introduced.

300 civilian deaths in year; 122 of them assassinations.

1973

March: First IRA bombs in London herald mainland campaign. Four bombs planted,
two defused as a result of tip-off. Two exploded at Great Scotland Yard and the
Old Bailey, killing one man and wounding 180.

Government reveals plans for new power-sharing assembly with fresh dimension.
Authorities in Republic seize Libyan ship carrying arms to IRA

June: Assembly elections.

December: Sunningdale Agreement; new power-sharing executive to include Faulkner
Unionists & SDLP, and link with Dublin.

1974

January: New executive takes office. Loyalists disrupt assembly proceedings.

February: Anti-Sunningdale loyalists win 51 per cent of vote and 11 out of 12
seats in general election. Merlyn Rees appointed first Labour Secretary of State
for Northern Ireland.

May: Ulster Workers Council general strike causes collapse of executive.

27 killed in Republic by loyalist bombs in Dublin and Monaghan.

August: IRA team starts wave of mainland attacks on British establishment clubs
and restaurants in West End of London. Bombers captured a year later in seige of
Balcombe street.

October/November: IRA bombs kill 21 and injure 162 in two Birmingham pubs called
the Tavern in the Town and the Mulberry Bush. Seven killed and 92 injured in pub
bombings at Woolwich and Guildford. Doubts over guilt of two groups later jailed
for life.

Prevention of Terrorism Act passed.

December: IRA declares ceasefire.

1975

February: Ceasefire extended; talks start between IRA and British civil
servants.

April: Irish National Liberation Army (INLA) emerges after split in Official
IRA.

Autumn: Ceasefire peters out.

December: Last internee released.

1976

January: SAS sent to South Armagh after IRA kills 10 Protestants.

March: Political status removed from IRA prisoners. Maze replaces Long Kesh.

August: Women's Peace Movement emerges after deaths of three children in
Belfast.

Founders, Mairead Corrigan, the children's aunt, and Betty Williams, a Belfast
Catholic, later awarded 1976 Nobel Peace Prize.

September: Roy Mason succeeds Rees as Secretary of State with tougher security
policy.

1977

May: Paisley and UDA call second loyalist strike, but it fails after nine days.

August: Queen visits Ulster.

1978

February: 12 killed in IRA fire-bomb attack on La Mon House hotel near Belfast.

August: De Lorean sports car project announced.

Autumn: Maze prisoners start 'dirty' protest over loss of political status.
Refusal to wear prison uniform or leave cells; blankets used for clothing; cell
walls smeared with excreta.

1979

March: Airey Neave, Conservative spokesman on Northern Ireland, assassinated by
INLA car bomb at House of Commons.

New monitoring procedures start after allegations of police ill-treatment of IRA
suspects in Castlereagh and Armagh.

May: Humphrey Atkins appointed Secretary of State for Northern Ireland.

August: Lord Mountbatten blown up by IRA while on family fishing trip off
Mullaghmore. His grandson, Nicholas, Lady Brabourne, and a local boy, Paul
Maxwell, also killed. On the same day the IRA killed 18 soldiers at Warrenpoint.

September: Pope John Paul II visits Ireland and calls for peace.

1980

January: Atkins calls constitutional conference.

March: Conference collapses.

October: Seven republican prisoners start hunger strike.

December: Hunger strike ends with no concessions: Thatcher meets Haughey in
Dublin for major summit.

1981

January: Bernadette Devlin wounded in gun attack.

March: Bobby Sands, leader of an IRA brigade, starts new hunger strike.

April: Sands wins Westminster by-election.

May: Sands dies in Maze Prison Hospital. Rioting follows.

September: Prior replaces Atkins. Hunger strikes end: ten have died (seven IRA
members, three INLA).

November: Unionist MP, the Rev Robert Bradford, shot dead by IRA. Paisley
launches 'Third Force' in response.

December: Christopher Black, first IRA supergrass, gives evidence; 30 former
alleged IRA associates charged but later acquitted.

December: IRA bomb at Droppin' Well disco kills 16 and injures 66.

1982

February: Prior announces plans for new assembly.

July: Eleven bandsmen and soldiers on horseback killed in separate explosions in
Regent's Park and Hyde Park, London.

October: Assembly elections. Sinn Fein wins five seats. Start of Armalite and
ballot box policy.

De Lorean car plant closes with loss of almost pounds 80m of public funds and
hundreds of jobs.

Six men killed by RUC undercover units in Armagh, sparking an investigation by
Manchester policeman John Stalker into allegations of a shoot-to- kill policy.
Stalker was sacked just before publishing his report, amid suggestions that the
Government was trying to suppress its findings.

December: Seventeen killed by INLA pub bomb at Ballykelly.

1983

March: New Ireland forum established in Dublin.

June: Sinn Fein wins more than 100,000 votes in Westminster election. Gerry
Adams becomes Sinn Fein MP for West Belfast.

September: 21 IRA prisoners escape from Maze jail.

December: Edgar Graham, Unionist politician and lawyer, shot dead by IRA.

Two car bombs explode outside Harrods in Knightsbridge, killing eight people.

1984

May: New Ireland Forum report published.

June: Euro-Election. Paisley tops poll.

September: Hurd replaces Prior as Secretary of State; Ship intercepted carrying
pounds 1.5m of US arms to IRA.

October: Huge explosion wrecks Grand Hotel, Brighton, during the Conservative
Party conference. Five die including Sir Anthony Berry, MP and Roberta Wakeham,
wife of the Government chief whip. Norman Tebbit seriously injured, his wife
Margaret crippled.

1985

February: Nine RUC men killed in IRA mortar attack on Newry police station.

May: Council elections; Sinn Fein wins 59 seats.

July: RUC and loyalist marchers clash in Co Armagh.

September: Tom King replaces Hurd.

November: Anglo-Irish Agreement signed; IRA opposes it; more than 100,000
Unionists attend protest rally; widespread loyalist protest campaign.

December: All 15 Unionist MPs resign seats to hold referendum.

1986

January: Loyalist riot outside Anglo- Irish offices at Maryfield near Belfast.

IRA mortar attacks on RUC stations coupled with threats to building workers.

March: Loyalist campaign of attacks on homes of RUC officers.

April: Unionist leaders announce campaign of civil disobedience.

May: Acquittals in Christopher Black appeal mark end of supergrass system.
Britain resists Irish pressure for three judges in Diplock Courts.

August: Peter Robinson MP, Paisley's deputy, arrested in Republic.

November: Paisley launches 'Ulster Resistance'.

Government moves against fund-raising by republicans and loyalists from pubs,
clubs, taxis, and seemingly legitimate businesses. Estimated income of over
pounds 5m a year.

1987

January: INLA split - 12 die in internal feuding.

March: Escalation in IRA violence.

April: Lord Justice Maurice Gibson and his wife Cecily, returning from a
holiday, blown up by IRA. Explosion occurred in 'no-man's land' between Irish
border and RUC pick-up point in north.

Disputes over policing of IRA funerals.

May: Eight IRA men killed by SAS at Loughgall RUC Station.

June: Adams holds seat at Westminster; Enoch Powell loses after 13 years as MP
for South Down.

September: Extradition disagreement between London and Dublin.

October: The ship Eksund seized off coast of France with 150 tons of Libyan arms
bound for IRA.

Moves to toughen anti-discrimination legislation.

November: IRA bomb kills 11 at Remembrance Day service in Enniskillen.

1988

January: Stalker-Sampson affair flares after Attorney General rules out
prosecution of police officers; Appeal by 'Birmingham Six' against conviction
for 1974 pub bombings fails.

Anglo-Irish relations hit new low.

March: IRA activists, Mairead Farrell, Daniel McCann, and Sean Savage, shot dead
by SAS in Gibraltar.

Loyalist attacker kills three in bomb and gun attack on mourners at Milltown
Cemetery funeral.

Two soldiers beaten, stripped, and shot by IRA after driving into funeral
procession.

May: Four servicemen killed by IRA in series of attacks on service personnel in
continental Europe - two IRA men later arrested.

June: Six soldiers taking part in fun-run killed by booby-trap bomb in Lisburn.

August: One soldier killed in IRA bomb attack at Inglis Barracks, Mill Hill,
north London. Eight soldiers die in IRA bomb attack on coach at Ballygawley.

Escalation in IRA campaign; calls for return of internment.

Three IRA men shot dead in ambush by SAS at Drumnakilly, Co Tyrone.

September: Gibraltar inquest.

Home News Page 13

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1988 Independent Print Ltd

                              29 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             October 3 1988, Monday

Olympian Success; Leading Article

SECTION: Issue 63202.

LENGTH: 659 words


The thrilling finish of the marathon in Seoul provided a fitting climax to the
24th Olympic Games. In the leading group were athletes from Kenya, Djibouti,
Japan and Great Britain all of them beaten by an Italian who came from behind to
win. He was the first Italian to win an Olympic marathon.

After two weeks of competition, the choice of South Korea and its capital Seoul
to host the 1988 Olympics stands vindicated. Aside from a shameful episode in
the boxing ring, South Korea emerged with honour, and there was lavish praise
for the engaging welcome and amiable hospitality extended by its people.


Any disorganization resulted mainly from joyous overcrowding: the Games were
distinguished by the widest participation ever. The list of competitors for any
event might include Russians and Americans, Africans and Chinese. West Germans
and East Germans crouched side by side on the starting blocks. A young Chinese
diver described the injured American who had beaten him for the gold medal as
his model for the future.

Nor did the sporting superpowers effect the clean sweep many had feared. Some
who were confident of success tasted failure. Britain had its own
disappointments, especially on the track, but unexpected winners too. As for the
smaller countries, Surinam's gold medal in swimming and athletics golds for
Kenya, proved that the size of a country and its level of development do not
have to dictate the scope of an individual's achievement.

Among supporters of the Olympic Games as a traditionally amateur gathering,
there may be misgivings about the compromises made to accommodate showjumpers
and tennis players. But the folly of describing most leading athletes as
amateurs has long been conceded. Western athletes, with their appearance money
and trust funds, are no more amateurs than their counterparts in the Eastern
bloc, with their state-sponsored training programmes and material rewards.

At the Seoul Olympics, artificial barriers to equal competition began to break
down. The cloud that darkened Seoul was not, as some had worried four years ago,
a political boycott; nor was it the much-feared terrorist attack. Mercifully,
North Korea left the Games alone, and the South's restless students were kept at
bay. It was the cloud of drug abuse, which has hovered without breaking over so
many international sporting occasions of recent years and finally broke over
Seoul.

The International Olympic Committee can point out that drug abuse detected at
Seoul was no more widespread than that detected at Los Angeles. Armchair
observers will complain that too many unnaturally muscular men and deep-voiced
and hirsute women, not to speak of medically-astute trainers, must have deceived
the drug-testers at Seoul no less than at previous Olympic Games.

But the positive testing of Mr Ben Johnson, winner until disgraced of the race
that decides the world's fastest man, has established one principle: that no
individual and no race is sacrosanct. For that, credit is due to the
International Olympic Committee and its present chairman. The announcement that
the USA and the USSR have agreed to establish mutual inspection procedures for
drug abuse suggests that the international climate may soon become more hostile
to chemical cheating in sport.

Unfortunately for Seoul, the disqualification of Mr Ben Johnson took a little of
the gilt from its Games. Seoul may have lost something, too, from cultural and
geographical factors beyond its control. Korean preference for combat sports
meant the audience for track and field events was often small. Korea's position
on the other side of the world meant that fewer people in the prosperous West
watched the Games than might otherwise have done.

The many who did watch, however, enjoyed an unrivalled festival of sport and an
introduction to another country that have done the reputation of the Olympic
movement and South Korea only good.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              30 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 4, 1988

Joint hunt for Welsh arsonists

BYLINE: By PAUL HOYLAND

LENGTH: 317 words


Detectives from six police forces met in Shrewsbury yesterday to pool
information in the hunt for the Welsh extremist group Meibion Glyndwr (Sons of
Glyndwr), which claims it carried out the fire bomb attacks on seven estate
agents' offices in England at the weekend.

An incendiary device similar to those planted at Bristol, Wellington in
Shropshire, Worcester, Chipping Camden in Gloucestershire, and West Kirby and
Neston on the Wirral was discovered at a building society in Worcester shortly
before the conference of officers from the affected counties, North Wales,
Cheshire, Merseyside, West Mercia, Gloucestershire, and Avon and Somerset.


There is growing concern at the escalation of attacks against English-owned
second homes in Wales and police fear someone will be killed.

Meibion Glyndwr, a clandestine nationalist group which claims to have been
behind more than 100 attacks on properties in Wales since 1979, had never struck
on such a wide scale in England before.

A terse statement issued from the meeting, at Shrewsbury, said: 'The purpose of
the conference is to collate information about these incidents and to decide
upon further inquiries.'

Mr Trevor Kent, president of the National Association of Estate Agents, which
has nearly 7,000 members, said yesterday: 'I imagine agencies will take a
Dunkirk-like stance and not give in to this. It will be business as usual.'

Spiralling property prices and about 20,000 second homes form the backdrop to a
long-running arson campaign, and Wales is bracing itself for an escalation when
British Summer Time ends and the longer nights draw in after October 23.

While prices put houses beyond the reach of many local people, second homes are
a constant reminder of the gap between the affluent parts of Britain and the
rural peripheries.

The fire-raisers have caused more than Pounds 1 million damage.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              31 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 7, 1988

Books: The khaki mafia / Review of 'Bullet catchers' By Tony Geraghty

BYLINE: By NICK DAVIES

LENGTH: 803 words


Bullet Catchers by Tony Geraghty (Grafton, Pounds 14.95).

One of the many lingering images of the Falklands War is that of the
thick-shouldered paratroopers jogging round the deck of their Task Force vessel
changing in time with the beat of their boots:
'If-you've-got-a-low-I-Q-you-can-be-a-para-too.'


Apart from his authorship of the best-selling history of the SAS, Who Dares
Wins, it is one of Mr Tony Geraghty's biographical boasts that he was once a
para too. This is evident in so many ways in his new history of bodyguards.

There is his breath-taking analysis of the development of democracy in 19th
century England - 'Government was now seen to be man-made and not ordained by
God, and power was up for grabs.' Not too much strain on the IQ there.

There is the weird and alcohol-free account of American gangsterism: 'Easy gun
laws combined with an Irish tendency to lace politics with bloodshed meant that
even the leading exponents of violence such as Al Capone needed armed
protection,' What? Are the Mafia Irish?

There is also a particular view of the world in which there are people who have
crew cuts and camouflage jackets, and then there are other people who are simply
enemies - radicals, women, foreigners especially darkies and the Irish.
Chartists are 'a mob with a reputation for violence.' Suffragettes are
'potential assassins' and 'psychological terrorists.' Arabs are terrorist
suspects and, well, foreign - 'the Arabs' firepower has grown, but not their
maturity.'

The enemies of the paras are all slid together in one big smear. Student
protesters in Paris are 'a mob singing the Internationale' who are thrown in
with 'the virus of urban terrorism.' In a particularly barmy moment, patients
who attack nurses and pupils who attack teachers are lumped in with terrorists.

Geraghty goes on to suggest that 'a network of police forces and local
authorities in Britain trained to repel Soviet saboteurs and assassins would
clearly be an appropriate mechanism to deal with other threats from the enemy
within' and complains that the United States 'suffers from a self-imposed
handicap' because the CIA has been banned from killing people since 1975.

Thank Heavens - and the British army - that the bodyguards are here to protect
us. It is to them that Mr Geraghty dedicates his book. They are not the enemy.
They are 'the only defence left to the open society.' They have 'stoic courage.'
They are 'experienced British officers' - many of them, indeed, ex paras - and
they can do no wrong. Mr Geraghty jogs obediently behind them.

Should we worry about incidents when British bulldog bodyguards have used
firearms around the world? No, says Mr Geraghty. 'When they returned fire it was
with a carefully disciplined minimum force which the irregulars ranged against
them would find impossible to match.' That's all right then.

Should we perhaps worry about the links between the intelligence services and
the new breed of private companies which are run by ex-officers and which sell
intelligence? No, says Mr Geraghty. There is no link. We know this because the
companies say there is none, and that is enough for Mr Geraghty. Should we,
instead, worry about Mr Gareghty?

His admiration for his subject seems to have spilled all over his journalism. He
writes, for example, about Major David Walker who left the SAS in 1974 to
pioneer the development of Control Risks and KMS, two heavyweight private
security companies who provide bodyguards among other services.

Walker is 'an ingenious sapper' and a good chap. The chaps who work for him are
also good chaps. Geraghty does not trouble himself with KMS's role in training
the Sri Lankan Special Task Force, whose vicious excesses have since been
documented by Amnesty International. The company's role in bombing civilian and
military targets in Nicaragua on behalf of Oliver North is similarly dismissed,
even though it has been documented by the US Congress. Their choice of Jomo
Kenyatta and the Shah of Iran as clients is warmly approved.

The various controversies surrounding Control Risks are all waved aside.
Instead, we are simply assured 'Through KMS and Control Risks, the psychological
weapons of counter terrorism have been spread, on the whole beneficially, to
civilian society.'

The book is littered with strange omissions. He waxes lyrical about 'faithful
Michael Trestrail,' the Queen's former bodyguard, with no reference to the Sun's
sordid success in ousting him from the palace by disclosing his homosexuality.
He by-passes Prince Charles's investiture as Prince of Wales, perhaps because
the Royal bodyguards' harassment and surveillance of the Welsh is hard even for
Geraghty to excuse.

It is all a terrible waste of time. Perhaps the paras would take him back.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              32 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           October 12 1988, Wednesday

Plan for private roads unveiled; Conservative Party conference

BYLINE: ROBIN OAKLEY, Political Editor

SECTION: Issue 63210.

LENGTH: 542 words


A network of privately built and operated roads is being planned to ease
Britain's traffic congestion.

The Government has also set up studies to privatize British Rail in the lifetime
of the next Parliament.


Mr Paul Channon, the Transport Secretary, announced to the Conservative
conference in Brighton yesterday that private firms were to be invited to build
and own the high-speed rail link between London and the Channel tunnel. They
might also be allowed to run services in competition with British Rail.

Mr Channon outlined plans for Pounds 750 million to be invested in the London
Underground Central Line and for an extra Pounds 70 million to be spent on rail
carriages by British Rail.

He said he wanted a private as well as public sector in roads. 'What a
revolution that would be. Why should we make the automatic assumption that
bureaucrats or even politicans have some God given right to decide what kind of
roads we need and where?'

Officials believe that privately constructed roads would lead to the
introduction of tolls, which Mr Channon has not ruled out. Ministers were
agreeably surprised by the number of calls for toll roads yesterday.

Meanwhile two speeches on the fringe ensured a tough time at the conference
today for Mr Nicholas Ridley, the Environment Secretary, who faces demands to
protect the Green Belt against building encroachment, and for Mr Douglas Hurd,
the Home Secretary, who is facing his annual ordeal by fire in the law and order
debate.

Mr Michael Heseltine, the former environment secretary, called for more money to
be spent on protecting the environment and cleaning up the inner cities.

'We have got to put the Government's weight behind the Prime Minister's words
about doing something about the inner cities.'

He also reopened the dispute over building on green field sites outside Green
Belt policy.

Mr Tony Newton, the minister responsible for the inner cities, called Mr
Heseltine's ideas 'over-simple'.

In a separate development last night, Mr Ridley said that the green revolution
the Prime Minister had signalled could not be achieved without the con sumer
paying more for electric ity, water and petrol.

Mr Teddy Taylor, a former Front Bench spokesman, ac cused the Government of hav
ing 'failed the people' on law and order and appealed for the restoration of
capital punish ment.

Before the conference opened Mrs Thatcher, so nearly killed in the IRA
explosion, paid per sonal homage to the dead in a moving ceremony only yards
from the scene of the bomb.

The conference gave an emo tional ovation to Mrs Margaret Tebbit, wife of the
former party chairman, when she arrived on the platform in her wheelchair. Mr
Peter Brooke, Mr Tebbit's successor, said: 'This Conser vative Government will
never bow to terrorism'.

There were sharp attacks on Labour's defence policy muddle from Mr Brooke and
from Mr George Younger, Defence Secretary. Mr Brooke asserted that the Tories
would run Britain through the 1990s as they had through the 1980s.

Both Mr Brooke and Lord Young of Graffham, the Secretary of State for Trade and
Industry, attacked the vision of Europe presented by M Jacques Delors, President
of the Common Market Commission.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              33 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           October 15 1988, Saturday

Tories chant for ten more years

BYLINE: ROBIN OAKLEY, Political Editor

SECTION: Issue 63213.

LENGTH: 1035 words


The Tory conference yesterday cheered Mrs Margaret Thatcher and chanted 'ten
more years' after she claimed that the Conservatives had taken over the common
ground of politics and pledged herself to a worldwide effort on 'green' issues.

Ministers said last night that the Conservatives had underlined their position
as the natural party of government and predicted that they would dominate the
next decade of British politics.


After Mrs Thatcher had insisted that the Conservatives were still setting the
pace of politics and that she was 'too young' (she is 63) to put her feet up,
her colleagues interpreted that as a signal that she would be carrying on well
past the next election.

In her speech Mrs Thatcher countered assaults by Mr Neil Kinnock on the 'me-now'
materialist society, saying that the Conservative government had created not a
selfish society but a generous society.

She supported strenuously the Chancellor's policies to contain inflation and
returned to the attack on European federalists, saying she had not struggled to
defeat socialism in Britain to see it creep in by the back door from Brussels.

In an emotional passage after a security-dominated week on the Tories' return to
Brighton for the first time since the IRA bombing in 1984, the Prime Minister
insisted: 'If the IRA think that they can weary us or frighten us, they have
made a terrible miscalculation ..this government will never surrender to the
IRA, never'.

She paid a pointed tribute to the SAS men who killed the IRA active service unit
in Gibraltar, saying with emphasis: 'We thank too the security forces who had
the guts to go to Gibraltar to give evidence to the inquest, demonstrating
conclusively that they acted at all times within the law'.

In the freshest passage of her speech, and the one which drew the loudest
applause, Mrs Thatcher pledged the Conservatives to combine economic growth and
industrial development with a clean environment, building on her recent speech
to the Royal Society and emphasizing that that was not a one-off but the signal
for a major development of government policy.

Part of that policy, she signalled, will be a new focus on nuclear energy.

She told the conference: 'The choice facing us is not industrial development or
a

clean environment. To survive we need both.'

She added: 'It is we Conservatives who are not merely friends of the Earth we
are its guardians and trustees for generations to come ..'

She defended her Government's record on the environment and said that it was
well placed to take the lead with other governments in practical efforts to
protect the wider world.

'We will work with them to end the destruction of the world's forests. We shall
direct more of our overseas aid to help poor countries to protect their trees
and plant new ones'.

After a conference season which has been notable for the efforts of other
parties to accommodate themselves to an agenda set by Thatcherism, the Prime
Minister claimed: 'The Conservative Party occupies the common ground of British
politics. Indeed, we staked out that ground.

'It is where the great majority of the British people have pitched their tents.
And so it has fallen to us to lead Britain into the 1990s. And, who knows,
beyond'.

Answering Mr Kinnock's charges of materialism, Mrs Thatcher said that the
economic miracle achieved by the Conservatives had meant more to spend on social
services and encouraged the best in human nature, people's natural desire to
provide for themselves.

On the economy she issued a warning that too much buying had been paid for by
too much borrowing. She echoed the Chancellor, Mr Nigel Lawson, by saying with
great emphasis that they would continue to keep a firm grip on public spending.

On law and order, she expressed the hope that judges would make use of the
stiffer penalties for violent crime now available. On defence she said that the
West must not relax its guard at the 'first sign of hope' in the Soviet Union.

Mrs Thatcher was given a nine-minute ovation despite repeated attempts to calm
the enthusiasm of the cheering, flag-waving audience.

As representatives stomped their feet and chanted 'ten more years', others held
up

placards with the message: 'Dream ticket 1988. Thatcher and Bush'.

Representatives afterwards felt that she had given them the battle cry to lead
them towards the millennium.

Cabinet ministers said the speech had indicated that Mrs Thatcher spoke for the
values and principles not just of the audience but of the British people, and
that given the state of the opposition parties, they could remain in power for
10 years or more.

They rejected suggestions that the conference speech and its enthusiastic
reaction had been one of Conservative self congratulation touching on
complacency.

Mr John Major, Chief Secretary to the Treasury, said: 'No, it was not self
congratulatory. It was met with genuine enthusiasm, and you could hear and see
in their reaction that she is actually touching the chords of what people want'.

The Prime Minister's efforts to end the enthusiastic traditional standing
ovation at the end of her speech were overheard because a microphone on the
platform had been left on by mistake.

After 41/2 minutes she turned to Lord Whitelaw, sitting beside her, and said
from the side of her mouth: 'Let's sit down, Willie. I wish they would sit
down.'

Then she turned to Cabinet colleagues alongside, advising them to 'stay down,
stay down' before instructing them to 'get up one last time'.

As a tumultuous cheer greeted her husband Denis, she said to him:'We will go
down, and stay down.'

With the ovation showing no signs of flagging after six and a half minutes, the
Prime Minister turned to her colleagues on the platform and ordered: 'Right,
last time. All right, one more time'.

She stood with her hands aloft for the benefit of photographers before telling
the Cabinet: 'Last time, go down. Stay down'.

Finally, after nine minutes and as Dame Shelagh Roberts, president of the
National Union, pleaded with the audience to sit down, the Prime Minister said
firmly: 'I won't get up again'.

END

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              34 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           October 22 1988, Saturday

Thatcher widens assault on EEC; Visit to Italy

BYLINE: From ROGER BOYES and RICHARD OWEN

SECTION: Issue 63219.

LENGTH: 725 words


The simmering dispute between London and Brussels over the future of a united
Europe broke into open verbal warfare yesterday between Mrs Thatcher and M
Jacques Delors, the president of the European Commission.

Mrs Thatcher, on an official visit to Italy, launched a new assault on the idea
of a European central bank and warned against any vision of Europe that
sacrificed or suppressed national sovereignty.


M Delors, backed up by his deputy, Mr Frans Andriessen, of The Netherlands,
rounded on Mrs Thatcher in separate statements accusing her of obstructing the
EEC integration process and 1992.

The Prime Minister, whose crusade against full European economic and political
union began in Bruges, Belgium, last month, made her latest statement to the
distinct discomfort of her host, Signor Ciriaco De Mita, the Italian Prime
Minister, in the northern lakeside resort of Pallanza. Signor De Mita had
emphasized that 'even limited agreement on an economic level, if not followed by
political steps, will cause difficulty'.

Mrs Thatcher dismissed a

politically rather than economically integrated Europe. 'Some want a United
States of Europe. I don't think it's possible. Any analogy with the United
States of America is false .. 1992 does not need any more changes.

'We need agreement on methods and we need the agreement of each and every
country to get to 1992, ' she said. There seems little ground for compromise on
the European central bank. In so far as such a bank meant 'surrendering your
economic policy' Britain would not give ground, she said. 'I neither want nor
expect to see in my life time, nor indeed, twangingmy harp, after my life time,
such an institution.'

M Delors, in an interview yesterday in the Paris daily Le Figaro, focused on the
need for 'full economic and monetary union', noting that 'the British Prime
Minister is the only leader who cannot and will not accept it'.

He admitted that other EEC states differed 'significantly' on the issue, but
said that all except Britain shared the common objective of a fully integrated
Europe. Only London regarded monetary union as 'unthinkable', because a national
currency lay at the heart of national sovereignty.

Mr Andriessen, the Commissioner for Agriculture and the Commission's
vice-president, departed from prepared remarks in Dublin on farm reform to say
that the EEC's improved rural policies were not 'more bureaucratic and more
centralized'.

He continued: 'At this juncture, I cannot avoid becoming somewhat personal in my
remarks.'

Mrs Thatcher had lost no opportunity to affirm that she had not rolled back the
frontiers of the state in Britain only to see them 'reimposed at a European
level through a European super-state exercising dominance from Brussels'. But
such statements were based on a 'profound misunderstanding', Mr Andriessen said.

In her talks with Signor De Mita, Mrs Thatcher emphasized that she had an
unchallengeable commitment to Europe and that Britain was not going to dodge its
responsibilities within the Community.

'We have no intention of sitting on the fringes of Europe. You do not need to
doubt my commitment to Europe, a Europe which is older than the Treaty of Rome.'

Britain, in contrast to Italy, already operated without exchange controls and
was contributing more than most to the free movement of capital. However, Mrs
Thatcher was pessimistic about the harmonization of European taxes.

The latest clashes came at the end of a week in which five European Christian
Democrat leaders, including Chancellor Helmut Kohl of West Germany, joined in
Brussels to proclaim that economic integration must be accompanied by political
union.

Herr Kohl also said that 1992 must include 'social measures' involving trade
unions, despite Mrs Thatcher's objections, and accused unnamed 'pragmatists' of
losing sight of the objective of European union. He called for a European army
and a European police force.

Mrs Thatcher, in her speech on Europe at Bruges last month, said that frontiers
must be retained to control drugs, crime and terrorism, and she attacked
'bureaucratic' control from Brussels.

EEC officials reply that Britain agreed to the abolition of frontiers and the
goal of union in the Single European Act which the Prime Minister signed in
December, 1985.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              35 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 26, 1988

Terror suspect priest to face Belgian extradition hearing

BYLINE: By PAUL KEEL

LENGTH: 351 words

DATELINE: BRUSSELS


A Roman Cahtolic priest, wanted by british police for questioning about a series
of alleged IRA activities on the Continent, is due to appear in a Brussels court
tomorrow where he will face proceedings to extradite him to Britain.

Patrick Ryan, aged 58, from County Tipperary, was arrested in July by Belgian
police taking part in an international investigation into a series of terrorist
attacks on British military bases in Holland and West Germany.


Ryan, who was ordained in 1954, spent 11 years as a missionary in Africa and
then as a priest in the United States before coming to an east London parish in
1968.

In 1972 he was suspended from the priesthood after allegedly channelling money
collected for missionaries to Republican organisations in Ireland.

He left Britain in 1973 and is understood to have travelled widely on the
Continent since then, living for some time in the French town of Le Havre, where
he set up a road haulage business.

Since 1976 he has been arrested and released after questioning by police forces
in five European countries.

Neither Scotland Yard, which will be applying for his extradition, nor the
Belgian authorities, would state yesterday which charges were specified in the
warrants for his removal to the UK.

he is expected to request asylum in belgium, a move which would delay tomorrow's
hearing at the Palais de Justice in Brussels.

An appeal against extradition from the Irish Republic by a terrorist suspect was
yesterday with Ireland's Chief State Solicitor. It prevented the border handover
of James Pius Clarke, of Co Donegal, in connection with the Maze prison breakout
in 1983. The appeal will effectively delay any extradition for many months.

A further 31 charges are to be brought against a Belfast man accused of
murdering three men during the funerals fo the Gibraltar IRA bombers. Michael
Stone, aged 33, of Ravenswood Park, was due to be sent for trial at the city's
magistrates' court yesterday. But his solicitor successfully applied for a
week's adjournment. Stone was remanded in custody for a week.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              36 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           October 26 1988, Wednesday

Left-wing council closes IRA exhibition; Haringay Council

BYLINE: MICHAEL HORSNELL

SECTION: Issue 63222.

LENGTH: 244 words


A pro-IRA exhibition in a public library was closed yesterday by a left-wing
Labour council after protests.

Haringey Council, in north London, also suspended a Pounds 27,000 annual grant
to the local branch of the Irish in Britain Representation Group which was
staging it.


Council officers have launched an investigation into the exhibition, which
attempted to link the republican struggle in Northern Ireland with that of South
Africa's black community. It ran for three weeks at Hornsey central library
before switching to Wood Green library for another fortnight. The council said
it had not known the nature of the exhibition until it had complaints. No
council member had been to see it.

Mr Toby Harris, the Labour council leader, said last night: 'A lot of Irish
people in Haringey feel strongly about the issue but that does not mean we would
support the IRA or praise it in any way.

'Council-funded groups might have a certain view but that does not mean the
council shares that view. We are withholding the group's grant and I intend to
hold a full investigation into this affair.'

A further 31 charges are to be brought against a Belfast man accused of
murdering three men in a cemetery during the funerals of the Gibraltar IRA
bombers. Michael Stone of Ravenswood Park, was due to be sent for trial by
Belfast magistrates yesterday, but his solicitor successfully applied for a
week's adjournment to study the new papers.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              37 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           November 3 1988, Thursday

All-party onslaught on broadcast ban scheme; Terrorist interviews; Parliament

SECTION: Issue 63229.

LENGTH: 1840 words


Conservative backbenchers joined MPs from all parts of the House in attacking
the Government's proposal to ban the direct broadcasting of interviews with
terrorists and their supporters.

The ban was described as censorship and an illiberal act.


Moving a motion approving the Government's action, Mr Douglas Hurd, Home
Secretary, said that the imposition of any broadcasting restrictions, however
well justified, was a serious step taken only after long and careful
consideration by the Government.

'Those who live by the bomb and the gun, and those who support them, cannot in
all circumstances be accorded exactly the same rights as the rest of the
population. Our view is that those who practise and support terrorism and
violence should not be allowed direct access to our radio and television
screens.'

The notices that he had issued restricted only the direct access of members of
terrorist organizations and their supporters to the air waves. Their activities
and words could still be reported as in the written press.

'We are denying them the ability to appear on television and, thereby, obtain a
spurious authority and respectability.'

The restrictions would not affect the broadcasting of proceedings in Parliament
or the appearance on radio or television of election candidates.

There would be occasions when broadcasters had to use their judgement. A member
of an organization could not be held to represent it in all his daily
activities. The key to the issue was the word 'represent'.

'When a councillor is talking in Northern Ireland, it is not the subject he is
talking about which will decide whether his speech can be broadcast directly but
whether he is talking on behalf of the named organizations.

'A Sinn Fein councillor talking about council matters on behalf of his group
will not be allowed direct access.

'Broadcasters remain free to report the activities of these organizations and
the actual words used by their representatives.'

In general, the balance the Government had struck would have wide and general
support.

Mr Hurd described the outrage that was felt in Northern Ireland when people were
seen on television justifying, glorifying terrorism and threatening more of it.

'The point is that direct access gives those who use it an air, an appearance,
of authority which spreads further the ripple of fear which the terrorist act
creates in the community. The terrorist act creates fear and the direct access
spreads it.'

Mr Roy Hattersley, chief Opposition spokesman on home affairs, moving an
amendment stating that the restrictions were incompatible with a free society
and likely to assist terrorists rather than frustrate them, said that he did not
doubt that the sight of a supporter of the IRA justifying a bomb outrage was
offensive to most British people. 'It is offensive to me.' Hypocritical
statements of regret were more offensive still.

'But the question is not whether they cause offence. Undoubtedly they do. The
important question is whether in a free society causing offence, gross and
unjustifiable offence, was sufficient reason for limiting broadcasters' right to
broadcast.'

This was a steep and slippery slope. Was anything that caused widespread offence
to be banned? If not, who would decide what would be banned and what would not?
It was a meaningless concept suitable for authoritarian governments and not for
a free society.

'Widespread offence is not an adequate excuse for censorship in a free society.'
Banning should be imposed only when the damage to society was substantial and
certain and could be demonstrated. 'No such case can be made out for what the
Government intends.'

The evidence suggested that the ban would help rather than harm the terrorists'
cause. Terrorists could argue that democratic access had been denied to them and
therefore armed struggle was the only way to advance their case.

There had been confusion over what the original order had meant. The BBC now
believed that a Sinn Fein councillor could broadcast as a councillor as distinct
from a member of Sinn Fein.

Sinn Fein would be allowed to represent itself as the caring guardian of local
interests but it would not be cross-examined on its support for terrorism.

What would happen in the case of a fire in the centre of Belfast in which a
number of people were killed and a witness was a Sinn Fein councillor?

That witness could broadcast if the fire had not been caused by the IRA, but not
if it was caused by them. But if it was not known how the fire was caused what
would be the position? That was an example of the nonsensical situation into
which the Home Secretary had got himself.

'The Government will be seen by the terrorists to be thrashing about and the
terrorists will take pleasure and comfort from the absurdity of the Government's
position. We regret that the Government has behaved so foolishly and we will not
endorse that foolishness tonight.'

Sir Michael McNair-Wilson (Newbury, C): The media say they are impartial
observers reporting events in Northern Ireland. Can a free press in a
parliamentary democracy be impartial between the forces of law and order
defending that democracy and the terrorists who have rejected the parliamentary
process in favour of the gun?

Mr Michael Foot (Blaenau Gwent, Lab) said that the House should be deeply
concerned about how journalists were going to be able to conduct their business
not only in Northern Ireland but also in the rest of the United Kingdom under
the Home Office edict.

The reason the Government had taken so long in introducing such a measure was
because it realized it would infringe the liberties and practices of
journalists.

If that was so, and it was the most creditable explanation, the Home Secretary
should have considered coming before the Commons with a change to the law. The
border areas revealed by the edict were so amorphous and indeterminate that no
one would know how it operated until it was taken before the courts.

Mr Hurd said that the proposal did not affect reporting.

Mr Foot said that was the most ridiculous quibble he had ever heard. It was all
part of the reporting process and that was why the Government thought it had to
interfere with the way it was done.

'The solution to the problem of Northern Ireland will only come as a reward of
the process of free debate. It is not going to come as a reward for the enforced
diktat of a Home Office that does not, perhaps, even believe in its own edicts.'

Mr Richard Shepherd (Aldridge-Brownhills, C) said that Mr Hurd had not weighed
in his speech the importance of free speech to society.

With publicity, no evil could survive. It was an essential ingredient in the
ability to judge matters of such importance. How was it that one could restrict
the access to free speech of a lawful legitimate party within the United Kingdom
?

They were not denying Sinn Fein something as much as denying fellow citizens on
the mainland of Britain.

Mr Peter Archer (Warley West, Lab) said that the question of toleration arose in
relation to opinions so wicked that one was tempted to say that the public ought
not to be permitted to hear them.

'If we do not tolerate opinions like that, then the paramilitaries have achieved
their objectives. They have destroyed the free society.'

Mr Robert Maclennan, Democrat spokesman on home affairs, said that myth was a
potent force and was most powerfully debunked by people seeing and hearing the
'evil banalities' of supporters of terrorism. Mr Hurd's judgement 'underrates
the perceptiveness of viewers and their ability to spot a moral cretin when they
see one'. Mr Hurd should withdraw his direction because it was an unnecessary
and repugnant curb upon people's freedoms.

Mr Seamus Mallon (Newry and Armagh, SDLP) said that the proposal was born out of
paranoia.

It meant a lowering of the legal and political standards that applied to
Northern Ireland. It was a gesture to the people of the United Kingdom, an
insulting sop to the people of Northern Ireland.

Mr Roger Gale (Thanet North, C) said that he was a journalist who had made
programmes in Northern Ireland. For most of his time with the BBC there had been
a clear code of practice one simply did not give air time to terrorists or
convicted criminals. But then the guidelines gradually became blurred and
started to erode.

The Government was right to lead the way where the BBC and IBA had failed to
lead. He hoped that the BBC and Independent Television would take the reins back
into their own hands and deny terrorist murderers the drug of publicity that
they craved.

Mr Norman Buchan (Paisley South, Lab) said that every interview with IRA
spokesmen diminished their support.

The Rev William McCrea (Mid Ulster, DUP) said that if this were true, one would
not expect the organization to have any support at all by now.

The media should have established their own restrictions. They had to carry a
certain amount of the responsibility for what the Government was having to do
now.

The Government should proscribe Sinn Fein because it was not a political party
or part of the political process.

Mr Gerald Howarth (Cannock and Burntwood, C) said that he did not see why
terrorists and their apologists should enjoy the benefits of a civilized
society.

Some broadcasters were so arrogant they seemed to believe themselves not part of
this country at all, as was evidenced in coverage of the Falklands conflict and
the shootings in Gibraltar.

Mr David Winnick (Walsall North, Lab) spoke of the propaganda that Noraid and
the IRA would gain. The ban would not reduce terrorism but would put Britain in
the wrong internationally.

Mr Kevin McNamara, chief Opposition spokesman on Northern Ireland, said that the
ban was patently absurd and should be dismissed out of hand. It was a panic
response. The House had not even been told if it was to be permanent.

Mr Timothy Renton, Minister of State, Home Office, replying to the debate, said
that the proposal was not a restriction on the freedom of information in
Northern Ireland or a restriction on the freedom of speech.

Mr John Hume (Foyle, SDLP) asked if, under the order, Sinn Fein 'can be
interviewed about any subject under the sun except atrocities'.

Mr Renton replied that that was not the case. 'All oral statements by Sinn Fein
or UDA representatives would be caught whether they were made at a public
meeting, during an interview or in a discussion programme, whatever the
subject.'

Mr Buchan said that Mr Renton had contradicted Mr Hurd.

Mr Renton said: Our conclusion is that we can no longer justify giving
terrorists and their apologists complete freedom of the airwaves to espouse
their violent campaign and to sow fear in the minds of ordinary citizens at
home.

The Opposition amendment was rejected by 244 votes to 183 Government majority,
61, and the Government motion carried by 243 votes to 179 majority, 64.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              38 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                November 4, 1988

Extradition fast by IRA suspect

LENGTH: 313 words


The suspected IRA terrorist Patrick Ryan went on hunger strike in a Brussels
prison yesterday over attempts to extradite him to Britain.

Lord Gifford, QC, Ryan's British lawyer, said he would continue the hunger
strike if he was extradited because he did not believe he would get a fair
trial. Ryan, aged 59, a former priest, is wanted by Scotland Yard on terrorist
charges, including conspiracy to murder and causing explosions.


Ryan's protest was announced shortly after he appeared in court by his British,
Irish and Belgian lawyers. Mr Elio Malocco, his Irish lawyer said: 'He is on
hunger strike to highlight the plight of Irish people on trial in England today
and the injustice of the English system as it applies to Irish people.'

The Brussels judges hearing the extradition appeal have three days to pass an
opinion, in private, to the Belgian Minister of Justice, who then has eight days
to rule on the matter.

During the court hearing, Lord Gifford launched a scathing attack on British
justice, saying that the mood to any Irish accused was 'extremely hostile' at
government level and elsewhere.

Speaking in French, he told the court there was 'powerful proof' that Irishmen
jailed in a series of terrorist-related cases - including the Guildford and
Birmingham bombings and the recent Winchester trial - were innocent.

Mr Malocco said the worst of 'certain disturbing and regrettable aspects' to the
case was that Ryan was originally arrested in Belgium at the end of June, on a
defective warrant.

Ryan is currently charged in connection with a false passport.

A gunman riding pillion shot and critically injured an off-duty Royal Ulster
Constabulary officer yesterday as he was collecting his son from a primary
school in Waringstown, County Armargh. The Irish National Liberation Army
claimed responsibility for the attack.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              39 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                November 8, 1988

Nuclear squads to tackle terror threat

BYLINE: By PAUL BROWN

LENGTH: 435 words


Covert nuclear emergency search teams, one of which covers Britain, have been
set up by the United States Department of Defence to find lost or stolen nuclear
weapons and materials, and to counter any nuclear terrorist threat.

A Pentagon official has confirmed the operation's existence, details of which
were given in a Nuclear Weapons Surety report to President Reagan.


The teams were set up because of fears of the effect on public opinion from the
loss of nuclear weapons or materials. A General Accounting Office report,
commenting on fears of losing nuclear material from the civil programme, said:
'A single seizure by an irresponsible government or terrorist group could have
profound repercussions for the security of all nations and would almost
certainly have a highly negative impact on all civil nuclear activities.'

The European search team is based in Germany and was established in 1982. The
Nuclear Weapons Surety report, dated 1984, says that in order to 'familiarize'
US organisations with their roles in responding to a nuclear accident involving
US nuclear weapons on British soil, a four-day exercise would be held in Britain
in 1985. The location has been deleted from the report passed to the Guardian.

The Pentagon official would not say whether the search team has yet been
deployed in Britain in an emergency as the information is 'classified'.

During 1984, the US Department of Energy and contractor personnel observed a
field test of British 'diagnostic capabilities' against an improvised nuclear
device.

The document also records simulated exercises in response to a domestic nuclear
threat by terrorists in Mexico, and a nuclear threat by a fictituous island
government in Guam in the Pacific.

Search teams include scientists, engineers and technicians. 'They develop and
maintain special equipment and procedures for conducting search, identification,
diagnostics, disablement, damage limitation and other specialised support
functions in response to lost or stolen nuclear weapons and special nuclear
materials. They also respond to nuclear explosive threats and to radiation
dispersal threats,' says the report.

There were six threats involving improvised nuclear devices during 1984. None
were deemed serious enough to require full deployment of a nuclear emergency
search team. However, at the reqeust of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, a
special contingency plan was developed for the Los Angeles Olympic Games with
200 reserve searchers to supplementing regular personnel. These will now be
given annual refresher training.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              40 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 22, 1988

IRA jailbreaker arrested at airport: Republic's extradition procedure faces
fresh test

LENGTH: 504 words


A man who was in a mass IRA break-out from Belfast's Crumlin road courthouse
more than seven years ago was arrested yesterday as he was about to board a
plane at Dublin airport bound for the US.

Dublin police named Gerard Michael Sloan, 35, of Belfast, who was among Irish
Republican remand prisoners facing trial in connection with the murder of an SAS
officer, CVaptain Herbert Westmacott, after the army raided a house in Belfast.


Sloan was detained yesterday under the Republic's anti-terrorist legislation by
armed Special Branch detectives.

After the arrest, police established immediate contact with their counterparts
in Belfast. Sloan, whose brother Anthony also escaped in the break-out -
involving the overpowering at gunpoint of prison officers and the stealing of
clothing from lawyers at the court - was charged with the attempted murder of a
soldier in west Belfast in 1980.

The arrest of Sloan, who last night was being questioned at a police station in
Dublin, is likely to prompt a further test of procedures for the extradition of
terrorists from the Republic to Northern Ireland.

Gerard Sloan was the last of the eight-man gang which broke out the courthouse
to be accounted for. Six other men, also held by police in the Irish Republic
five years ago, were subsequently convicted by judges at the anti-terrorist
no-jury special criminal court in Dublin on charges connected with the escape.

The six, who are serving sentences in the Republic's top security Portloaise
prison, faced the court under the terms of cross-border legislation permitting
terror suspects to be tried in the jurisdiction of their arrest, regardless of
where the crimes were committed.

The law involved - known in the Republic as the Criminal Law Jurisdiction Act -
was introduced amid a storm of controversy 12 years ago to overcome difficulties
encountered by extradition procedures.

Because of difficulties in persuading witnesses to attend court, it has been
used quite rarely.

The imprisonment of the six Crumlin Road courthouse escapers marked one of its
few unqualified successes.

Ironically, the Dublin Government has recently been pressing Britain to activate
the legislation more regularly to overcome existing problems concerning
extradition.

Joseph Doherty, the eighth man to escape from the court in the 1981 break-out,
fled to the US. The FBI arrested him in New York in 1983 while he was working as
a barman.

Since then Doherty, who was given permission last week to apply for political
asylum in the United States, has been held in Manhattan correctional centre
while the British attempt to have him returned to the UK.

Gerard Sloan can be held by Irish police for up to 48 hours under anti-terrorist
laws before he has either to be released or taken to court.

It was not clear this afternoon whether he would be the subject of another
extradition bid by Britain, or face the special criminal court in Dublin for a
trial under the cross-border legislation.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              41 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            November 25 1988, Friday

Israel puts a 'young man' in London; Yoav Biran

SECTION: Issue 63248.

LENGTH: 139 words


(Photograph) -

Mr Yoav Biran, the new Israeli ambassador to London, who presented his letters
of credence to the Queen at Buckingham Palace yesterday, is, at the age of 49,
one of the youngest Israeli career diplomats to be given such a senior posting.


However, he is no stranger to the job, having run the embassy for a year as
charge d'affaires after Mr Shlomo Argov, the then ambassador, was wounded in a
terrorist attack in 1982. He replaces Mr Yehuda Avner, who was seen as a
formidable defender of Israel's image in Britain, and takes office at a time
when Anglo-Israeli relations have been under strain.

Mr Biran graduated in international relations from the Hebrew University in
1963. He was a member of Israeli delegations to the 1973 Geneva peace conference
and has also served in Uganda and Ethiopia.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              42 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 29, 1988

Leading Article: Leave it to the Irish judges

LENGTH: 577 words


Face the legal facts squarely: the latest British extradition request to the
Republic of Ireland - in purely legal terms - is not straightforward. There are
genuine reasons why Irteland could follow Belgium and reject the British
application for the extradition of the (undefrocked) Father Patrick Ryan. Ryan,
a fugitive IRA suspect, is wanted in London not for offences he committed in the
UK but for the alleged help he gave to IRA bombers in Britain from the
continent. Hence, whether Whitehall likes it or not, there are legal grounds for
questioning why a trial should take place in London. Ryan is alleged to have
been a major IRA arms trader on the continent. He faces four charges involving
conspiracies to cause explosions and murder in the UK. The conspiracy charges
raise a second legal complication. There is no such offence in either Belgium or
Ireland. But face the political facts squarely, too. It was not legal
complications which prompted the Belgian decision. And politics looks set to
play a meaty role in the Irish decision.

Belgian officials yesterday tried to play down the politics. They suggested that
the judge who heard the application rejected the British request; but Belgian
newspapers contradict this version. They suggest the judge was ready to grant an
order on one of the four charges. The Belgian Ministry oif Justice has conceded
that security fears played a part in the decision. The Belgian Government was
concerned about the risk of IRA retaliation if Ryan, on hunger strike for three
weeks in protest against being sent to Britian, had died in a Belgian prison.
The controversial decision to return Ryan to Ireland was put to - and backed by
- the cabinet.


There are even more pressing political reasons why a minority Irish Government
may reject the British application. The anti-extradition campaign in Ireland
continues to gather strength. It has been fuelled by people who have doubts over
the convictions of the Birmingham Six, and Guildford Four and the Somerset
Three. Members of Charles Haughey's governing Fianna Fail party have already
called for the abolition of the extradition agreement with the UK. The present
system, which is only one year old, was designed to simplify and widen the
procedure; but the Irish Government was forced to include a political escape
hatch. Each British application has to be accompanied by a confidential resume
of the evidence, which is submitted for review to the Irish Attorney General.
The Irish Parliament is due to review the system next month.

A political rejection looks on the cards. Mr. Haughey, in a bind, is not going
to be too concerned by the damage this would cause to the Anglo Irish agreement.
But if the Irish are wise, they will leave the decision to the courts rather
than the politicians. The verdict should be based on legal not political
grounds. Belgium has made a rather glum mockery of the European machinery for
improving cooperation against terrorists and criminals; but there is no reason
for the Irish to follow suit. And there is one other option. Under the 1986
Irish Criminal Law Jurisdiction Act, Father Ryan could be prosecuted in Dublin
for the serious crimes he is alleged to have committed on the continent. If
Ireland opts for this course, Scotland Yard should vigorously follow it up. It
would be a good test of irish commitment to eradicating terrorism; which,
remember, is their cause just as much as ours'.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              43 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 30, 1988

Seven-day detention 'needed to fight terror'

BYLINE: By DAVID HEARST

LENGTH: 753 words

DATELINE: BELFAST


The draconian powers of arrest and detention under the successive Prevention of
Terrorism Acts have been the subject of two major reviews, and a report on every
year of their operation since 1975.

All have concluded that the police on both sides of the Irish Sea are operating
the powers reasonably.


The trawl of suspects has been wide. In the second of the two reviews, Lord
Jellicoe found that out of 1,975 people detained in Northern Ireland up to 1982,
847 were charged with offences under the act or with other serious crime. He
said that this ratio of charges to arrests amply justified the measures.

But critics say the statistics do not reveal the full number of people stopped
and detained. The total of over 7,700 detained in Northern Ireland si8nce 1974,
and a further 3,000 in Britain, excludes those stopped at ports for less than an
hour - nearly 60,000 in 1986 alone, according to the annual report of the Chief
Inspector of Constabulary. These are not classed as detentions under the act.

There is anecdotal evidence of police making less use of their wide powers at
ports as the flow of intelligence from moles inside terrorist groups increases,
but the police will not relinquish the powers easily.

The police and the Government justify holding a person for up to seven days by
talking of the 'special features of terrorist offences' - the difficulty in
obtaining admissible evidence from suspects, and the lack of witnesses willing
to testify against them in court.

The Government submission to the European Court cited the difficulty of
producing acutely sensitive material in court.

'If it is produced there is a strong risk of compromising the source of
information - perhaps even with fatal consequences. If it is not produced there
is an equally real risk that a terrorist will go free notwithstanding the
existence of a strong case against him.'

This argument is used to justify the increasingly wide trawl of suspects in
Northern Ireland as the table shows. The Government says there are two
safeguards against abuse of power.

A detainee held for more than 48 hours can be visited by his solicitor and apply
for a writ of habeas corpus if he was unlawfully arrested. The second safeguard
is scrutiny by the Northern Ireland secretary of each case where the detention
is extended.

But there are growing legal doubts about the worth of statements or confessions
produced towards the end of a seven-day period of detention.

The no-jury Diplock courts have placed less weight or even ruled as inadmissible
statements which could be challenged as having been produced under duress.

-----------------------------------------------------------------
        1      2      3    4      5   6   7
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
 1977   853    162    29   123    9   38  17
 1978   622    155    23   144    1   18  51
 1979   857    162   240   126   54   41  52
 1980   537    222   126   186   12   30  48
 1981   274    495    56   401   26   13  22
 1982   220    828    37   639   10   12  13
 1983   191   1175    45   728   16   15  17
 1984   159    908    22   533   14    9   3
 1985   193    938    54   557   15   23   2
 1986   147   1309    37   483   13   18   7
 1987   184   1459    32   451    9    8  16
 1988    61    805    16   248    7    3  12
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
 Notes:
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
 1. Number of people detained under PTA in GB.
 2. Number of people detained under PTA in Northern Ireland.
 3. Number of extensions of detention granted over initial 48 hour
 period in GB
 4. Number of extensions for Northern Ireland.
 5. Number of charges under PTA (GB only). NIO produces a global
 figure
 of 110 charges that runs from November 29, 1974.
 6. Number of charges for offences other than under PTA, from
 murder to
 firearms charges. GB only. The Nothern Ireland figure is 2,750 from
 November 29, 1974.
 7. Number of exclusion orders GB and NI.
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
 Sources: Homes Office and the Northern Ireland Office
 -----------------------------------------------------------------

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              44 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          November 30 1988, Wednesday

Warrants and trust; Leading Article

SECTION: Issue 63252.

LENGTH: 744 words


Extradition arrangements between sovereign jurisdictions cannot work as smoothly
as many politicians would wish. However harmonious the relations between the
respective officialdoms may be, legal requirements will always be needed to
ensure that injustice is not committed. Misunderstanding, delay, and bad feeling
can arise from those minimum safeguards alone.

Between Britain and the Republic of Ireland it is necessary that every political
and official effort be directed to containing the necessary hindrances to an
absolute minimum. Without further detail of both the application and response in
the Ryan case, it is impossible to judge the precise grounds for the hesitation
of the Irish authorities. But it is a minimum requirement that, as Mr Roy
Hattersley rightly remarked yesterday, extradition should be treated judicially
rather than politically.


Extradition decisions in the Republic are inevitably a matter of more political
interest than elsewhere. Under the previous government in Dublin, London gained
some small advantage from the fact that the government of the day was determined
to resist political pressures not to extradite and to do so if the law allowed.
Mr Haughey's Government, living on a tiny parliamentary majority, has thrown
away the progress thus made.

Irish ministers and officials acknowledge the need to fight terrorism with
consistent firmness. But in practice, the Government amended its extradition
arrangements with Britain in a wholly political fashion and with the wholly
political intention of making extradition more difficult. This retreat signalled
that the Anglo-Irish Agreement did not mean any effort by the Government in the
South to lessen its dependence on those sections of opinion who distrust
anti-terrorist cooperation between Britain and Ireland, particularly when it
works.

Trust is at the heart of the matter. For extradition arrangements to exist at
all between two countries, there has to be some degree of compatibility between
the legal systems. Both parties need to feel that the defendant handed over will
be fairly dealt with.

Does the Irish Government, co-signatory of the Anglo-Irish Agreement, mistrust
the British legal system sufficiently to cease any possibility of extraditing
fugitives to it? Apparently not. If the system is fair enough for there to be
extradition in existence at all, does it not follow that unstinting cooperation
in accordance with the law would be the next step? Apparently not.

It would be cheering to think that this hypocritical inconsistency would be
sorted out when the recent amendments come up for review. It seems improbable.

The Republic is not the only country where the British Government faces an
uphill task of persuading public and political opinion. European governments
which have faced terrorist violence over the past decade mostly know what
reserves of stamina and dedication are required to confront it successfully.

If the dismantling of borders and closer liaison of police forces is to mean
anything, those governments have to take their neighbours' problems as seriously
as they take their own. At the moment the IRA has shown that it can successfully
defend its Europe-wide freedom of movement with a combination of political
pressure and the suggestion of retaliation, most recently successful in Belgium.

Diplomacy and a more aggressive campaign of European public information are the
means to redress this dismal picture. The Rhodes summit at the end of the week
is as good a place for the Prime Minister to start as any.

Part of that campaign should be a sensible reply to the judgment of the European
Court of Human Rights on the length of detention under the Prevention of
Terrorism Act. Consideration of the rights of the victims of terrorism cited by
the Prime Minister in a recent speech and voiced by the Home Office yesterday is
a humane attitude for policy-makers, but not a legal blueprint. Britain
subscribes to the Convention which the court interprets and our record of
following the judgements is unblemished so far.

The Government has an option beyond simply shortening the detention time allowed
or announcing a derogation from the Convention. A judicial review could be built
into the procedure for renewing a detention order; it would be slightly more
cumbersome than the present form, but would hardly be likely to frustrate the
police in the proper exercise of their duty.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              45 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          November 30 1988, Wednesday

Belgians puzzled by furore; Failure by Belgium to extradite Patrick Ryan

SECTION: Issue 63252.

LENGTH: 193 words


The leader of a Belgian parliamentary delegation examining anti-terrorist
methods in Britain said on arrival last night that he could not understand why
Mrs Margaret Thatcher was so upset by the Ryan case.

Mr Andre Bourgeois flew in as head of a nine-member Belgian parliamentary
commission which has been visiting foreign countries to see how their police
tackle serious crime and terrorism.


He said he believed that his Government's decision to send Father Ryan to the
Irish Republic 'was a good decision'. But his committee would be asking the
Belgian Government for explanations.

The delegation is on a two-day visit for a study of British experience in
combating violent crime and international terrorist activity.

Last night, however, Home Office sources in London indicated it was 'almost
certain' that the Home Secretary would take the opportunity today to meet the
delegation in the light of Belgium's failure to extradite Father Ryan.

British officials in Brussels said that the visit, by the Belgium Senate
Committee of Inquiry, was arranged before the Ryan issue and a Home Office
meeting was on today's schedule.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              46 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           December 1 1988, Thursday

Thatcher's views led to independent line at UN

BYLINE: From JAMES BONE, New York

SECTION: Issue 63253.

LENGTH: 546 words


Mrs Thatcher's personal hatred of terrorism lay behind Britain's decision to
break a common EEC position by refusing to deplore the US failure to grant a
visa to the PLO chairman, Mr Yassir Arafat, diplomatic sources said yesterday.

Britain recorded the sole abstention as the UN General Assembly voted 151-2
yesterday to deplore the US decision to bar Mr Arafat.


'Terrorism is a very emotive word in London town, especially for someone who
missed being blown up by about six feet, ' one Western diplomat said, referring
to the IRA bomb attack on Mrs Thatcher in Brighton.

The resolution urged the US to reverse its decision to stop Mr Arafat addressing
the General Assembly's annual debate on Palestine. Britain believes that the US
is under a clear obligation in international law, under the 1947 UN Headquarters
Agreement to grant Mr Arafat a visa.

But British diplomats had sought to excise language criticizing the US from the
Arab-sponsored resolution before it was adopted by the UN Legal Committee on
Tuesday.

Some Arab nations originally wanted the text to 'condemn' the US action. But
after hours of discussion the Arab group finally agreed on the wording
'deplores'.

Britain secured the support of the EEC nations to press for the language to be
moderated still further to an expression of disappointment with the US decision.
EEC diplomats argued that it was important not to arouse US public opinion so
that the incoming Bush Administration be forced to take a hard line at the UN.

The Arab group rejected the proposed wording and refused a proposed compromise
formula that the United Nations 'regret' the US action.

On instructions from London, Britain abstained as the Legal Committee adopted
the text 121-2, with the US and Israel against.

Sir Crispin Tickell, Britain's Permanent Representative, said: 'Just as we
believe the US should show respect for the United Nations, so we believe that
the United Nations should show respect for the US. This mutual respect should
have been reflected in the language of the resolution.'

The General Assembly vote yesterday sets the stage for an historic devision
tomorrow to move the General Assembly out of New York so that it can hear Mr
Arafat.

If, as expected, the US does not reverse its decision, the Arab group plans to
propose shifting the Assembly to Geneva in mid-December. They are again likely
to receive overwhelming support.

THE ASSEMBLY RESOLUTION

Text of the resolution passed by the UN General Assembly.

1. Affirms the right of the Palestine Liberation Organization to freely
designate the members of its delegation to participate in the sessions and the
work of the General Assembly;

2. Deplores the failure of the host country to approve the granting of the
requested entry visa;

3. Considers that this decision by the Government of the United States, the host
country, constitutes a violation of the international legal obligations of the
host country under the Headquarters Agreement;

4. Urges the host country to abide scrupulously by the provisions of the
Agreement and to reconsider and reverse its decision;

5. Requests the Secretary General to submit a report on the developments in this
matter no later than December 1 1988.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              47 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           December 1 1988, Thursday

Two defiant traditions for Irish priests; Father Patrick Ryan

BYLINE: JAMIE DETTMER, Irish Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: Issue 63253.

LENGTH: 444 words


On a frosty morning in 1861 more than 20,000 Dubliners gathered to watch the
funeral at Glasnevin Cemetery of the young Irish Fenian, Terence McManus. What
made the funeral special was that a few days earlier the Archbishop of Dublin
had signalled his disapproval of the secret Fenian society and refused
permission for McManus's body to rest in Dublin Cathedral the day before it was
buried.

The Irish Catholic hierarchy's attempt to deny full funeral rites to McManus was
undermined by Patrick Lavelle, a radical priest prepared to preside over the
burial. Lavelle was among the first priests to stand shoulder-to-shoulder with
Irish nationalists.


For many Irishmen Father Patrick Ryan is part of the Lavelle tradition of
republicanism a priest who supports nationalism but was not engaged in terrorist
activities. The Irish perception of Father Ryan goes some way to explain the
strong feelings being stirred up in Ireland by Britain's extradition request.

His alleged terrorist activities are still to be proven in court. If he is
extradited and found guilty, he would be part of another tradition of priests
who have provided more than just verbal support for republicanism.

During the 1919 troubles some priests were actively involved in the IRA campaign
against the British. The two traditions have lived on through the historical
battles, and representatives of both have figured prominently in recent years.
For many Protestants in Ulster, the line dividing active and passive support for
the IRA is thin and the failure of the few Catholic priests in Northern Ireland
to condemn republican violence provoked fury.

Father Des Wilson and Father Joe McVeigh particularly anger Unionists. Father
Wilson came into prominence in 1972 when he said nobody had the right to condemn
IRA violence unless prepared at the same time to suggest a reasonable
alternative.

In 1983 he and seven other priests issued a statement critical of the Catholic
bishops and urged them to speak out against British 'state violence, arbitrary
arrests, the unjust Diplock courts and the abuse of republican prisoners'.
Father Wilson now helps to run a community centre used by Sinn Fein.

In the past 20 years three priests have entered the ranks of republican
terrorists. One, Father Bartholomew Burns, escaped an extradition request by
Britain in 1974.

Father Burns escaped extradition after a year-long legal struggle which ended
with the High Court in Dublin deciding that the charge he faced in Scotland
amounted to a political offence. He had been accused in March 1973 of storing
IRA explosives and detonators in his presbytery in Glasgow.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              48 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           December 1 1988, Thursday

Commons pressure for statement on Ryan; Attempted extradition of Father Patrick
Ryan

BYLINE: RICHARD FORD, TONY DAWE and JAMIE DETTMER

SECTION: Issue 63253.

LENGTH: 581 words


Pressure was mounting on the Government last night to make a full statement on
the attempted extradition of Father Patrick Ryan, the Roman Catholic priest
wanted in connection with terrorist offences, as the Prime Minister and the
Attorney-General came under attack from politicians in Westminster and Dublin.

Demands from Labour MPs that Sir Patrick Mayhew, the Attorney-General, should
explain to the Commons how faulty extradition papers had been sent to the Irish
authorities, appeared to have the support of the Speaker.


At the same time, Mr Tony Benn, a senior Opposition MP, accused Mrs Thatcher of
leading a 'lynch mob' of MPs in attacking the Belgian and Irish authorities for
their actions in the Ryan case. Irish officials also accused Sir Patrick of
'bungling' and Mr Dick Spring, the Labour leader, called for a strong response
from Mr Charles Haughey, the Irish Prime Minister, to Mrs Thatcher's 'outrageous
and intemperate' attack on the Irish Government and people.

He urged Mr Haughey to refuse to meet the British Prime Minister at the EEC
summit in Rhodes tomorrow.

As the controversy cast a shadow over Anglo-Irish relations and those between
EEC

heads of government, Labour MPs and Father Ryan's advisers also criticized
briefings given to the media on the affair. They said the briefings had made it
impossible forFather Ryan to receive a fair trial in Britain and that they would
be giving that message to Mr John Murray, the Irish Attorney-General, who is
considering Britain's application for the priest to be extradited on charges
alleging conspiracy to murder and cause explosions.

A Belgian parliamentary delegation visiting London yesterday was told personally
by Mr Douglas Hurd, the Home Secretary, of Britain's 'bitterness, regret and
dismay.'

At Westminster, Mr Bernard Weatherill, the Speaker, gave a broad hint yesterday
to the Government's business managers that the Attorney-General should make a
statement during a series of points of order.

He said: 'If it is true that the press have been briefed, in my judgement the
House should also be briefed.'

Mr Michael Fisher, Father Ryan's London solicitor, also accused Scotland Yard of
giving prejudicial briefings.

He said yesterday: 'It is an outrage for Scotland Yard to provide briefings that
Father Ryan is wanted for questioning in connection with the Gibraltar bombing
mission and other IRA attacks. It is prejudicial and would make it impossible
for him to have a fair trial in this country.'

Government lawyers insisted yesterday that they have made out a proper case for
Father Ryan's extradition and denied reports of 'defects' in the papers.
Hundreds of pages of statements were sent to Belgium in September and draft
documents were sent to Ireland last Wednesday.

Westminster MPs expressed surprise yesterday that documents had gone to Ireland
two days before the Belgians had decided to free Father Ryan but the Crown
Prosecution Service said it was just a prudent move to cover the possibility of
the priest arriving in Ireland.

After his release in Belgium the CPS obtained fresh arrest warrants at Bow
Street Magistrates Court and 'faxed' them to the Irish Attorney-General on
Friday night. Scotland Yard detectives delivered the original documents to the
Irish authorities on Saturday.

The Irish pointed out that a certificate signed by the magistrates was undated
but the CPS said that this mistake was rectified by Sunday.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              49 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                December 2, 1988

Law Guardian (Out of Court): The Acts of terrorism

BYLINE: By PADDY HILLYARD

LENGTH: 861 words


When the Prevention of Terrorism Act was first introduced in November 1974 Roy
Jenkins, the then Home Secretary, admitted that it was draconian. Since then
there has always been pressure from libertarian legal quarters either to abolish
the Act altogether or to limit its key powers. These pleas have not been heard.

The European Court's decision this week that the detention powers in the Act are
in breach of the European Convention on Human Rights has caused the Government
considerable embarrassment three days after it published a Bill to renew and
extend the Act.


The arguments against the Act are considerable. If not only flies in the face of
our international obligations, but also violates the principles of natural
justice. There is also ample evidence to show that instead of it helping to
defeat terrorism, it sustains and maintains it. In any event the existing
criminal law is adequate to deal with all forms of political violence. It is
time for the legislation to be abolished.

The new Bill will renew all of the existing powers and introduce new powers and
procedures aimed at cutting off the flow of funds to illegal organisations. It
will be illegal either to raise money or to hold property for terrorist
purposes, or to hold funds for such purposes. In addition, it permits anyone to
disclose any suspicions about someone's money or property to the police. This is
despite any contractual arrangements to the contrary.

To facilitate the prosecution of such offenders, the police will be given new
investigative powers and the onus of proof will be on the defendant to prove
that he or she did not know that the money or property was being held for
terrorist puposes.

Th new Bill also makes two significant changes to the remission of sentences. It
reduces the current rate available to people convicted of offences in Nothern
Ireland from a half to a third. It also provides that anyone granted remission,
would, if sentenced to another offence, be required to serve out, without any
remission, any unexpired portion of the previous sentence, before beginning the
new one.

The principal criticism of the Act is that it has been widely misused. Instead
of being used to arrest and bring before the courts those suspected of
terrorism, it has been used to trawl suspect population on both sides of the
Irish Sea. Since its introduction, only a very small proportion of those
detained, have been charged or excluded. Over the same period, hundreds of
thousands of people have been stopped, questioned and detained for under an hour
at ports and air-ports. In addition, several hundred people have been banished
from one part of the United Kingdom to another by the use of exclusion orders.
This form of 'internal exile' violates the principle that people may live where
they please. Moreover, the procedures pay no regard to the principles of natural
justice.

In 1987, Lord Colville, who carried out a review of the legislation, recommended
that the exclusion powers should be dropped. He argued that he was not convinced
that 'the ends justify these means'. The Government, however, has ignored his
advice.

The new provisions are highly contentious. The 'disclosure provision' is likely
to be abused in a highly-polarised community where Protestants are
over-represented in banking. There will be pressure to report to the police the
most innocent mvoements in a Catholic bank account. There is also the danger
that the police will investigate certain Catholic businesses for no other reason
than that they operate in a particular area.

The new provisions will also mean that if a person is found guilty and the money
or property is forfeited, not only the offender but also their family, will
suffer the consequences. Many Catholics will no doubt transfer their bank
accounts to South of the border, alienating them still further from the
institutions in the north.

On top of all these new provisions in the Bill, the Government has announced
other measures to combat terrorism. Sinn Fein and the UDA have been banned from
the media, and the 300-year-old right to silence - a key concept in our criminal
jsutice system, placing the onus on the prosecution to prove that a person is
guilty - is to be severely limited for trials in Northern Ireland.

This arsenal of measures is unprecendented in peacetime and abolishes a number
of traditional civil and political liberties. Yet they are likely to fare no
better than previous policies. Violence continues despite inrternment without
trial, wide army and police powers, jury-less courts, shifts in the rules of
evidence, interrogation in depth, supergrass trials and the alleged
shoot-to-kill policy.

There is little doubt that these policies have played a significant part in
creating successive generations of young Catholics who reject constitutional
politics in favour of 'the Armalite and the ballot box'. The reality is that
100,000 people in Northern Ireland, or 10 per cent of the population, now vote
for Sinn Fein.

Paddy Hillyard is co-author of The Coercive State: The Decline of Liberal
Democracy in Britain (Fontana, 1988)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              50 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            December 4 1988, Sunday

Thatcher in new attack over Ryan; Patrick Ryan

BYLINE: ANDREW GRICE, Political Reporter, Rhodes

SECTION: Issue 8574.

LENGTH: 876 words


IRISH government officials said privately yesterday that the chances of Patrick
Ryan, the suspected Irish terrorist, being extradited to Britain were now 'about
3-1 against'.

This view was reinforced by Charles Haughey, the Irish prime minister, after a
heated hour-long meeting with Margaret Thatcher at the end of the EC summit in
Rhodes.


He accused her of prejudicing Ryan's case by her attack on his government's
handling of British requests for the former priest's extradition.

She retaliated by demanding tough new extradition procedures from the Irish
government and defending her strong reaction to the muddle over the Ryan affair.

'Of course we feel strongly, ' she said. 'How do you think those people who were
bereaved feel? When you get the letters I get from mothers whose sons have been
killed, you would take exactly the same view as I do.'

Asked whether she should be more diplomatic, she replied: 'I am not concerned
with diplomacy. I am concerned with fighting terrorism. That is my duty to the
people of Britain. We are entitled, being the targets of terrorism, to expect
the speedy help of all other governments.'

Haughey, in return, warned Thatcher that she had jeopardised the Irish
extradition process by her attacks on his government in the House of Commons
last week.

Haughey hinted at a press conference that her outburst could tip the balance
against extradition. He said: 'It is very disappointing for me that extradition
arrangements between two countries are becoming front-page stories, making the
operation of extradition very difficult.

'Extradition is strictly a matter of law, to be discharged by the courts in a
fair, dignified and judicial atmosphere. It is not right that individual cases
should be raised in parliament and politicised.

'It is difficult to see how the system can work if this continues. Nobody's case
should be prejudiced in advance by that individual being branded a terrorist.'

Edward Heath, the former prime minister, yesterday also criticised Thatcher for
her response to Dublin's delay. On BBC Radio, Heath said it was
'counter-productive' for Thatcher to criticise foreign governments. 'It is quite
unjustifiable for the prime minister to get up in the House of Commons and
publicly lash the Belgians and the Irish about their behaviour.

'All that has happened is that the Belgians and Irish have hit back. Where are
we getting? Nowhere at all. A large number of countries do not really trust our
policy in Northern Ireland.'

Labour leaders are also certain to step up their attack on Thatcher's handling
of the affair in the wake of the Rhodes row. Roy Hattersley, Labour's deputy
leader, said on Friday that Ryan was now less likely to be extradited than
before Thatcher's attack.

Haughey said he and Thatcher agreed on one thing that the Ryan case 'bordered on
the farcical'. He offered Thatcher one concession: greater use of the Criminal
Law Jurisdiction Act of 1976 so that more terrorist cases in Britain and Ireland
could be tried in each other's countries.

This is likely to be explored during the current review of the Anglo-Irish
agreement.

But Thatcher did not retreat from her Commons statement during her meeting with
Haughey. She said afterwards that she had expressed 'the utter dismay, not
merely of the British government but of the British people, at being so badly
let down'.

'I can only reiterate it is not enough to sign ringing declarations against
terrorism. What matters is effective action to bring before the courts persons
charged with terrorist offences.' She had heard nothing from Haughey or Wilfried
Martens, the Belgian prime minister, to alter her view of the Ryan affair.

Despite the row with Haughey, Thatcher had not given up hope yesterday of the
former priest being extradited and she urged Haughey to honour his pledge to
review the new Irish extradition rules if they did not work properly.

'Clearly the procedures are not working effectively, ' she said. She wanted more
use of provisional warrants so suspected terrorists could be detained while the
first stage of the extradition process was completed. She asked Haughey for
'proper, agreed and workable procedures in which we both can have confidence'.

Thatcher said she had told Haughey why she felt as she did about the Ryan
affair. 'We are on the receiving end of concerted terrorist attacks our police,
our soldiers who defend the whole of Europe as well, our individuals, our people
being bombed, maimed and killed. Therefore we expect efficient procedures so
that people can be detained and if necessary extradited and brought before the
court to decide the matter of guilt or innocence.'

She re-affirmed, however, that the Anglo-Irish agreement would continue and
Haughey noted that Anglo-Irish relations were bound to face difficulties while
the Northern Ireland problem was still there.

Earlier in the day, Martens admitted that his cabinet had ignored the advice of
the Belgian courts in refusing to extradite Ryan to Britain.

He said the courts had overlooked the fact that the British extradition papers
were 'vague, without dates or names and that they did not accord with charges
recognised in Belgian law'.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              51 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            December 5 1988, Monday

Thatcher seeks European accord to fight terrorism; EEC summit, Rhodes

BYLINE: RICHARD OWEN

SECTION: Issue 63256.

LENGTH: 707 words

DATELINE: RHODES


Mrs Thatcher's drive to step up the fight against cross-border terrorism and to
improve radically European Community co-operation on extradition procedures is
to be intensified after the weekend summit of EEC heads of government, diplomats
said here yesterday.

Europe's counter-terrorism watchdog, known as the Trevi Group, meets at
ministerial level in Athens next Monday, and senior British officials said the
Home Secretary, Mr Douglas Hurd, who will attend, would seek to muster support
for the kind of anti-terrorist action that the Prime Minister had forcefully
demanded in Rhodes.


The Rhodes communique affirmed the goal of a Europe without frontiers by 1992,
but linked this directly to the need for much closer co-operation against
terrorism, trans-frontier crime and drug trafficking. The Twelve agreed each to
appoint a supremo to co-ordinate the European anti-crime drive.

The British push comes after sharp encounters in Rhodes between Mrs Thatcher and
both Mr Charles Haughey and Mr Wilfried Martens, the Irish and Belgian prime
ministers, over the Ryan case. Britain wants Father Patrick Ryan to face charges
of conspiracy to murder and to cause explosions.

At an hour-long meeting on Saturday, Mrs Thatcher told Mr Haughey of her 'utmost
dismay' over the behaviour of the Irish authorities in the case.

At their meeting, Mrs Thatcher told Mr Haughey bluntly that extradition
procedures were 'clearly not working properly', and asked him to review them.

She told the Taoiseach firmly that Britain was on the receiving end of
'concerted terrorist attacks' and had the right to expect effective co-operation
from her European partners. Mr Haughey told Mrs Thatcher the system of
extradition could not work if cases were prejudiced by individuals being
'branded in advance as terrorists'.

Irish officials maintained that, had Mrs Thatcher not intervened publicly in the
Ryan case, there would have been a '50-50 chance' of Dublin extraditing Father
Ryan to Britain, but the chances were now much reduced.

Mrs Thatcher's meeting with Mr Haughey, postponed from Friday at the latter's
instigation, was described in a joint statement as 'frank'. Mr Haughey said it
would be foolish to deny that the Ryan row was anything other than 'an event of
major significance in Anglo-Irish relations', with 'major fallout in many
different directions'.

But the Prime Minister's attitude to the Taoiseach was not as severe as it was
when she confronted Mr Martens, and she denied that the Anglo-Irish meeting had
amounted to a 'dressing down'.

Asked what the effect of the Ryan row would be on relations between London and
Dublin, she said: 'The Anglo-Irish Agreement is there, and it continues. But we
expect there to be efficient procedures so that people charged can be detained
and, if necessary, extradited.'

British officials said that Britain was asking only for suspects like Father
Ryan to be detained for the statutory three days, giving time for the Irish
Attorney General either to back a warrant issued by London or to issue one of
his own.

Asked if she could have dealt with the Ryan issue more diplomatically, Mrs
Thatcher replied: 'I am not concerned about diplomacy, I am concerned about the
fight against terrorism. That is my duty to the British people.'

Mrs Thatcher repeatedly expressed bitter disappointment over the Belgian
Cabinet's decision to overturn rulings by the country's courts in favour of
extraditing Father Ryan to Britain. She said the British and Belgian police and
legal authorities had worked together 'extremely closely' until the last moment,
yet extradition had been inexplicably refused.

Mr Martens confirmed publicly for the first time during the Rhodes meeting that
the Belgian courts had recommended extradition, a ruling previously held to be
secret.

He insisted that in Belgium the Cabinet was the highest legal authority, and its
decision had been legal rather than political: 'We Belgians are legalists, and
cannot change the law for the sake of political convenience, ' he said.

This was a difficult moment in Anglo-Belgian relations, and Mr Martens, like Mrs
Thatcher, felt strongly about terrorism. But, 'we must follow the law'.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              52 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           December 7 1988, Wednesday

Law must be used to hit 'cash roots of terror'; Prevention of Terrorism Bill;
Parliament

SECTION: Issue 63258.

LENGTH: 1558 words


N Ireland

There must be more intensive legislation to strike at the financial roots of
terrorism, Mr Douglas Hurd, Home Secretary, told MPs.


The IRA had gone into apparently legitimate business, and there was also good
evidence that Middle East terrorist groups had used London clearing banks to
their advantage.

He was moving the second reading of the Prevention of Terrorism (Temporary
Provisions) Bill, which, he said, would make it an offence to solicit, receive
or make available money or other contributions for terrorist purposes; or to
enter into arrangements whereby money or property was made available to a person
for terrorist purposes. That was intended to cover banking transactions.

Orders could be made to help to intercept funds that crossed international
barriers.

He said that in this Bill the Government had three main principles in mind: To
preserve the core of powers that had proved their worth in the fight against
terrorism; a number of new measures, particularly financial, which the
Government believed would add significantly to the defence against terrorism;
and to bring in a number of reforms proposed by Lord Colville.

Lord Colville had agreed to continue his work of scrutinizing the operation of
the Act.

The central powers remained unchanged because they were needed. He shared Lord
Colville's dislike of exclusion from part of the United Kingdom in principle and
took care in exercising that power, but he saw no alternative when it was not
possible to bring charges against whose who were planning acts of terrorism.

Earlier this year, a suspected active service unit of the IRA had been located
in London, but it was not possible to bring charges because no terrorist act had
been committed. They should not have been allowed to remain to plan acts of
terrorism.

The power to arrest and detain people on reasonable suspicion of involvement in
the commission, preparation, or instigation of an act of terrorism had shown
itself to be an invaluable part of the Government's armoury. Lord Colville had
no hesitation in recommending its continuance.

The European Court of Human Rights last week had differed from the Government,
not over the arrest power or the length of detention available under the Act,
but on the need for detainees to be brought before a judge or other officer
authorized by law to exercise judicial power.

'We believe seven-day detention is fully justified in some cases to give the
police time to complete inquiries, which are often complex, to establish whether
an offence has been committed.'

Against the background of continued terrorist violence, which Britain had to
suffer, the Government did not believe that the maximum time a detainee was
available for interview under terrorist legislation should be reduced.

'We have to ensure that the police have the powers which they believe they need
to counter terrorism.'

There were two ways open to the Government to proceed: The first was to derogate
under the Convention in respect of the exercise of these powers, or they could
introduce into the procedure a judicial element for authorizing extensions of
detention.

'The court recognized the difficulties of judicial control over decisions to
arrest and detain suspected terrorists.' It also acknowledged the special
circumstances in Northern Ireland.

The House would have preferred to have seen the matter resolved before the
debate, but it would not have been sensible to rush into a hasty decision on a
highly complicated problem between last week's judgement and the debate.

It was necessary to go forward with a little more deliberation and to examine
the problem with an open mind. He would bring forward proposals before the Bill
left the House.

Lord Colville had recommended that the Bill should become permanent, but it was
right that exceptional powers such as these should remain on the statute book
only for as long as necessary.

The powers in the Bill would have to be renewed regularly or would lapse. They
could be renewed in whole or in part.

Reduction of remission for terrorist offences was designed to deter and, by
restricting the opportunity for those convicted to become further involved, to
protect the public.

One estimate of the annual income of the IRA was Pounds 3 million to Pounds 4
million. Partly, it was a question of extortion and armed robbery, but the IRA
had also gone into apparently legitimate business.

'We do not say that the Labour Party supports terrorism because it has been
voting against the predecessor of this Bill. We simply say that those who oppose
the provision have not thought through the nature of terrorism.

'There really is no abuse of power in this proposal. There is nothing tyrannic
or abusive in the new proposals on finance.

'This is a carefully thought-out response to the efforts of our enemies. I very
much hope that the Opposition will take advantage of the fact that this is a new
Bill and join us in supporting it properly tonight.'

Mr Roy Hattersley, chief Opposition spokesman on home affairs, said that it was
wrong in a free society to detain a suspect for seven days without charge and to
oblige men and women, through exclusion orders, to live in areas of the country
stipulated by the Government.

'Seven-day detention and exclusion orders alienate and antagonize men and women
whose assistance we need. This Bill will impede rather than assist the defeat of
terrorism.'

The Opposition was prepared to support the proposal to make it an offence to
solicit, receive or accept contributions of money or other property intended to
finance or support terrorism, though he did not minimize the danger of requiring
a suspect, innocent under the law, to prove innocence. But when the need was
desperate, desperate measures are justified.

Most men and women excluded from Great Britain had not been convicted of any
offence, yet they were to be exiled to Ulster or Ireland itself. MPs had not
been told, either, the reason for exclusions.

The Home Secretary should have announced the Government's intentions on the
European court ruling today. His failure aroused the fear that the Government
was only waiting to get this debate and the Irish extradition out of the way
before applying for derogation.

The Rev Ian Paisley (Antrim North, DUP) said that they had to show there was a
will to deal adequately and effectively with the situation. The Bill could help.

Mr Kenneth Maginnis (Fermanagh and South Tyrone, OUP) said that his party would
vote in favour of the principle of the Bill.

Mr Ivan Lawrence (Burton, C) said that the Act had thwarted IRA bombing attacks
and led to many successful prosecutions so it was absurd to suggest it had
played no part in the fight against terrorism. The new powers were welcome.

Mr Seamus Mallon (Newry and Armagh, SDLP) said that the power of detention was
being used to trawl for intelligence and information.

One of the awful things about this legislation was that Irish people felt
aggrieved by it people stopped and questioned, lorry drivers held for three days
at Dover, their loads going bad.

The exclusion element meant internal exile. The rest of the world was opening up
while 'this type of legislation closes us in'. He found it offensive.

Mr Robert Maclennan, Democrat spokesman on home affairs: We will accept the
Government's view that the Bill is a necessary part of its armoury to defeat
terrorism.

Miss Clare Short (Birmingham, Ladywood, Lab) said that the Prevention of
Terrorism Act did not prevent terrorism. It had led to the arrest and detention
of thousands of people who had been subsequently charged with nothing, to Irish
people being harrassed and an enormous sense of injustice, alienation and anger.

It was highly likely that the whole package of measures and the sense of anger
about it would lead to an escalation of violence in Northern Ireland. 'I fear
and expect more people are going to die as a consequence.'

She could not and would not support the indefensible. The Labour Party's
position arose because of the Tories' smears and lies. It was giving in to that.

Mr Kenneth Hind (West Lancashire, C) said the police had to be given the tools
to deal with terrorism and that was why the Bill was necessary. The Labour Party
showed a cavalier attitude to the safety of the people.

The ability to exclude the terrorist from this country made sense and was an
essential part in protecting the people.

Mr Bruce George (Walsall South, Lab) said that the European Court of Human
Rights ought to be complied with on its ruling over detention of suspects. If
the Government refused to co-operate, how could it expect others to co-operate
with them?

Mr Ian Stewart, Minister of State for Northern Ireland, said that, whatever the
Opposition might say about their intentions, the practical consequences of their
objections would be to make a decisive shift away from the needs of the forces
of law in favour of the men of violence.

An Opposition amendment declining to give the Bill a second reading because it
undermined the rule of law on which the fight against terrorism must be based
was rejected by 311 votes to 199 Government majority, 112. The Bill was read a
second time by 305 to 45 majority, 260.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              53 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           December 7 1988, Wednesday

Suspect IRA unit trailed by police

BYLINE: RICHARD FORD, Political Correspondent

SECTION: Issue 63258.

LENGTH: 295 words


A suspected IRA active service unit was trailed in London earlier this year
before the Home Secretary ordered its members to be excluded from Britain.

Scotland Yard detectives spotted the terrorists in the capital and trailed them
as they moved around the city.


Mr Douglas Hurd acted before the gang committed a terrorist act and excluded
them from Britain.

The Home Secretary disclosed the existence of an suspected gang of terrorists in
the capital during yesterday's second reading of the Prevention of Terrorism
(Temporary Provisions) Bill.

In his speech to the Commons, Mr Hurd gave the suspected Provisional IRA unit as
an example of the need to retain the power to exclude people from Britain.

He said: 'Earlier this year, the police were able to locate and follow a number
of people in London whom they suspected of being members of an IRA active
service unit'.

But although the police had intelligence it was not possible for them to bring
charges against those suspected of being members of the IRA.

He told MPs: 'It was not possible to bring charges against them because no
terrorist act had yet been committed.

'But I had no doubt on the basis of the information available to me that they
should not be allowed to remain here to prepare or plan for acts of terrorism.'

The Home Secretary added that sometimes the authorities had intelligence which
could not be quoted in court.

He said that there were now 123 people excluded from Great Britain or the United
Kingdom.

Officials from the Home Office were unable to give further details of the
incident earlier in the year.

Scotland Yard said last night: 'It is not our policy to comment on terrorism
unless someone is brought to court. We cannot comment.'

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              54 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               December 14, 1988

Leading Article: A glum tale of two cities

LENGTH: 646 words


The officially measured distance between London and Dublin is 239 miles; but so
irreconcilable are perceptions in the two capitals in the matter of the Ryan
extradition that it could yesterday have been many thousands. For Mrs Thatcher,
this is a failure of will. Here is a man suspected of very serious terrorist
activity, reprehensibly let go by the Belgians, but now within the jurisdiction
of a Government which claims to be a committed partner in the Anglo-Irish
Agreement and to be devoted to eradicating the IRA threat. That Government had
the power and, as she sees it, the inescapable duty, to deliver Mr Ryan; it has
wilfully refused to do so. The whole process of extradition in London's view was
dangerously undermined by the safeguards written into the legislation in Dublin
requiring the Irish Attorney-General to satisfy himself that there is a real
intention to prosecute and enough real evidence to sustain that intention.
London resents these conditions and wants them re-examined, which is to say
removed. But the stumbling block yesterday was not even that. It was the Irish
Attorney-General's conclusion that views expressed in London (by Mrs Thatcher
herself, especially, and by the British media) have made it impossible that Mr
Ryan should have a fiar and unbiased trial. That conclusion, Mrs Thatcher
declared yesterday to a roar of backbench approval, constituted a great insult
to the people of this country.

Yet it will have been greeted across the water as a statement of established
fact so nearly self-evident as hardly to need explanation. Faith in the fairness
of British justice has never been strong. The failure of the appeal in the
Birmingham bomb case was greeted within the Republic as simple proof that
long-held suspicions were right, and attributed widely, though wrongly, to the
Government rather than the judiciary. Mrs Thatcher's thunderings against Dublin
for not moving swiftly to repair Belgium's deficiencies seemed likewise the
clearest possible proof that Britain still sees itself in these matters as a
colonial power, denying the right of the Republic to its own independent systems
and decisions. It can hardly be coincidence that since Mrs Thatcher's outburst
and the encounter on Rhodes, Mr Haughey's personal rating on the opinion polls
has touched its highest ever level, while that of the Labour Leader Mr Spring,
who was first to condemn Britain for political interference, has jumped ten
points.


Old opponents of the Anglo-Irish Agreement hailed the Irish Attorney-General's
statement yesterday as indisputable proof of the uselessness, or worse, of that
enterprise, while Dr David Owen claimed that the Agreement would now be
questioned 'by everyone in Britain.' Mrs Thatcher's chief demand was that the
Irish Government should immediately re-examine the extradition safeguards; but
that seems unlikely first because, as she herself freely acknowledged, these
safeguards had nothing to do with the Ryan decision, and secondly because the
political issue in the Republic is not whether the safeguards should be removed
but whether they should be tightened still further. The danger of serious damage
not just to the Agreement but to the whole climate of Anglo-Irish collaboration
could therefore be severe. Whatever the temptations, the Prime Minister ought to
sheath her megaphone, which has done too much damage already. Even if it looks a
poor second best, she ought not to dismiss the possibility of proceedings under
the Criminal Law Jurisdiction Act. And her Government should determine to work
towards a more general agreement, such as Belgium is now recommending, to take
such decisions as far as possible away from politicians, even those who like the
British and Irish attorneys claim to be preserved by their quasi-judicial roles
from the temptations which afflict their colleagues.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              55 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          December 14 1988, Wednesday

Unwelcome lull in the land of lotus eaters; Greece; Focus

BYLINE: CHRIS WEST

SECTION: Issue 63264.

LENGTH: 971 words


The Fates have not looked kindly on their native Greece of late, as it struggles
to revamp its vital tourist industry in the face of stiff competition from
Mediterranean neighbours.

The country's popularity was only just recovering from President Reagan's 1985
warning to American tourists that Athens airport posed a security problem, when
it was dealt another savage blow last July, by the still unexplained terrorist
attack on the cruise liner City of Poros.


There followed a catalogue of woes to frustrate holidaymakers. Greek air traffic
controllers went on strike, followed by ferry crews, and the ever-complaining
taxi drivers of Athens. Forest fires devastated tens of thousands of acres of
woodland. The annual heatwave made life uncomfortable, if not unbearable.

Then, in October, came the accident that so very nearly became one of the
world's worst tourist disasters: the sinking after a collision in Piraeus of the
cruise ship Jupiter, carrying more than 400 British schoolchildren and their
teachers. Just four people lost their lives a tribute to the skill of the
rescuers, and sheer good luck that the ship was not further out to sea.

The Greek authorities maintain they have taken effective action to minimise the
risk of such mishaps in the future. Special anti-terrorist squads have been
posted at ports and on the ships themselves.

Airport security has been improved to the extent that the International Air
Transport Association felt able to declare it was 'among the highest in the
world'. Deals have been struck with disgruntled air traffic controllers and the
taxi drivers.

Such problems are a big headache for the Greek Government. Tourism is the
country's biggest foreign currency earner, the Dollars 3.5 billion it brings in
annually representing nearly 10 per cent of its gross national product, or half
its total trade deficit.

There is also a growing threat from outside, particularly from Greece's
traditional sparring partner, Turkey, where the number of tourists rose by
nearly 40 per cent this year. The feeling is now that Greece needs a new image.

'We can no longer be a country of sun, sea and sand', points out Nikos Skoulas,
the minister responsible for tourism. 'There are newcomers in the business, like
Turkey, Tunisia, Algeria or Morocco, who offer that kind of holiday equally
well, and at reasonable prices. We must concentrate on the areas where we have
the advantage'.

These are, he believes, Greece's unique history and geography: the most
concentrated collection of classical sites in the western world, and more than
9,000 miles of coastline, much of it untouched by invaders, ancient or modern.

A five year development plan aims to exploit this along two tracks: Greece is
making a determined pitch for the lucrative convention market attracting, for
example, the medical world to the island of Kos, the birthplace of Hippocrates,
or scientists to Samos, where Pythagoras taught.

The second part of the scheme seeks to develop a chain of yacht marinas, a
determinedly up-market venture, with 22 sites in various stages of construction,
much of it turned over by the Socialist government to private enterprise, with
the backing of Pounds 56 million from European Community funds.

The Government has stopped pouring money into areas where tourism has reached
saturation level, such as Athens, northern Crete, Corfu and Rhodes, and centred
it on the island chains of the Cyclades and Dodecanese.

Tourist chiefs promise that poor facilities and services the bane of many a
holiday will be upgraded to match the sort of clientele they are trying to bring
in.

Not that Greece has forgotten its debt to the holidaymakers who discovered its
delights for a handful of drachmas a day. 'We will always have dependence on the
package-deal tourist', says Mr Skoulas. 'And we have no problems with the
backpackers; often they are educated young people who just want to get away from
the crowds. In later years, we hope they'll return, with suitcases, and their
families.'

One type of tourist the Greeks hope they have seen the back of is the holiday
hooligan loud, drunk and, depressingly, British. The blackspot was Corfu, where
at the height of the season, four out of five visitors come from the UK.

Pippa Hughes, the British consul, has to sort out the trouble when groups of
youngsters, sometimes in packs 16 or 18 strong, go on drinking binges that last
for days.

Mr Skoulas, who confesses to having been 'down in the dumps' over the problem,
had talks with an equally appalled British minister, Tim Eggar, and pleaded with
the British tourist industry to cut back on the number of 'seat only' plane
tickets on sale, in a bid to keep some measure of control over the rowdies.

The appeal seems to have been heeded, although it contributed to a sharp drop in
the number of British visitors to Greece 1.79 million this year, a decrease of
nearly 10 per cent over 1987. Nevertheless, Britain remains at the top of
Greece's foreign visitor list, and tourist chiefs reckon they have managed to
lose the 10 per cent they did not want.

They are not depressed by a disappointing total of foreign arrivals at 8.2
million, short of their target of 8.5 million. They point to a balance-sheet
showing an increase in tourist revenue of some 10 per cent.

Greece's major problem in seeing the fulfilment of its upwardly mobile dream
will be cutting through the red tape and conflicts of interest between
government departments that in the past has kept so many projects on the drawing
board.

It will be the first task for Mr Skoulas and his newly-created Ministry of
Tourism and Air Transport, which, surprising as it may seem in a country so
dependent on holidaymakers, opens its doors for the first time on January 1.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              56 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               December 15, 1988

Dublin's IRA trial record dents Thatcher claim

BYLINE: By PETER MURTAGH

LENGTH: 457 words


Members of Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist squad and police forensic experts have
given evidence in a Dublin court during the successful prosecution of an IRA
bomber, despite Mrs Thatcher's assertion that the security of British witnesses
could not be guarenteed if Father Patrick Ryan faced charges in Ireland.

Following the Irish decision not to extradite Fr Ryan, Mrs Thatcher told the
Commons on Tuesday that the alternative - a trial in Dublin as suggested by the
Irish attorney-general, Mr John Murray - had a number of drawbacks. She said:
'There would be a problem over security of witneses whom we cannot compel to go
to the Republic.'


However, the British authorities secured the conviction in 1982 of Gerard
Anthony Tuite, with the testimony of Scotland Yard officers and his former
English girlfriend. Tuite, a member of the Provisional IRA, was described as
Britain's 'most wanted terrorist' following his escape from Brixton prison 15
months before and his subsequent re-arrest in Ireland.

He was tried in Dublin's Special Criminal Court, where three judges sat without
a jury, and was sentenced to 10 years under the Criminal Law Jurisdiction Act.
Mr Murry suggests this act could be deployed against Fr Ryan, who would face
similar charges.

The act is the only surviving element of the 1974 Sunningdale Agreement that
established a power-sharing executive in Northern Ireland.

Under the act, persons accused of certain terrorist-type offences committed
anywhere in the British Isles or the Irish Republic may be tried in either
jurisdiction. The 1976 law was an attempt to overcome earlier objections to
extradition by the Irish supreme court.

To date, of 13 people tried in Dublin for crimes committed in either Northern
Ireland or Britain 10 have been convicted.

In perhaps the most dramatic application of the act, a Norther Ireland judge
adjourned a trial in Belfast in May 1982 and went to Dublin to hear evidence in
the Special Criminal Court from witnesses reluctant to testify in the North.

Mr Charles Haughey's government has suggested that it would agree to the act
being used against Fr Ryan, although during the bill's passage through the Dail,
Mr Haughey said it would provoke violence in the Republic and implied that it
betrayed Nothern Ireland nationalists.

After Tuite's conviction, Mr Haughey orchestrated a secret attempt to shelve the
act's operation.

The propaganda war against Britain's presence in Nothern Ireland has moved to
Europe, the Sinn Fein vice-president, Mr Danny Morrison, said in Brussels
yesterday. He said the row with the Belgian Prime Minister, Mr Wilfried Martens,
had given Sinn Fein 'an opportunity to come over here to explain our case'.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              57 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               December 16, 1988

PM and Hurd falling out over Ulster

BYLINE: By DAVID HENCKE, DAVID HEARST and RICHARD NORTON TAYLOR

LENGTH: 550 words


Growing tensions are developing between Mrs Thatcher and Mr Douglas Hurd, the
Home Secretary, over the way the Prime Minister has created and is using a new
and highly restricted ministerial committee to push through her preferred
measures to combat Sinn Fein and the IRA.

Relations have become increasingly cool as the Prime Minister has imposed a
series of controversial measures on a reluctant Home Office and Northern Ireland
Office.


These include allowing the courts to draw inferences about anyone using the
right of silence and the broadcasting ban on anyone expressing support for
political violence.

The sharpest division between the Northern Ireland Office and Mrs Thatcher came
over prison policy, where the right to 50 per cent remission for prisoners
sentenced for over five years on terrorist offences was reduced to one third.

At one stage Mrs Thatcher is known to have argued for introduction of
internment, to have been dissuaded only by Sir John Hermon, chief constable of
the Royal Ulster Constabulary, and Sir John Waters, General Officer Commanding
the British Army in Northern Ireland.

Mrs Thatcher abandoned her holiday for an emergency meeting with Mr Tom King,
the Northern Ireland Secretary, at Downing Street, after eight soldiers were
killed in a bomb attack on their bus at Ballygawley, Co Omagh, on August 20.

The Prime Minister set up the new committee - including Mr Hurd and Mr King.

Whitehall sources say she was determined to take personal command of the
situation and push through a series of measures at special meetings over the
autumn. Some of the negotiations have taken place on a bilateral basis - with Mr
Hurd and Mr King being separately summonded to No 10 and harangued about the
need for tough action.

One top official said: 'The Home Office is virtually being run from No 10
Downing Street.'

Mrs Thatcher's determination to introduce tougher legislation has led to series
of arguments between Mr Hurd and herself over details of the legislation, with
Mr Hurd consistently pushing for the 'least worst' solution in restricting an
individual's rights under the law. Mr King has been more compliant with Mrs
Thatcher's demands.

A key clash took place over the broadcasting ban planned for Sinn Fein members
and supporters when an option paper was put before ministers.

The options are said to have ranged from the present ban on direct quotation to
legislation which almost parallelled South African laws, which would make a
member of Sinn Fein a 'non-person' in media terms.

Mr Hurd and Mr King resisted this warning that it would be unacceptable and
would damage Britain's image abroad, particularly in the US.

Mr Hurd's position is seen by Home Office civil servants and other senior
Cabinet ministers as having been weakened by his being forced to introduce
changes against his better judgment.

The new committee also bypasses the traditional and powerful H Cabinet
committee, chaired by Mr John Wakeham, Leader of the House.

Sources say this committee is dominated by 'middle of the road' Conservatives,
such as Mr Kenneth Clarke, the Health Secretary, and Mr Kenneth Baker, the
Education Secretary, who have reservations about the Prime Minister's methods in
handling Sinn Fein and the IRA.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              58 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            December 19 1988, Monday

Europe is given terror warning; Palestine Liberation Organization

SECTION: Issue 63268.

LENGTH: 389 words


Britain and other European countries have been warned by top officials in the
Palestine Liberation Organization that terrorists may launch attacks to
undermine the new dialogue between the United States and the PLO.

Western intelligence sources believe that such attacks are likely to come from
extremist Palestinian groups anxious to force the United States to break off the
talks, which were begun on condition that the PLO renounced terrorism.


The PLO warnings, seen as designed to pre-empt any attack and shield the group
from blame, were communicated to the US and main European embassies here by
senior PLO officials. Extra security precautions have been ordered to protect Mr
Yassir Arafat, the PLO chairman and key architect of the peace dialogue, who
appeared at a press briefing here over the weekend carrying a machine pistol.

And Arab governments are also taking seriously the possibility that Israeli
commandos may try to upset the present wave of diplomatic support for the PLO by
assassinating Mr Arafat.

A senior Nato security source confirmed that warnings had been transmitted to
the British Government, among others, but said that it was difficult to assess
the extent of the threat. 'There is no doubt that there are people on both sides
so against this process that they would go to any lengths to stop it, ' he said.

Western intelligence officials fear that Palestinian radicals, notably those led
by the fanatical Abu Nidal, may attempt to launch a spectacular terrorist
outrage to force Washington to give up the newly undertaken dialogue.

According to these intelligence officials, Mossad does have 'dirty tricks'
squads who would be capable of posing as Arab terrorists. But the officials
believe that any such a crude attempt to try to sully the PLO's new image would
stand a high risk of backfiring, to Israel's grave diplomatic disadvantage.

Arab extremists violently oppose the PLO's willingness to accept a state on only
part of the territory which was formerly Palestine.

'This is such a murky area and passions run so high on both sides that we have
to be prepared for any eventuality, ' a European diplomat said. 'There is a
danger now that attacks against civilian targets could take place, whose sole
aim is to make Arafat look like a hypocrit and a liar.'

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              59 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          December 21 1988, Wednesday

Britain prepares to embark on Middle East peace initiative

BYLINE: ANDREW MCEWEN, Diplomatic Correspondent

SECTION: Issue 63270.

LENGTH: 498 words


The British Government is preparing to undertake its own peace initiative on the
Middle East, independently of both the United States and the European Community.

Mr William Waldegrave, Minister of State at the foreign office, is to visit
Tunis, where the PLO has its headquarters. He is likely to see Mr Yassir Arafat
or another senior official. Later he will visit Israel and the occupied
territories and will seek a meeting with the Israeli foreign minister.


He will attempt to break the impasse caused by Israel's refusal to pick up t he
olive branch extended last week by Mr Arafat in his speech to the United Nations
General Assembly in Geneva.

The initiative has been prompted by fears that an historic oppty for peace i n
the Middle East is about to be lost. It would normally be left to Washington as
the traditional Middle East peacemaker and the country with the strongest
Israeli links. But there is concern that by the time President-elect George Bush
is ready to order an initiative the opportunity may have passed.

It will be entirely separate from efforts by a 'troika' of ministers from
Greece, Spain and France which is to undertake a peace mission on behalf of the
12 EEC countries. The group was set up in Brussels on Monday by the 12 foreign
ministers. Britain initially opposed the idea but changed its mind after
deciding that the EEC had an important but different role to play.

Britain has been urged by PLO and other Arab leaders to use influence which
stems from its role in Israel's early history. The Balfour Declaration
sponsoring a separate home for the Jewish people and Britain's role as the
holder of the UN mandate in Palestine up to May 1948 have left it with a voice
which is still heeded in Israel.

If Mr Waldegrave meets Mr Arafat he will emphasize concerns that even the s
mallest terrorist incident could wreck peace hopes.

The Government's move follows its decision on December 9 to hold ministerial
meetings with PLO officials. Mr Waldegrave has met Mr Bassam Abu Sharif,
political adviser to Mr Arafat, who assured him that the PLO had turned its back
on terrorism and violence and also made a public statement. The Foreign Office
believes that the PLO leadership has made a genuine change of policy. It also
considers that the assurances implicitly include a rejection of violence in the
Occupied Terrorities.

But Israeli leaders said after the meeting, and again after Mr Arafat's spe ech
to the UN last week, that the PLO statements were deceptive.

The Israeli view was reinforced by statements made by other PLO officials af ter
Mr Arafat's UN address last week. Mr Salah Khalaf, second in line in the Fatah
group of the PLO, said that the organisation could not be expected to lay do wn
its arms.

Sir Geoffrey Howe, the Foreign Secretary, is to visit six Arab capitals next
month and while no meetings with PLO officials have been arranged, Whitehall
sources are not ruling out the possibility.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              60 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               December 22, 1988

Five-year effort to set up bombing unit: Terrorists had to cut corners

BYLINE: By DAVID PALLISTER

LENGTH: 597 words


Ever since Patrick Magee blew up the Grand Hotel in Brighton five years ago, the
IRA has been trying to set up another active service unit on mainland Britain.

Apart from an uncharacteristically isolated bomb attack at the Inglis Barracks
postal centre in Mill Hill, north London, in August, it has been singularly
unsuccessful.


But the latest attempt in south London, which appears to have escaped the notice
of the security and intelligence services, shows that the IRA's appetite and
capabilities for striking at the capital remain undiminished.

The recruitment, training and logistics of active service units in Britain are
still based on the principles set out in the early 1970s by the IRA's most
important planner, Brian Keenan. Until his arrest in 1979, Keenan was deputy
chief of staff and the director of operations. He put together the unit that
caused more than a year of mayhem in London until their arrest at Balcombe
Street in 1975.

The 'Keenan principles' were fivefold:

If possible, the team was to come from Southern Ireland and include people with
a low security profile.

They would base themselves away from such traditional Irish areas as Kilburn and
establish themselves unobtrusively in rented flats. Clapham has been a favourite
choice. Contact with Republican sympathisers was forbidden, as was heavy
drinking.

The active service operators were sometimes to be preceded by others, often with
no criminal record, to gather intelligence.

Explosives and weapons were to be landed on remote coasts, though container
traffic to Liverpool has also been used.

Couriers, usually young women, were to ferry messages and cash from Ireland, but
the unit, once established, was to choose its own targets, based on the broad
strategy of the IRA Army Council.

In practice, however, the IRA has increasingly had to use some of its most
experienced and - to the RUC, Special Branch and M15 - well-known volunteers. It
has also relied on people whom a thoroughly disciplined organisation would avoid
like the plague.

When Magee was arrested in 1985, he was about to launch an assault on English
seaside towns. One of his lieutenants was Gerard McDonnell, a big, distinctive
man on the run from the Maze prison. Another, Peter Sherry, was a reknowned IRA
sniper. A third man had a history of manic depression.

In Gibraltar and in West Germany this year, as the IRA decided to select soft
European targets, other known people had to be deployed.

At the beginning of last year another serious attempt in Britain was foiled,
again by security force vigilance. Liam McCotter, a man with no criminal record,
and Patrick McLaughlin, an internee from 1972, arrived on the Liverpool ferry
from Belfast.

Perhaps from RUC information, they were soon identified and watched as they set
up base in a Manchester flat. In February they drove to Angelsey and picked up
200lb of Semtex explosives and weapons which had been brought from Ireland on a
fishing boat. They were arrested after burying the cache in the Macclesfield and
Delamere forests - another favourite IRA tactic.

In the debate on the Prevention of Terrorism Act this month, the Home Secretary,
Mr Douglas Hurd, said that earlier this year a number of people suspected of
being members of an active service unit had been excluded under the Act. He said
it was not possible to bring charges because no terrorist act had been
committed. The Home Office said yesterday that four exclusion orders were
served, bringing the total up to the third quarter of 1988 to 116.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              61 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           December 22 1988, Thursday

Bomb fear in UK's worst air disaster; Lockerbie air disaster

BYLINE: HARVEY ELLIOTT, DAVID SAPSTED, DAVID CROSS and MICHAEL MCCARTHY

SECTION: Issue 63271.

LENGTH: 1063 words


In Britain's worst air disaster, about 300 people were killed last night when a
Pan American Boeing 747 flying from London, Heathrow, to New York crashed and
exploded on the small town of Lockerbie in Scotland.

Flight 103 with 258 people on board came down in flames and in pieces after a
mid-air explosion that aviation experts last night said could only have been
caused by massive structural failure, or a bomb.


Trailing flames, spewing burning aviation fuel and scattering wreckage over 10
miles, the doomed aircraft fell from the sky, hit a small hill east of the town
and broke up, somersaulting across the main A74 London-Glasgow road before
crashing into houses and the petrol station in the town centre.

All those on board were killed. At least 20 of the townspeople, possibly more,
also met their deaths but early today as rescue services were still searching
the area with searchlights in pouring rain the final death toll had not been
established.

A fireball 300ft high lit up the sky as the aircraft blew up. Houses in the town
(population 3,000) 10 miles east of Dumfries and 15 miles north of the Scottish
border simply disappeared in the explosion. Others were set ablaze or had their
roofs blown off. Pieces of the wreckage carved a huge hole in the A74, blocking
the route through the town, and cars driving past were set on fire.

A fleet of rescue services helicopters, ambulances, fire engines and police sped
to the scene from all over Scotland and the North of England, but only five
casualties had been taken to the Dumfries and Galloway Royal Infirmary in
Dumfries by early today an indication of how severe the crash was.

An officer with one of the many fire crews in the area said they had lost count
of the number of fires. 'Just use your imagination, ' he told reporters. 'Pick a
number and multiply by ten. It's as bad as that.'

A Buckingham Palace spokesman said last night: 'The Queen was shocked and
appalled by the news of the air crash and is being kept informed.' In the
Commons, both Mrs Thatcher and Mr Neil Kinnock expressed their deep sympathy.
The Prime Minister was being kept fully informed of developments through the
night. Mrs Thatcher, who said she was 'shocked by this terrible disaster' and
expressed her deepest sympathies to all the bereaved families, also sent her
sympathies to Mr Charles Price, the retiring US Ambassador in London, who flew
to the scene late last night.

Mr Malcolm Rifkind, the Secretary of State for Scotland, who also flew to the
scene, plans to report back to the Prime Minister this morning, when Mr Paul
Channon, Secretary of State for Transport, will make a full statement to MPs. Mr
Donald Dewar, the Shadow Scottish Secretary, accompanied Mr Rifkind and Sir
Hector Monro, Conservative MP for Dumfries, on the flight to the scene.

A 10-man team from the Department of Transport's Air Accidents Investigation
Branch arrived within hours of the crash to look for the 'black box' and cockpit
voice recorders and to sift through the wreckage. Experts from the US Federal
Aviation Administration and from Pan Am are expected to join them.

But last night one theory a mid-air collision, suggested in early reports was
ruled out by both the RAF and the Civil Aviation Authority and by air traffic
controllers who played back tapes of the radar returns and of the conversation
between the ground and the flight deck. The only possible causes could therefore
have been either a bomb or a major structural failure.

Circumstantial evidence for a bomb was that the aircraft was filled with US
Servicemen returning home for Christmas from their postings in Europe.

But at the same time experts were concerned about the age of the jet, which was
the fifteenth produced by Boeing it was made in 1970 and one of the oldest still
flying. If the aircraft had suffered a major fatigue problem either the bulkhead
maintaining the pressure inside the jet could have ruptured or a vital part
could have split open.

There would have been little the pilot could have done. The passengers would
have died almost instantly because of the tremendous in-rush of air as the plane
broke up in flight.

The aircraft left Heathrow at 6.25pm, 25 minutes late, for the seven-hour flight
to John F. Kennedy Airport in New York. There were 240 fare-paying passengers on
board, three babies, and 15 crew. Many of the passengers were US citizens
returning home for the holiday the jumbo was said to be 'loaded with Christmas
presents'.

The passenger list included an unspecified number of Japanese diplomats and the
United Nations Commissioner for Namibia, Mr Bernt Carlsson, a 50-year-old Swede.
He had been closely involved in recent efforts to achieve independence for the
South African-ruled territory of Namibia.

When it crashed, the 747 was heading north to follow the normal flight path for
transatlantic flights, via Glasgow and Stornoway. At 7.19pm, as it flew on the
Blue Three airway towards the Atlantic, cruising at 550 mph at 31,000ft, it
abruptly disappeared from the radar screens of the Scottish Air Traffic Control
Centre at Prestwick. The pilot had last been in radio contact with the ground
four minutes earlier and there was no Mayday or distress call, indicating that
whatever the catastrophe was, it was sudden.

One witness, Mr John Glasgow, watched in horror as the 'sky lit up' when the
jumbo crashed. He said: 'The whole road was ablaze. Two houses were blazing. The
road was completely covered with masonry, garden gates and apparently parts of
the plane. There was a lot of smoking debris on fire. It looked as if the road
was burning. It looks as if the people in the houses would not have had any
chance of getting out.'

Mr Stephen McLeister, a lorry driver from Accrington, said he was driving south
past Lockerbie on the A74 when suddenly the cab of his lorry lit up. 'I couldn't
believe it. A huge aircraft came over just a few feet above me and hit the
ground just in front. I jammed on the brakes and came to a halt. I was very
shaken.'

Only days before last night's crash, security forces in a number of European
countries, including Britain, were put on alert after warnings from the
Palestine Liberation Organization that extremists might launch terrorist attacks
to undermine the dialogue between the United States and the PLO.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              62 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           December 22 1988, Thursday

Terrorists flee suburban bomb factory after being disturbed by would-be thief;
Clapham; IRA

BYLINE: DAVID SAPSTED, MICHAEL EVANS and STEWART TENDLER

SECTION: Issue 63271.

LENGTH: 968 words


A nationwide hunt was launched last night for an IRA active service unit
disturbed accidentally in London as it prepared bombs for a terrorist campaign
armed with one of the largest explosives and weapons caches found on the British
mainland.

The arsenal was uncovered by the greed of a would-be car thief and the panic of
an IRA gunman who shot him, alerting police to the terrorist cell.


Police accept that pure luck may have saved many lives just as the Provisionals
were gearing themselves up for a new campaign within weeks if not days using
more than 100lbs of Semtex military high explosive.

Scotland Yard last night urged the public to be on alert in case the IRA had
already laid bombs in the run-up to Christmas. As the warning went out at least
two armed IRA men were still at large.

Security sources believe the explosives could have been used for a series of
spectacular bombings aimed at recouping the IRA's flagging fortunes.

The explosives, bomb-making equipment and weapons including machine guns and a
Kalashnikov automatic rifle were found in a flat in Clapham, south London. Bombs
were in the process of being assembled when at least two members of the active
service unit fled. The arsenal was discovered when police were called to the
area after Lionel Barratt, aged 18, who lives in Battersea, was shot by one of
the unit police believe was either asleep or hiding in the back seat of a
Renault parked in a street at the side of the storey block of flats.

The terrorist shot Mr Barratt, ran to the flat and then fled with another man in
a second car later found abandoned in north London. Scotland Yard's
anti-terrorist branch believes the purely fortuitous find foiled plans by an
'armed and very dangerous' IRA unit.

'It was God's Christmas present, ' one officer said.

As the hunt for the two missing men started, Mr Hugh Annesley, the Scotland Yard
assistant commissioner in charge of CID operations, appealed to the public for
help in tracking the fugitives but warned that 'under no circumstances' should
they be approached.

'It is the first find of these proportions for some time, ' he said. 'We cannot
as yet connect the material with any specific targets but it is obvious the men
in the flat were in the process of making bombs.'

He admitted that the the discovery had been 'a considerable stroke of luck' and
not part of any intelligence operation. Two names found on documents in the flat
Jim Errington and IP Flynn were linked to a man who left his spectacles behind.

Mr Annesley asked for any members of the public who had been approached recently
by men inquiring about renting a flat 'in suspicious or unusual circumstances'
to

contact the anti-terrorist branches via two special phone lines: (01) 230 3347
or (01) 230 3421.

He also appealed to the public to be particularly vigilant over the Christmas
and

New Year period for any suspicious packages left in public places.

'I must emphasize that anyone who thinks they have seen the two men we are
looking for should not approach them, ' he said. 'The individuals concerned are
very likely to be armed and, certainly, dangerous.'

The vehicle in which they escaped a red 2.3 Rover saloon, licence number A834
MRO was found yesterday afternoon in Harrow.

After searching the Clapham flat anti-terrorist officers raided a house in
Leyton, east London, but there were no arrests. The extraordinary story behind
the discovery started late on Thursday night when Mr Barratt tried to break into
a green Renault parked in a cul-de-sac behind the three-storey block of flats at
Staplehurst Court, Northcote Road, SW11. When he broke one of the car's windows,
the gunman inside reared up and shot him in the stomach.

The gunman, still clutching the weapon, then dashed into the ground-floor flat,
warned his colleague and the two fled in the Rover. Their departure was so
hurried that they left the spectacles and a photograph of the man believed to be
their owner.

Mr Barratt, who is unlikely to face charges, was taken to St George's Hospital
where, after an operation, he was said to be in a stable condition last night.
His parents who live in Halston Close, near to where the shootng took place,
declined to comment.

Police waited for armed officers before approaching the flat, believed to have
been occupied by the two men for about a week. They found a startling array of
wha Scotland Yard described as 'terrorist paraphernalia' similar to equipment
used in previous IRA outrages, plus many documents and the arsenal of weapons.
The Semtex the highly-effective Czechoslovak military explosive now widely used
by the IRA and linked to supplies from Libya was also seized.

The cache is the largest found in London this decade and among the biggest found
by police on the mainland. The IRA is thought to have large supplies of Semtex
which may have been smuggled into Britain.

Mr Harry Nicoll, aged 36, who lives in a flat near by, said: 'I remember hearing
a loud bang not long after I went to bed just after midnight. I just thought it
was a car backfiring so I went back to sleep. The next thing I knew was loud
banging on my door and neighbours' doors and a police officer asked us to leave
the area.'

The families were taken to local police stations where they were interviewed
about the new occupants of Staplehurst Court.

Intelligence sources believe the active service unit would only have been in
London for a short time, perhaps three or four weeks. 'But they would not have
arrived cold, ' one source said.' All the organization for the operation would
have been arranged by permanent IRA staff who live on the mainland. So if they
were planning to bomb Harrods or somewhere like that, it would not have taken
very long.'

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              63 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           December 22 1988, Thursday

The crash of flight PA 103; Lockerbie air disaster

BYLINE: HARVEY ELLIOTT

SECTION: Issue 63271.

LENGTH: 629 words


Why should one of the world's best-known, largest and most popular jets suddenly
plunge nearly six miles to disaster?

It is a task that could take crash investigators many months of painstaking
research before they have the definitive answer. But they are almost certain to
find somewhere buried among the charred remains of the aircraft or the wrecked
houses and cars of devastated Lockerbie the bright orange flight data recorders
known colloquially as the 'black box'.


Stored in the rear of the aircraft these automatically monitor every movement of
each control surface of the jet, its height and speed as well as recording the
voices both of the pilot and the Scottish air traffic controllers sitting before
their radar screens at Prestwick.

There the controllers monitored the path of Flight PA 103 as it followed the
great circle route northwards up the spine of Britain before heading across the
Atlantic.

The black boxes should reveal whether the Pan Am jet had been 'bombed' out of
the air by an explosive device investigators can now use sophisticated
techniques which show the precise sound patterns made by an explosion.
Investigators will be able to decide whether the aircraft was the subject of
massive turbulence which slammed the aircraft into its fatal dive or if it
suffered some huge structural failure.

These are the only possible causes of what could turn out to be one of the worst
air crashes in the Western world in recent years.

The Boeing 747 has an enviable safety record. But when a jumbo jet does crash
its very size inevitably leads to massive loss of life. Since the first 747 was
delivered to Pan American in 1969 a total of 710 have been built in the giant
Boeing factory in Seattle, Washington. Of those, 18 have been destroyed or, in
the words of the Boeing company, 'subject to attrition'.

But not all these have crashed in the true sense. Two 747s were involved in the
world's worst aviation disaster in 1977 at Tenerife which led to the loss of 582
lives. Between 1980 and 1985 a further five crashed. Among the worst disasters
involving the giant aircraft was an Air India 747 packed with 329 passengers
which disappeared off the coast of Ireland as it headed towards Heathrow.

The Indian Government subsequently announced that it had been brought down by a
terrorist bomb.

In 1983 a Korean Airlines 747 was shot down by Russian fighters with the loss of
all 269 people on board, and in August, 1985, a Japan Airlines jumbo flew for
more than an hour with its vertical stabilizer missing after an explosive
decompression caused by the failure of the rear bulkhead ripped off the tail.

Nonetheless the aircraft is still the most popular amongst airlines. In its 13
versions it has carried 850 million passengers and logged up 25 million hours in
the air covering a total of more than 12 billion miles.

When it was first introduced it was thought to be too big and impossible for
airports around the world to handle.

Boeing and the airlines proved the doubters wrong and are now close to
introducing into service the latest version the 747-400 which can fly with only
two crew for up to 7,000 miles non-stop.

Since Pan Am first took delivery of a jumbo in 1969 the company has built up a
fleet of 38 of the jets which now make regular crossings of the Atlantic.

Last night's appalling crash will have sent a shudder through the world's
airline industry as almost every big international carrier has some jumbo jets
in its fleet. If the crash investigators searching the tangled wreckage in
Lockerbie discover that there was a structural failure, many of those aircraft
on which they rely may have to be grounded.

And the airline boom may even be forced into an untimely end.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              64 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               December 23, 1988

Bomb warnings ignored: Officials were told of threat to Pan Am

BYLINE: By RICHARD NORTON-TAYLOR

LENGTH: 1015 words


Western governments did not believe anonymous warnings, given to the United
States embassy in Helsinkik, that a terrorist bomb would be placed on a
pre-Christmas transatlantic Pan Am flight from Frankfurt, it emerged last night.

Rescue teams were still searching for more victims of Wednesday night's
disaster, which killed all 258 passengers and crew aboard a Pan Am jumbo bound
for New York. Thirteen adults and four children were missing in the Scottish
border town of Lockerbie where most of the wreckage fell in Britain's worst air
tragedy.


The British Government would not speculate about the cause of the disaster until
it had been fully investigated, but in Washington, Mr Ronald Spiers, a senior
State Department official, said: 'Sabotage was a major possibility.'

Ministerial sources in London acknowledged that they had known about the
warning, and said it had been communicated to 'all channels'. As a result,
airport security had been stepped up by one grade.

But a spokesman for the British Airports Authority, which owns Heathrow, said
last night: 'I can state categorically that no such warning was received at
Heathrow.'

The warning was contained in a circular issued on December 13 by Mr William
Kelly, administrative counsellor at the US embassy in Moscow, and posted on
embassy bulletin boards.

It read: 'Post (the embassy) has been notified by the Federal Aviation
Administration that on December 5, 1988, an unidentified individual telephoned a
US diplomatic facility in Europe and stated that some time within the next two
weeks there would be a bombing attempt against a Pan American aircraft flying
from Frankfurt to the United States.

'The FAA reports that the reliability of the information cannot be assessed at
this point, but the appropriate police authorities have been notified and are
pursuing the matter. Pan Am has also been notified.

'In view of the lack of confirmation of this information, post leaves to the
discretion of individual travellers any decisions on altering personal travel
plans or changing to another American carrier.' Twelve Americans changed their
travel plans after reading the circular.

Pan Am flight 103 originated in Frankfurt, where more than 30 of the victims
started their journey before switching planes to the Boeing 747 at Heathrow.

Speculation that the disaster, which happened shortly after 7pm, was caused by a
terrorist bomb planted on the jumbo heightened yesterday as crash investigators
said the 10-mile spread of debris indicated a mid-air explosion.

While substantial parts of the Boeing were discovered in six different places
around the twon, the nose cone, containing the flight deck crew - which may have
been the seat of the explosion - was embedded in a field three miles away.

The Department of Transport'a air accidents investigation branch was last night
examining the two flight recorders recovered from the wreckage. The information
contained in the cockpit voice recorder and the so-called 'black box' flight
data recorder will give vital clues to the cause of the disaster.

Scotland Yard said the head of the anti-terrorist branch had taken over the
inquiries into the possibility of a bomb attack. He was joined last night by
senior members of the FBI.

Meanwhile, at Lockerbie, Mr John Boyd, the Chief Constable of Dumfries and
Galloway, said the 13 adults and four children who were missing were apparently
among residents in eight homes in the Sherwood area 'damaged to the point of
destruction'.

Some fo the homes disintegrated, in a 30ft deep crater where part of the plane
came down beside the busy A74 dual carriageway. At a press conference last
night, Mr Boyd - who also confirmed that the two black box flight recorders had
been recovered - said so far only 150 of the 258 bodies from the wreckage had
been recovered from an area of about 10 square miles.

Wreckage, including the cockpit, part of the fuselage, and hundreds of smaller
objects had been stgrewn over this area and police urgently appealed to local
residents for help in finding it.

Mr Boyd said more than 600 rescuers - firemen, police and ambulancemen, as well
as mountain rescue teams from southern Scotland and the north of England - had
been searching the area for much of yesterday, although much remained to be
done. Extra pathologists had been drafted in, including a team from the RAF.

Particularly in the devastated Sherwood area, police are finding it difficult to
differentiate between casualties from the aircraft and the town. The chief
constable added: 'We are now attempting to contact friends and relatives as well
as anybody who might be able to assist in our inquiries.'

Another police concern is the fate of an unknown number of people in five cars
damaged by the blast on the A74. Three of the vehicles were so badly burned that
number plates and engine identification numbeers were obliterated.

The crash investigators were sifting through the wreckage in a carefully
prepared rescue plan, which divided the area into six distinct 'crash zones',
the places where the largest pieces of wreckage - and the most casualties - were
discovered. Teams of fireman, police and Civil Aviation Authority investigators,
have bene allocated to the zones.

Western intelligence sources pointed last night to the extreme Abu Nidal
terrorist group, the Palestinian faction expelled from the PLO, as the most
likely organisation to attack the jumbo.

The crash bore all the hallmarks of the group but sources insisted that this was
still only speculation.

Concern that there would be violence increased sharply after the PLO chairman,
Yasser Arafat, used his Geneva press conference last week to forswear terrorism.
The United States, Britain, and other potential targets in Western Europe
calculated that a backlash from Mr Arafat's hard-line opponents could not be
ruled out.

'Everybody has been apprehensive, fearing that attempts would be made to
sabotage the moderates in the PLO,' a senior British official acknowledged
yesterday.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              65 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               December 24, 1988

Bombs pair link to army attack

BYLINE: By OWEN BOWCOTT

LENGTH: 252 words


The two men who fled from an alalged IRA bomb factory in south London this week
are also wanted in connection with the Inglis barracks bombing in London in the
summer, Scotland Yard said yesterday.

One soldier died and nine were injured in the attack when a bomb was left beside
the accommodation block of the barracks at Mill Hill, north London, in August.


After the bombing the IRA warned all civilians to stay clear of British military
buildings and public houses and discos used by soldiers.

The bombing was widely linked to the spate of IRA attacks on army personnel in
Holland, Germany and Belgium during the summer.

On Wednesday, police found more than 100lb of Semtex explosives, as well as
machine-guns and revolvers, in a flat in Battersea, south London, after a
shooting in which a teenager was hit in the stomach as he attempted to break
into a car.

Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist squad believes the men on the run are still
mainland Britain, possibly being sheltered by friends.

Police have issued an artist's impression of man and a photograph recovered from
the flat of another man, whom they say used the pseudonyms of Jim Errington and
IP Flynn.

Two other men were in custody yesterday under the Prevention of Terrorism Act at
Paddington Green police station, west London. They were arrested on Thursday. A
police statement said: 'They are being questioned in connection with the bomb
factory.' But a spokesman added: 'They are peripheral to the inquiry.'

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              66 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               December 24, 1988

Lockerbie Disaster: Sabotage warning treated as routine

BYLINE: By OWEN BOWCOTT

LENGTH: 1029 words


The limited circulation of the American warning that a threat had been made to
attack a Pan Am flight from Frankfurt became apparent yesterday.

The initial suggestion that a terrorist operation was being planned is believed
to have come from the Israeli secret service, Mossad. It was passed to a US
diplomat in Bonn.


On December 5, a telephone caller also told the US embassy in Helsinki that a
woman would unwittingly take a bomb aboard a Pan Am airliner at Frankfurt bound
for America.

The caller identified the likely suspects as being linked to the extremist
Palestinian organisation of Abu Nidal.

But Finnish police yesterday dismissed this telephone warning as 'nonesense'
after they questioned a man believed to have warned that a Pan Am airliner would
be blown up, and the man whom he said would organise the attack.

Neither man is being held. 'There is no evidence, not even hints, beyond the
similarity of this description, which could prove that this telephone call and
this accident could have some connection,' a spokesman said.

The caller, an Arab, named another Arab living in Finland as the organiser, but
police are satisfied the man named had no connection with terrorism.

He had made several similar calls to the Israeli embassy in Helsinki since
January, warning of bombs on airliers on various routes. In each case, the man
said a Finnish woman would carry the bomb and named the same Arab as the
organiser.

Both men came to Finland after marrying Finnish women and there was no evidence
either had links to terrorism. 'Rather it could be that these men have some
personal dispute,' the spokesman said.

The warning, based largely on this telephone call, had been circulated to US
embassies a few days later. It said: 'Post (the embassy) has been notified by
the Federal Aviation Administration that on December 5, 1988, an unidentified
individual telephoned a US diplomatick facility in Europe and stated that some
time within the next two weeks there would be a boming attempt against a Pan
American aircraft flying from Frankfurt to the United States.'

On December 9, the London embassy received the warning and distributed it among
staff through its internal mail system. How many people saw it is uncertain.

Asked about the warning on Thursday, the US ambassador to Britain, Mr Charles
price, initially said he was unaware of it.

Mr Bob Callaghan, a diplomat at the US embassy in London, said yesterday: 'These
types of warnings are not unusual. It was sent to the appropriate individuals in
London, including the airlines. This is a common procedure, and has been
operating for a long while. We would have contacted Pan Am in this country.'

On December 9, the British Government was also told by the FAA about the
Helsinki warning, the Department of Transport confirmed. Mr Paul Channon, the
Transport Secretary, said such warnings occurred all the time. 'When one comes,
we evaluate it and take what steps appear necessary in each particular case.'

On December 13, the US embassy in Moscow put a notice of the warning on a board
for staff to read.

Police at Schiphol airport in Amsterdam ordered a security alert covering all US
airlines at least two weeks before the crash, Dutch police said on Thursday. 'We
were asked to go on special alert for all three US airlines using Schiphol -
North West Airlines, Pan Am and TWA - regardless of their destination or
origin,' said a spokesman.

The Federal Aviation Administration in Washington said security alerts were
given to US airlines 'when necessary'.

Pan Am said it was told about the warning by the FAA, but the information was
'solely for the use of US carriers and airport security personnel'.

The airline said it had increased security at Frankfurt and at other European
airports, but a spokesman declined to give details.

The Civil Aviation Authority, which manages air traffic control, said it had not
been informed of any warning.

The Foreign Office said the matter was entirely for the Department of Transport,
which has responsibility for security standards at Heathrow.

Heathrow Airport Ltd, a subsidiary of BAA (the former British Airports
Authority), that said no warning had been passed to them.

A spokeswoman said that the company was responsible for security staff who check
passengers and their hand luggage as they board flights.

The head of Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist branch, Commander George
Churchill-Coleman, said on Thursday: 'Warnings about things of this kind are
frequently circulated. I am aware of a number of warnings that have been
circulated.' He declined to comment further.

A spokesman for the Metropolitan Police, which covers Heathrow, said: 'We were
aware that a threat had been made to a Pan Am flight, but not this one
specifically. For some time, our security response had been uprated.'

British Airways declined to comment on security matters, but a spokesman said:
'I don't think we were included in this circular.'

The International Air Transport Association, the airlines' trade association,
said warnings about possible terrorist attacks were frequent. There was no
established international procedure, but each country assessed each threat, and
told its embassies, airlines, airports, and where it deemed necessary, other
governments.

Mr David Kyd, a spokesman for IATA, said: 'There's normally a lot of this,
everything from crazy calls from phone boxes to something much more sinister.
Depending on how serious, an airline would increase its security. For example,
Air India, hearing about a Sikh threat, might call passengers in three hours
early for checks.

'We were aware of this threat in early December. The US had put out a general
notice that an increased level of security would be appropriate. But we do not
have any recollection of individual airlines or routes being specified.'

Luggage checked in at Frankfurt would have been X-rayed there but not again at
London when it was transferred to the Boeing 747. The only further check would
be 'reconciliation' - where luggage was checked against passengers continuing
with the flight.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              67 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           December 24 1988, Saturday

Police link wanted IRA men to Mill Hill barracks blast

BYLINE: STEWART TENDLER, ANDREW MORGAN and RUTH GLEDHILL

SECTION: Issue 63273.

LENGTH: 340 words


Scotland Yard anti-terrorist detectives hunting two IRA men who fled a south
London bomb factory have linked the fugitives with the bombing of Inglis
Barracks, Mill Hill, in which a serviceman died.

The bomb was left inside a barrack block at the main living quarters of the
forces' postal services and exploded early in the morning last August. Nine
soldiers were injured in the blast, the first successful IRA attack since the
1984 Brighton bombing.


Yesterday, as the search for the two men continued, detectives remained
convinced they had not escaped from the mainland.

A man and a woman, thought to be linked to Sinn Fein, were held under the
Prevention of Terrorism Act yesterday and were last night still being questioned
at Paddington Green police station, west London, for clues to the fugitives'
whereabouts.

After the barracks bombing, there was speculation that the bombers were part of
a continental unit who had slipped in and then out of Britain. Yard sources now
believe the two missing men could be part of that unit and have returned in the
past two months.

The fugitives could have been linked to the barracks bombing by finds in the
Clapham flat; the bomb at Mill Hill may have been matched with some of the
material in the flat, thought to have contained more than 100lb of Semtex
explosives and six and nine-day timers.

The owner of the small, one-bedroom flat is Miss Christine Kellaris, aged 27.
She first rented it from Wandsworth Council about five years ago and bought it
two years ago.

She let it to one of the alleged IRA activists about four weeks ago, and was
later suprised to find a second man there.

In the past month, Miss Kellaris has been to the flat several times to pick up
her mail, and regularly saw the second man there.

Her sister, Mrs Lesley Bakas, aged 30, said Christine last went to the flat on
Monday evening just before the shooting, when both men were again in the flat.
'They were very pleasant again and with no hint of malice, ' Mrs Bakas said.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              68 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               December 28, 1988

Woman held under terror act released

BYLINE: By SEUMAS MILNE

LENGTH: 155 words


One of two people arrested last week after an alleged IRA bomb factory was
discovered by police in Clapham, south London, has been released, Scotland Yard
said yesterday.

The other was still being held last night under the Prevention of Terrorism Act
at Paddington Green police station.


It is understood that the suspect who was released is a Finnish woman with no
connection with Irish politics.

Her boyfriend, a Labour Party activist of Irish origin, was arrested with her
late last Wednesday night at an address in Wood Green, north London. Both have
been described by police as peripheral to the investigation.

The two suspected IRA members escaped after one of them shot a man apparently
trying to break into their car. Police were discouraging the suggestion that
they were still in Britain.

The victim of last Wednesday's shooting is being treated in St George's
Hospital, Tooting, south London.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              69 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          December 28 1988, Wednesday

British envoys 'almost powerless'; Child abduction increases

BYLINE: NICHOLAS BEESTON

SECTION: Issue 63276.

LENGTH: 426 words


The Foreign Office is growing increasingly concerned about the rapid rise this
year in the number of child abductions from Britain, involving children whose
parents dispute their custody.

The Annual Review of Consular Work 1988, released today, says that 140 children
involved in 96 cases were taken out of the country illegally, mostly to North
Africa, the Gulf states and Spain. Mr Tim Eggar, the Foreign Office Minister
responsible for consular affairs, said: 'The child abduction cases are the most
heart-rending of the year.'


In most cases, consuls and British courts are almost powerless to return a child
to Britain because the country concerned is not a signatory of the Hague and
European Conventions on Child Abduction and Custody.

Most Muslim countries award the father custody of a child.

Although Spain has signed the agreements, repeated pleas for help in a number of
child abduction cases have gone unheeded.

The consular report says that about 25 million Britons travelled abroad last
year, and the number of British prisoners who have been serving sentences abroad
this year jumped by 19 per cent to 1,677. The largest category was for Britons
detained for drugs-related offences. There were 782 this year, only five fewer
than 1987.

Mr Eggar identified the British troublemakers as 'a tiny number of Britons
normally young, normally drunk and normally male' and said that the worst
incidents of British brawling and hooliganism in 1988 were committed by tourists
in Spain and Greece.

He singled out the consular staff in Athens for special praise for the
assistance they gave hundreds of British holidaymakers who suffered in the
terrorist attack on the City of Poros ship and the Jupiter ferry which sank
after colliding with a tanker in Piraeus harbour.

Mrs Juliet Campbell, the British Ambassador in Luxembourg, was also mentioned
for allowing a British holidaymaker, who could not afford a camp-site fee, to
pitch his tent in her garden.

In Moscow, the consul lent his boxer shorts to a woman in hospital who ran out
of underwear.

The report predicts that cheaper package travel holidays to more remote regions
of the world will lead to a greater strain on consular services.

Mr Eggar said that the Foreign Office is planning to open 19 new honorary consul
posts from Turkey to Brazil.

He also made an appeal to the public not to make ridiculous demands on the
consular service, like the woman in New York this year who asked the consul to
help fly her 40 pedigree dogs to Britain.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              70 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               December 29, 1988

Hunt under way for Pan Am bombers: MPs call for tighter airport security and
government inquiry after confirmation of explosion

BYLINE: By PAUL KEEL and ERIEND CLOUSTON

LENGTH: 770 words


Last night's confirmation that a terrorist bomb caused the loss of the Pan Am
jumbo jet over Lockerbie set in motion a world-wide hunt for those responsible
and placed a question mark over the safety of international air travel.

The confirmation came in a statement late yesterday from the Government's
accident investigators, who had examined particles of wreckage from the 747
which crashed last Wednesday with the loss of all 259 on-board and 11 on the
ground.


The statement, issued by the Air accidents Investigation Branch of the
Department of Transport, said that its analysis so far had confirmed the
presence of an explosive device on the Pan Am flight from Heathrow to New York,
which disintegrated at 31,000 feet over the Scottish borders.

It said: 'It has been established that two parts of the metal luggage pallet
framework show conclusive evidence of a detonating high explosive. The
explosive's residues recovered from the debris have been positively identified
and are consistent with the use of a high performance plastic explosive.'

The revelation intensified investigations already under way by police and
security agencies in Britain, the United States and West Germany to track down
those responsible for the outrage and to discover how they smuggled the bomb on
board the Pan Am flight which had originated from Frankfurt airport on December
21.

It also provoked demands from British MPs in Britain for a government inquiry.

Ms Phyllis Oakley, spokeswoman for the US State Department, said that a reward
of almost Pounds 280,000 could be on offer for the capture of the bombers in
line with the expanded reward programme in regard to terrorism against Americans
announced two weeks ago.

Suspicion had begun to fall on Middle Eastern groups even before yesterday's
confirmation of a bomb. Intelligence sources in Europe and the States were
speculating and those responsible were probably extremist Palestinian or Muslim
organisations opposed to Yasser Arafat's recent overtures to the West.

On Tuesday, Abu Nidal's Fatah Revolutionary Council, thought to be behind a
string of attacks in Europe and Gulf states since 1984, expressed sympathy for
families of the crash victims. The move was a highly unusual one for an
organisation characterised by its ruthless promotion of the Palestinian cause.

A little-known group calling itself Guardians of the Islamic Revolution
telephoned news agencies in London last week claiming it brought down the jet in
revenge for the shooting down of an Iran Air airbus by the US warship Vincennes
in the Gulf in July, in which 290 people died. Iran, however, has categorically
denied any involvement in the crash.

It is still not known whether the explosive device hidden in passenger baggage
was checked in at Frankfurt or Heathrow. Neither is it known whether whoever was
responsible failed to board the flight at one of those points or travelled with
the explosive device.

The chilling possibility of a terrorist prepared to undertake a suicide mission
has to be considered by the security agencies and the air industry.

Mr Robert McCrindle, chairman of the Commons all-party Parliamentary Aviation
Group, said yesterday: 'The confirmation that an explosive device caused the
crash of Pan Am Flight 103 points the way to the necessity to increase still
further the security checks at all British airports.'

Mr McCrindle, Tory MP for Brentwood and Ongar, added: 'It may even be necessary
to require passengers to check in up to two hours before their flights so that
each piece of package can be examined.'

One warning of a bomb threat - later discounted - was given on December 5. An
anonymous telephone caller told the US Embassy in Helsinki that a woman would
carry a bomb aboard a Pan Am flight within a two-week deadline.

Details of the warning were circulated and the Department of Transport was among
those told.

The Shadow Transport Secretary, Mr John Prescott, said the disclosure had
exposed the inadequacies of airport security and the 'confusion' of the
Department of Transport in handling the affair. He has written to the Prime
Minister demanding an independent investigation into the way the department
dealt with the tragedy.

Last night Mr John Boyd, the chief constable of Dumfries and Galloway, said the
hunt for the bombers had developed into 'a criminal inquiry of international
dimensions', involving the FBI and Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist squad. The man
in charge of the Scottish end will be Det Chief Supt John Orr, 43, joint head of
CID operations with Strathclyde Police.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              71 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           December 29 1988, Thursday

Terrorist bomb destroyed jet; Lockerbie air disaster

BYLINE: HARVEY ELLIOTT, MICHAEL EVANS, RONALD FAUX and TONY DAWE

SECTION: Issue 63277.

LENGTH: 1250 words


Crash investigators confirmed that a bomb placed on Pan Am flight PA 103 caused
the Lockerbie air disaster in which 270 people died

The announcement sparked a massive international hunt for the terrorists
responsible, with the FBI joining Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist squad


The confirmation came after 24 hours of brilliant detective work by Ministry of
Defence scientists called in from their Christmas holidays

The Department of Transport ordered airlines using British airports to take
additional security measures on all bags stored in aircraft holds

One of the biggest international terrorist hunts was launched last night after
investigators confirmed that a bomb had caused the Lockerbie air disaster
killing 270 people.

The US immediately put its enormous intelligence network at the disposal of
investigators as the Federal Bureau of Investigation joined Scotland Yard's
anti-terrorist squad and Scottish police in the search.

The State Department confirmed that a previously-announced reward of up to
Dollars 500,000 (Pounds 278,000) would apply. The reward is for information
which leads to the prevention of terrorist acts or results in the arrest or
conviction of terrorists who targeted US citizens or property overseas.

Mr William Sessions, the Director of the FBI, told a press conference that the
type of explosive used had not been positively identified, but it might be the
plastic Semtex, which he described as 'highly capable'.

The investigation will focus initially on how and where the bomb was placed
aboard Pan Am flight PA103, which originated in Frankfurt and continued from
Heathrow airport eight days ago. Last night the Department of Transport ordered
all US airlines using British airports to take additional security measures on
all baggage in aircraft holds.

Confirmation that a bomb caused Britain's worst air disaster came after 24 hours
of brilliant detective work by Ministry of Defence scientists recalled from
holidays.

Using sophisticated laser and electron equipment, the experts at the Royal
Armament Research and Development Establishment at Fort Halstead in Kent, found
traces of explosives in two sections of a metal luggage pallet from the plane's
forward baggage hold. There was sufficient evidence to show that a bomb had been
detonated there.

The effect would have been that of the aircraft being 'shot in the brain'. All
communications and electronics links would have been cut within a quarter of a
second. A huge gap would have appeared in the fuselage, through which bodies and
equipment would have been sucked to be scattered over a huge area.

As the aircraft began to fall out of the sky, at the rate of 4,000ft a minute,
it broke into at least five pieces, one of which was the starboard wing which
has not been found.

Pieces of recovered wreckage, including the pallet, the cargo door, part of the
cargo bay lining, several seats and even bodies, seemed to indicate that bomb
fragments had hurtled into them and that they had been burnt by the searing heat
of the blast.

Through a scanning electron micrograph the scientists examined damaged fibre
samples from the hold. They established that the fibre had been severed in a
manner characteristic of explosive damage.

The Prime Minister and President Reagan were told of the findings shortly before
they were announced simultaneously in Lockerbie and Whitehall. The State
Department declared immediately that a 'vigorous' investigation was already
under way to determine how the explosives were smuggled aboard.

It made clear that it agreed with the results of the British findings and
emphasized that US authorities would continue to work closely with British
investigators. 'We are determined to get to the bottom of this and to find out
who did it, using all available US resources, including the FBI, ' Mrs Phyllis
Oakley, the State Department spokeswoman, said.

Additional FBI agents are being sent to Britain to help in discovering which
explosives and triggering mechanism were used. This could eventually identify
the saboteurs.

Suspicion is expected to focus on Palestinian splinter groups because of their
known determination to prevent a political settlement of the Arab-Israeli
conflict.

US airlines were facing the prospect last night of massive delays as they
prepared to check all baggage in response to the Department of Transport order.
But their security chiefs urged them not to overreact.

'Security depends on reacting to the perceived threat, ' said Mr Rodney Wallis,
the International Air Transport Association's Director of Security.' Despite
what has happened there is no discernible additional threat to aviation today
than there was two weeks ago.'

What was needed urgently, he added, was a unified approach to the whole problem
throughout the industry so that intelligence could be gathered and preventive
measures taken in those areas under specific threat. 'If such measures are
imposed across the board on all airlines and on every route, it could bring real
problems to airports which are already seriously congested.'

Even so in response to the Department of Transport's order, all US airlines
using British airports are almost certain to copy security measures already
enforced by El Al, in which bags are subjected to random searches and x-rays,
and passengers not only have to identify their own bags but answer detailed
questions.

Although such a system could cause chaos at Heathrow airline chiefs fear that if
they do not follow official advice, they could face legal action if another
bomb, smuggled aboard one of their aircraft, caused a disaster.

For nearly a week airlines have been worried that investigators would be unable
to confirm a bomb theory and that structural failure would be suspected.

Most big airlines had already cleared maintenance hangars ready to take Boeing
747s for immediate inspection. Others, anxious to accommodate the enormous
number of passengers who use the jumbos daily, had scoured the world for other
wide-bodied aircraft, such as the McDonnell Douglas DC-10, to replace 747s.

Airline chiefs were astonished last night that a single suitcase of explosives
could cause such a devastating blast to rip an aircraft apart. They had always
assumed that any bomb on such a large and apparently strong aircraft as a 747
could be contained, at least to the extent that it would enable the pilot to
control his aircraft.

Now they fear that terrorists may have been schooled in exactly where to place a
bomb to achieve maximum effect. If, as now seems almost certain, it was placed
in the forward baggage hold, it was probably loaded as part of the first-class
or business-class luggage.

Pan Am, in common with other airlines, is anxious to ensure that its first-class
passengers get their bags first on arrival and load them either in containers or
in open pallets covered in netting.

The compartment into which they are then put, however, is immediately adjacent
to the main electronics bay into which the entire electrical system of the
aircraft is fed before being distributed around the controls and the flight
recorders.

President Reagan yesterday extended US trade and economic sanctions against
Libya for another six months. In a written statement he said: 'The Government of
Libya continues to use and support international terrorism, in violation of
international law and minimum standards of human behaviour.'

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              72 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               December 30, 1988

Lockerbie Disaster: Investigation spreads to three continents

BYLINE: By PAUL KEEL

LENGTH: 460 words


Police and secret service agencies in three continents are involved in tracking
down those responsible for placing the bomb on board the Pan Am jumbo jet which
crashed in Scotland last week.

The international investigation - one of the largest launched - has the
formidable task of discovering who the terrorists were and how they circumvented
controls on what was regarded as one of the world's most security-conscious
airlines.


The inquiry will involve police officers and intelligence agents from Britain
and West Germany - the flight originated in Frankfurt - and intelligence agents
from the United States.

Until Wednesday's confirmation that the loss of Pan Am flight 103 from Heathrow
to New York was caused by an explosive device, the investigation into the crash
was centred at the border town of Lockerbie, where the wreckage gell.

Now the inquiry will move on to two levels.

Scottish police officers, under the command of Chief Superintendent John Orr,
the joint head of Strathclyde CID, will continue to conduct the on-the-ground
collection of evidence from wreckage.

Their work will be backed up by Ministry of Defence explosives experts and air
accident investigators from the Department of Transport whose examination of the
wreckage could provide further clues to the identity of the bomb-makers.

The task of determining who placed it aboard the plane, and when, is the
responsibility of the intelligence gatherers employed by Britain, West Germany,
and the US.

Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist squad and Special Branch are already examining
the flight's passenger list and checking the movements of persons in the United
Kingdom suspected of being involved at the extremist end of Middle Eastern
politics.

Their counterparts in the West German Federal Police will be conducting the same
inquiries, but it is from the network of intelligence which is supplied
regularly by the British, West German, and American embassies abroad that the
most revealing information is likely to emerge.

Intelligence officers attached to these embassies in Europe, the Middle East and
the US will be under increased pressure to file up-to-date assessments on the
movements of terrorist organisations with the capability to organise such an
attack.

The results of their inquiries will be transmitted at ambassadorial level and
collated by Scotland Yard.

Yesterday, Mr William Sessions, the head of America's Federal Bureau of
Investigation, promised an immediate increase in help for the British police
being given by his organisation.

'It's an extremely difficult task to come up with a definite conclusion that
will stand up in a court of law,' he said. 'I have to be optimistic, but it's a
gigantic problem.'

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              73 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            December 30 1988, Friday

Dispute over warning grows; Lockerbie air disaster

BYLINE: TONY DAWE and ANDREW MCEWEN

SECTION: Issue 63272.

LENGTH: 367 words


Politicians and lawyers joined the dispute yesterday about the way the British
and American governments handled warnings of a terrorist attack on Pan Am
flights.

Sir Geoffrey Howe, the Foreign Secretary, sidestepped questions; US officials
said it would have been irresponsible to alarm the public because the warnings
appeared ill-founded.


Both were made to US embassies early this month, the first in Helsinki on
December 5 by an Arab who said Abu Nidal sympathizers would put a bomb on a Pan
Am flight in Frankfurt. A further warning was given by Mossad, the Israeli
intelligence service, to West German officials.

The US government told all its embassies and US airlines were warned by the
Federal Aviation Administration. But the warnings were not sent out to the
airlines' overseas bases.

A State Department official said yesterday that it would continue withholding
most threats from the public.

After a high-level review of the department's policy it had decided that the
policy would essentially stay the same. 'We get as many as a half dozen of these
threats a day', the spokesman said. Threats to airlines would be made public if
the government determined that they were credible.

In London the Department of Transport was informed about the threats to a Pan Am
flight and it told airline security managers. But BAA, which runs Britain's main
airports, said it was not warned.

Sir Geoffrey Howe was asked on the BBC Radio 4 programme The World at One if he
was satisfied that warnings were properly handled. He replied: 'That is another
matter that needs to be investigated. It is not for me to make any pronouncement
about that now'.

The Foreign Office has emphasized that the Department of Transport, not itself,
has responsibility.

In the US, the question of warnings has attracted more interest from lawyers
than politicians. Those representing families of victims of the disaster say
they will sue both the US government and Pan Am for failing to warn passengers
of the threat.

They say the fact that the government warned certain State Department employees
but not Pan Am passengers could make it liable for millions of dollars in
damages.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              74 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            December 30 1988, Friday

Bush will 'firmly punish' saboteurs; Lockerbie air disaster

BYLINE: CHRISTOPHER THOMAS and ANDREW MCEWEN

SECTION: Issue 63272.

LENGTH: 636 words


As American anger mounted over the bombing of Pan Am Flight 103, President-elect
George Bush pledged yesterday to punish 'firmly and decisively' those
responsible for the 'cowardly' sabotage.

He declined to say what action the US might take if conclusive evidence was
established about who was responsible. His pledge echoed the threat by President
Reagan when he entered the White House in 1981 to carry out swift and effective
retribution for terrorist attacks against Americans.


Speaking at a brief press conference before returning to Washington from
Beeville, Texas, where he has been on holiday, Mr Bush said the US was doing
everything in its power to prevent terrorist attacks.

But 'when you're dealing with something as cowardly as that, it is almost
impossible to guarantee that there will never be another terrorist act. We are
not helpless. But it's a very difficult threat. It's a whole new menace to try
to effect political change by cowardly terrorist action.'

American officials emphasized, however, that there was still no evidence that a
terrorist group was responsible. Mr William Webster, director of the Federal
Bureau of Investigation, said yesterday Continued on page 20, col 8

that investigators would also focus on the possibility that a criminal or
individual planted the bomb.

Mr Bush's remarks reflected the frustration felt in the Reagan Administration
when it was unable to mount retaliatory strikes because of lack of evidence for
terrorist attacks.

In was not until April, 1986, that it became satisfied that Colonel Gadaffi was
linked to an atrocity against the United States, resulting in a bombing raid on
Libya.

Mr Reagan, who is on holiday in California, has extended for a further six
months US trade and economic sanctions against Libya, accusing it of supporting
international terrorism.

Neither the President nor any American officials have connected Libya to the Pan
Am atrocity.

Mr Bush echoed the sense of frustration yesterday, saying that America would
take action against those responsible 'if you can ever find them'.

In London, Sir Geoffrey Howe, the Foreign Secretary, yesterday called on Middle
East governments to help in the search for those responsible for blowing up the
Pan Am jet.

'We clearly want to have the maximum co-operation from governments throughout
the world, including governments in the Middle East', he said in an interview
with the BBC Radio 4 programme The World At One.

His remark was the first public hint that the Government suspects that one of
the many Middle East terrorist groups may be involved.

Britain is not well placed to secure the co-operation it needs, because some of
the organizations most likely to have been involved are based in Syria or in
Libya. Britain broke diplomatic relations with Syria and Libya over the Nezar
Hindawi and Yvonne Fletcher incidents of 1986 and 1984.

Sir Geoffrey was asked how an international investigation could be set up
without some kind of new machinery.

His reply implicitly highlighted the contrast between the close co-operation
which already exists between Western governments, and the much weaker links with
some of the Arab, Asian and Third World countries. The EEC's interior ministries
exchange information on terrorism and drug smuggling through a forum called the
Trevi Group, while the Summit Seven group (Canada, France, West Germany, Japan,
Italy, the UK, and the US) have another forum.

But there is no similar liaison with the Arab world.

He said: 'The machinery, to a large extent, exists, because all the important
countries have got their own investigative organizations. What is necessary
beyond that is the willingness to have much greater international co-operation
in the hunt for those responsible'.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              75 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             January 1 1989, Sunday

On course to carnage; Lockerbie air disaster; Insight

SECTION: Issue 8577.

LENGTH: 3789 words


THE RADIO crackled at 6.58pm and stirred Tom Fraser, the duty clearance officer
at the Scottish and Oceanic Air Traffic Control Centre at Prestwick. It was a
routine transmission interrupting the calm that had descended on his shift after
the daylight rush of transatlantic air traffic.

'Clipper 103 requesting Oceanic clearance. Estimating 59 north, 10 west .
requesting flight level 310, mach decimal 84.'


The aircraft crew's intentions were easily identified; co-pilot Ray Wagner, on
board Pan Am's 6pm Clipper service from Heathrow to New York, was routinely
estimating flight 103's intended course at an altitude of 31,000ft and a
cruising speed of 540mph as it approached the Scottish border.

The Boeing 747, christened Maid of the Seas, had been held up on the tarmac at
Heathrow waiting for a take-off slot, but was airborne by 6.25pm. It was a
flight much favoured by businessmen, enabling them to complete a full day's work
in London and arrive at John F Kennedy airport in New York at 8.40pm, in time
for supper and a full night's sleep to combat jet lag.

Climbing out of Heathrow, flight 103, with 243 passengers and 16 crew, had
turned north over the Midlands and followed the Pennine spine to Scotland. In
the cabin, stewardesses were distributing earphones for the movie and serving
drinks as captain Jim MacQuarrie eased the aircraft into Prestwick's sector and
Wagner radioed the ground to announce their intentions.

Fraser had passed the transmission to his duty flight planner and radioed back
to the aircraft at 7.02pm: 'Clipper 103 is cleared from 59 north 10 west to
Kennedy.'

Next door in the operations room, Alan Topp's radar screen had already picked up
flight 103. A small green cross inside a box trailing dots in its wake bore the
aircraft's digital identification labels, PAA 103, 310 (altitude) and 59
(direction).

It was 50 miles south of Prestwick moving almost imperceptibly with each sweep
on his screen when the symbols suddenly changed. Topp blinked: there were now
five boxes. He glanced across at the unmanned screen next to him to make sure
there was no mistake. It was fed by a different radar station but the picture
was the same the five unlabelled green boxes stayed fixed for a few more sweeps
and then vanished from both screens at 7.03pm.

For the first time in his life, Topp was experiencing what every air traffic
controller dreads. Topp felt his stomach turn to lead and called out for his
supervisor, who answered angrily: 'I'm busy! I've just had a report of an
explosion on the ground.'

NOBODY knew what had hit them in Lockerbie, at 7.05pm on Wednesday, December 21.
Police superintendent John Carpenter was sitting in his lounge watching
television when the approaching roar in the night sky burst upon the small town.
He leapt from his chair just as the wings, each 100ft long and containing 20,000
gallons of aviation fuel, speared into a quiet street, Sherwood Crescent, and
exploded.

Through the window he watched the fireball soar 300ft into the air, engulfing
the neat row of houses just a few hundred yards from his window. He grabbed the
telephone but the line was dead, so he snatched his jacket and rushed outside to
his car and drove towards the devastation.

Sherwood Crescent resembled a scene from the Blitz: levelled buildings, torn
roofs, burning rafters, flaming rubble and gutted cars surrounded a burning
crater 30ft deep. Only the twisted fragments of aluminium that lay everywhere
gave any indication of what had happened, but those who rushed to another scene,
a few hundred yards away in Rosebank Crescent, were greeted by a more graphic
explanation for the catastrophe.

Nearly 50 shattered bodies, many still strapped in aircraft seats, were piled up
in what had once been widow Ella Ramsden's garden. Miraculously she survived
when the economy-class cabin section of flight 103 struck her house and chopped
it in half.

As the evening wore on, more nightmarish scenes were discovered by the rescue
teams that descended on Lockerbie. On the golf course east of the town, a
further 60 bodies sucked from the plunging wreckage littered the ground. Further
still from the town they found the only instantly recognisable remains of flight
103.

The cockpit and first-class cabin section of the Maid of the Seas lay squashed
on a secluded hillside next to a graveyard overlooking the town. Inside the
mutilated bodies of the flight deck crew and first-class passengers were still
strapped into their seats.

IT WAS last Wednesday, exactly one week after the disaster, when experts
officially confirmed what everyone had suspected. They had found traces of a
high-performance plastic explosive on the remnants of a suitcase and a baggage
pallet; flight 103 had been downed by an act of terrorism.

But the eight men from the Department of Transport's Air Accident Investigation
Branch in Farnborough who flew to Lockerbie that night must have reached the
same inescapable conclusion long before dawn broke on the disaster scene last
Thursday week.

Steve Moss, a senior air accident inspector, was telephoned at home by the duty
officer at Farnborough at 8pm, and arrived with the team in Lockerbie long
before midnight to begin the methodical investigation.

He and his colleagues are naturally cautious engineers who wait for conclusive
proof before pronouncing a verdict, but the evidence of the air traffic
controllers, the investigators' own experience, the spread of the wreckage and
the scene of utter devastation all pointed to a bomb.

A mid-air collision would have been immediately obvious on Topp's radar screen.
Structural failure and the subsequent explosive decompression of the hull have
sent aircraft crashing to the ground before; but there were two vital signs that
this was not the cause of flight 103's destruction.

Every large airliner that has suffered catastrophic airframe failure has broken
up during the descent; communications with air traffic control have continued
for seconds, even minutes, after the failure in most cases. Whatever happened to
the Maid of the Seas burst it apart at 31,000ft into the five green boxes Topp
saw on his screen and simultaneously cut off all contact with the ground.

There was only one precedent: the Air India flight downed by a Sikh terrorist
attack off the coast of Ireland in 1985.

THAT a bomb had been planted on board the Air India flight was not in doubt at
the time. Sikh terrorists had claimed responsibility; known Sikh activists had
checked in baggage but failed to board the aircraft; and another small bomb
planted in a suitcase destined for an Air India flight in Japan had exploded on
the ground.

However, what few people, even experienced aviation experts, understood was just
how a bomb could wreck a 747, an aircraft previously regarded as strong enough
to survive a suitcase bomb.

It was The Sunday Times Insight team investigation in the week of the Air India
disaster that discovered the 747's Achilles' heel. Our report, confirmed and
commended six months later by the international investigating team from Britain,
America, India and Ireland, detailed the precise nature of the flight's
destruction.

The bomb must have been in luggage loaded into the forward cargo bay, where the
aircraft's nerve centre is bolted to a bulkhead (see diagram above right). It is
known as Station 41 and includes an electrical sub-station (big enough to power
a small town), which draws power from generators on the engines to feed every
system on the aircraft.

Station 41 houses the auto-pilot, radios, navigational aids and even the
equipment which deploys oxygen masks in emergencies. In effect, any adjustments
the cockpit crew wants to make to the aircraft's flight, speed, direction and
altitude, from take-off to landing, has to be relayed through the components at
Station 41.

When the bomb on board the Air India flight exploded, it blew out this bulkhead,
severing almost all contact the crew had with the aircraft's controls and its
communications with ground radar and radio receivers, rendering it unflyable and
sending it into an uncontrollable dive.

The flight data recorder and cockpit voice recorders recovered later from the
seabed both ended with an unprecedented abruptness. Computer analysis produced a
printed profile of a massive disruption caused by failure of Station 41.

Insight has established that when the data and voice recorders recovered from
Pan Am flight 103 were analysed at Farnborough last week, the printed
'fingerprint' emerging from the computers resembled a bomb even more closely
than that of Air India.

Yesterday accident investigators privately confirmed to Insight that the bomb
had indeed been randomly placed near the 747's Achilles' heel and exploded with
the effect, in the words of one expert, of 'shooting the aircraft in the head'.
The cargo doors and other large chunks of airframe would have been blasted away,
and air rushing into the hole would have begun tearing the rest of the plane
apart with the force of a tornado.

On the flight deck, the crew would have instinctively reached for the controls
as the plane started to plunge. There would have been no time for them to punch
out the mayday code, 7700, or to reach for their handheld microphones to shout
the alarm. Within seconds they would have been rendered unconscious by lack of
oxygen, cut off by the explosion below them.

Most passengers would have blacked out immediately from lack of oxygen and the
freezing temperatures at high altitude. Their eardrums and lungs would have
collapsed from violent decompression. Those wearing seat belts would have been
battered by a whirlwind of debris, bags, bottles and in-flight paraphernalia
escaping through holes in the aircraft's hull; those not strapped in would have
been flung around the cabin and sucked out into the night.

It would have taken nearly two minutes for the wreckage to plunge to earth but,
according to Professor Cuimin Doyle, who co-ordinated the post-mortem
examinations on the 131 bodies recovered from the Air India crash, 'it is at
least some comfort to the relatives that few, if any, of the victims would have
known what was happening to them'.

Last Wednesday the Farnborough team had its private conclusion confirmed by
explosives experts at RAF Halstead.

As they continued their investigation to discover the chain of events that
followed the explosion, police and intelligence agencies in Britain, Europe and
America began probing the events that had preceded it in the hope of discovering
who planted the bomb and, crucially, how.

NOBODY is yet certain exactly how and where the bomb was put on board flight
103. It had begun in Frankfurt on the Wednesday afternoon before Christmas, when
a Pan Am Boeing 727 took off at 4.50pm local time bound for London with 109
people on board.

It landed at Heathrow at 5pm London time and parked at Pier 7-Left in Heathrow's
terminal three, immediately next to the Maid of the Seas, which would continue
the scheduled 103 service to New York and Detroit.

Sixty passengers left the flight and 49 transferred to the Maid of the Seas.
They were joined by another 194 passengers.

The Frankfurt baggage was manhandled off the 727 and moved across the tarmac to
the 747, where it was divided. Baggage bound for Detroit and a few pieces for
New York were put in a container and loaded in the rear cargo hold with the
baggage checked in at Heathrow. The rest of the baggage bound for New York and
first-class luggage was loose-loaded on to a pallet and placed in the forward
cargo hold.

So the bomb could have been cleared in Frankfurt and loaded without going
through Heathrow's security system. Equally, it could have been among the bags
checked in at terminal three by passengers boarding at Heathrow. A third
possibility remains: baggage belonging to a handful of passengers who had flown
in from other airports was also loaded.

Pan Am officials in Frankfurt are adamant that 'security was 100% reliable';
Heathrow asserts that the bomb could not have slipped through its security net.

However, Insight's inquiries show that security systems at both airports are
flawed. Through a combination of human failure and technical inadequacy, both
airports' security systems appear to reduce the chances of detecting a
terrorist's suitcase bomb to little more than a lottery.

ON December 7 Horst Hanstein, Frankfurt's security chief, and Martin Hupner, his
Pan Am counterpart, placed the American airline's check-in procedure on the
highest security alert. The US embassy in Helsinki had received a bomb threat
from a caller claiming flight 103 would be bombed within two weeks.

That call is now known to have been a coincidental hoax the Pan Am 103 service
is regularly threatened and the caller has been interrogated and ruled out of
inquiries.

At Frankfurt the security alert that followed that call had remained in place,
but Insight has established that even on the highest state of alert, Frankfurt's
security measures and the safety of passengers on flight 103 still hinged on a
random system of baggage searching that remained wide open to a terrorist
carrying a suitcase bomb.

When the 109 passengers turned up to join the flight on its first leg to
Heathrow, everyone would have passed through a routine pre-check-in procedure;
the regulations say their passports should have been scrutinised and they should
have been asked detailed questions about the nature of their journey, whether or
not they had packed their own luggage or if they were carrying luggage for
anyone else. Some of the bags would have been opened by officers of Pan Am's
security subsidiary, Alert Management Systems Inc.

This routine is designed to unnerve those approaching check-in desks in the hope
that an anxious terrorist might betray himself. But when a Sunday Times
reporter, returning to London on flight 103, came through this same procedure
just three days after the Lockerbie disaster, his passport was merely glanced
at, he was not closely questioned and his bag was left untouched.

It appears the security staff assumed his innocence on the strength of his
British passport. If he had been an innocent passenger duped by a terrorist into
delivering a package or suitcase to Britain or America, or travelling on a false
passport, he would have passed the first line of defence without discovery.

At the check-in desk, flight 103's passengers checked-in their bags, which were
fed into the second line of defence against terrorism Frankfurt's computerised
baggage handling system, reputed to be one of the most sophisticated in the
world.

BECAUSE of the alert, the bags (as with all items of Pan Am luggage following
the December 7 warning) were taken by conveyor belt to a special security bay,
where they went through an x-ray machine and were subjected to a 'sniffing'
device, designed to 'smell' the odour of explosives. It is here that the
system's first major flaws appear.

A detailed report into the Air India disaster in 1985 severely criticised
reliance on this standard x-ray machinery and sniffing equipment to detect
bombs, especially plastic explosives. The report reveals that the x-ray
equipment cannot detect plastic explosives which can be moulded into the shape
of innocuous objects, such as bars of chocolate, or hidden in radios, cameras or
the lining of suitcases. The report also described the sniffing equipment as
'highly questionable'.

If the second line of defence was next to useless, then the third was only
marginally better.

After the x-raying and sniffing, security staff divided the bags into two
groups. Those belonging to passengers who did not hold a US passport were
'pulled' automatically to be hand-searched by Pan Am's team of baggage handlers.
But those belonging to US citizens continued through the system. Only one in
every three items of luggage was chosen at random for a hand-search. Again, the
security procedure relied too heavily on a passport to clear a passenger.

Middle East experts insist that false American, British and European passports
are easily obtained by terrorists; it is known that terrorist leaders have
recruited from the ranks of Arabs studying in America and the Continent whose
acquired accents are identifiably Western.

Insight has established from Pan Am sources that of the 70 items of luggage
loaded on to the Boeing 727 at Frankfurt, seven or eight were automatically
searched because they did not belong to US nationals. The rest passed through
the random search system.

If a terrorist with a discernible American accent travelling on a false US
passport had boarded flight 103 at Frankfurt, and left the flight at Heathrow,
he stood better than a 60% chance of ensuring a suitcase bomb was loaded on to
the Maid of the Seas.

AT HEATHROW, where the Boeing 727 carrying these 70 bags touched down after a
65-minute flight, the defences were equally flawed. For a start, the warning
that had triggered the tightening up of security at Frankfurt had not been
communicated to Heathrow Airport's controllers, who take charge of checking
passengers as they board flights. It is even unclear whether Pan Am's own
security firm, which operates at all airports used by the airline, was on a high
level of alert.

What is known is that the bags arriving from Frankfurt for the Boeing 747
connection to New York and Detroit were not checked, as Pan Am's baggage
handlers rushed to transfer them from one flight to another.

They were up against the clock. The loose bags from Frankfurt had to be taken
off the first aircraft, sorted and reloaded on the second aircraft in less than
an hour.

Inside Heathrow's terminal three, the method of screening the 194 passengers
checking on to flight 103 was different from that at Frankfurt, but similar gaps
in security existed.

At Heathrow, Pan Am's Alert Inc officers greeted passengers approaching the
check-in desk with a similar question and answer technique to the one practised
at Frankfurt. Those with US passports were allowed to check their baggage
unchallenged unless they aroused suspicions. Non-US passport holders had to put
their bags through an x-ray machine before checking in, but few were
hand-searched at this stage.

The baggage was then put on the conveyor belt and transported to the baggage
handling area. Nobody will comment officially on what happened to the baggage
there, but Insight has been told by sources inside the handling area that unless
there is a high security alert at Heathrow and there was not no further security
measures would have been taken between the journey from check-in to aircraft.

In effect, the cool terrorist travelling on a false US passport who stood better
than a 60% chance of planting a suitcase bomb aboard at Frankfurt, stood an even
better chance of escaping security at Heathrow.

THERE can be no better example of the laxity that was apparent at Heathrow on
the night flight 103 took off on its course to carnage than the experience of
Jaswant Singh Basuta, a New York businessman, who checked his baggage on to
flight 103 but did not board the aeroplane.

This should never have been allowed to happen at the best of times, let alone
when Pan Am's European operation had been given a warning that a bomb attack was
imminent.

International air authorities insist that airlines use a system known as baggage
reconciliation to ensure that no aircraft takes off with luggage on board
without the passenger it belongs to. It had happened to the Air India flight:
the terrorist had checked in his suitcase bomb and disappeared.

At the departure gate, boarding cards given out when baggage is checked in are
counted, as are the number of passengers on board the aircraft. If the numbers
do not tally, a passenger must have checked in baggage and failed to board.

In these circumstances, the aircraft must be delayed, and passengers and luggage
disembarked until the unaccompanied suitcase has been identified and removed.
Insight's sources say the pressure on airline schedules and the impatience of
staff regularly makes a mockery of the rule.

Flight 103 was just one example. Basuta checked in his baggage and passed
through the security checks and into the departure lounge, where he headed for
the duty-free shop. He missed the last call and got to the gate after the door
had been shut. The flight took off with his baggage on board.

Basuta was an innocent passenger, but the fact that his baggage went on board
clearly shows that the strict security procedure governing unreconciled baggage
was not followed at Pier Seven that night. Either the head count and boarding
cards were mistakenly reconciled at the gate, or the procedure was ignored. A
terrorist could have boarded in Frankfurt and left the flight in London and his
bomb would have flown on without him. Equally had a terrorist checked in at
Heathrow and successfuly negotiated pre-check-in procedures, before leaving the
airport, the bomb would have got through to the forward cargo bay.

IT IS not the first time that Pan Am's security has been called into question.
Less than 18 months ago, Isaac Yaffet delivered a six-month study of the
airline's security precautions to Pan Am. The airline had commissioned it from
him because he had been chief of El Al security between 1978 and 1984. The
Israeli airline is widely regarded as the best-protected carrier in the world.

Yaffet has told Insight that his report was a bombshell, concluding that 'no
aspect of Pan Am security was adequate'; indeed, it was 'low and insufficient'.

On completion of his 200-page report, copies were handed to Pan Am and Alert
Inc. He received no detailed communication from top Pan Am officials in response
to his conclusions.

Pan Am has refused to comment, and Alert Inc referred all calls to Pan Am
itself.

BAA, responsible for security at Heathrow, also refuses to comment officially on
its security procedures. It is known to be furious that it was not warned of the
hoax terrorist threat that might have put it on a higher security alert.
However, BAA is believed to regard the flawed security procedures as the
responsibility of the airline (it would have been Pan Am's responsibility to
prevent flight 103 from taking off with Basuta's baggage).

Meanwhile, the Department of Transport has ordered a review of security, and
America's Federal Aviation Administration has ordered US airlines to tighten up
their procedures.

It seems the authorities may only now be learning the lessons of the bombing of
the Air India flight in 1985.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              76 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                                The Independent

                             January 2 1989, Monday

PM rejects revenge on bombers: Thatcher rules out punitive raid on terrorists
responsible for Pan Am disaster

BYLINE: COLIN BROWN, Political Correspondent

SECTION: Title ; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 725 words


MARGARET THATCHER yesterday ruled out a revenge attack on those responsible for
the terrorist bomb which caused the Lockerbie disaster, despite pressure in the
United States for punitive action.

'I don't think an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth is ever valid,' the
Prime Minister said. 'Revenge is never a good word to use because it can affect
innocent people.'


Her remarks came in a wide- ranging live interview with David Frost for TV-am on
nearly 10 years in Downing Street, as an opinion poll by Mori gave the
Conservatives a commanding 10- point lead over Labour. Mrs Thatcher spoke of
plans to mark her tenth anniversary in power in May, of becoming a grandmother,
her admiration for President Reagan, and her hopes for a meeting with Mikhail
Gorbachev in London in the spring.

The Prime Minister hinted at the possibility of Britain helping the Soviet Union
to take management decisions as part of Mr Gorbachev's reform of the Soviet
economy, and gave an optimistic view of East-West relations. 'The world is
moving to be a safer place,' she said.

She only faltered when asked if she had ever felt the presence of God. 'I
believe there is a God and believing there is a God is knowing there is a God .
. . I am very wary about talking about personal belief because it could so
easily be misinterpreted.'

But the interview was dominated by her hopes for greater international
co-operation in tracking down the terrorists behind the destruction of the Pan
Am airliner. As Yasser Arafat, the leader of the Palestine Liberation
Organisation, was reported to have offered assistance in identifying the
terrorists, Mrs Thatcher indicated that public disgust could help to deny the
terrorists a safe haven.

She said: 'I can understand the anger. We feel the anger very deeply. The most
important thing to do is to get the co-operation of all nations to try to track
these people down so they are brought to justice. There shouldn't be a safe
haven. They shouldn't escape. I think public opinion is having its effect on
most nations. Public opinion is disgusted with nations that will not try to
track down terrorists. Absolutely disgusted, and is making its own view felt -
that is the most important thing of all.'

Despite her praise for Mr Reagan, she refused to give any commitment to repeat
Britain's support for the United States in a strike against Libya if it carried
out his threat to destroy Libyan chemical weapons factories. She said the
development of chemical weapons was 'one of the most worrying things' but more
than one nation was involved.

Mrs Thatcher underlined her respect for Mr Gorbachev. 'Gorbachev is a person of
great vision and boldness and courage. If he gets through with his reforms the
world is a safer place.'

Asked whether she trusted Mr Gorbachev, she said: 'Every single thing he has
undertaken to me to do he has done. And I am satisfied that if he undertakes to
do something he will do it to the very best of his ability.'

The Soviet people had never known what it was like to take their own decisions
and had been threatened with punishment for doing so in the past, Mrs Thatcher
added. It was not surprising that they should be wary about doing so now.

'Anything we can do to go and teach them how to make decisions and how to do
their own management - they come here to look at some of our great retail
organisations - we shall do and so will the United States, so important is
this.'

The Soviets were trying to kill off socialism in the Soviet Union, but it was
not yet dead in Britain, Mrs Thatcher said. 'There are still traces, but all
told, the wholesomeness of the human personality is back with us.'

She was looking forward to the birth of her first grandchild in the spring to
her son Mark and his Texan wife, Diane. Mrs Thatcher also said her modern house
in Dulwich was ready to walk into, but she showed no sign of retiring.

The interview avoided the rising cost of mortgages, but Mrs Thatcher hinted that
the house had been a hedge against inflation in the housing market for when she
leaves Downing Street - a precaution not taken by Harold Wilson and Edward
Heath.

'I said to Denis: 'Look, if we don't soon get a house, we shall only be able to
afford a bungalow about 100 miles out, the way prices are going up'.'

Title Page 1

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1989 Independent Print Ltd

                              77 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             January 2 1989, Monday

Police in raids over bomb flat; IRA bomb factory in London

SECTION: Issue 63280.

LENGTH: 178 words


Scotland Yard detectives were yesterday still questioning a number of people
held during early morning raids in London over the weekend as the 13-day hunt
continued for two men linked to an IRA bomb factory.

The two have not been seen since leaving the factory in a flat in Clapham,
south-west London, early on December 21, but police believe they are still in
Britain. They are thought to have been using at least one other address and had
other addresses earlier.


Yesterday the Yard maintained tight security over the weekend raids and arrests,
refusing to give details or say how many people were being held put at six
according to one report yesterday under the Prevention of Terrorism Act. Police
sources say none of the people is one of the missing men. One of the two has
been identifed as Patrick Sheehy, aged 28, an unemployed labourer from Askeaton,
Co Limerick, in the Irish Republic.

The Yard also wants to question the men about the bomb attack last August on the
barracks in Mill Hill, north London, where a soldier was killed.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              78 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             January 2 1989, Monday

Scots police reject criticism; Lockerbie air disaster

BYLINE: DAVID SAPSTED and STEWART TENDLER

SECTION: Issue 63280.

LENGTH: 464 words


Police in Lockerbie yesterday rejected the harsh criticism by a Pan Am pilot
whose wife died in the crash of their ability to mastermind an international
hunt for the bombers.

Nevertheless, it emerged that Scotland Yard's long-experienced anti-terrorist
squad had been expecting to lead the operation but that Lord Cameron, the Lord
Advocate of Scotland, ruled the investigation should remain in local hands.


Captain Bruce Smith, whose English wife died in the disaster, accused the
Scottish police of being 'paralysed by inexperience and/or incompetence' in the
way they were handling the hunt for the bombers, and the identification and
release of victims' bodies.

'The very idea that a provincial police force should have jurisdiction over an
international terrorist investigation must have those terrorists laughing until
they cannot stand', Captain Smith said. 'My contacts with Dumfries and Galloway
police over the past week have convinced me that they reach the upper limit of
competence directing traffic and issuing parking tickets.'

However, a police spokesman said: 'We are working flat out and have already
achieved much more than many people would have thought possible. We are doing
our very best under very difficult circumstances.'

The Scottish police took control of the PA 103 inquiry after discussions last
week between senior Scotland Yard officers, local police and Scottish law
officers. The final decision to pass overall co-ordination to a Scottish team
led by Det Chief Supt John Orr is believed to have been taken by Lord Cameron,
the senior Scottish legal officer.

The decision to use the Scottish police was influenced by the fact that the
aircraft fell on Scottish soil. The police investigation also includes the
identification and return of bodies as well as the investigation into the bomb,
and coordination under one officer at the scene of the crash was seen as the
wisest decision.

There are also differences in legal procedures in Scotland and England and it
might have been difficult to investigate a case which might eventually be put
before a Scottish court, according to police sources.

Since the disastrous Yorkshire Ripper case when various forces failed to mount
an effective joint inquiry into the multiple murderer, all senior British police
officers, including Mr Orr, have been trained in managing large co-ordinated
cases. He attended a course at the Police National College at Bramshill,
Hampshire.

Mr Orr has been seconded from the Strathclyde force which, is the largest police
force in Britain outside London. He is in joint charge of CID operations for the
force, which has one of the largest CID units in the country. But the force has
dealt with few if any large terrorist incidents.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              79 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             January 2 1989, Monday

Thatcher says no to revenge for Lockerbie; Pan Am Air disaster

BYLINE: PHILIP WEBSTER, HARVEY ELLIOTT and CHRISTOPHER THOMAS

SECTION: Issue 63280.

LENGTH: 1172 words


The Prime Minister has warned America against a revenge attack over the
Lockerbie airliner bombing

The director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation has welcomed Mr Yassir
Arafat's offer to help find the bombers


The Pope, in his New Year message, denounced terrorism as a way of supporting
the causes of minorities

As another body from the disaster was found, Lockerbie's people quietly ushered
in the New Year

The Prime Minister declared her opposition to avenging the Lockerbie air
disaster yesterday, as American intelligence chiefs admitted failing to link the
crash with any terrorist organization.

Mrs Margaret Thatcher said an 'eye for an eye and tooth for a tooth' response
was not valid.

'I can understand the anger, ' she said. 'We feel the anger very deeply. The
most important thing to do is to try to get the co-operation of all nations to
track these people down. There should not be a safe haven. They should not
escape. Revenge is never a good word to use because it can affect innocent
people.'

With the incoming Bush administration in America certain to face pressure for
retaliation, Mrs Thatcher's outspoken rejection of reprisal raids could pose the
first difficulties in her relationship with the new President.

Mr George Bush pledged on Friday to punish 'firmly and decisively' those
responsible for the sabotage. Mrs Thatcher's statement will be studied carefully
by US officials.

Meanwhile, a further tightening of baggage inspection procedures is likely to
emerge

from a review of Britain's airline and airport security. It will be launched
this week at a meeting of the National Aviation Security Committee, comprising
government, airline, union and safety officials.

The committee, under the chairmanship of the senior Civil Servant in the
Department of Transport's Civil Aviation Policy Directorate, will report
urgently to Mr Paul Channon, Secretary of State for Transport, and is certain to
recommend rearranging the areas of responsibility for baggage checks.

Mr Channon is to cut short his holiday in the West Indies tomorrow to attend the
memorial service for victims at Lockerbie on Wednesday.

Mrs Thatcher's opposition to retaliation, voiced in a TV-Am interview, comes in
spite of her support for the American raid on Libya in 1986.

On that occasion, it was made plain by Whitehall sources yesterday, Mrs Thatcher
asked searching questions to satisfy herself that the attacks would be directed
at military targets before she gave permission for bases in Britain to be used.

President Reagan's remark in a recent television interview that he was
discussing the possibility of destroying a Libyan chemical weapons factory has
caused surprise and embarrassment in Whitehall, and was later toned down by
American officials.

Mrs Thatcher's reservations about such an attack were clear when she was asked
if she would provide the same facilities for a strike against the factory as for
the earlier Libyan raid. She said she could not say in advance what the answer
would be to a specific request, but added that many countries had a chemical
warfare capability.

American intelligence agencies admitted yesterday that they had drawn a blank in
their efforts to link the Pan Am sabotage with any of the main terrorist
organizations.

Mr William Sessions, director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, said it
was still not known where the bomb was placed; no motive had been established;
and there was no indication who had placed the device.

He said it had still not been established whether the sabotoge was a terrorist
attack or a criminal action. The only solid progress he could report in a
television interview was that as of yesterday morning, 62 passengers had been
positively identified from fingerprints.

Mr Sessions seized enthusiastically on an offer by Mr Yassir Arafat, leader of
the Palestine Liberation Organization, to help track down the killers.

'I have no way to analyse whether it is a genuine offer or not, ' the FBI
director said. 'I hope it is. I have just read his offer to be of assistance.'

He added that it should not be difficult to find a way of making direct contact
with Mr Arafat. How soon that could happen would depend on the PLO leader and
'whether or not he is going to make himself available'. If he did, 'then we will
work out the procedures'.

American agencies are using an arsenal of investigative tools in the bombing
probe. To an exceptional degree, they include the combined assets of Western and
Middle East police and intelligence agencies, which are understood to be sharing
an unprecedented amount of information. A number of British investigators are in
Washington.

The inquiry is the first big test for one of the CIA's innovations, its
counter-terrorism centre, a world command post for responding to terrorism. It
has an exceptional range of equipment and authority, according to intelligence
officials.

The centre is co-ordinating activities of the FBI and CIA in the bombing inve
stigation, and is pulling together a huge amount of computer and communications
equipment.

Mr Floyd Clark, the FBI's director of criminal investigations, said he had leads
in the investigation, but declined to give details.

'I wouldn't want to create expectations in the minds of the public that we are
going to solve this case, ' he added.

Mr Sessions, asked whether there were any leads, said cautiously: 'I do not know
that we could say we have real leads, but I am very optimistic. We have a
reputation for being able to solve these intricate, difficult, long-term
investigations.'

He dodged a question about whether agents were questioning relatives of a
Lebanese passenger on the downed jet, Khalid Jaafar, aged 21, a student who
might have planted the bomb unwittingly in luggage checked in at Frankfurt.

'We are in the process of questioning the families of many of the passengers, '
Mr Sessions replied, 'primarily to be able to identify with absolute certainty
who was aboard the aircraft.'

As for the prospects of punishing the culprits if they were identified, he
admitted that it would be difficult to bring them to the United States. A number
of indictments for the arrest of suspected terrorists were already outstanding.

'I note that in connection with the Scottish investigation, the intention is to
prosecute, and I agree wholeheartdly with that.'

The British Government has also received a formal notice from the US that it
intends passing laws requiring all airlines serving the US to send a detailed
account of security programmes at their home bases. If they are unhappy,
officials say, they will simply ban those airlines.

The plans have however already received an angry response throughout Europe and
especially from Britain.

Many countries sent an instant reply telling the Americans that they must ensure
that their own airlines became responsible rather than try to throw the
responsibility onto individual airports.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              80 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                                The Independent

                           January 4 1989, Wednesday

Irish attack police use of terrorism Act

BYLINE: OWEN HUGHES and STEPHEN GOODWIN

LENGTH: 406 words


IRISH COMMUNITY leaders in Britain yesterday accused police of using the
Prevention of Terrorism Act to intimidate and harass Irish people and as a
public relations exercise that had no value as a weapon against the IRA.

Heads of Irish organisations said the powers of the Act allowing police to hold
suspects without trial for up to seven days were being used against innocent
Irish nationals and people of Irish descent living in Britain.


Their accusations came a day after Douglas Hurd, the Home Secretary, signed a
detention order for a person detained after police raids in London last weekend
in connection with the discovery of an IRA bomb factory in south London last
month.

It is the first such use of a detention order since a European Court of Human
Rights ruling last month declared that keeping anyone for seven days without
charges was illegal.

Bill Aulsberry, chairman of Haringey Irish Community Care Centres, said that
since the Prevention of Terrorism Act came into effect in 1974, 7,000 people had
been detained, but only 21 2 per cent had been charged with any offence.

'It is clear to me that the Act does not fight terrorism and it does not stop
it. It is used as a trawling exercise to terrify the Irish commmunity,' he
added. 'People are being arrested who have no obvious connection with politics.
Irish people are very worried because they feel the current atmosphere is just
like the mid- 1970s all over again.'

His comments were echoed in Liverpool by Tom Walsh, an officer with the
Federation of Irish Societies. He said: 'The Act is used where the police have
no firm evidence someone has committed a crime. In this case being Irish means
you are guilty.'

Scotland Yard has refused to disclose how many people were held after last
weekend's raids or the identity of the man under the detention order.

Tom King, Secretary of State for Northern Ireland, was last night challenged to
reveal representations made to him by Ulster judges on the abolition of the
right to silence for suspected terrorists, Stephen Goodwin writes.

Senior judges in the province made plain to Mr King their disapproval of the
change in the law by the recent Criminal Evidence (Northern Ireland) Order, but
the Secretary of State has refused to reveal details of the exchanges.

In a letter to Mr King, his Labour shadow, Kevin McNamara, called for an end to
the secrecy.

Home News Page 2

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1989 Independent Print Ltd

                              81 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           January 4 1989, Wednesday

Mayhew likely to give approval for Ryan trial in Ireland

BYLINE: JAMIE DETTMER, Irish Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: Issue 63282.

LENGTH: 528 words


Sir Patrick Mayhew, the British Attorney-General, is likely to announce later
this week that he is prepared to furnish the Irish authorities with Scotland
Yard's evidence against Father Patrick Ryan, the alleged IRA terrorist, so that
the priest can stand trial in Ireland, according to Dublin sources.

The Attorney-General has had detailed discussions with the Irish authorities
since last month's decision by Mr John Murray, his Irish counterpart, not to
extradite Father Ryan. Sir Patrick is now said to be fairly confident that a
trial against the priest in Dublin could succeed.


He is due to renew discussions with Dublin tomorrow or on Thursday and senior
Irish government sources predict he will approve of a trial of Father Ryan on
charges of possessing explosives with intent to endanger life and possessing
explosives in suspicious circumstances. The trial, if it goes ahead, would be
before the Republic's non-jury Special Criminal Court.

This could mark the beginning of a major shift in Britain's approach to cases
involving IRA terrorist suspects . The British Government has had serious doubts
about invoking the Republic's extra-territorial legislation whereby terrorist
suspects can be charged in Ireland for offences committed in Britain. The Irish
Government has frequently urged London to use the legislation more often and to
down-play extradition.

Sir Patrick will probably emphasize that his co-operation should not be seen as
indicating an increased British interest in using the legislation. But a
successful trial would undoubtedly go a considerable way towards persuading
London of the benefits of using the Republic's 1976 Criminal Law Jurisdiction
Act.

London's doubts about the effectiveness of the legislation prompted Sir
Patrick's earlier reservations about the Irish offer to charge Father Ryan in
Dublin after Mr Murray's decision not to extradite the priest on the grounds
that he would not face a fair trial in Britain.

Sir Patrick was also concerned about the safety of British witnesses. Many would
be drawn from special police units, including Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist
squad.

Dublin sources say discussions have centred on safety and some witnesses had
indicated they would not be prepared to give evidence. The sources say Sir
Patrick's worries have been allayed by Garda plans to protect the witnesses.

Father Ryan is wanted in Britain in connection with 185 IRA bombings. In the
original extradition warrants he was accused not only of possessing explosives
but also of conspiring to cause explosions and of conspiracy to murder. In an
Irish trial Father Ryan would not be charged on the conspiracy offences as they
are not covered by the Act.

The legislation was used in 1982 to convict Gerard Tuite on charges of
possessing explosives and bomb-making equipment in London between June 1978 and
March 1979.

Tuite, of Mountnugent, Co Cavan was jailed for 10 years by a Special Criminal
court in Dublin after he escaped from Brixton jail in 1980. He was accused of
possessing explosives in Greenwich, south-east London, with intent to endanger
life or cause serious injury.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              82 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                                The Independent

                            January 7 1989, Saturday

The Lockerbie Disaster: Britain presses for tighter worldwide air security

BYLINE: PHIL REEVES and STEPHEN WARD

SECTION: Home News ; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 621 words


BRITAIN AND the United States have launched a joint attempt to speed up the
introduction of tighter security world-wide to protect passengers from terrorist
bombs on aircraft, Paul Channon, the Secretary of State for Transport, said
yesterday.

Mr Channon said the two countries had secured an agreement from the Council of
the International Civil Aviation Organisation in Montreal to bring forward a
meeting on terrorism from later this month to next Monday.


He 'confidently expected' the ICAO to adopt a resolution within the next
fortnight on improved international standards on preventing and detecting bombs
on aircraft. The organisation will also investigate measures to improve aircraft
design.

The rescheduled meeting, of the ICAO's 'unlawful interference committee', will
prepare a report on improving security and the Lockerbie disaster.

Mr Channon's announcement came after he inspected increased security
arrangements at Heathrow Airport's Terminal Three, where Pan Am flight 103
embarked for New York before exploding over Lockerbie with the loss of 270
lives.

Afterwards Mr Channon said the introduction of new security measures was 'going
reasonably smoothly'. Earlier check-in times might be necessary for passengers,
but that was up to airlines.

On Thursday, he announced tighter security measures relating to aircraft cargo,
mislaid baggage, and cabin luggage. Yesterday he refused to discuss the new
procedures but said American airlines, which are subject to stricter measures
than most, were 'content' with the extra measures.

Passengers on TWA and Pan Am flights - both airlines operate from Terminal Three
- were closely questioned yesterday by staff from International Aviation
Security before checking in. At the TWA desk, travellers were grilled about the
contents of their baggage, and whether anyone had asked them to carry items for
them. They were also asked whether they had packed their own cases, where they
had stayed in Britain, and for how long.

Similar arrangements applied at the Pan Am check-in area, and all luggage was
X-rayed before passengers checked in.

According to a spokesman at Heathrow there were very few delays yesterday, none
of which were attributable to extra security. A section of Terminal Three was
cleared for half an hour during the middle of the afternoon after a scare over a
suspicious item of unaccompanied luggage.

Pan Am said last night the increased security measures would certainly increase
the airline's costs, but Pamela Hanlon, director of corporate communications,
said she would not disclose how much the measures would cost, what they were, or
whether the increased costs would be passed on to passengers in higher fares.

She said the airline was advising passengers boarding in London to check in
three hours before flights - an hour earlier than before - to allow time for the
increased security checks. Check-in times in the United States have not been
altered. She said it was possible the check-in times could be reduced again when
operation of the procedures became smoother.

An international passenger group suggested all air travellers should pay a
dollars 1 levy on tickets to raise dollars 1bn to step up the fight against
terrorism. Geoffrey Lipman, executive director of the International Foundation
of Airline Passengers Associations, said his group would put the plan to the
International Air Transport Association, and to various governments.

Asked if he was considering a levy on passengers, Mr Channon said: 'It is
certainly a possiblity but I don't see any particular need for that. It's
perfectly possible to finance it in the present way at the present time.'

Home News Page 2

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1989 Independent Print Ltd

                              83 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                                The Independent

                            January 7 1989, Saturday

The Lockerbie Disaster: Global terror hunt points to Iranian group: John Bulloch
looks at the Pan Am bombing inquiry and finds police suspicion turning away from
the Palestinians

BYLINE: JOHN BULLOCH

SECTION: Home News ; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 981 words


TWO WEEKS after the destruction of Pan Am 103, investigators are turning from
theories that it was the work of radical Palestinians hoping to stop the new
dialogue between Yasser Arafat and the Americans. The circumstantial evidence is
focusing suspicions on Iranian terrorists with a simpler motive: revenge for the
shooting down of an Iranair Airbus by the United States.

On the day after the disaster, two news agencies in London received calls from a
man speaking in heavily accented English who claimed responsibility for the
bombing on behalf of 'The Guardians of the Islamic Revolution'. This name was
clearly linked with the Iranian government, and had been used only once before,
when there was an attempt to kill an exiled Iranian dissident in London.


The caller said the Pan Am flight had been destroyed in retaliation for the
incident in July when the US warship Vincennes shot down the Airbus over the
Gulf, killing 290 people. At the time, the Iranian theory seemed too pat, too
symmetrical. Now, after police in Britain, Germany and the US have gone through
a process of elimination, it is at the centre of the investigation.

Initially, the obvious suspects were radical Palestinian and Syrian groups
opposed to the PLO. The bombing came so soon after Mr Arafat's dramatic
recognition of Israel and the promise of dialogue with the US that it was
assumed that those who stood to gain from the bombing were those opposed to a
settlement in the Middle East.

First name on the list was Abu Nidal, the leader of the most ruthless of all
terrorist organisations, a group which has worked for Iraq, Syria and Libya, and
which hates PLO moderates as much as it hates Israel. But Abu Nidal its members
have never bombed or hijacked planes. Their methods are more direct: bullets
sprayed around an airline counter, hand grenades thrown into a synagogue.

Most telling of all, Abu Nidal now depends on Libya for money, passports,
explosives, detonators. Colonel Muammar Gaddafi, still subdued after the 1987
bombing of Tripoli by the US, would see no benefit in bombing an American
airliner.

Next on the list of suspects was Ahmed Jibril, the former Syrian army captain
who set up his own group to fight the Israelis, and found himself taken over by
Syria. He and his men have the capability to bomb a civilian airliner, and would
have no compunction about doing so. But they are based in Damascus, depend on
Syrian intelligence for everything they need, and as a result can do nothing
without approval.

President Assad has kept Syrian spies on a tight rein since their involvement in
the attempted bombing of an El Al flight from London by Jordanian terrorist
Nezar Hindawi; with Syria's economy in tatters and the Soviets tiring of his
demands, Assad has begun to turn to the US to bail him out. He would not
sanction an operation against America.

Time after time, investigators kept asking: who benefits? If the bombing was for
a purpose, surely someone would need to accept responsibility for it?

Another theory was examined: might an intelligence organisation have carried out
the bombing and left the 'fingerprints' of a different group? Both Syrian
intelligence and Mossad, of Israel, were possibilities. Any evidence pointing to
a Palestinian group would wreck the Middle East peace process. But with modern
methods, investigators might find who had planted those clues. Neither Syria nor
Israel would dare take such a risk.

Gradually, the police began to return to that first claim of responsibility from
the Guardians of the Islamic Revolution. And an early indication that it should
be taken seriously came from Interpol.

After the attempted murder in London of Amir Hossain Amir-Parviz, the chairman
of the National Movement of Iranian Resistance, Scotland Yard circulated details
of the affair. The experts advising European ministers who combine in the Trevi
Group to guard against terrorism believed that those who carried out the London
attack had the backing of some sections of the Iranian government.

Statements coming out of Tehran showed that while the Prime Minister,
Mir-Hossein Moussavi, denied any complicity, the most powerful man in the
country, Hojatoleslam Hashemi Rafsanjani, carefully ignored the subject in his
speeches. One conclusion was that Rafsanjani, the Speaker of Parliament, Army
commander, supporter of the Revolutionary Guards, was not sure that Iran had
nothing to do with it. Perhaps, the argument ran, he wanted to be able in the
future to distance himself from it, to blame dissident elements, and did not
want to shoot his bolt by denials without substance.

Experts on Islam were called in to assess the likelihood of Iranian
responsibility. They reported that 'an eye for an eye' was as much a Shia
concept as an Old Testament idea. Nor would they expect much publicity. Ordinary
Iranians, they said, were deeply upset not only at the shooting down of the
Airbus, but even more by the way the US tried to blame the Iranians by falsely
claiming the pilot was off course. The symmetry of destroying a US airliner
would be appreciated in Iran, they said.

Next, forensic experts found that the bomb might have been made of a substance
similar to Semtex, a type supplied from the Soviet Union via North Korea, which
Iran stocked. The detonator was activated after a barometric device ensured the
bomb went off when the plane was airborne. An error of about a minute meant the
wreckage fell on land, not in the sea.

Finally, how could the bomb be put on the plane? At Frankfurt airport there are
many 'guestworkers', including Turks who have come under the spell of Ayatollah
Khomeini's Islamic Revolution. Now, two weeks after the crash, circumstantial
evidence is pointing increasingly to Iran. And as days go by, certainty is going
to replace suspicion.

Home News Page 24

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1989 Independent Print Ltd

                              84 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            January 7 1989, Saturday

Czechs fly in to help with 747 bomb tests; Lockerbie air disaster

BYLINE: ANDREW MCEWEN, London, and RICHARD BASSETT, Prague

SECTION: Issue 63285.

LENGTH: 440 words


Three Czechoslovak explosives experts are to arrive in Britain today to help
British investigators establish if the bomb that destroyed Pan Am flight 103 was
made from Semtex, a Czechoslovak-made plastic explosive.

At the same time Prague proposed talks with Britain leading to an international
convention on plastic explosives. It would deal with methods of producing and
detecting them and would require producers to tell the United Nations of the
quantities sold each year, and the identity of customers.


The Foreign Office said last night: 'We will give careful consideration to the
(proposed) bilateral expert talks on the manufacture of plastic explosives, and
on methods of marking and detection.'

The two moves suggested a wish by Prague to distance itself further from recent
terrorist attacks involving Semtex.

The Foreign Office yesterday publicly thanked Prague for its co-operation, but
hopes of an improvement in strained Anglo-Czechoslovak relations were diminished
when the Foreign Office told Prague that a Czechoslovak diplomat who has been
given political asylum in Britain is not prepared to see Czechoslovak officials.

The explosives experts will be taken to the Royal Armaments and Explosives
Research and Development Establishment at Fort Halstead. The Foreign Office said
they would advise on the 'analysis, detection and performance of Semtex'.

They will probably be shown wreckage brought from Lockerbie after the crash on
December 21. If they establish that the bomb was made from the brown explosive
made at Pardubice, 90 miles from Prague, it might help to narrow the search for
the group responsible. Libya is known to have bought substantial quantities of
Semtex in the past, some of which has been passed on to the IRA.

Three shipments are known to have got through before the freighter Eksund was
intercepted in 1987, carrying two tons of it.

The Eksund incident suggested that other terrorist groups with links to Libya
may also be receiving Semtex.

The Foreign Office has on five occasions asked Prague to give Semtex a chemical
'fingerprint' to make it easier to detect, but had received no answer until
yesterday. It presents huge problems at airports, because unlike most plastic
explosives it is odourless and cannot be detected by sniffer machines.

It has the consistency of putty, allowing it to be moulded into corners to
impede detection.

It does not show up on X-ray screens.

Some Western diplomats in Prague believe that, although Nato experts remain
baffled by Semtex, the Czechoslovaks have devised their own system of chemical
identification.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              85 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            January 13 1989, Friday

Hurd condemns Gadaffi's role in arming IRA

BYLINE: PETER EVANS, Home Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: Issue 63290.

LENGTH: 352 words


In the most forthright public condemnation yet by a British minister of Colonel
Gadaffi's role in aiding terrorism, Mr Douglas Hurd, the Home Secretary,
yesterday accused him of being 'without doubt the most dangerous of the
Provisional IRA's supporters'.

A significant proportion of the explosives and weapons held by a few hundred
active terrorists were shipped from Libya, Mr Hurd said in a speech in Rome at
Italy's principal police academy.


Condemning Colonel Gadaffi's role, he said: 'We have proof that he has supplied
them with tons of sophisticated weapons and large quantities of Semtex
explosive. He has also provided them with ample funds and as recently as
September reiterated his political support for them, describing their cause as
'just'. He also encouraged the Abu Nidal organization by allowing them to
maintain their headquarters in Tripoli.'

Mr Hurd's disclosures are based on evidence available from recent arms seizures,
from police investigations and from recent IRA attacks in Europe. The speech
follows warnings last month by Britain to its European allies not to be taken in
by Colonel Gadaffi's bid to ingratiate himself with the West in a so-called
'charm offensive'.

British concern emerged after a recent visit to Rome by the Libyan
second-in-command, Major Abdel Jalloud, who met senior Italians, including
Signor Ciriaco de Mita, the Prime Minister. Afterwards Italy announced it would
'enlarge and intensify contacts with Libya'.

Mr Hurd said that the Provisional IRA and other terrorists threatened both
Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland and so co-operation between both
security forces had increased and become more fruitful.

He added: 'You will understand against this background why British and Irish
ministers are particularly emphatic about the need for strong and concerted
European action against terrorism.'

The Home Secretary was speaking after signing with the Italian Minister of the
Interior, Signor Ministro Antonio Gava, an arrangement for co-operation to
counter terrorism, organized crime and drug trafficking.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              86 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            January 15 1989, Sunday

Death before dishonour?; Emperor Hirohito

SECTION: Issue 8579.

LENGTH: 1910 words


FOR almost an hour the figure on the white horse sat virtually motionless on the
drawbridge connecting his palace in Tokyo to the real world outside.

It was February 15, 1942, and Singapore had just fallen. Hard on the heels of
the successful attack on the American fleet at Pearl Harbour, the Japanese had
much to celebrate.


And where else should they go but to gaze devotedly at the emperor, the
embodiment of the spirit of their country? In their eyes he was the direct
descendant of the divinities who created Japan and their immediate offspring,
the sun goddess. How could Japan lose with such divine leadership?

More than 40 years on, stripped of his divine status by the Allies in 1945,
Hirohito had assumed a new role: the family man, the marine biologist who
delighted in poking around on the foreshore of Sagami Bay outside Tokyo, a
symbol of the state, wheeled out for purely ceremonial purposes.

BUT Hirohito's death nine days ago rekindled a controversy some might have
thought settled in the emperor's favour years ago.

Which was the real Hirohito? The figure on the drawbridge, seemingly heading
Japan's attempts to establish racial and military supremacy throughout Asia and
beyond, or the man of peace who had been little more than a puppet, forced by
his constitutional role to endorse policies which privately he abhorred.

In Britain it was the tabloid press which fired the first shots as long ago as
last September when the emperor's health first began to decline.

News of his illness caused The Sun, under the headline 'Hell's waiting for this
truly evil emperor', to state that his illness was a cause for sadness, partly
because he 'lived as long as he did', partly because he would die 'unpunished
for some of the foulest crimes of this violent century'.

The Daily Star, in a leader entitled 'The sinking son of evil', recalled that in
Hirohito's name 'countless victims were butchered with unspeakable brutality'.

Japanese sensitivity over the emperor brought an angry response; Sir John
Whitehead, the British ambassador in Tokyo, was called to the Japanese foreign
ministry to receive an official protest.

The Japanese embassy in London also registered a strong protest about the 'abuse
and vilification'.

When Hirohito died nine days ago, those countries which suffered most at the
hands of the Japanese intensified the debate: should they send representatives
to his funeral and should those representatives be heads of state to mark their
respect, or lesser figures to mark their lack of it? The questions posed
reflected the deeper controversy: was Hirohito a war criminal who had narrowly
escaped hanging?

In Britain the Burma Star Association and the National Federation of Far Eastern
Prisoners of War Associations registered strong disapproval when it was
announced that Prince Philip would represent the Queen at the funeral.

A number of MPs also objected, and on Friday the Right Reverend Richard Harries,
the Bishop of Oxford, questioned the palace's decision, saying: 'Only God can
judge the personal culpability of Emperor Hirohito. However, he was the head of
state of a nation which waged a cruelly aggressive war as a result of which
millions died.'

ONLY in America has the debate been muted, for it has good reason to be thankful
for the one action of the emperor which is not a subject of dispute. It has
always been accepted that it was his intervention alone which finally forced
Japan to surrender.

President Reagan said Hirohito had played a 'truly heroic role' in bringing
hostilities to an end, and George Bush, who is to attend the funeral, said he
had no qualms about possible criticism from former servicemen like himself.

In Japan, Hirohito's role in convincing his generals that the army should lay
down its arms is the main card officials have played in rebutting claims that
Hirohito was a war criminal.

In London last week, Sousoke Uno, the Japanese foreign minister, accepted that
this could give rise to a fundamental question: 'If Hirohito could stop the war,
why did he not prevent it?'

The answer, said Uno, was that it was 'established constitutional practice that
the emperor performed affairs of state with the advice and assistance of his
ministers and he never rejected the decisions recommended to him by those
advisers.'

In Japan, where terror attacks and demotion were the rewards for journalists who
attempted to question the emperor's war record, Uno's 'official' view is only
now being delicately challenged.

Last week an article in Asahi Shimbun, Japan's largest selling newspaper, took
the first tentative steps, stating that while the emperor was clearly not
legally responsible for what occurred during the war, his political or moral
responsibility was open to question.

In Britain the strongest challenge to the 'official' view will shortly appear in
a BBC television programme entitled Hirohito Behind the Myth, a personal
investigation by Edward Behr.

Behr, who wrote The Last Emperor, about Pu Yi, of China), claims 'there is
plenty of evidence to show that he was neither quite the puppet nor the pacifist
his image-makers have made him out to be'.

The production has already been sold to more than a dozen countries, although
NHK, the national broadcasting company in Japan, has refused to have anything to
do with it, even denying the producers access to its library.

TBS, a commercial company, is interested, but right-wing factions in Japan have
threatened television stations if they show it, and TBS has indicated it wants
cuts made.

Behr starts in 1931, the year that Japan invaded Manchuria in northern China.
'Publicly Hirohito dissociated himself from any military aggression, but he
decorated and promoted the Japanese colonels who had seized Manchuria, ' the
programme says.

It alleges that in February 1936, after junior army officers staged a coup in
Tokyo, Hirohito felt the only way of preventing a repetition was to give his
army a free hand in China. 'Hirohito's apologists claim his generals tricked him
into going to war but, as the record shows, his only criticism of them was that
they weren't winning fast enough, ' says Behr.

The programme challenges the official Japanese line that in 1941 Hirohito 'had
no advance knowledge of the Pearl Harbour attack and was, in any case, unable to
prevent it'. It says the diaries of General Sugiyama, Hirohito's wartime army
chief of staff, show that the emperor and his admirals 'argued and debated
endlessly, and eventually decided on Pearl Harbour'.

He is said to have been personally involved in a deception aimed at convincing
the Americans that war was not imminent, by ignoring a message from President
Roosevelt on the eve of Pearl Harbour conveying hopes for peace.

The programme quotes from the diaries of Maquis Kido, Hirohito's lord privy
seal, when he wrote that after the fall of Singapore: 'The emperor was smiling
broadly and tearful with joy ..The emperor was so joyful I was at a loss for
words.'

Behr accuses Hirohito of failing to commute the death sentences of three
American airmen captured after an air raid on Tokyo, and adds that when he heard
the Germans were well on the way to Alexandria in North Africa, he wanted to
send a congratulatory telegram to Hitler.

Later, the programme reveals, after the fall of Japan: 'The imperial household
minister ordered all official documents incriminating the emperor to be
destroyed before the Americans arrived.'

The programme states that the failure to prosecute Hirohito as a war criminal
greatly reduced the credibility of the war crimes tribunal 'in the eyes of many
of its judges and trial lawyers'. The reason no prosecution was forthcoming, the
programme states, was because MacArthur feared that, without Hirohito, Japan
would disintegrate and a guerrilla war ensue.

Later, in the trial of Hideki Tojo, the former prime minister, the programme
reveals that a behind-the-scenes crisis took place when, under
cross-examination, Tojo said 'no Japanese subject would ever go against His
Imperial Majesty's will'.

'This implied', says Behr, 'that Hirohito could have called off Pearl Harbour
and his generals and admirals would have obeyed. It .. shattered the notion he
was a puppet.'

It was decided to send a palace emissary to Tojo to get him to retract. At first
he refused, 'only changing his mind after huge pressure had been put on him in
the name of the emperor'.

Last week Behr said: 'I don't have a strong emotional feeling that an injustice
was done and that he should have been put in court and then hanged. I do feel,
however, that he was a very ambiguous figure who covered his tracks remarkably
well.

'There has been an extraordinary public relations campaign that has been
remarkably successful in convincing the world at large that Hirohito was the
figure you see in later years, a peaceful, shuffling, harmless doting figure.

'I believe, however, that he knew almost everything and he could, if he had
really been decisive and of above average courage, have stopped it.'

Behr's view, however, is not supported by others.

Stephen Large, lecturer in Japanese studies at the faculty of Oriental Studies
in Cambridge, who is also writing a book about Hirohito, said last week: 'I have
counted 22 errors. It's very selective. I don't want to sound as though the
emperor was an innocent lamb, but the whole question of how the emperor saw his
constitutional role is ignored. He saw himself as a very limited monarch.'

There were instances, he added, where Hirohito had attempted to intervene
militarily, but his instructions had been ignored.

Another historian, Louis Allen, author of Burma The Longest War, added: 'Under
the Japanese constitution he was the titular head. But Hirohito was no more
responsible for military decisions than George VI was for Dunkirk.'

And it is not only British historians who lean to the theory of Hirohito as
puppet rather than puppetmaster.

In America, John Toland, historian and author of The Rising Sun, a Pulitzer
prize-winning account of the Japanese role in the war, described the documentary
as 'absolute nonsense'. 'It's second world war propaganda. It presents him as a
war criminal, and of course the truth is just the opposite. I don't know one
reputable historian who believes the claims.'

Last week Anthony Geffen, the producer, who spent two years on the film, said:
'We never tried to hide the fact that this was Edward Behr's own view which came
from his own research. It was always envisaged as 'an investigation' we were
asking ourselves, was he or was he not a puppet, not whether Hirohito should be
hanged as a war criminal.'

Professor Alan Rix, professor of Japanese studies at the University of
Queensland, Australia, said: 'Historians will be arguing for many years to come.
There is evidence emerging from courtiers and others which points to Hirohito
being well aware of what was happening. But the fact remains that he was an
isolated figure.'

Rix predicts that there will now be a flood of revelations. 'There are many
older people in Japan who want to get the events of the past off their chests.
The truth is that the jury is still out on Hirohito.'

Reporting by: Andrew Hogg and Alex Sutherland, London; Michael Berger, Tokyo;
Stephen Davis, Los Angeles; Mark Hosenball, Washington; and John Huxley, Sydney

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              87 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            January 16 1989, Monday

Gorbachov tells Thatcher he wants early visit to London

BYLINE: ANDREW MCEWEN, Diplomatic Correspondent

SECTION: Issue 63292.

LENGTH: 598 words


President Gorbachov of the Soviet Union has sent a warm personal message to Mrs
Thatcher to say he intends to reschedule as soon as possible his visit to
Britain. A planned visit last month was postponed because of the Armenian
earthquake.

Mr Gorbachov's move coincided with an extraordinary offer by the deputy head of
the KGB to co-operate with the CIA, British intelligence and the Israeli
intelligence service Mossad to fight terrorism.


In a broadcast on Radio Moscow's Hewbrew Service, Lieutenant-General Vitarly
Ponomarev said: 'We realize we have to co-ordinate efforts to prevent terrorist
acts, including hijacking of planes.'

Although not totally unprecedented, such co-operation would be a huge step
forward in East-West relations. The Foreign Office last

night welcomed any help the Soviet Government could give, but had not yet been
told directly of the offer.

Mr Gorbachov's message to Mrs Thatcher was conveyed orally by Mr Leonid
Zamyatin, the Soviet Ambassador, in a 45-minute meeting at Downing Street last
night.

Mr Zamyatin had just returned from a visit to Moscow, where he attended a
meeting of the Central Committee which took important decisions on the Soviet
Union's move towards a more democratic system.

Mr Gorbachov had been expected to convey suggested dates for his visit, but
Whitehall sources said that his message was expressed in more general terms.

Mrs Thatcher has repeatedly said that she would like the President to come to
Britain in the spring or summer, during the better weather, so that he could see
something of the British countryside.

In any event, the stage has been set for the most amicable meeting between the
two leaders since Mr Gorbachov became General Secretary in 1985. Britain's
decision last week to drop its objections to an international conference on
human rights, which Moscow wants to hold in 1991, will have pleased him greatly.

The Soviet leader has also found Mrs Thatcher to be extremely influential in
persuading the Americans to take a positive view of his domestic economic
policies.

Mr Gorbachov recently acknowledged that the Soviet Union's economic situation
was so serious that further military cuts would be necessary.

These two factors Moscow's pressing economic concern and the greatly improved
East-West climate are seen as holding the promise of the greatest reduction of
forces on both sides since the Second World War.

On the terrorism question, General Ponomarev said in his radio address: 'We are
willing, if there is a need, to co-operate even with the CIA, the British
Intelligence Service and the Israeli Mossad, and other intelligence services in
the West.' The latest technology had to be deployed against terrorists, he
added.

The offer followed previously unconfirmed reports that the Soviet Union might be
willing to assist in identifying the Lockerbie culprits.

Britain and the Soviet Union already co-operate in the fight against drugs, and
although it has never been confirmed, there may have been other limited
co-operation, possibly on terrorism. But an offer of open and regular links
between the services would be unprecedented.

MOSCOW: The Soviet Union has made little secret of its desire to complete Mr
Gorbachov's postponed tour he was also to have visited Cuba as soon as possible.

Privately, Soviet officials had hoped that the end of January or early February
would suit Mrs Thatcher and President Castro of Cuba.

But the Soviet leader already faces a very busy period of foreign travel in the
first half of the year.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              88 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           January 18 1989, Wednesday

Army replaces bombed barracks; Inglis Barracks, Mill Hill

BYLINE: MARK ELLIS

SECTION: Issue 63294.

LENGTH: 228 words


As the hunt for two IRA men who fled a bomb factory in London last month
continued, the Army opened a new accommodation block at Inglis Barracks, Mill
Hill, north London, yesterday.

One soldier died and nine others were injured when a bomb left inside the main
living quarters of the forces' postal services exploded last August.


Lance-Corporal Michael Robbins, aged 23, from Liphook, Hampshire, died in the
blast and one of the survivors, Corporal Peter Griffiths, is still being trained
to walk again after his ankles were shattered.

Captain Jim Donovan, the barrack's adjutant, said yesterday: 'Security is
considerably tighter now, but we were not unaware of the problems and dangers
posed by bomb threats then.'

Colonel Peter Wescott, one of the first men to arrive at the scene of the blast,
attended the opening of the Pounds 750,000 48-bed barracks block. With him were
Sapper Stephen Dawes and Lance-Corporal Simon McMahon, two men he helped pull
from the wreckage of the old block, shown above.

Scotland Yard anti-terrorist detectives believe two men missing from an IRA bomb
factory in Clapham, south London, were responsible for the Mill Hill barracks
bombing.

The pair may have fled to Belgium after the explosion and returned to Britain a
month later in November.

Detectives believe the two may still be in Britain.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              89 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            January 22 1989, Sunday

Delays likely as air security tightens; Compass Points; Travel

BYLINE: JOHN DIAMOND

SECTION: Issue 8580.

LENGTH: 304 words


A by-product of the Lockerbie crash is likely to be an even greater crush of
holidaymakers at Britain's airports this summer, as airport authorities and
airlines strive to meet the Department of Transport's call for increased
vigilance against terrorist attacks.

Although the airport authorities' restrictions on staff and their movement
around the airside facilities are unlikely to affect travelling time, the
airlines' own measures are bound to cause delays in boarding although just how
much extra time this will involve is difficult to estimate. 'We don't say much
about security, because it's security, ' said a DoT spokesman, 'but we have
ordered increased screening of hold- and hand-baggage on US flights.' British
Airways also says it cannot discuss the new procedures, which were agreed at a
meeting of the National Aviation Security Committee on January 5.


What increased screening may entail can be judged by the rules which the US
Federal Aviation Authority has imposed worldwide on all US airlines. These
include a 100% x-ray or physical search of all checked baggage, matching luggage
to passengers to prevent bags travelling unaccompanied in the hold, and more
intensive screening of randomly selected passengers. It is unlikely that any
airline following these procedures will be able to process passengers at the
current rate.

SAS, which has recently received a number of terrorist threats, is now asking
all passengers to identify their luggage on the tarmac before boarding and to
arrive at the terminal 45 minutes earlier than normal to accommodate the
procedure. The airline is already talking about the possibility of bringing
forward check-in times. 'There are very few delays so far, ' said SAS's Hans
Johannsen, 'but some passengers are still turning up at the last minute.'

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              90 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 24, 1989

The Day in Politics: Rush to meet deadline for Terror Bill - Terrorism

BYLINE: By MARTIN LINTON and PATRICK WINTOUR

LENGTH: 661 words


The Government won a guillotine timetable motion last night to curtail debate on
its new bill to extend the powers in the Prevention of Terrorism Act, which are
due to expire on March 21. The voting was 272 to 214 (Government majority 58).

The Leader of the Commons, Mr John Wakeham, said there would be severe
consequences if the bill had not received the royal assent by that date. Active
terrorists would be able to move freely about the country and the IRA would be
able to parade through the streets of Britain and recruit members openly.

Recent events from the Lockerbie air crash to the discovery of arms and
explosives in Battersea should have convinced everyone that special powers were
needed as much now as when the Labour government passed the original Prevention
of Terrorism Acts in 1974 and 1976, he said.

But Labour's shadow leader of the Commons, Mr Frank Dobson, demanded that the
Government should first clarify its position on the Brogan case - in which
Britain was found to be breaking the European Convention on Human Rights by
detaining a man for four days without a court appearance under the existing Act,
which provides for terrorist suspects to be held for up to seven days without
going before a court.

'We still don't know what the Government is asking the House to do. Are they
saying pass the bill and then we'll amend it to comply with the European Court
ruling, or pass the bill as it is because we have no intention of complying with
the ruling?' he said.

Britain could only derogate from the ruling if it was facing a 'public emergency
threatening the life of the nation'. But to claim that would be to accord the
'murderous psychopaths' of the IRA status that their actions alone would never
achieve.

Mr Dobson said that bombing was only a means to an end for the terrorists. What
they wanted to do was to 'bring about a reaction from those in authoirty which
reduces the openness of society, undermines normal democratic values and casts
doubt on the normal judicial processes.

'To announce to the world that the very life of our nation is at risk accords
the IRA and other groups the loathsome privilege of being acknowledged as a very
dangerous threat,' he said.

He added: 'Individual measures which may seem justified in response to the
threat of terrorism can, taken together, themselves amount to a threat to our
democratic institutions.'

The Democrats' spokesman, Mr Robert Maclennan, said his party had supported the
bill but objected to voting on a guillotine motion when the Home Secretary still
had not responded to the court's ruling.

'The fear is that after the bill has received royal assent we shall be told that
the temporary derogation is continuing to the point at which it can no longer be
regarded as temporary and a very serious hole will been driven in this country's
committment to the European Convention of Human Rights, he said.

He agreed that the bill had to be re-enacted, but that did not diminish the
seriousness of providing for internal exile or for holding people in detention
for up to seven days, which were matters that Parliament had to scrutinise and
justify.

The Home Secretary, Mr Douglas Hurd, said that the Government was still
reviewing the possibility of complying with the European Court ruling by
providing for a judicial body, rather than the Home Secretary, to decide whether
a suspected terrorist should be kept in detention beyond four days without
charge. But the review would take time.

Attacking Labour's total lack of logic on terrorism, Mr Hurd said that on the
one hand the shadow transport spokesman, Mr John Prescott, was pressing for ever
tighter security measures at airports, whilst the shadow Home Office team was
seeking to prevent the Government having the powers necessary to deal with
terrorism.

'Those that will the ends must will the means. And that is something the
Opposition has forgotten,' Mr Hurd said.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              91 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            January 24 1989, Tuesday

UK 'without protection'; Parliament

SECTION: Issue 63299.

LENGTH: 592 words


The Brogan case, to which reference was made during the debate, refers to Mr
Terence Brogan, one of four men who appealed to the Court of Human Rights in
Strasbourg last year after being held for more than four days before being
brought before a court. He was then released without charge. The court ruled in
November that to detain a suspect for seven days breached the European
Convention on Human Rights.

The United Kingdom would be left without adequate defences against terrorism if
MPs failed to pass a new Government measure into law by March 22, Mr John
Wakeham, Leader of the House of Commons, said.


He was moving a timetable motion to limit the time the Commons can spend
debating the Prevention of Terrorism (Temporary Provisions) Bill.

The motion requires the standing committee to complete its work by tomorrow with
a further full day on the floor of the House for report and third reading.

He said that the Prevention of Terrorism Act, which the Bill replaces, would
expire on March 21.

If the Bill were not enacted by then, police officers throughout the United
Kingdom would be without the power to arrest on reasonable suspicion of
involvement in terrorism. Terrorists would be free to move about to prepare
further terrorist acts.

There would be no proscription and proscribed bodies could parade through the
streets of Britain recruiting openly and raising funds in public.

There had been an agreement on a timetable, but the Opposition had later said
that they could not meet it because of the Government's reaction to the ruling
of the European Court of Human Rights in the Brogan case.

There was little prospect of a final Government response to that ruling before
the Bill was through Parliament.

Mr Frank Dobson, Opposition spokesman on House of Commons affairs, said that the
problems had been made worse by the Government's failure to decide how to
respond to the judgement in the Brogan case.

For the Government to derogate from the court ruling it would have to claim that
the present situation was a public emergency threatening the life of the nation,
an emergency akin to a time of war.

Whatever the situation in Northern Ireland, to say that the IRA, or any other
terrorist groups, posed a threat to the life of this nation as a whole was 'to
attribute to these murdering psychopaths a significance that they do not deserve
but which they revel in.

'A mature democracy which has survived far worse dangers than any posed by the
IRA can surely survive what they are threatening.'

Mr Robert Maclennan, Democrat spokesman on home affairs, said that, although the
Bill was broadly acceptable, his party was extremely resentful at the
Government's seeking to truncate debate.

The Home Secretary had embarked on a temporary derogation of the European
Convention on Human Rights and had indicated that he hoped to introduce a
judical element into the procedure to comply with the convention.

If someone was preventing the Government from doing what it wished to introduce
a judical element to review the cases of those detained for up to seven days MPs
were entitled to know.

Mr Douglas Hurd, Home Secretary, said that the Government needed time to consult
about the machinery to examine extension of detention after the Brogan
judgement.

It was too early to say what the result would be, but ministers were working
genuinely to see whether a judicial piece of machinery could be found.

The motion was carried by 272 votes to 214 Government majority, 58.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              92 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 27, 1989

Books: Between trifle and truffle / Review of 'Monsieur Pamplemouse Aloft' By
Michael Bond

BYLINE: By STANLEY REYNOLDS

LENGTH: 452 words


Monsieur Pamplemousse Aloft, by Michael Bond (Hodder & Stoughton Pounds 10.95)

It Michael Bond's marvellous Monsieur Pamplemousse ever owed anything to the
late Peter Seller's frantic French policeman, as some reviewers of the early
Pamplemousse books have suggested, the debt is not visible now. Monsieur
Paplemousse and his faithful dog Pommes Frites stand alone, true and original
comic inventions.

I have just spent a most enjoyable but also maddening time reading Mr Bond's
fifth Pamplemousse whodunnit. It was a near perfect companion for someone alone
in London and one wonders why Hodder & Stoughton did not publish it in time for
the Christmas trade.

There is, however, a catch. Mr Bond's here is an ex-member of the Surete who now
works as an undercover inspector for Le guide, France's most important bible of
cuisine. Mr Bond very skilfully mixes detection, farce and food and wine writing
in such a way that you get incredibly hungary reading it - especially wo when
Monsieur Pamplemousse is in Brittany where the lobsters and Locmariaquer oysters
come from and there is nothing but turkey in the reader's flat. Throw in the
reader being teetotal because of a bad liver and one can see how pathetic it all
was.

When Monsieur Paomplemousse is not eating and drinking he is attempting to stop
a terrorist attack ona dirigible which is making its maiden voyage from Brittany
to London carrying, among its celebrity passengers, the President of France and
the Prime Minister of Britain. With terrorism such a part of our lives one does
rather flinch a bit at the taste involved in working it into a comic 'tec story,
but Michael Bond is such a good-natured writer - he is, after all, the creator
of Paddington Bear - that he carries it off.

All the food, I should perhaps add, is not good in Monsieur Paplemousse Aloft.
There is an extremely funny scene when the detectiv eis airborn in the dirigible
in a storm reading a letter form his boss at Le Guide in which he suggests they
give the passengers an English pudding:

'There is one I am thinking of which they call 'triffle'. It seems to be a
concoction which is made by emptying the contents of a can of tinned fruit over
what are known as 'sponge-fingers', which have themselves been previously
steeped in sherry. The whole is then immersed in something they call 'Bird's
custard'. I cannot image what that is, nor what it tastes like - I have enquired
at Fauchon and they have promised to telephone me back, but they have yet to do
so - however, it appears to be very popular. The dish is then topped by a layer
of thick cream ..'

The airship gave a lurch. Monsieur Pamplemousse suddenly felt extremely sick.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              93 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 27, 1989

Leading Article: When the umpire gets shot

LENGTH: 797 words


This is Britain 1989, remember; ruled by a Conservative Government. And in
Britain, when the umpire sticks up his finger, you walk. You don't argue or
break the wicket or take your bat home; you walk. Yesterday's umpire, as it
happened, was a former Conservative minister, for Northern Ireland: Lord
Windlesham (assisted by a distinguished QC). He put up his finger. Thames
Television's Death on the Rock wasn't trial by television, or deeply
prejudicial, or distorted and biassed. None of the things that Mrs Margaret
Thatcher and Sir Geoffrey Howe and Mr Tom King (amongst others) said at the
time. It was good, honest journalism, doing its best, calling attention to
legitimate issues. One or two details, to be sure, could (with hindsight) have
been improved. But the umpire's finger was rock steady yesterday. And the
Government refused to walk.

There are two ways of addressing that refusal. One is through the language of
instant headlines. Battling Geoffrey lashed 'damaging inaccuracies.' Furious
Maggie raps 'contaminated' Windlesham. But the real issues are the deeper than
that, because now we know what the Gibraltar inquest into the deaths of Mairead
Farrell, Danny McCann and Sean Savage heard by way of evidence, and what they
decided. This isn't any longer one of those self-contained spats about a
television programme. We know what happened next.

The verdict (nine to two) was lawful killing. But the evidence, painfully
extracted by a gallantly independent coroner, was all about botchery from middle
to end. In the beginning an inspired bit of intelligence work spotted the three
IRA bombers. But thereafter the operation degenerated into a shambles. The
Spanish police lost the three. The Gibraltar border post nodded. Control - back
at the MI5 London ranch - was wooly and inept. A police siren went off too soon.
What came next wasn't a cold-eyed plot or a notably efficient exercise. It was
just a bloody mess. The sort of bloody mess that politicians abhor, because they
abhor accidents and cock-ups. That was the inquest; that was the verdict.

Yesterday, however, it was as though that jury had never sat. The debate rolled
back entirely, and myopically, towards what Thames Television should, or should
not, have done. Windlesham, in meticulour detail, found that 'the requirements
of fairness, balance and impartiality' were not infringed. Witnesses were not
pressurised; preconceived theories were not implanted; there was no trial by TV.
and Whitehall went back to stage one. It argued, nay fulminated, as though there
had been no inquest - no Home Office pathologist testifying that Savage's
bullet-riddled body had been the subject of a 'frenzied attack.' It has erased
the mess, the embarrassment, the humanity, from its collective mind.

The most telling quotation in the Windlesham report comes on page 135. It is
from Lord Thomson of Monifeith, chairman of the (now doomed) Independent
Broadcasting Authority. 'Sir Geoffrey Howe did his duty' says Lord Thomson. 'And
I did mine.' In a free society, it is for the politicians to defend their patch
and for the broadcasters and journalists to defend theirs. The Death on the Rock
team, as readers may now discover for themselves, did a diligent job. They took
terrible stick for it. In an aftermath coated in slime, they found themselves
belaboured, ostracised, pushed into limbo; and, worse, they found their
witnesses personally vilified in the kind of orchestrated press attack that
exudes the stench of official briefers, just offstage, ladling out the desperate
garbage. Now they can walk in the world again. Their reputations have gone
through the mincer of investigation. They have emerged intact; and, in doing so,
helped remind other journalists that they have a continuing job to do, which is
not automatically lick-spittling to the business agenda of the government - any
government - of the day.

But what about today's Government? Busy abolishing the IBA and retiring Lord
Thomson. Busy employing Lord Chalfont. Busy carving up television ownership in a
way that fingers the lapels of its management. Busy passing an Official Secrets
Act that would stifle Death on the Rock, and its heirs and successors, in a mesh
of legalities. Busy saying that cock-ups and embarrassments and best kept quiet,
within the system. Don't cause a fuss; send a private note to the Home
Secretary. And, yesterday, busy trying to kick the umpire to pieces. In other
times, perhaps, a government faced with the kind of painstaking evidence and
assessment that Windlesham provides would, at least, have had the grace to fall
silent and pass on to more current matters. But these are not other times. And
the pother of graceless statements across Whitehall last night reminds us so.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              94 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            January 31 1989, Tuesday

Gibraltar troop cuts in 1990s

BYLINE: ANDREW MCEWEN and DOMINIQUE SEARLE

SECTION: Issue 63305.

LENGTH: 485 words


The Government yesterday confirmed its intention to withdraw most or all of the
British battalion in Gibraltar by the early 1990s.

But RAF and Royal Navy personnel will not be affected by the cuts, and some army
training facilities may remain. A review will be conducted before deciding the
number of troops to be withdrawn, but Whitehall sources said it was likely to be
600 to 800.


The announcement, made by Sir Geoffrey Howe, the Foreign Secretary, in
Gibraltar, and by Mr George Younger, Secretary of State for Defence, in London,
came only 24 hours after official

sources described reports of a pull-out as 'rumours'.

It was met with a subdued sense of resignation in Gibraltar and with quiet
satisfaction in Madrid. Mr Joe Bossano, Chief Minister of Gibraltar, described
it as 'a short-term hiccup' (in the relationship), that would not affect the
traditional bond.

At a reception last night he gave Sir Geoffrey a silver replica of the keys to
the fortress and said that he did so in the confidence that the Foreign
Secretary would not hand them over to someone he would meet next week. Sir
Geoffrey has an appointment in London with his Spanish counterpart, Senor
Francisco Fernandez-Ordonez.

The Foreign Secretary said that Britain's commitment to the Rock remained
unchanged. 'We stood by you to withstand the seige, you stood by us in the fight
against terrorism, ' he said, in a reference to Spain's economic blockade of
Gibraltar from 1969 to 1985 and to Gibraltar's mainly supportive attitude to the
SAS operation last year to prevent IRA terrorists attacking British soldiers
based on the Rock.

In London, Government sources said the decision was taken in the hope of saving
money after a reassessment of defence needs. They were unable to estimate how
much might be saved. It was felt that there was no significant military threat
from Spain, which is a fellow member of Nato, the Western European Union and the
EEC.

The sources acknowledged that the effect on Anglo-Spanish relations could only
be good, but insisted that the decision was not taken for that reason. However,
the sources were unable to explain the timing, beyond saying that it seemed as
good a time as any.

Sir Geoffrey's meeting with Senor Fernandez-Ordonez is an annual event in which
Spain's claim to sovereignty of Gibraltar is always raised. The timing is likely
to reduce criticisms of British intransigence in the Spanish press.

In an interview on Gibraltar television last night, Sir Geoffrey said he was
impressed that neither Mr Bossano nor Senor Fernandez-Ordonez had read any
political significance into the announcement.

He described the planned cuts as a 'sensible adjustment of scarce defence
resources with a prospect of increasing diversification of the Gibraltar
economy'.

A union leader said details were needed so the situation could be fully
assessed.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              95 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                                The Independent

                           February 8 1989, Wednesday

Parliament and Politics: Channon to press for international air security drive

BYLINE: STEPHEN GOODWIN, Parliamentary Correspondent

SECTION: Home News ; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 612 words


PAUL CHANNON, Secretary of State for Transport, will next week try to persuade
foreign aviation ministers to agree tighter international controls on aircraft
security.

In an effort to prevent another Lockerbie-type disaster, Britain and the United
States want the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) to take
concerted action to close off opportunities for terrorist bombers.


Mr Channon told the Commons during a debate on transport safety last night that
he hoped the ICAO would agree to:

'Tighter controls on what is taken on aircraft, tighter controls on what people
have access to aircraft, and changes in aircraft design so that they offer fewer
places to hide a bomb and are much easier to search.'

The 33-member organisation meets in Montreal, Canada, on 15 and 16 February.

In a debate focusing on the transport tragedies of the last two years, Mr
Channon fended off Labour charges that 10 years of Tory government had resulted
in 'nightmare' travel conditions with increased congestion, higher fares and
lower safety standards.

'Cutting corners on safety is both socially and commercially wholly
irresponsible,' he told MPs. But the Secretary of State said it was specious to
argue that no savings could be made in any quarter because some savings would
compromise safety. 'I do not believe there is any reason why efficiency and
safety cannot go hand in hand.'

John Prescott, Labour transport spokesman, accused the transport department of
acting as 'an outpost of the Treasury', giving in to spending cuts instead of
fighting for the travelling public. 'It suffers from a unique blend of
ideological obsession and ministerial incompetence.'

A Labour motion, rejected by 305 votes to 210, accused the Government of failing
to invest in an integrated transport policy, and said this had created
unprecedent congestion in all modes of transport, higher fares, poorer service
and lower safety standards.

'Ten years of Tory ideology committed to privatisation, competition,
deregulation and massive cuts in public financial support has produced, whether
by car, train bus or plane, nightmare conditions of travel and increasing
insecurity,' Mr Prescott said.

Demand on British Rail had increased by 20 per cent while the number of seats
had gone down by 13 per cent, he claimed. That inevitably meant congestion. On
the London Underground it was the same old story. 'Mrs Thatcher promised us
Victorian standards, and now we have them. We are going as fast in the London
system as the horse and cart of 100 years ago.'

But Mr Channon told MPs investment in British Rail was at its highest in real
terms for 20 years. Some pounds 560m was being invested in BR now, at 1988-89
prices, and in the next few years the figure would rise to an average of pounds
755m. When Labour was in power the highest figure, in real terms, was pounds
474m.

Mr Channon further blunted the Labour attack by announcing approval of two BR
modernisation schemes - electrification of the line between Cambridge and King's
Lynn, and new rolling stock on the Chiltern lines.

The electrification scheme, together with associated new rolling stock, will
cost pounds 20.1m while the 77 new Class 165 'Networker Turbo' vehicles for the
Chiltern lines will cost pounds 39m.

Gary Waller (C, Keighley) warned Mr Channon not to 'rush headlong' towards a
system of privately-built toll roads. A large number of new roads were by-
passes and traffic had to be encouraged on to them: 'It would make economic
nonsense to build a road at very great expense and then to deter traffic from
using it by imposing tolls.'

Home News Page 8

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1989 Independent Print Ltd

                              96 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               February 11, 1989

Counter-terror bill brings fears of curfew for Ulster: Official human rights
group warns King about lack of legal safeguards

BYLINE: By DAVID HEARST in Belfast

LENGTH: 519 words


The security forces in Northern Ireland could be given the power to impose
large-scale curfews during searches for arms and explosives under proposals in
the Prevention of Terrorism Bill, it was suggested yesterday.

The Standing Advisory Commission on Human Rights, advisory body to the Northern
Ireland Secretary, said it did not object to arms searches, which have been
widely criticised. But it criticised the lack of safe-guards in the new powers.

The proposal in Clause 21 allows the security forces to detain people for up to
eight hours at the place of search 'or other places where the search was being
carried out'.

Professor Tom Hadden Professor of Law at Queen's University, Belfast, and a
commission member said: 'We think it is reasonable to detain people in a room of
a house that is being searched but this clause could be used to justify
large-scale curfews during follow-up operations.'

The provisions follow successful actions at the Belfast High Court against the
Royal Ulster Constabulary and the Ministry of Defence for false imprisonment.

The commission also criticised the proposal to reduce remission for scheduled or
terrorist offences in thr province from one-half to one-third, as in the rest of
the United Kingdom. There was no evidence to justify such a reduction on the
grounds of the rate of re-offence, it said.

Professor Hadden said the loss of remission for convicted terrorists would
create two regimes in the province's prisons, with the danger of returning to
the situation which led to the 1981 hunger strikes.

The thrust of policy had since been to eliminate differences in regimes between
paramilitary prisoners and 'ordinary criminals' and there was a danger that this
could stir up more unrest in the prisons.

The commission criticised existing powers to detain a suspect for questioning at
ports of entry from Northern Ireland or the Republic to Britain. A person can be
held for up to 12 hours to establish identity. The power requires no 'reasonable
suspicion' that an offence has been committed. The commission said this was not
reasonable and believed four hours was enough. After that, the reasonable
suspicion requirement had to be introduced.

Last year, 10 of the 186 people arrested under the Prevention of Terrorism Act
were charged under the act. After meeting Mr Tom King, the Ulster Secretary,
commission members felt that the Government might concede on this point alone.
The bill is in its final stages of examination by committee in Parliament.

However, the commission commended plans to deal with paramilitary finance.
Powers to search bank accounts were reasonable, it said.

Mr King yesterday defended the bill as a sensible balance between the need to
safeguard individual rights and to maintain the structure of society.

Mr Oliver Molloy, a 31-year-old Catholic critically injured yesterday by an IRA
bomb placed under his car in south Belfast, lived in a house occupied by a
policeman until 18 months ago.

Mr Molloy was outside his car when a device containing 2lbs of Semtex high
explosive detonated.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              97 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               February 13, 1989

Ministers seek air security accord

BYLINE: By OWEN BOWCOTT

LENGTH: 282 words


Security screening devices are seen by the Government as the best way to prevent
terrorist attacks on aircraft.

Transport ministers from many of the 33 member states of the International Civil
Aviation Organisation will meet in Montreal this week to try to formulate
aviation security measures in the aftermath of Lockerbie.

The two-day conference, initiated by Britain and the US, will consider aspects
of aircraft design, advances in security technology, and guidelines for handling
passengers and baggage.

Mr Paul Channon, the Transport Secretary, is damping down expectations of
immediate action. 'We face an international problem so we must have an
international solution,' he said. 'We do not expect to come back with a new
international convention, but I hope we will give impetus to an extensive
programme.'

Britain wants the ICAO to consider four main areas: detection of explosive
devices, screening of baggage, control of airport access, and building security
into the design of aircraft.

One of the states represented will be Czechoslovakia. Further talks are expected
on the export and marketing of the plastic high explosive Semtex, thought to
have been used to destroy the Pan Am jet over Lockerbie.

One of the international standards set up by the ICAO is that luggage should
only be carried by a plane if the passenger is also on board.

Mr Channon said there had been several incidents in Britain since Lockerbie
where airlines had taken internal disciplinary proceedings for breach of the
rules.

'If there has been a failure to reconcile passenger and luggage we pursue this
with the airline,' a Department of Transport spokesman said.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              98 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           February 14 1989, Tuesday

IRA accused of starting estate agencies; Parliament

SECTION: Issue 63317.

LENGTH: 601 words


The IRA and other terrorist groups are extending their rackets by raising money
through commercial ventures, such as pirate videos and estate agencies, Earl
Ferrers, Minister of State, Home Office, said during the second reading debate
of the Prevention of Terrorism (Temporary Provisions) Bill in the Lords.

The Royal Ulster Constabulary had estimated that the Provisional IRA received
between Pounds 3 million and Pounds 4 million a year from rackets.


But RUC officers had emphasized to him that that figure was rather conservative.
There were extortions, with evasion of value-added tax, social security fraud
and the occasional armed robbery. But the terrorist organizations were also
moving into public houses, clubs, shops, estate agencies and pirate videos.

The police needed the powers under the Bill to cut off the sources of funds to
the terrorists. Money was the lifeline of the terrorists and there was
widespread concern that present powers were inadequate. Efforts to defeat
terrorism must not be reduced. Victims and potential victims also had rights and
it was the Government's task to find a proper and responsible balance between
the duty it owed to its citizens and the duty it owed to those suspected of
committing acts of terrorism.

Lord Mishcon, chief Opposition on home affairs spokesman in the Lords, said that
the Opposition joined hands with the Government in waging war against terrorism.
The only point of difference arose over whether the measures in the Bill could
offend civil liberties and become counter-productive.

The seven-day detention powers, exclusion orders and port controls had led to
alienation in Northern Ireland from the forces of law and order, harassment of
the Irish community in Britain and a reduction in the civil liberties of United
Kingdom citizens. Exclusion orders were the equivalent to exile to Siberia.

Lord Harris of Greenwich, Democrat home affairs spokesman, said that for many
years the IRA had grown fat on the proceeds of protection rackets. More recently
they had moved into apparently legimate businesses. He hoped the new powers in
the Bill would be adequate to deal with them, but he doubted it.

Lord Macaulay of Bragar (Lab), in a maiden speech, said that many lawyers were
worried at the lack of legal scrutiny of what happened to people when they were
detained. The suspect should always have access to legal representation except
in exceptional circumstances.

Lord Mason of Barnsley (Lab), a former Secretary of State for Northern Ireland,
said that the reduction of remission provided for under the Bill would be a
morale booster for the security forces. It had been remiss of him not to have
recommended something similar 10 years ago.

Lord Fitt (Ind Lab) said that remarks that elements of the Bill were leading to
harassment of Irish people would be welcomed by the IRA. They wanted it to be
seen as a racist attack on the Irish.

He did not believe that people should be 'dumped in Northern Ireland'. If
Northern Ireland was part of the United Kingdom, it should not be used as a
dumping ground for those against whom no charge could be made.

He said that, on the face of it, through exclusion orders, it looked as though
the authorities were saying that they did not want someone to commit murder in
London but that it was not so bad if they did it in Belfast.

Earl Ferrers, replying to the debate, said most of those who would be excluded
would be sent back to a part of the UK where they normally lived. There was no
question of 'dumping.'

The Bill was read a second time.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              99 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               February 16, 1989

Radical minority feared most as likely assassins

BYLINE: By STEPHEN COOK

LENGTH: 538 words


There are about 1.5 million Muslims in Britain, most of them products of the
wave of immigration which the post-war labour shortage drew from Pakistan and
India.

Orginally, they were loom hands in Bradford and the North-west, transport
workers in the Midlands and sweat-shop staff in London's East End.

The biggest Muslim communities are still in Birmingham, (about 100,000),
Bradford (80,000) and East London (50,000) but there are communities in many
other cities. There are also about 50,000 resident Muslims from Arab nations.

Between 5 and 10 per cent of the British Muslim population are estimated to be
members of the Shia sect, which is at its strongest in Iran and is influenced by
the Ayatollah Khomeini. The rest are Sunni Muslims, who form the majority in the
rest of the world.

But one Islamic expert in Britain, who asked not to be named, warned yesterday
that it would be is mistake to under-estimate Khomeini's influence among the
Sunnis. 'He represents a radical attitude in Islam, and a defiance of the West
in general, which is not unpopular with the Sunnis.

'I'm afraid that it's always possible that some mad hatter might try to do what
Khomeini asks, and it could easily come from people from the Indian
sub-continent.'

But Mr Ian Gelderd, a researcher at the Institute for the Study of Terrorism,
said he thought the main threat to Mr Rushdie might come from a terrorist cell
among the 1,000 radical Khomeini supporters believed to be in Britain, mainly
students or people on short visas.

The Special Branch is understood to be increasing its surveillance of such
groups. Evidence of their existence in London first emerged in December 1981
when three members of Hezbollah (Party of God), which is loyal to Khomeini, blew
themselves up while assembling a car bomb in Connaught Square, near Marble Arch.
Two were killed and the third was maimed.

In August 1986, another squad bombed a video shop in Kensington High Street,
west London, which had distributed anti-Khomeini literature and films. Mr Bijan
Fazeli, an Iranian exile, was killed and 13 people injured.

In July 1987, a Hezbollah-backed group called Guardians of the Islamic
Revolution planted a car bomb which injured Mr Amir Hussein Amir-Parviz, London
representative of the pro-monarchy National Movement for Iranian Resistance.

In October 1987, an Iranian hit squad shot dead two Iranian dissidents, Mr
Mohammed Ali Tavakoli-Nabavi and his son, Noureddin, at their flat in Wembley,
north-west London. The Imams and Mosques Council, on which the Shias have two
seats out of 25, yesterday asked Imams in all Britain's 387 mosques to use their
Friday sermons to appeal to worshippers to respect the law and avoid violence.

Dr Zaki Badawi, chairman of the council, said: 'The request is kindly and
cautious and does not refer to Khomeini's stataement as such. But we say that
acts of violence are objectionable, both in secular and religious law.'

The chairman of the Islamic Society for the Promotion of Religious Tolerance in
the UK, Mr Hesham El Essawy, said: 'We regret very much the declaration of
Khomeini, and anyone who carried it out would be guilty of murder, as stated in
the Koran.'

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              100 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               February 16, 1989

Relations with Iran in balance

BYLINE: By HELLA PICK, Diplomatic Editor

LENGTH: 951 words


Britain's relations with Iran were hanging in the balance last night, as
menacing crowds again chanted 'death to Britain' outside the recently re-opened
British embassy in Tehran.

Iranian Revolutionary Guards undertook to carry out the Ayatollah's orders to
kill the author Salman Rushdie, and suspicions grew of possible Iranian
involvement in the Lockerbie Pan Am bombing.

The Foreign Office, already under pressure over the Roger Cooper case, has been
forced to shelve plans for a gradual move to full normalisation of diplomatic
relations by mid-year.

But it remains intent on keeping at least the present skeleton complement of
British diplomats in Tehran, not least because of the British hostages held in
Lebanon by pro-Iranian militants.

Mrs Thatcher is under growing pressure to act against Iran's aggressive posture,
and will have no hesitation in ordering a break with Iran if conclusive evidence
is found of Iranian involvement in the Pan Am crash at Lockerbie last December.

Several reports have already surfaced alleging that one of the factions in Iran
commissioned the destruction of the plane. They have been attributed to US
intelligence sources directly involved in the investigation, as well as to
Israeli sources.

The assertion is that the attack on the plane was undertaken by the Popular
Front for the Liberation of Palestine-General Command, acting on Iranian orders.

Among the corroborating evidence cited is a meeting last December in the Beka'a
valley in Lebanon between Ahmed Jibril, the leader of the PFLP, and a senior
member of the Iranian-backed Hezbollah (Party of God).

British officials have been unwilling to comment, and it is unclear whether the
investigators are ready to point an accusing finger at Iran during the press
conference to be held at Lockerbie today.

But there has been speculation all along that Iran was intent on revenging
itself for the downing of one of its civilian airliners in the Gulf by the US
destroyer, Vincennes. The Pan Am airliner, with many US soldiers on board
returning to the US on Christmas leave, would have been an ideal target for
Iran's purposes.

Mr Moshe Arens, Israel's Foreign Minister, said in London yesterday that he
still 'had no knowledge of who was responsible' for the Lockerbie disaster; but
he also made it clear that there had been no specific discussion of this matter
during his talks with the Prime Minister and the Foreign Secretary. Both,
however, had discussed their implacable determination to resist terrorism.

Already there is only a fine line between terrorist acts and the growing menace
in Tehran's threats against Mr Rushdie. Muslims say his book, The Satanic
Verses, is blasphemous against the prophet Mohammed. After the Ayatollah's
'death-sentence' against him on Monday, the death squads of the Revolutionary
Guards yesterday declared that they were ready to carry out the deed, and an
Iranian cleric, Hassani Sanei, offered a million dollar reward to anyone who
killed Rushdie.

His charity, The June 5th Foundation, would pay this sum 'to anyone who will
punish this mercenary of colonialism for this shameful act.'

Outside the British embassy in Tehran, reopened only last November, crowds
gathered yesterday morning chanting 'Death to Britain' and 'Death to America,'
hurling rubbish across the street at the embassy walls, and breaking at least
two windows in the embassy building.

Police were present, but made no attempt to stop the demonstration. By midday
the crowd has swollen to a thousand, but later they dispersed.

Meanwhile, from inside the embassy, Britain's charge d'affaires, Mr Nick Browne,
was still trying to obtain access to the Iranian Foreign Ministry for
clarification about the 'appalling' statements against Mr Rushdie and the
'troubling' declaration that Roger Cooper had been found guilty of espionage and
would suffer a 'heavy sentence.' He was also concerned for assurances on the
physical safety of the British embassy. Indeed, it was doubtful whether he could
have left the building safely while the demonstrations were under way.

The Foreign Office in London, in a series of telephone calls to the Iranian
charge d'affaires in London, left him in no doubt that he was expected to convey
Britain's concern to Tehran, and ensure that Mr Browne obtained rapid contact
with authoritative Iranian officials.

Finally, towards the end of the day Mr Browne was told that he would be received
in the Iranian Foreign office today.

Britain now has three diplomats in Tehran, as well as four support staff - of
whom three are there only on a temporary basis.

The plan had been to increase the staff gradually, concentrating initially on
the political section that would be able to watch internal developments in Iran,
and to decide in April whether normalisation had gone far enough to exchange
ambassadors. This timetable is now almost certain to be abandoned.

The decision to reopen the embassy in Tehran was taken last November, eight
years after Britain had been forced to close it in the face of demonstrations.

Diplomatic relations were never broken off completely, and reached their lowest
point in 1987, when tit-for-tat expulsions led to a British decision to reduce
the Iranian representation in London to a single diplomat.

Britain has been anxious to improve relations with Iran, partly in the hope that
this might lead to the release of the British hostages in Lebanon.

Britain sees Iran as an important regional power in the Middle East, where it
was vital to have senior diplomats capable of interpreting the shifting
political scene, and, not least, able to help British business.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              101 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                                The Independent

                           February 16 1989, Thursday

Salman Rushdie - The Satanic Verses: Rushdie under threat 'for rest of his
life'. Publisher plans paperback of 'The Satanic Verses' as police step up
surveillance on Islamic extremists

BYLINE: HEATHER MILLS, DAVID LISTER and HARVEY MORRIS

LENGTH: 612 words


EXPERTS ON Islam and terrorism said last night that Salman Rushdie may need
protection for the rest of his life.

As the author remained in hiding and under guard yesterday, the suggestion was
that Ayatollah Khomeini's execution order would remain in force until it was
carried out. Scotland Yard has refused to detail the protection it is giving Mr
Rushdie. But sources say that it is likely to be full-time armed protection by
Special Branch officers.


Meanwhile, surveillance of known Islamic extremists will have been stepped up.
The level of protection given to Mr Rushdie would be under constant review by
the Metropolitan Commissioner, influenced by the Special Branch assessment of
the risk to the author's life from Islamic extremists in Britain. The security
source belief was that as time passed and The Satanic Verses affair faded,
protection would be scaled down.

But Ian Geldard, a researcher at the Institute for the Study of Terrorism, a
right-wing think tank, said that Mr Rushdie would probably be at greater risk
when protection was lifted.

'He is probably quite safe now, but what happens in six months time? Will he
still have full-time protection?' he asked. 'No way will the ayatollah rescind
the sentence. There will always be those wishing to carry out his orders.'

Security sources say that with this exceptional threat to Mr Rushdie's life,
approval for full- time protection of a sort usually given to visiting
dignitaries, will have had ministerial approval.

The suggestion is that because the affair appears to cast shadows over the
improving relationship between London and Tehran, all decisions relating to The
Satanic Verses affair will 'be taken at the highest level'.

One police source said that this would apply to decisions about whether to
prosecute for incitement those Muslims living in Britain who had voiced support
for Ayatollah Khomeini's death sentence.

While West Yorkshire police confirmed yesterday that they were investigating
comments by Sayed Abdul Quddus, the source suggested the decision over
prosecution would most likely rest with the Government rather than the Crown
Prosecution Service. Yesterday, Mr Quddus, joint secretary of the Bradford
Council of Mosques, who took part in the public burning of the book, said he was
sticking to his earlier comments that Mr Rushdie 'deserves hanging'.

Asked about possible incitement, a spokesman at the Iranian embassy said
yesterday it was up to Ayatollah Khomeini's supporters in this country, to
decide 'how to deal with what he says'. Experts say that the threat to Mr
Rushdie could come from organised pro-Islam terrorist groups or from an
individual seeking the promised martyrdom - and now bounty. They refuse to rule
out either possibility but opt for the latter.

Evidence of Iranian hit squads operating in Britain emerged in December 1981
when three Hezbollah men blew themselves up while assembling a car bomb in
London. In August 1986, a cell bombed a video shop in Kensington High Street,
west London, which had distributed anti-Khomeini literature and films, killing
one Iranian exile.

Then in July 1987, a Hezbollah-backed group called Guardians of the Islamic
Revolution planted a car bomb injuring the leader of the pro-monarchy National
Movement for Iranian Resistance. Three days later a Palestinian cartoonist, who
had lampooned Khomeini was fatally shot in the face.

The last incident was in October 1987, when an Iranian hit squad, using silenced
automatic weapons, shot dead two Iranian dissidents at their flat in west
London.

Leading article, page 26

Anthony Burgess, page 27

Home News Page 3

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1989 Independent Print Ltd

                              102 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            February 19 1989, Sunday

Porter's gall is hard to beat; Westminster Council

BYLINE: SUSAN CROSLAND

SECTION: Issue 8584.

LENGTH: 902 words


What has Lady Porter in common with Margaret Thatcher and Edwina Currie? Gall so
extreme that it makes me laugh. Last week, as Tory leader of Westminster
council, Lady Porter was accused of gagging its chief executive with a Pounds 1m
pay-off.

Apparently he had advised against the council's sell-off of three London
cemeteries for 5p each. (I do not speak here of the feelings of families who had
buried their dead in those cemeteries.) They were bought and later valued at
Pounds 10m by a property developer. The district auditor called the council's
sale 'seriously defective'. The London ombudsman condemned the council for
maladministration.


Right. The pay-off of Rodney Brooke, 49, the chief executive now sacked, hinges
on his keeping his mouth shut about the council's handling of the sale, ie,
don't say a word to the press.

Labour councillors protested about ratepayers' money being used in this (dare we
hope?) unusual package. Lady Porter replied: 'We are merely honouring
contractual obligations to an employee.'

That's not all that funny, I agree. But what made me laugh was when her
opponents said they were now waiting for her to resign. She replied: 'Don't hold
your breath.' For sheer brass, that's hard to beat.

I cannot bring myself to comment on Paul Channon, the minister of transport,
whose aggrieved tones (when asked yet again about worthless safety measures)
adorn our airwaves weekly. But we hear less from Michael Portillo, his junior
minister. Thus I'm still capable of reacting in disbelief to his words, and had
to check that my ears had heard him rightly.

Defending the removal of an official guard on the suburban line recently
terrorised by 'steaming' attacks (and having learned of the Guardian Angels'
offer to patrol the most-at-risk trains), Portillo said a guard could not have
stopped the attack.

Derek Fowler, a British Rail vice-chairman, explained: 'The police advice to us
is that had there been a guard in that coach, he would have been savaged.' In
this age of technology, is it really beyond British Rail to provide a guard, in
mufti if necessary for his safety, who can communicate quietly with transport
police to wait at the next station?

At present, it's up to individual passengers, often attacked when half-asleep,
to locate the communication lever and pull it, and who can wonder if they do not
dare? They are shut up with organised, armed and often drug-high thugs longing
to chop up somebody.

But perhaps Portillo, BR and the police don't think it matters when mere
passengers are savaged.

Civilisation is based on the need for government to keep down the brute element
in human society. For several hundred years Britain has managed pretty well. We
can shoulder our placards and preach what we like, so long as we don't incite
the brutes to defy British law.

Ayatollah Khomeini and his mullahs disapprove of secular government tolerating
all religions. They can enforce their will in Iran. But we are discussing his
command to murder openly a British civilian on British soil.

On Thursday the cleric's incitement to kill Salman Rushdie or his publishers was
topped up by Iran's offer of Pounds 3.5m bounty for the assassin.

All this because a 41-year-old distinguished author, a British citizen born in
India, who normally resides comfortably in north London, has written a novel
which apparently blasphemes the faith in which he was raised. (Few literate
Britons have slogged beyond chapter one of The Satanic Verses, and nobody in the
Bradford book-burning mob claimed to have even reached page three. But that's by
the by.)

Last Thursday Sir Anthony Parsons, British ambassador to Iran when the ayatollah
swept away the shah, described the intellectual gulf between Iran and us,
reproving Westerners who think the ayatollah is demented: 'I can testify to the
sanity of the clerical leadership who succeeded in mobilising virtually the
whole population of a large and ethnically diverse country.' Very well.

This latest crude menace may be a brilliant mobilising device to cheer up
Khomeini's Middle East followers (down in the mouth over the ceasefire with
Iraq, Pakistan's election of a woman prime minister, failure to get one of
Khomeini's boys in place in the Afghan mujaheddin).

But we are talking about a jihad in Britain. Has the great ayatollah absolutely
no comprehension of how we will respond to the threat of a holy war against
British citizens here?

His grotesque pronouncement must be acutely uncomfortable for the majority of
(moderate) Muslims living in this land. Still, I suppose the ayatollah regards
1.4m non-fanatical members of Islam as a mere drop in the ocean.

The north-south divide has thrown up a new set of statistics. Marks and
Spencer's foodstores have apparently discovered that the farther they get away
from the affluent Tory south, the less their sales are affected by the
government's extraordinary mishandling ('there is no confusion') of the
food-poisoning chaos. In Newcastle upon Tyne, people have shrugged off
government contradictions which have confused and dismayed Tory heartlands.

For from the outset, when Edwina Currie last December said salmonella was
lurking in most egg production, hardly anybody on Tyneside believed it. 'They
took away our shipyards. Now they're trying to take away our breakfast. Just
ignore their claptrap.'

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              103 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            February 20 1989, Monday

IRA terror suspect vanishes; Father Patrick Ryan

BYLINE: ROBIN OAKLEY, Political Editor and MICHAEL BINYON

SECTION: Issue 63322.

LENGTH: 558 words


There was anger among Conservative MPs last night after it was confirmed that
Father Patrick Ryan, the suspected IRA terrorist whom the Dublin authorities had
refused to extradite to Britain, had left Ireland.

Sir Patrick Mayhew, Attorney General, said that evidence against Father Ryan
compiled by the British authorities had been in Dublin's hands for some weeks
after the Irish Government had encouraged Britain to seek his trial there.


Tory MPs found it hard to believe in those circumstances that the Irish
authorities had not been keeping a close watch on Father Ryan's movements.
Security sources in Dublin have confirmed that Father Ryan was under
surveillance.

Mr Elio Malocco, Father Ryan's solicitor, said last night that his client had
gone abroad. 'I have no idea where he went. He doesn't have to answer to me. I
presume he will come back if there are charges to face.'

Father Ryan is wanted by Scotland Yard on charges of conspiring to murder and
cause explosions, and possessing explosives.

He was arrested in Belgium last June and deported to Dublin. The Irish
authorities refused to extradite him, provoking a bitter dispute between Mrs
Margaret Thatcher and Mr Haughey. Mr John Murray, the Irish Attorney General,
said Father Ryan could not expect a fair trial.

The initial report that Father Ryan had left Ireland appeared in the Sunday
Press of which Mr Malocco is a director. Mr Malocco said: 'Father Ryan is, of
course, a free man, and can come and go as he pleases. The last time I saw him
was at Christmas.' He said a third party had confirmed to him that Father Ryan
had left the country.

Father Ryan's brother, Mr Joseph Ryan, who has been in constant contact with him
since his return from Belgium, admitted he had not seen him since early last
month when he set out for a meeting with legal advisers in Dublin. Mr Ryan said
his brother had been visiting friends and had a passport. The police refused to
comment. Security sources confirmed privately that Father Ryan was no longer in
the unnamed monastery where he had gone into hiding shortly after returning to
Ireland.

Britain, through the Anglo-Irish conference, has been pressing Dublin for in
legislation which would allow the police to hold a suspect while extradition
papers were prepared. Dublin has refused to do so.

Father Ryan is not wanted for any crime in the Irish Republic. However, at the
invition of the Irish, the British have been preparing evidence for his possible
trial in Dublin on explosives charges under the terms of the Criminal Law
Jurisdiction Act. This allows for the trial of terrorist suspects wherever they
are arrested in Britain or Ireland.

Mr Eamonn Barnes, Irish Director of Public Prosecutions, is considering whether
to issue warrants and to authorize the priest's trial in Dublin's anti-terrorist
Special Criminal Court.

The Sunday Press reported that Father Ryan might be in the United States or in
the south of France. It said it was the second time he had left Ireland since
last November.

WASHINGTON - US officials were unable yesterday to confirm the arrival of Father
Ryan. Under a 1987 extradition treaty, Britain is able to request his
extradition on charges connected with terrorism. If a substantial case can be
made, a US court can order him to be sent to London.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              104 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                                The Independent

                           February 21 1989, Tuesday

IRA bomb, Tern Hill: Terror trail of Britain's most wanted men

BYLINE: TERRY KIRBY, Crime Correspondent

SECTION: Home News ; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 583 words


THE TWO IRA MEN believed to be responsible for the Tern Hill explosion may have
been operating in Britain and on the Continent since August, when the bomb blast
at the Inglis Barracks in north London was the Provisionals' first mainland
attack since the bombing of the Grand Hotel, Brighton, in 1984.

The men have had two narrow escapes from the security forces - when a bomb
factory was found last December in Clapham, south London, and again yesterday in
Shropshire. They are now the most wanted men in the country.


They are believed to have lain low during one of the most intensive and
wide-ranging manhunts, co-ordinated by SO13, Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist
squad.

The Inglis Barracks explosion killed one person and injured nine. There was
considerable speculation that the bombers were those responsible for attacks on
Army bases on the Continent who had slipped into England to prove the IRA were
still capable of mainland attacks.

But Commander George Churchill-Coleman, head of SO13, maintains that it was a
separate operation from that on the Continent. Subsequent events appear to have
borne this out.

In the early hours of 20 December, an 18-year-old putative car thief approached
a Renault car parked in Clapham. As he broke a window, a man asleep in the back
of the car woke and shot him in the stomach. The man fled to a flat 40 yards
away.

By the time armed police surrounded the flat the man, and another inside, had
fled. Police found about 150lb of Semtex explosive, detonators, timers and
several weapons.

Crucially, the discovery of wrappers which had held 25lb of Semtex led to police
to believe that bombs had already been made, and possibly placed, although
urgent warnings from police and rigorous checks on likely targets did not reveal
any.

One of the men was Patrick Sheehy, aged 30 to 35, an unemployed labourer from Co
Limerick. He was identified from fingerprints in the flat and is believed to
have been in the car. He is 6ft tall, well built, with dark wavy hair, a slight
stoop, and a soft Irish accent. He had been seen wearing a full-length dark
leather coat. The pistol he used has not been recovered; it may be the weapon
brandished yesterday. Sheehy has also been linked to the three people jailed
last year for conspiracy to cause explosions at the home of Tom King, the
Secretary of State for Northern Ireland.

The other man has not been identified officially, but police have issued a
photograph of a dark-haired man in his twenties or thirties, wearing the
spectacles he left behind in the flat. Both men used the aliases of Jim
Errington and I P Flynn.

Anti-terrorist police believe these two were responsible for the Inglis Barracks
explosion. The theory is that they escaped to the Continent, probably Belgium,
in the time between the probable planting of the bomb on the Saturday night and
the Monday morning explosion. They are thought to have returned to Britain
sometime before renting the Clapham flat in November.

After the Clapham discovery, a large number of homes were raided and people
questioned. Police are convinced that the men remained in Britain, probably in a
'safe house'.

After the Inglis Barracks bomb, West German security forces arrested two
Irishmen when pistols, rifles and ammunition magazines were allegedly found
after their car was stopped on the border with Holland. They are being held on
suspicion of involvement in the attacks on the Continent.

Home News Page 3

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1989 Independent Print Ltd

                              105 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                                The Independent

                           February 21 1989, Tuesday

IRA bomb, Tern hill: Regiment living with threat

BYLINE: PHIL REEVES and DAVID MCKITTRICK

SECTION: Home News ; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 449 words


THE PARACHUTE Regiment has lived under permanent threat of an IRA attack ever
since 'Bloody Sunday' on 30 January 1972, when soldiers from the 1st Battalion
shot dead 13 people during a civil rights march in Londonderry.

A nationalist outcry followed after an inquiry into the Londonderry shootings by
Lord Widgery did not condemn the paratroops beyond saying that their firing
'bordered on the reckless.'


Further controversy followed when the Londonderry coroner, Major Hubert O'Neill,
described the shootings as 'sheer unadulterated murder'.

A month after 'Bloody Sunday' seven people, a Catholic Army padre, a gardener
and five women canteen workers were killed in an IRA car bomb outside the
regiment's officers' mess at Aldershot. Further IRA revenge against the Paras
came in 1979 in the Warrenpoint massacre when the IRA killed 18 soldiers,
including six members of the regiment's 2nd Battalion, with a huge boobytrap
bomb.

The regiment, formed by Winston Churchill in 1942 as shock troops capable of
going behind enemy lines, has made regular tours of duty in Northern Ireland.
The 1st Battalion was posted to South Armagh from July to November last year.

Several weeks ago, both Sinn Fein and Social Democratic and Labour Party
representatives complained when it was reported that a battalion from the
Parachute Regiment was about to be stationed in west Belfast. The nationalist
politicians said they were 'alarmed and concerned' at the prospect of paratroops
patrolling the area. The rumours began after soldiers wearing the distinctive
maroon berets were seen in the district.

The 3rd Battalion is expected to arrive in Northern Ireland shortly for a
two-year tour and will be based at Palace Barracks, which covers the east of the
city.

Yesterday's bombing represented an attempt by the IRA to inflict its greatest
blow on the Army - an attack which, had it worked as planned, could have killed
scores of soldiers.

As it is, the bomb created spectacular television pictures of great damage; but
it will be remembered by the IRA as the missing of an opportunity to create an
atrocity of enormous proportions. The bombing fits into the pattern of IRA
attacks in the past year.

The organisation has to some extent concentrated on military targets, and has in
particular been keen to carry out attacks in England, where it believes such
activity produces maximum political impact. In its claim of responsibility,
issued in Dublin, the IRA said: 'While Britain maintains its colonial grip on
the north of Ireland, the IRA will continue to strike at those who oversee and
implement British government policy in our country.'

Home News Page 3

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1989 Independent Print Ltd

                              106 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                                The Independent

                           February 21 1989, Tuesday

IRA bomb, Tern Hill: IRA men hunted for barracks bombing

BYLINE: TERRY KIRand PHIL REEVES

SECTION: Title ; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 611 words


A NATIONWIDE hunt was underway last night for the two armed IRA men who placed
three large bombs which destroyed parts of an Army barracks housing members of
the Parachute Regiment.

Police believe the bombers may be those sought after the discovery of an IRA
bomb factory in Clapham, south London, in December. Members of the Anti-
Terrorist Squad from the Metropolitan Police yesterday joined more than 150 West
Mercia officers combing wreckage of the Clive Barracks, at Tern Hill, near
Market Drayton in Shropshire.


Had sentries not interrupted the IRA pair while they were planting the bombs,
many men of the 2nd Battalion might have been killed. The Paras have been sworn
enemies of the republicans since Bloody Sunday in 1972.

Only one person was slightly injured in the explosions which destroyed parts of
the barracks at about 3.30am yesterday. Many deaths were avoided by the
evacuation of 50 soldiers after sentries challenged the IRA team as they placed
the fourth bomb.

The Ministry of Defence denied accusations of low security at Army bases,
theoretically tightened after the explosion at the Inglis barracks, north
London, last August.

Within minutes of the explosions, a nationwide police alert for the men was
issued, with road blocks, watches on ports and airports and reinforced security
at other targets. The men escaped in a Montego car stolen at gunpoint from a
nearby house, later found abandoned at Edgmond, 10 miles south of the barracks.
After being checked by bomb disposal experts, it was examined by police.

The man who broke into the house was described as in his early 20s, with dark,
neatly cut hair, a sallow complexion and about 5ft 5ins tall. He was wearing a
balaclava or scarf.

The two men sought in connection with the Clapham factory were named as Patrick
Sheehy, 30 to 35, an unemployed labourer from Co Limerick, Eire, and an
unidentified dark-haired man. They used the aliases of Jim Errington and I P
Flynn. The two may also have caused the explosion at the Inglis barracks, which
killed one man and injured nine. Scotland Yard sources said the pair were the
principal suspects for the Tern Hill explosions.

Investigators combing the wreckage were seeking traces of detonators, timers and
Semtex plastic explosive. Police are also examining the fourth bomb.

At Clapham, police found 150lb of Semtex and discarded wrappers for another
25lb. Some estimates put the explosive used at Tern Hill damage as high as
100lb, suggesting another mainland cache.

The MoD maintained that the response by sentries at Tern Hill proved security
worked. Archie Hamilton, the Armed Forces Minister, said: 'We have averted a
major disaster here, where many men could have been killed, many soldiers could
have been murdered in their beds, and I think that it is very good that that has
happened.'

According to the ministry, shortly after 3am Private Alan Norris and an
unidentified lance- corporal on 'prowler patrol' challenged two men inside the
barracks, which has a nine-and-a- half mile perimeter fence.

The sentries asked the men for identification. One bomber brandished a handgun,
and there was a scuffle. Pte Norris threatened the men with his unloaded SA80
rifle and the bombers fled, leaving a holdall containing another bomb. The
sentry loaded and fired three shots which missed the intruders.

The bombing coincides with proposals to reduce the MoD police by 207, revealed
in The Independent yesterday. Sean Hughes, a Labour defence spokesman, said
yesterday's incident 'highlighted the growing risk at all MoD establishments'.

Britain's most wanted men, page 3

Title Page 1

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1989 Independent Print Ltd

                              107 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           February 21 1989, Tuesday

Barracks blast linked to Clapham bomb factory; Tern Hill bombing

BYLINE: STEWART TENDLER, Crime Reporter

SECTION: Issue 63323.

LENGTH: 430 words


Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist experts believe yesterday's bombing of Tern Hill
Army Barracks in Shropshire could be the work of the two IRA bombers who fled
from a Clapham, south London, bomb factory two months ago.

They are believed to have been planning a campaign against British military
targets using home-made mortars which would have had a devastating effect on
'soft' targets presented by military bases.


After the men vanished, a search of their flat revealed that a substantial
amount of Semtex plastic explosive had also gone.

Police later linked the men to last August's attack on the Inglis barracks, in
which one soldier died and nine were injured. That attack and yesterday's had
marked similarities.

The two men are thought to be too resourceful to flee at the first sign of
pressure and instead of escaping from Britain, they probably went to ground.

From an artist's impression, the Yard has positively identified one man as
Patrick Sheehy, aged 28, an unemployed labourer from Limerick.

The second man has never been publicly identified. Police found a photograph of
him in the Clapham flat wearing glasses which were left behind and found to be
simply a disguise.

The two men were operating completely unknown to police or intelligence officers
and were discovered by accident days before Christmas. A youth tried to get into
a parked car in a side street in Clapham. Suddenly, a gunmen sat up in the back
seat and opened fire, wounding him before fleeing into nearby flats.

When police arrived and searched the building, they found the gunman and a
second man had vanished leaving a weapons factory behind.

Devices under construction in the flat are said to have included sophisticated
bombs and a home-made mortar system similar to those used with great effect in
Ulster.

The blast at the Inglis barracks at Mill Hill, north London, was the IRA's first
successful attack in mainland Britain for four years. It killed one young
soldier and wounded another nine last August.

Scotland Yard detectives suspect the attack was carried out by two men seen
walking into the military compound the previous night carrying a bag.

They are thought to have opened a rear door into the building and to have
concealed the bomb, on a short timer, on the ground floor. When the bomb went
off next morning, the robust Victorian structure of the building took the brunt
of the blast, saving many lives.

Within a day, the IRA had claimed responsibility for the bombing and warned
civilians to stay away from other bases.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              108 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           February 21 1989, Tuesday

Soldier with unloaded rifle saves 50 men in barracks bomb raid; Tern Hill
bombing

BYLINE: CRAIG SETON, IAN SMITH, STEWART TENDLER and MICHAEL EVANS

SECTION: Issue 63323.

LENGTH: 708 words


A Parachute Regiment private on 'prowler patrol', who challenged two armed IRA
bombers knowing his rifle was not loaded, was praised as a hero last night.

He and another sentry saved the lives of 50 comrades who had been sleeping
inside the Tern Hill barracks near Shrewsbury, Shropshire, before the buildings
were demolished in three explosions.


Private Alan Norris, a Falklands war veteran, had to load his SA80
semi-automatic rifle before he could fire three shots at the men as they fled
after answering his challenge by threatening him with an automatic pistol. He is
the first soldier to fire on terrorists in mainland Britain. As Army barracks
throughout the country were put on a heightened 'amber' alert after the three
bomb explosions at the barracks, Mr Archie Hamil

ton, Minister of State for the Armed Forces, said the two soldiers had 'averted
a major disaster'.

Last night police said a third man, possibly the driver of an intended getaway
vehicle who fled when shots were fired, was being sought. An Austin Montego
stolen from a house at gunpoint by the bombers was found last night in the
village of Edgmond, one mile west of Newport in Shropshire, almost 12 hours
after it was abandoned. Police evacuated 80 people from their homes while the
car was checked for booby traps.

Top suspects for the attack which shattered parts of an accommodation block are
the two IRA men wanted by London police after the discovery of a bomb factory in
a south London flat on December 21. The two men were known to have been planning
a campaign against military targets in Britain after 25lb of Semtex plastic
explosive was unaccounted for in the cache discovered by the police.

Within hours of the barracks attack, claimed by the IRA in Dublin, detectives
from Scotland Yard's Anti-Terrorist Branch, led by Commander George
Churchill-Coleman, arrived at West Mercia police headquarters. In spite of
roadblocks, the two bombers escaped.

Ports and airports were put on alert for the two men who police warned were
armed and not to be approached.

It appeared last night that the terrorists got into the large barracks through a
wooded copse running only 20 yards from the rear of the L-shaped accommodation
block, which was badly damaged. Instead of pursuing the men in darkness, Private
Norris and his companion roused 50 soldiers and evacuated the building. Minutes
later the bombs exploded, shattering two large sections of the accommodation
block and hurling debris across the parade ground a hundred yards away as
soldiers fled for cover in the darkness.

One was injured slightly, by flying glass.

Army and Ministry of Defence officials praised the swift action of Private
Norris in preventing a terrorist atrocity at the barracks, which has been the
home of the 2nd Battalion the Parachute Regiment for the past two years.

Although the Ministry of Defence gave few details of how Private Norris first
saw the armed terrorists, both wearing camouflage jackets, officials said he
challenged them at 3.06am and asked for their identification when they were seen
in a car parking area immediately in front of the accommodation building.

But, by that time it appeared the terrorists had already planted two of the
bombs. They escaped in the dark on foot along part of the 91/2-mile perimeter
fence of the isolated barracks, three miles from Market Drayton, before running
one mile to an isolated house where one of them held a terrified couple at
gunpoint and stole their car.

An immediate examination of security at the Tern Hill barracks began after the
bomb attack.

A Ministry of Defence spokesman said that like other British bases it was on a
heightened level of alert in case of terrorist attack. All barracks had been on
'black' alert one below amber for months.

Mr Harold Norris, who received a telephone call from his son at his home in
Swansea, said that he had challenged the terrorists before he had had a chance
to load his gun.

It appears that the two soldiers were on sufficiently high alert to carry
ammunition with them, but their SA80 guns were not loaded.

A security man at an Ulster linen mill was shot dead last night in the Co Down
village of Donaghcloney.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              109 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            March 1 1989, Wednesday

Irish terrorists 'bent on fresh bombing wave'; House of Lords; Parliament

SECTION: Issue 63330.

LENGTH: 569 words


Irish terrorists were bent on a fresh wave of bombings on the British mainland,
Lord Mason of Barnsley (Lab), the former Secretary of State for Northern
Ireland, said in the Lords.

Because of that, he said, he supported the provision in the Prevention of
Terrorism (Temporary Provisions) Bill to retain exclusion orders under which
suspected terrorists could be sent back to Northern Ireland by Britain.


Although the Opposition opposed the orders on the first day of the Bill's
committee stage, the provision was approved by 193 votes to 55 Government
majority, 138.

Lord Mishcon, chief Opposition home affairs spokesman, said that the fourth
protocol of the European Convention on Human Rights, which the Government had
not signed, said that everyone should have the right to liberty of movement
within his territory.

Successive independent inquiries into the legislation had concluded that
exclusion orders should go. They could be used as propaganda by terrorists. What
was the point of the Government's seeking advice on the issue if it then refused
to take it?

Lord Mason of Barnsley said that he believed that exclusion orders were
essential to control the movement and activities of suspected terrorists and
their allies. The right to exclude a person suspected of aiding and abetting was
a vital arm in the campaign against terrorism. There were bound to be some
intrusions in the private lives of Irish and British citizens.

The use of exclusion orders was based on intelligence rather than on evidence.

There was a need for everybody to be more vigilant. The terrorists' fanatical
belief in their cause, to force British troops out of Northern Ireland and
conduct a Marxist takeover of northern and southern Ireland, was undiminished.

Lord Colnbrook (C), a former Secretary of State for Northern Ireland, said that
he could understand the objection to exclusion orders from the standpoint of a
lawyer.

But the idea was to prevent terrorism not to catch a terrorist after he had
committed the act. Exclusion orders were one way that terrorism could be
prevented or hindered.

Lord Harris of Greenwich, Democrat home affairs spokesman and a former Minister
of State, Home Office, said that it was wholly right to maintain these powers.
He did not agree with Lord Colville of Culross who recommended in his report on
the working of the legislation that exclusion orders should go.

Lord Fitt (Lab) said one of his closest friends, a retired police officer, had
been killed by a car bomb in east Belfast on Monday. He had always resented the
fact that people suspected of being about to commit a terrorist act were sent
back to Northern Ireland.

Most terrorist acts were carried out in Northern Ireland. Some of the people
excluded from Britain and sent back to Belfast had committed crimes.

He would like to see some power to detain in London a person suspected of being
about to commit an offence, so that Northern Ireland was not used as a dumping
ground.

Earl Ferrers, Minister of State, Home Office, said that the arguments over
exclusion orders were finely balanced. They were a crude and unattractive
expedient to have to use, but the objective was to prevent terrorism.

Lord Mishcon replied that he still believed that the orders should go, both
because they were instruments of propaganda and for the sake of Britain's
international name.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              110 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                              March 3 1989, Friday

Iranian extremist cell in UK could number under 12; Islamic Revolution

BYLINE: HAZHIR TEIMOURIAN and NICHOLAS BEESTON

SECTION: Issue 63332.

LENGTH: 452 words


The Guardians of the Islamic Revolution, who have issued death threats against
government ministers, have shown themselves capable of carrying out
assassinations in Britain and escaping arrest.

The unit which issued the warnings yesterday has been linked directly to three
incidents in Britain, two of which resulted in the deaths of three people. The
Guardians are a 'sleeper' cell probably of fewer than 12 men ready to carry out
instructions. There are other units wherever there are sizeable expatriate
communities of Iranians in France, West Germany and Turkey.


The British unit first came to prominence in July, 1987, when it claimed
responsibility for the attempted assassination in London of Mr Amir-Husain
Amir-Parviz, a former Iranian Cabinet minister.

The group is believed to be closely linked to the Hezbollah extremists in south
Beirut, but all its London-based members are Iranian. Its claim that it was
responsible for the Lockerbie air disaster is being discounted by American
intelligence.

For British ministers and all other figures with a high public profile in the
row over The Satanic Verses, increased alertness is necessary because most
Iranian-sponsored extremist groups in the Middle East and Europe take their cue
from Ayatollah Khomeini's periodic hardline speeches. The last terrorist act
carried out in London which was clearly in line with the Ayatollah's thinking
was the assassination of two non-influential Iranian refugees, Mr Ali Tavakoli
and his son, Nader, who were shot in their council flat in Wembley in October,
1987. They had insulted the Ayatollah at gatherings of Iranian monarchists at
Speakers' Corner in Hyde Park.

The previous act of Iranian terror for which the Guardians of the Islamic
Revolution claimed responsiblity was the attempted assassination of Mr
Amir-Parviz in July of the same year. A bomb exploded in his car as he drove to
work in Kensington.

In August, 1986, Mr Bijan Fazeli, aged 22, died in a bomb explosion in his
pro-monarchist father's video shop. No one has been apprehended for these
crimes.

Apart from the Lebanese Hezbollah, there are a number of revolutionary
organizations in Iran itself which have large financial resources. One is the
Department for Islamic Liberation Movements in the Foreign Ministry, now
controlled by Hojatoleslam Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, the Iranian Speaker,
and a moderate.

But Mr Rafsanjani has recently been snubbed by the Ayatollah, and this has
strengthened the position of the hardliners.

If the threat to the British ministers is genuine, it may be a sign that the
hardliners are again feeling sufficiently confident to flout the wishes of the
moderates.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              111 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                              March 3 1989, Friday

Terrorists add Hurd, Howe to book death list; Rushdie controversy

BYLINE: NICHOLAS BEESTON, PHILIP WEBSTER and ANDREW MORGAN

SECTION: Issue 63332.

LENGTH: 733 words


Two Cabinet ministers and a television news reader have been added to the death
list of a pro-Iranian terrorist group ready to carry out Ayatollah Khomeini's
instructions over the Salman Rushdie book The Satanic Verses.

Security was tightened last night for Sir Geoffrey Howe, the Foreign Secretary,
and Mr Douglas Hurd, the Home Secretary, and other senior ministers after a
telephone threat by the Guardians of the Islamic Revolution, the group which has
claimed a string of terrorist attacks and is suspected in three London
assassination operations.


The group has also threatened Peter Sissons, the presenter of Channel 4 News,
who was first named in a telephone call to the UPI news agency last month. Mr
Sissons and his family have been under armed guard for 12 days.

The tightened security came as Sir Geoffrey criticized Mr Rushdie's book
yesterday as 'offensive' to Britain as well as to Islam. But he rejected an
Iranian offer of talks to defuse the row until Tehran withdraws its death threat
against the author.

Speaking in a BBC World Service interview, which is relayed by the Persian
service this morning in Iran, Sir Geoffrey said there was 'a huge distance
between ourselves and the book', a remark apparently aimed at appeasing Muslim
outrage and making the first tentative move towards a settlement with Iran. 'The
British Government, the British people, do not have any affection for the book,
' he said.

'The book is extremely critical, rude about us. It compares Britain with
Hitler's Germany. We do not like that any more than the people of the Muslim
faith like the attacks on their faith contained in the book.

'So we are not sponsoring the book. What we are sponsoring is the right of
people to speak freely, to publish freely.'

His comments went some way towards fulfilling an Iranian demand earlier this
week

for Britain 'not to adopt improper gestures towards the Islamic world'.

The decision to criticize the book followed a Cabinet meeting at which the
Rushdie affair was a dominant item for the third week in a row and the critical
line had been reflected earlier at Westminster by Mr John Wakeham, Leader of the
Commons, who told MPs that Britain fully understood the 'deep offence' that the
book had given to Muslims.

But the Foreign Office did not allow Tehran to have it all its own way, and
rejected an earlier approach by pragmatists in the Tehran hierarchy to hold
talks today in Geneva.

'Our judgement was that there was no point in having talks of that sort. There
would no value in it so long as the incitement to murder, the threat of
violence, remains in place, ' a spokesman said.

Mr Sissons was threatened for allegedly insulting Mr Muhammad Akhoond Zadeh
Basti, the former Iranian charge d'affaires in London, who has returned to Iran
after he was asked to leave Britain by the Foreign Office.

Ironically it was Mr Basti, who contacted the Foreign Office twice yesterday
morning and once on Wednesday afternoon to request a meeting between Mr Rob
Young, the head of the Middle East department, and his Iranian counterpart, Mr
Moussavian, who heads the Western European department. He explained that Iran
wanted to clarify the decision by the Iranian Majlis (parliament) on Tuesday to
break off diplomatic relations with Britain in a week unless the Government
altered its support for Mr Rushdie and his book.

'He said that there were discrepancies between the actual text of the document
passed by parliament and what was reported, ' said a Foreign Office source. 'But
we have told them if they have any message they can deliver it to the Swedish
Embassy in Tehran which is representing our interests.'

Iran responded to the British rebuff by claiming that London had initiated the
call for talks and that Tehran had rejected them.

But observers speculated that the powerful Speaker of the Parliament,
Hojatoleslam Hashemi Rafsanjani, may have been behind the approach to Britain in
an attempt to limit the damage caused by his spiritual leader, Ayatollah
Khomeini.

In London, it was announced that the House of Lords will debate the affair on
Monday. Mr Max Madden, Labour MP for Bradford West, tabled a Commons motion
urging Mr Rushdie to instruct his publishers to stop producing more editions of
the book so that the protests could end and its author could live in peace and
safety.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              112 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                              March 6 1989, Monday

Waldegrave calls on Arafat to condemn raids of PLO radicals

BYLINE: From RICHARD OWEN, Jerusalem

SECTION: Issue 63334.

LENGTH: 539 words


Mr William Waldegrave, Minister of State at the Foreign Office, last night
called on Mr Yassir Arafat to 'distance himself' from attempts by Palestinian
splinter groups to infiltrate Israel on terrorist missions. But he stopped short
of saying that such incidents undermined the US or British dialogue with the
Palestine Liberation Organization.

'Terrorist attacks should stop, ' he told a press conference at the end of his
week-long tour of Israel. But he acknowledged that Mr Arafat did not necessarily
have the power to prevent such activities.


Even so, the British Government would welcome a statement from the PLO leader
condemning infiltration attempts. Mr Waldegrave added that Mr Arafat had also
not condemned Arab violence in the occupied territories 'as clearly as we would
like'.

Earlier, Mr Waldegrave urged Israel to accept that the PLO's change of heart was
genuine, and warned Israel's leaders that they were running out of time.

But the Israeli reaction was politely unenthusiastic, with Mr Binmyamin
Netanyahu, Mr Waldegrave's Israeli opposite number, remarking that they had had
a 'friendly non-meeting of minds'.

Mr Waldegrave, who visited Nablus, one of the West Bank's most dangerous
troublespots, and the Gaza Strip during his trip, as well as the north and south
of Israel, yesterday held talks with Mr Moshe Arens, the Israeli Foreign
Minister, as well as Mr Netanyahu.

Mr Arens told Mr Waldegrave that Britain should remember that Israel is 'an
island of democratic values' in the Middle East which is fighting for its
survival.

Speaking to the Israeli Council for Foreign Relations last night, Mr Waldegrave
said that total British commitment to a strong and secure Israel was 'an
absolutely fundamental principle of our policy'. But he insisted that Europe,
and especially Britain, had 'direct interests in the region' and could help to
'build bridges'. The British view, he told a largely sceptical audience, was
that an international peace conference would not be a 'trap' for Israel.

He said the past few months had seen 'historic events' which had changed what
the Palestinians believed, and his aim was to convince Israel of the 'reality
and importance' not only of the intifada, but also of the PLO's renunciation of
terrorism and its claim to the whole of what was Palestine. 'I believe that a
dream has died, ' he declared.

Mr Waldegrave said he understood the 'deep scepticism' in Israel. 'But is it
really not worth exploring whether there has been a genuine shift which could
lead to a sea-change in attitudes towards Israel throughout the region?' he
asked.

The Israeli Government is convinced that repeated infiltration attempts by
Palestinian gunmen in Lebanon prove that the PLO's renunciation of terrorism is
a fake. The latest incident came last Thursday, when four heavily armed gunmen
from the Democratic Front for the Liberation of Palestine were shot dead near
the border.

Mr Waldegrave, unlike his predecessor, Mr David Mellor, has avoided a clash with
the Israelis over the occupied territories. None the less he has not pulled his
punches, and in Nablus he said Israel was only building up bitterness through
its 'unjust' occupation.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              113 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 8, 1989

Iranian terrorist squads 'plan French attacks'

BYLINE: By PAUL WEBSTER

LENGTH: 473 words

DATELINE: PARIS


An emergency inner cabinet meeting to discuss special security measures was
called by the Interior Minister, Mr Pierre Joxe, yesterday, after warnings that
France could be attacked by Iranian extremists because of the Salman Rushdie
affair.

Reports that terror squads were planning reprisals in France were supported by
the head of Europe's Muslim Shi'ite community, Ayatollah Mehdi Rouhani, who said
that fanatical Muslims and other people were ready to come to France to carry
out 'dozens of attacks'.

'These attacks are inevitable because some Muslims are no longer ready to listen
to anyone, even Ayatollah Khomeini,' he said.

'It is not in France's interest to support Rushdie in the face of the entire
Islamic world. I have asked the French authorities to forbid the publication of
the Satanic Verses.' The book's release has been held up by the publishers,
Presses de la Cite.

Mr Joxe said that while there was no cause for panic, special security measures
were being planned. These could be based on initiatives taken in 1986 after
pro-Iranian extremists killed 13 people and injured more than 200 in a wave of
bombings.

France has apparently angered Iran by organising support for Britain inside the
EEC. The French Foreign Minister, Mr Roland Dumas, led demands for the
withdrawal of all European ambassadors and has asked for the Rushdie issue to be
included on the agenda for a foreign ministers' meeting in Brussels on March 20.

France has felt in a strong position to defy Iran because there are no longer
any French hostages held by pro-Iranian groups in Lebanon.

Meanwhile, the new Virgin store on the Champs Elysees has withdrawn a record by
the French singer, Veronique Sanson, which includes a song called Allah.

The song, which calls on God to intervene to relive misery in the Third World,
has also been withdrawn from her programme at the Olympia concert hall after
death threats.

Thailand will ban the Rushdie novel after protests by Muslims, a senior police
official said yesterday. About 200 Muslims rallied peacefully outside the
British Embassy in central Bangkok and delivered a letter urging Britain to stop
protecting Mr Rushdie.

Bangladesh's President, General Hossain Mohammad Ershad, yesterday demanded the
trial and punishment of Mr Rushdie. 'The Satanic Verses is part of a conspiracy
against Islam and its holy prophet Mohammed,' he said. 'Freedom of expression is
one thing; hurting peopole's religious sentiment is another.'

Egypt's Nobel literature laureate, Naguib Mahfouz, criticised the book yesterday
as an unthinking diatribe which should be ignored.

Demands by Muslim immigrants in Holland for Mr Rushdie's death could inflame
anti-immigrant sentiments in a country long proud of its tolerance towards
others, Dutch politicians said yesterday.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              114 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            March 8 1989, Wednesday

Semtex found close to Tory Party venue; Cache linked to IRA

BYLINE: PETER DAVENPORT, STEWART TENDLER and RICHARD FORD

SECTION: Issue 63336.

LENGTH: 769 words


A large IRA weapons cache, including Semtex explosive, has been found buried in
countryside near Scarborough

The Prime Minister is due to address a Conservative Party conference at the
North Yorkshire resort next week


The find is being linked to the IRA unit known responsible for two attacks on
Army barracks since last August

North Yorkshire police appealed to local guesthouse keepers and hoteliers to
report suspicions about any guests

A large IRA cache, including Semtex explosives, weapons and ammunition, has been
found buried in countryside near Scarborough, where the Prime Minister is due to
address a party conference next week.

The discovery highlights police fears that the IRA has re-established itself on
the British mainland with plans for an extensive campaign.

The cache, including 25lbs of explosives, was discovered by a man collecting
leaf mould for his garden. Senior North Yorkshire police officers said last
night they could not rule out a link with Mrs Margaret Thatcher's Scarborough
visit.

She and other senior Cabinet members are scheduled to speak at the Conservative
Party Central Council annual meeting at the Crown Hotel on March 17 St Patrick's
Day and March 18. Police do not yet know how long the cache has been hidden.

Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist branch has been called in and the find is being
linked to the active service unit known to be operating in Britain since the
attack on the Inglis Barracks, north London, last August and an IRA bomb factory
discovered in south London on December 21.

Police found 150lb of Semtex at the factory and know another 25lb of Semtex was
stored but had disappeared. Last week 22lb of the explosive was found abandoned
in a north London reservoir. In recent weeks police have been working on the
theory that the IRA team has been hiding and operating in the Midlands where
they bombed Tern Hill barracks in Shropshire two weeks ago with up to 60lb of
Semtex.

The IRA have often hidden large quantities of explosives and weapons in buried
country sites. Finds in the past eight years have been made in the Home
Counties, the Midlands and the North-west.

Announcing the latest find last night police said the Czech-made Semtex
explosive, a favourite IRA weapon, together with guns, timers, ammunition and
other bomb-making equipment, was found buried in a container in scrubland on the
Scarborough-Whitby road near the village of Scalby.

Mr Frank Morritt, Deputy Chief Constable of North Yorkshire, said the amount of
explosive was capable of causing considerable damage. 'As a result of tests by
scientists we have reason to suspect a terrorist connection.

'We cannot dismiss a link between the find and what has happened in other parts
of the country.' Nor could a link between the find and Mrs Thatcher's
Scarborough visit be dismissed, he said.

'We are as happy as we can be with the security but our plans for the conference
have been scrutinized and we have taken every eventuality into account. But we
can't dismiss the higher risk in relation to the conference itself, ' Mr Morritt
added.

He said that the explosive may have been buried for some months and he appealed
especially to guesthouse keepers and hoteliers in Scarborough and along the
North-east coast to contact the police if they had suspicions about any of their
guests over the previous few months.

'We are desperate for help from the public. Our priority is to identify those
responsible, ' he said.

Security around the Prime Minister has been stepped up since the IRA bomb attack
on her hotel during the Conservative Party conference in Brighton in 1984. It is
highly unusual for details of her movements and planned visit to leak out more
than a few hours in advance.

The spot where the explosive and arms were discovered is an area of lonely
scrubland on the coastal road between Scarborough and Whitby. Last night
detectives were visiting hotels and guesthouses along the coast.

One theory last night was that the cache, found in a container, might have been
buried by terrorists from the active service unit which includes two men linked
to the London bomb factory: Patrick Sheehy, aged 28, from Co Limerick, in the
Irish Republic, and a second man thought by police to be John Connaty, also from
the Republic.

Although Downing Street last night refused to confirm that Mrs Thatcher planned
to join 1,000 Conservative representatives at the Scarborough meeting, she has
regularly attended the two-day event. The latest find is likely to reinforce her
determination to be at the conference.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              115 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 10, 1989

Hurd 'root out IRA' call is qualified

BYLINE: By DAVID HEARST

LENGTH: 342 words

DATELINE: BELFAST


The Home Office sought yesterday to clarify remarks made by Mr Douglas Hurd, in
which he said no political solution could cope with the Provisional IRA, 'they
just have to be extirpated'.

A Home Office spokesman said that the remarks did not mean that Britain was
abandoning its attempts to find a political settlement in the North or to
working closely with the Irish Republic in their attempts at the peace process.
'There is no shift in emphasis,' he added.

Speaking on BBC Radio's Today programme after the latest IRA bomb attack, in
which two British soldiers were killed on the outskirts of Londonderry, the Home
Secretary said the Provisional IRA had lost its ideology and degenerated to the
role of professional killers.

He went on: 'I believe that with the Provisional IRA and some of the Middle
Eastern groups, it is nothing really to do with a political cause any more. They
are professional killers. That is their occupation and their pleasure, and they
will go on doing that. No political solution will cope with that. They just have
to be extirpated.'

Another bitter attack on Britain's security policy came yesterday at the funeral
of Mr Leslie Dallas, the garage manager who was one of three men murdered by the
IRA in Coagh, Country Tyrone.

Dr Robert Dickinson, former moderator of the board of the Presbyterian Church,
said nobody could fail to see the difference in the response to the IRA in
Britain and in Ulster.

'There a sentry or SAS man who defends himself and his colleagues is honoured ..
here, an RUC or UDR man doing the same thing is put on trial as a common
criminal.'

Other Protestant churchmen appealed for no retaliation as anger at the killings
continued.

A number of people from Londonderry were being held for questioning after the
landmine explosion which killed Gunner Miles Amos, aged 18, from Redland,
Bristol, and Bombardier Stephen Cummins, aged 24, from Portsmouth. Both were
single. The condition of six soldiers injured in the blast was described as
serious but stable.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              116 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                                The Independent

                            March 11 1989, Saturday

The Week in Review: Home News

BYLINE: PHIL REEVES

SECTION: Home News ; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 647 words


PUBLIC INQUIRIES were announced. Safety reviews were demanded. The words had a
dismal familiarity.

So did the images - of crumpled railway carriages, of confused and injured
people, and of uneasy, apologetic, public relations officials.


At Purley, south London, the debris of Britain's second fatal rail crash in
three months was still being cleared away, when, on Monday, it happened again.
Two commuter trains in Glasgow crashed head-on. Fifty-one people were injured;
two died.

The disaster-weary world asked why it was possible, in this high-technology age
of computerised ticket machines, for two trains going in opposite directions to
find their way on to the same track. At the week's end, that question remains
unanswered. But how it happened seems to have been established: it appears one
of the trains went through a red light.

No sooner had the shock of the latest train crash been absorbed, than public
attention focused on the creation of more railways. After numerous half-accurate
leaks, British Rail at last announced its preferred route for the Channel tunnel
high-speed rail link, although nothing was said about how the pounds 1.7bn would
be raised to pay for it.

Conservative voters in Kent were delighted to learn that up to two-thirds of the
route between the mouth of the tunnel and London would be underground or
cuttings. This attempt to offset the environmental impact of the railway will
cost pounds 500m more than BR originally estimated; it quickly became clear that
BR was hoping, that if the private sector would not fork out, the extra tab
would be picked up by the Government.

But Margaret Thatcher, firing the first shot in what will surely be a lengthy
bargaining process, said that it was up to the consumer to pay. She told MPs
that not subsidising the rail link was 'a matter of principle'. She said the
users of the new line 'should pay for the full costs, including environmental
costs'.

At the other end of England, five miles north of the Yorkshire seaside resort of
Scarborough, a man spent part of Monday gathering leaf mould in a wooded area
known as Turkey Carpet. By chance, he unearthed a cache of arms, believed to
comprise 25lbs of Semtex, firearms, ammunition and bomb-making equipment.

The discovery came 12 days before Mrs Thatcher and a handful of Cabinet
ministers were due in Scarborough for a Tory party conference. Unusually, the
police publicly linked the find to a possible terrorist attack on the
conference, and there followed speculation that the IRA had been foiled in a
second attempt to assassinate the Prime Minister.

On Tuesday, public attention again turned unwillingly to the IRA. Three
Protestants were shot dead by two masked IRA gunmen who opened fire on a garage
in Coagh, Co Tyrone, which the Provisionals believed was a stronghold of the
Ulster Volunteer Force.

The killings proved damaging to the IRA's credibility among its supporters, and
were profoundly embarrassing to Sinn Fein; the IRA has made assurances that it
would avoid civilian casualties at all costs. Two of the victims were
pensioners.

The next day, the military became the target: two soldiers were killed and
several injured by a landmine at Buncrana Road, Londonderry.

Meanwhile the to-ing and fro-ing over The Satanic Verses affair went on apace.
Nine staff at the Iranian Embassy in London were given a week to leave Britain.
It was also announced that the United Kingdom may have its first man in space by
1991 on the Soviet space station Mir. Talks between Glavcosmos, the Soviet
commercial space organisation, and leading British scientists are well advanced.
Rumours that Salman Rushdie has volunteered for the job are sure to follow.

And the week's most startling football news: England beat Albania, 2-0, and went
to the top of Group Two in the World Cup.

Home News Page 8

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1989 Independent Print Ltd

                              117 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                                The Independent

                             March 13 1989, Monday

Protection for MPs on IRA 'hit-list' as cell is hunted

BYLINE: TERRY KIRBY, Crime Correspondent

SECTION: Home News ; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 660 words


SECURITY surrounding leading political, legal and military figures has been
tightened after the discovery of a list containing more than 100 names at the
IRA bomb factory in Clapham, south London, last December.

Amid fears of a widespread IRA bombing or assassination campaign, a number of
senior Tory MPs who would not otherwise qualify for protection are believed to
have been offered armed police guards. They have also been advised on security
precautions, such as house alarms and checking for car bombs.


The Prime Minister and senior ministers, such as the Home Secretary, Foreign
Secretary and Secretary of State for Northern Ireland have constant close
protection. Present and former Northern Ireland ministers, senior judges and
government law officers receive protection in varying degrees.

The existence of the list, which could have provided the basis for a more
detailed target assessment, was revealed by Scotland Yard only on Saturday after
all those on it had been warned.

Anti-Terrorist Squad officers believe the two men sought after the Clapham
discovery are part of an IRA cell with access to large quantities of explosives,
bomb- making equipment and firearms. The cell is linked to two bombings and
other discoveries of Semtex.

After a cache was found near Scarborough last week, Douglas Hurd, the Home
Secretary, said: 'We are dealing with a skilled though small terrorist force
which has had access to substantial quantities of arms and explosives.'

The two men still at large are the focus of the biggest terrorist hunt on
mainland Britain since the Brighton bombing in 1984.

Anti-terrorist detectives fear that more explosives and weapons are
undiscovered, perhaps buried in some wood and destined for Army barracks or the
many possible political and establishment targets on the Clapham list, in a
campaign presumably designed to coincide with the twentieth anniversary of the
Army being sent into Northern Ireland.

This would have been carried out with what appears to be a vast amount of Semtex
from the IRA's Libyan-supplied store in Northern Ireland.

It was probably shipped in one night last summer to the western coast of
Britain. Police now have almost 200lbs: 25lbs found near Scarborough, 150lbs at
Clapham and 22lbs in a filter bed at Stoke Newington, north London.

To this must be added a missing 25lbs from Clapham, 60 to 100lbs believed to
have been used in the bombs placed at Tern Hill barracks last month and a lesser
amount at Mill Hill barracks last August. One police source said: 'For all we
know, what we have so far is the tip of the iceberg.'.

The hunt for the two men believed to have been about to carry out the campaign
has involved the the Anti-Terrorist Squad, Special Branch, intelligence officers
and the security forces of Northern Ireland.

Fingerprints discovered at Clapham led police to name one of the men who had
been living there as Patrick Sheehy, the minder, from Co Limerick, now believed
to be part of the IRA cell that conspired to attack Tom King in summer 1987, for
which three people were imprisoned.

His accomplice used the names Jim Errington and I P Flynn. He is the bomb-maker.

Detectives believe the two were responsible for Mill Hill, possibly a trial run
at a soft target, after which they went to the Continent, returning in the
autumn to rent the Clapham flat.

The explosives and equipment at Stoke Newington and Scarborough were probably
dumped by them or their associates in the panic after Clapham.

They have re-grouped and are believed to be the core of a five or six
member-cell, including a woman, probably hiding in safe houses among the Irish
communities of the West Midlands.

One of the largest bombs planted by the IRA in Northern Ireland was defused by
the Army yesterday. The 1,500lb bomb, in a van parked near a military base in
Castlederg, Co Tyrone, took nearly 12 hours to defuse.

Home News Page 2

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1989 Independent Print Ltd

                              118 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             March 13 1989, Monday

IRA gunman in place for months

BYLINE: STEWART TENDLER, Crime Reporter

SECTION: Issue 63340.

LENGTH: 467 words


One member of the Provisional IRA active service unit linked to the bomb factory
in Clapham and to a target list of public figures chosen as potential
assassination victims has been working under cover in Britain for months if not
years.

Patrick Sheehy's successful infiltration, discovered when the south London
factory was found before Christmas, demonstrates the potential of the IRA unit,
which is now the centre of a national manhunt by police, who fear it could be as
dangerous as the Balcombe Street gang caught in 1975 after a lengthy campaign of
bombings and shootings.


The list of between 100 and 200 names, described by Whitehall sources as a
'research list' from which actual targets would be selected, was found in a
Clapham flat with 150lb of Semtex explosive. The targets would have faced
devices such as a car bomb, used 10 years ago to kill Mr Airey Neave, MP.

Police also found a collection of maps of provincial towns and centres. Using
those, the unit would have chosen other targets such as low-security military
bases.

Sheehy, believed by Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist branch to be an IRA gunman,
guard and bomb placer, came to London from the Irish Republic. Now aged 28 he
moved from job to job in London hidden among the shifting population of Irish
building site workers. Police have discovered part of a secret life that
stretches back nearly two years to a plot to kill Mr Tom King, Secretary of
State for Northern Ireland.

But they still know very little about his accomplice identifed as John
Connaghty, also from the Irish Republic, and thought to be a skilled bomb-maker.
The presence of the two was only discovered when a would-be car thief tampered
with Sheehy's car in Clapham. Sheehy shot the thief and fled, leaving police to
discover the Clapham bomb factory where the research list was found. The
handwritten list includes political, military and judicial figures linked by
some Ulster dimension. The IRA researchers have kept a careful check on anyone
who has made comments in the media on Ulster.

In the aftermath of the discovery of the list, Scotland Yard's Special Branch
has seen every individual on the list, which includes ministers, judges and
senior MPs. The small group of VIPs who already receive protection from Special
Branch officers have had their security re-assessed.

But the Special Branch, with fewer than 500 members, cannot protect everyone on
the list. Instead, police have given many of the individuals copies of a booklet
on security advice.

Police believe the unit, which may have split into two, has not been deterred by
publicity and police work. The unit is thought to be the centre of an IRA plan
to mark the twentieth anniversary of the start of the Ulster troubles with a
devastating attack.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              119 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                                The Independent

                             March 14 1989, Tuesday

Spain honours police for IRA surveillance

BYLINE: TIM MCGIRK in Madrid and HEATHER MILLS in London

LENGTH: 438 words


CONTROVERSY over the SAS killing of three Irish terrorists in Gibraltar a year
ago was revived yesterday when Spain publicly honoured 22 of its police officers
for their role in the surveillance of the trio.

Spain has always maintained that the IRA unit had been under constant watch,
right up to the point when they crossed on to the Rock, fuelling the argument
that the three could have been taken alive.


But last September's inquest into the shooting of Daniel McCann, Mairead Farrell
and Sean Savage was told by MI5 and other British government witnesses that
Spanish police had lost track of the terrorists in southern Spain and that their
surprise arrival in Gibraltar was a major factor in the shootings. The
suggestion was that faulty Spanish surveillance made it impossible to know if
the terrorists were armed or able to detonate their intended car bomb.

Yesterday Miguel Martin, the president of the Professional Policemen's Union
(SPP), said: 'When the IRA crossed into Gibraltar, the Spanish police were able
to tell the British who they were, when they had entered the Rock and what their
target was. What we weren't certain of is whether or not their explosives were
already inside Gibraltar.'

He said that the officers were incensed by suggestions that shoddy surveillance
had been a factor in the killings.

The Foreign Office refused to comment yesterday. But Paddy McGrory, who
represented the families of the IRA trio at the inquest, said the issue of
surveillance was another unresolved question which pointed to a 'massive
cover-up' by the authorities.

'It's another little straw, but these little straws are building up. It may be
that at the end of the day, they expose a cover-up which is as deplorable as the
events last March in Gibraltar themselves,' he said.

No Spanish policemen were allowed to give evidence at the inquest. Nor were
those who for five months had tailed the IRA team - which was said to be
plotting to bomb the Royal Anglian Regiment at the colony's changing of the
guard ceremony - permitted to speak publicly about the incident. Mr Martin said
that as early as November 1987, when McCann and Savage were first spotted in
Spain, the British government was alerted. Britain immediately dispatched an
agent - referred to as F5 - from Belfast to help the Spanish with surveillance.

'It's too risky for me to say whether or not I think that the SAS executed the
IRA or not. But there's no doubt that the Spanish police would have liked it to
end differently. A good terrorist isn't a dead one, it's one who's behind bars,'
he said.

Title Page 1

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1989 Independent Print Ltd

                              120 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 15, 1989

Channon in new row over jet crash alert

BYLINE: By GARETH PARRY

LENGTH: 543 words


Mr Paul Channon, the Transport Secretary, came under renewed pressure yesterday
to explain why Britain apparently failed to respond to a warning of a terrorist
attack circulated to foreign governments by the United States just before the
Lockerbie disaster. Mr John Prescott, Labour's transport spokesman, wrote to the
Prime Minister demanding a full, open and independent inquiry into how the
bulletin was handled.

Mr Prescott said yesterday: 'There is growing concern that there has been a
cover-up. The explanations given by Paul Channon in Parliament do not appear
consistent with the facts that have subsequently come to light.'

The US Federal Aviation Authority warning was made public by Mrs Elizabeth
Delude-Dix whose husband Peter, a management consultant, was killed when the Pan
Am jumbo blew up over the Scottish town in December killing 270 people.

Mrs Delude-Dix, an American living in London, called on Mr Channon to resign for
failing to take action on the alert. She said the FAA bulletin was clearly
marked for the attention of airport security personnel and that the British
Government had received a copy.

Mrs Delude-Dix claimed that Frankfurt airport, where the flight started, was on
double alert because of the warning. 'I think the honourable thing for Mr
Channon to do is he should resign because of his failure to ensure public
safety,' she said.

She claimed that the FAA had produced only 24 similar alerts last year. Only 16
of these were passed on to London. In the past, Mr Channon has said Britain
received about 200 warnings each year. Yesterday he insisted that the warning
Britain received before the Lockerbie disaster 'turned out to have very little
credence'.

Earlier this year he said a decision had been taken that an FAA warning was of
little relevance. Since Lockerbie, he has stood by that position.

Speaking from Brussels where he is attending a European transport ministers'
meeting, Mr Channon said he could not comment on Mrs Delude-Dix's claims until
he had seen the document. 'I shall want to look very carefully at what she says
and any document that may be produced,' he said.

A copy of the document, a FAA bulletin sent anonymously to Mrs Delude-Dix,
indicates that it was circulated to US embassies and agencies throughout the
world. It appears to have come from the office of the US Director of Civil
Aviation Security.

The list of recipients on the first page includes the FAA representative in
London. It seems probably this is the warning Mr Channon described today as
having 'very little credence'.

The bulletin - marked 'unclassified' - says Pan Am was made 'aware of the threat
information', which specifically referred to one of its flights.

It reports a telephone call to a US diplomatic post on December 5, 1988, warning
that 'within the next two weeks' there would be a bombing attempt against a Pan
Am jet from Frankfurt to the US. The Pan Am jumbo exploded over Lokerbie on
December 21.

In his letter, to the Prime Minister, Mr Prescott said: 'The FAA issued a
warning to your Government that proved horribly and tragically accurate in
predicting the plane, the route, the airline company and the period of time when
the bomb would be planted.'

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              121 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            March 15 1989, Wednesday

Lockerbie 'warning' produced; Lockerbie air disaster

BYLINE: KERRY GILL

SECTION: Issue 63342.

LENGTH: 308 words


A woman whose husband was among the 270 victims of the Lockerbie air disaster
has produced evidence which allegedly proves that the United States warned
foreign governments of an impending terrorist attack.

Mrs Elizabeth Delude-Dix, aged 36, who lost her husband, Peter, when Pan Am
Flight 103 exploded last December, said intelligence about the attack was
extremely detailed. She demanded the resignation of Mr Paul Channon, the
Secretary of State for Transport, because he had been 'wilfully irresponsible'
in his failure to act in respect of the bomb warning.


She said: 'I feel very angry that no steps were taken to safeguard the people on
Flight 103'.

She has passed a copy of the bulletin to Mr John Prescott, the Opposition
transport spokesman. The document came from the US Federal Aviation
Administration and was marked for the attention of airport security personnel.
The British Government had received a copy, she said.

Mrs Delude-Dix called for a full public inquiry into the events leading up to
the disaster. Her demand was endorsed by Mr Prescott yesterday. He said: 'There
is growing concern that there has been a cover up. The explanations given by
Paul Channon in Parliament do not appear consistent with the facts that have
subsequently come to light.'

The American bulletin allegedly said that information was received on December 5
that an attempt would be made within the following two weeks to bomb a Pan Am
flight from Frankfurt to the United States, and named two bombers.

Pan Am Flight 103 was en route from Frankfurt to the United States via Heathrow
when it exploded.

Yesterday Mr Channon insisted that the warning Britain received before the
Lockerbie disaster had 'very little credence'. He said he could not comment
further on Mrs Delude-Dix's claims until he had seen the document.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              122 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                                The Independent

                            March 16 1989, Thursday

Letter: Religious tolerance after 'Satanic Verses'

BYLINE: From Canon GORDON WILSON and others

LENGTH: 360 words


Dear Sir,

Now that the media discussion on The Satanic Verses is drawing to a close, it
may be well to attempt a healing of the wounds which still afflict our society.


Long before the publication of this book, Muslims in Britain were trying to gain
the same rights and protection accorded to other religious communities in our
multi-cultural society. The Rushdie book, which Muslims regard as blasphemous,
is only one aspect of a society showing itself to be insensitive to the needs
and pain in which Muslims find themselves. The courts have now ruled that the
law of blasphemy is inapplicable, but the need to discuss this problem with
inter-faith dialogue is even more urgent.

We deplore all calls to violence which contravene the highest aspirations of all
religious traditions. Muslims in Britain have shown themselves to be peace-
loving and law-abiding citizens, and responsible Muslim leaders are resolved to
approach this problem within the framework of law. It is our hope that
inequalities in that law will be redressed and that all minority religions will
be fully protected.

The World Conference on Religion and Peace associates itself with our Muslim
friends, and would like to move from the present debate to a more sympathetic
appraisal of Islamic life in our society. It is our hope that writers and
publishers will now exercise more self-discipline in dealing with the most
sacred beliefs of their religious neighbours.

We are deeply concerned that the end result of the affair could lead to
persecution of the Muslims in the Western world. If any act of terrorism were to
take place this would be a tragedy, and we can only affirm our belief that
non-violent protest is a more effective and religious response.

Everyone must join together in challenging extremism and in creating a climate
of free discussion.

Yours faithfully,

Canon GORDON WILSON (Christian),

Rabbi ALBERT H. FRIEDLANDER

(Jewish), Mr B. KONNUR (Hindu),

Dr SYED AZIZ PASHA (Muslim),

Professor HARMINDAR SINGH (Sikh), Mr PANKAY VORA (Jain)

World Conference on Religion and Peace

London, E1

14 March

Letters Page 27

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1989 Independent Print Ltd

                              123 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                                The Independent

                            March 16 1989, Thursday

Aircraft security powers to be tightened

BYLINE: COLIN BROWN and NICK COHEN

SECTION: Home News ; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 485 words


AN AVIATION Security Bill is being planned by the Government for the autumn in
an attempt to answer widespread criticism of security lapses in the wake of the
Lockerbie disaster.

Relatives of the 259 people killed on Pan Am flight 103 described the measures
as a stunt which disguised the Government's continuing refusal to order a public
inquiry into the Department of Transport's failure to tell airports about US
warnings that a Pan Am flight could be attacked. They said what was needed was
not just tighter security but better judgement by ministers.


The main feature of the legislation will be an improved inspectorate to make
spot checks on airport security. The inspectors will have the power to order
checks on flights and passengers where there are grounds for suspicion about a
possible terrorist attack.

The Government plans will update the Civil Aviation Security Act and give the
Secretary of State for Transport direct powers over contract staff and security
guards at airports.

Labour last night hailed it as a victory for John Prescott, Labour's transport
spokesman, who had been pressing Mr Paul Channon, Secretary of State for
Transport, for further action, despite assurances by the minister that he had
sufficient powers.

Mr Prescott added that the Prime Minister had still not explained Mr Channon's
statement about his decision not to pass on to airports the US Federal Aviation
Authority warning. The security bulletin said two weeks and two days before
Lockerbie that there could be a bomb attack on a Pan Am flight from Frankfurt in
the next fortnight.

Mr Channon said he could not alert airport security officers because the FAA had
forbidden unauthorised disclosure. But a copy of the warning published yesterday
showed the FAA had clearly stated that airport security personnel should be
informed.

Mr Prescott added that the Prime Minister had also failed to explain why Mr
Channon had 'misled the House of Commons by referrring to a large number of bomb
threats when he knew that the FAA had only issued 24 bulletins in 1988 and only
16 of these had been sent to Britain'.

Linda Mack, a leader of the Lockerbie relatives' campaign for Mr Channon's
resignation, said: 'There is no point increasing airport security when the
problem lies at the Department of Transport. We need to ensure first that the
department passes on information so that airport security officers know there is
a threat.'

Mrs Thatcher defended Mr Channon's decision not to alert Heathrow, saying the US
Government had said that its warning had 'little credibility.' But both Downing
Street and the Department of Transport refused to say which US Government
department had told Britain that the warning was unreliable. The FAA, the US
State Department and the FBI have said they did not tell the British that the
Pan Am warning had been withdrawn.

Home News Page 2

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1989 Independent Print Ltd

                              124 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            March 16 1989, Thursday

Britain denies it was told Rock gang was unarmed; IRA shootings in Gibraltar

BYLINE: MICHAEL EVANS and PHILIP JACOBSON

SECTION: Issue 63343.

LENGTH: 635 words


The Foreign Office has angrily denied new allegations by Spanish police sources
about the killing of three IRA members in Gibraltar last year.

Quoting police sources in Madrid yesterday, the newspaper, El Pais, said Spanish
security authorities told their British counterparts that the three terrorists
Daniel McCann, Sean Savage and Mairead Farrell were approaching the Gibraltar
frontier and that they were certain none had any arms or explosives.


If that is true, it contradicts the British Government's case presented at the
inquest in Gibraltar, which stated that there was no surveillance by Spanish
police up to the frontier and that the arrival of the three terrorists, two days
before they were expected, took the authorities by surprise.

A spokesman at the Foreign Office in London, when asked about the newspaper
report, said yesterday: 'It is untrue. They (the IRA unit) were not under
surveillance. This was examined in great detail at the inquest.'

Government witnesses at the inquest said that when the SAS confronted the
terrorists, they had no reason to believe that they were not carrying guns or
remote control devices that could detonate a car bomb.

Yesterday, sources said the El Pais article was based on an interview with a
senior officer from Spain's anti-terrorist squad. However the claim is
contradicted by the Spanish police chief who provided an affidavit to the
Gibraltar inquest, although it was not made public because of the Spanish
Government's refusal to allow the officer to appear as a witness.

The affidavit, a copy of which has now been seen by The Times, was produced by
Chief Insp Tomas Rayo Valenzuela of the Spanish Special Branch in Malaga. He was
directly involved in masterminding the surveillance operation in the days
leading up to the shooting of the three IRA terrorists.

Chief Insp Rayo Valenzuela, commanding Group III of the Malaga Special Branch,
had been warned by British intelligence at the beginning of 1988 of the possible
presence in Spain of members of an IRA active service unit 'with the intention
of committing an attack against British interests in the Costa del Sol'. The
possible Gibraltar link was not mentioned at that stage.

The affidavit said that at the beginning of March, after the British police had
sent photographs of the three suspects, a special control point was set up at
Malaga airport to look out for them. McCann, carrying a small suitcase and a
dark blue travel bag, and Savage, carrying a black nylon travel bag, were seen
arriving on Flight IB 657 from Paris.

The two men made contact with a woman, recognized as Mairead Farrell. The men
left by taxi and it was impossible to follow them. The woman was also 'lost from
sight inside the building due to the amount of people there at the time.'

The affidavit said that on March 5 and 6 searches were made along the Costa del
Sol, without success. British and Gibralter police were informed.

El Pais said the Spanish police tailed the IRA unit for at least six months. It
also claimed that a 'support team', a man and a woman, were put under
surveillance from the moment they first took possession of Semtex explosives
intended for use in a bomb attack against The Royal Anglian Regiment based on
the Rock.

The paper's sources also rejected claims that Spanish police were given the slip
by the trio after they arrived at Malaga airport en route to Gibraltar.

Contact was lost at that stage, the newspaper conceded, but the trail was picked
up again and was maintained up to the border with Gibraltar.

Earlier this week it was reported that the Spanish authorities had honoured the
police officers detailed to follow the terrorists. It was suggested that the
honours were a sign that their surveillance was successful.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              125 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 17, 1989

Thatcher in row over crash alert: Police believed to have identity of Lockerbie
bomber

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SMITH and GARETH PARRY

LENGTH: 778 words


Mrs Thatcher and Mr Paul Channon, the Transport Secretary, were under growing
pressure over airport security last night as it became clear that the detailed
pre-Lockerbie warning from the Department of Transport of a radio-cassette bomb
threat to aircraft was sent out by letter and delayed by the Christmas post.

Senior government sources yesterday indicated, meanwhile, that the police
investigating the Lockerbie disaster believe they know the identity and
whereabouts of the person who placed the bomb which killed 270 people on board
Pan Am flight 103 on December 21.

The bomb originated in the Middle East and was passed through security checks at
both Frankfurt and Heathrow airports, police evidence is likely to disclose.

The report will expose the Government to fresh criticism of security at
Britain's airports. It is expected to reveal that the radio-cassette bomb was
constructed and dispatched from the Middle East to catch the connecting flight
103 through London to New York.

Some of the police findings were detailed yesterday by the Lord Advocate, Lord
Fraser, in a written answer yesterday. He said the police had ruled out any link
with a bomb warning received by the American embassy in Helsinki early in
December. Police officers travelled to Finland to investigate the anonymous
telephone call to the embassy, he said.

The police were, he said, still investigating a bomb found in Frankfurt in
October. 'The bomb found in Frankfurt in a raid in October on the flat and car
of members of the PFL-GC (Popular Front for the Liberation of the
Palestine-General Command) contained a barometric timing device indicating that
it was intended to sabotage an aircraft.

'German police are still holding some members of the PFL-GC. The matter is still
under investigation in connection with the Lockerbie disaster, and I cannot say
more at this stage.'

The Department of Transport admitted last night that its detailed warning of a
terrorist attack on an aircraft went out on December 19, two days before the
Lockerbie disaster, by letter. But Pan Am said that the information, which gave
precise details of the type of radio-cassette bomb, took four weeks to arrive.

Mr Geoff Kriendler, Pan Am's vice-president of corporate communications, said in
New York: 'Pan Am in London did not receive this letter until January 17.

The department also admitted that an initial warning, without a mock-up of the
bomb which the December 19 warning contained, was sent to airlines on November
22. Mr Alf Morris, Labour MP for Manchester Wythenshawe, said the warning sent
out by the department on December 19 was received at Manchester Airport in the
post on January 12.

'This is a massive example of bungling and incompetence by Mr Channon, the
Transport Secretary,' he said. 'I am approaching him urgently to demand a
statement. It is almost unbelievable that in the age of the fax-machine a
government department puts a life-or-death warning in the Christmas post.'

Mr Kriendler emphasised that the Department of Transport's initial warning, in
November, went only to UK airlines. 'We never received it,' he said. UK airlines
received the November warning in the form of telexes and telephone calls.

Mrs Thatcher and Mr Channon have come under growing pressure to respond to the
growing concern over security at airports. While Labour has been attempting to
implicate Mrs Thatcher in a 'cover-up' over American bomb warnings before the
Lockerbie disaster, Mr Channon's personal handling of airport security has been
increasingly called into question.

But Mr Channon is expected to issue a vigorous defence of his role.

Mr John Prescott, Labour's transport spokesman, said there was little
credibility in Mr Channon's statement said and there was 'tremendous
incompetence' at his department. 'It is now horribly clear that the warnings
actually identified the company, the type of plane, the route, the period of
time and the way in which the explosive was contained in a radio-cassette
player,' he said.

Mr Prescott is demanding a public inquiry into events surrounding the
destruction of flight 103. He said it could establish whether privileged people
had been tipped off about the bomb threat, thus explaining why the Pan Am jet
was flying half-empty to New York during the Christmas period.

But Mr Prescott failed to get the subject raised on the floor of the Commons
yesterday, when the Speaker ruled out his demand for an emergency debate. Mr
Prescott was permited to apply for an emergency debate after it emerged that Mr
David Wilshire, Tory MP for Spelthorne, had received a background briefing.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              126 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                                The Independent

                             March 17 1989, Friday

The Lockerbie Disaster: Pan Am knew of bomb threat: Lockerbie row grows as
airline admits warning

BYLINE: NICK COHEN, PHIL REEVES and JUDY JONES

SECTION: Unheeded warnings, page 3

LENGTH: 529 words


THE ROW over the Government's handling of alerts before the Lockerbie bombing
intensified yesterday, as Pan Am admitted that it had been warned about the type
of terrorist bombs in radio cassette recorders which caused the explosion over
the Scottish town last December.

Jeff Kriendler, a Pan Am vice- president, said in New York that the US Federal
Aviation Administration (FAA) had told the airline of the new bomb threat in
November.


In Britain, the Government rejected Labour demands for an emergency Commons
debate on the handling by Paul Channon, the Secretary of State for Transport, of
two sets of alerts received before the Lockerbie bombing.

The first was a specific warning, based on a telephone call to the US Embassy in
Helsinki. This said that a Pan Am flight from Frankfurt to the US could be
bombed in the two weeks after 5 December. Mr Channon discounted this warning
from the FAA because it had 'little credibility'. In a written parliamentary
answer last night, Lord Fraser of Carmylli, the Lord Advocate, said police had
ruled out any link between the Lockerbie disaster and the Helsinki threat.

The second warning came in a series of general alerts from the Americans, the
West Germans and the British Department of Transport last November and December
about the dangers of bombs in radio cassette recorders, discovered by
anti-terrorist officers in Frankfurt.

John Prescott, Labour's transport spokesman, said that the two warnings, taken
together, accurately predicted the disaster over Lockerbie in which 270 people
were murdered. A bomb in a cassette recorder exploded on Pan Am flight 103 from
Frankfurt to New York via Heathrow on 21 December.

'Did anyone consider linking these two pieces of information?' Mr Prescott asked
after he had again demanded a Commons statement and a public inquiry.

The Department of Transport has admitted it did not pass on the specific warning
about Pan Am flights to British airports, but it did warn airports of the
general danger of cassette bombs.

Pan Am said yesterday that it did not receive the department's detailed
explanation of 19 December on how radio cassette bombs worked - it was held up
in the Christmas post for weeks. But it admitted that it had been given earlier
FAA bulletins on recorder bombs.

Conservative backbenchers argued yesterday that the bomb would not have been
found even if the Government had sent Heathrow airport the FAA's specific
warning about Pan Am flights from Frankfurt. Pan Am was responsible for luggage
security, not the British airport security officers, who only searched
passengers.

But the Department of Transport said that its Civil Aviation Policy Division was
ultimately responsible for British airport security and had the authority to
impose higher standards of security on all foreign airlines, including Pan Am.

Mr Channon last night dismissed as 'absolutely ridiculous' the opposition calls
for a public inquiry into the Lockerbie disaster. He told the BBC that it would
be irresponsible to divert officials working on the Lockerbie tragedy away from
the investigation.

Unheeded warnings, page 3

Title Page 1

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1989 Independent Print Ltd

                              127 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            March 18 1989, Saturday

10 killed by bomb near UK Embassy; Beirut

BYLINE: From JUAN CARLOS GUMUCIO, west Beirut

SECTION: Issue 63345.

LENGTH: 197 words


At least 10 people were killed and more than 50 wounded yesterday when a car
bomb blew up near the British Embassy in Christian east Beirut.

No group claimed responsibility and it was not clear whether the attack was
linked to recent threats against British interests over the Rushdie affair or,
as most people in Beirut believe, to the current round of the civil war.


The car, which investigators say carried about 110lb of dynamite, exploded at
the doorsteps of a crowded bakery in the Jal el-Deeb district, less than 50
yards from the embassy. The explosion set several cars and buildings on fire but
the embassy was only slightly damaged.

The military command of General Michel Aoun's Christian 'government' accused the
Syrian Army in west Beirut of engineering the bombing to provoke renewed battles
between the two sectors of the Lebanese capital.

The Christian Voice of Lebanon radio station suggested, however, that the
bombers may have had the embassy in mind. It has been on full alert since
extremist groups threatened to launch attacks over Britain's support for Salman
Rushdie. British diplomats have been confined indoors since the threats.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              128 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                                The Independent

                             March 20 1989, Monday
                              Correction Appended

The Lockerbie Air Disaster: Delay and disbelief surrounded warnings of bomb
attack on jet

BYLINE: NICK COHEN

SECTION: Home News ; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 875 words


THREE WARNINGS were circulating in Britain before the Lockerbie bombing: one was
discounted, one was inadequate and the third was held up by civil servants until
two weeks after the disaster.

Pan Am flight 103 was destroyed by a bomb made of Semtex plastic explosive
hidden in a radio-cassette recorder. A recorder bomb was discovered for the
first time on 26 October when police in Frankfurt and other West German cities
rounded up a cell of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine General
Command, the terrorist group headed by Abu Nidal.


The Germans gave a great deal of publicity to the discovery of the bomb and
warnings about its design appeared in November.

In Britain, the Department of Transport sent out a detailed alert which gave
airport and airline security guards guidance on how to spot the bomb. This was
the now-notorious 19 December warning. It did not reach most of the British
airports and UK and US airlines for weeks because Department of Transport civil
servants did not put in the post until the New Year.

When the storm about such an important warning being delayed broke, Paul
Channon, the Secretary of State for Transport, was certain he had done nothing
wrong. The important information had been sent out in a previous warning on 22
November, he said. The 19 December memo was merely background information.

'It was not a great new warning which we had to send out by telex,' he said last
week. 'It was a bit of supporting information containing some colour
photographs.'

However, it emerged on Friday that the 22 November description of the bomb was
inadequate. The Department of Transport recognised this and said in the 22
November circular: 'The department will issue further details, and hopefully a
picture of the device, and an assessment of a threat posed by the (West German)
discovery in due course.'

The delayed 19 December warning contained pictures of the West German bomb and
the entirely new information that:

The aerial jack plug was taped to the side of the radio and there was no wire
attached to the jack plug.

Additional batteries and explosive material were not secured inside the
recorder. When it was rotated it was obvious that there were loose pieces
inside.

When X-rayed it appeared to have more wiring than normal, although this, the
department said, was not a significant help to security officers.

The 19 December warning also contained the remarkable recommendation that: 'Any
item about which a searcher is unable to satisfy himself/herself must be
consigned to the aircraft hold.' The Lockerbie bomb was in the aircraft hold.

Separate from these general warnings, which were being made by the US Federal
Aviation Administration (FAA) and West Germany as well as Britain, an anonymous
warning was telephoned to the US Embassy in Helsinki, Finland, on 5 December.

According to the FAA bulletin, the caller said that 'within the next two weeks
there would be a bombing attempt against a Pan Am aircraft flying from Frankfurt
to the US'. Pan Am flight 103 was blown up on a flight from Frankfurt to New
York, via Heathrow, on 21 December.

The FAA alert referred US airlines and the British Government to previous
warnings about cassette recorder bombs.

The Finnish police said before the Lockerbie explosion that they were as certain
as they could be that this was a hoax. Sepo Tiitenen, director of Supo, the
Finnish security police, carried out the investigation into the call. He said it
bore very strong similarities with three hoax calls in 1987 and 1988 to the
Israeli Embassy.

He added that the police were not absolutely certain that the caller was the
same man on all four occasions and did not have enough evidence to bring
charges. But he had very strong grounds for believing that the caller knew the
Finnish woman he implicated in his warnings and that a personal quarrel could be
involved.

The FAA bulletin on the call was sent to Britain, where it was decided after
consultation with the 'US authorities' that it had 'little credibility'. The
Ministry of Defence said it could not be 'discounted entirely' but agreed with
this assessment.

The Department of Transport has refused to say which US agency told it the
warning was a hoax. The US State Department has said it was not told that the
warning was discredited before Lockerbie. The FAA said it did not retract its
original bulletin and issue an 'all clear' message.

The US Embassy in Moscow found the warning sufficiently credible to put the
Helsinki bulletin on its noticeboards.

Defenders of the Government say there was nothing it could have done to stop the
explosion even if it had taken all the warnings seriously. They say Pan Am
received the same warnings as the Department of Transport and was told by the
FAA about the dangers of cassette recorder bombs long before Lockerbie.

The British believe the bomb was put on to the Boeing 727 at Frankfurt and
transferred with other luggage on to the 747 at Heathrow. The West Germans say
there is no evidence to support this, and the relatives of the dead say that
even if the bomb was put on at Frankfurt, the British missed an opportunity to
find it at Heathrow.

Home News Page 3

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: March 21, 1989

CORRECTION:
The Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine-General Command is led by
Ahmad Jibril and not Abu Nidal, as was stated in the article yesterday on the
bomb warnings which preceded Lockerbie.

                      Copyright 1989 Independent Print Ltd

                              129 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            March 23 1989, Thursday

Airlines may press for ban on radio-cassettes

BYLINE: MARK SOUSTER and HARVEY ELLIOT

SECTION: Issue 63349.

LENGTH: 448 words


Airports and airlines in Britain are expected to seek a total ban on passengers'
radio-cassette players after security delays at Heathrow yesterday.

Stringent checks on electrical goods combined with the traditional Easter
holiday rush to create havoc. Hundreds of passengers experienced delays of more
than an hour.


After yesterday's crush, Heathrow authorities advised passengers to arrive at
least half an hour early for flights today, and a spokesman said: 'Passengers
can help reduce delays by not bringing electrical or electronically operated
equipment with them. In some cases, these items may not be allowed on board the
aircraft.'

Mr Paul Channon, the Secretary of State for Transport, said in Montreal in
February that he would support any airline refusing to carry radios on flights,
and hinted that a ban might be in the pipeline.

Airline officials and airport managers privately believe that a blanket ban is
the only realistic option. At a stroke it would reduce security delays.

There were further reports yesterday that Samir Kadar, a ruthless field
commander of the extremist Palestinian group Abu Nidal, is wanted for
questioning about the bombing of Pan Am Flight 103, which crashed over Lockerbie
last year.

The West German mass circulation daily Bild-Zeitung said Kadar, aged 39,
masterminded the bombing. It claimed to have information from Finnish police
that Kadar was named by the anonymous caller who warned of a planned attack on a
Pan Am airliner in Helsinki on December 5.

However, the Helsinki warning has been dismissed as a hoax by Finnish police. Mr
Channon, has also emphasized that the Helsinki warning, while an extraordinary
coincidence, was not relevant.

Herr Alexander Prechtel, of the West German federal prosecutor's office, said
there was no evidence that Kadar was involved in the Lockerbie bombing or was
connected with the 'Toshiba bomb factory' discovered by police at Neuss, near
Dusseldorf, on October 26.

Already hunted by France, Italy, Denmark, Bolivia, India, Pakistan and Sudan,
Kadar is one of the most wanted men on Interpol's books, although Greek police
believe he may have been blown up in car bomb in Athens on July 11 last year.

A spokesman for the Lockerbie police investigation said yesterday: 'Reports
about Kadar are pure speculation. There is no evidence to suggest that he was
responible for the Pan Am bomb.'

Thousands of cross-Channel ferry passengers face delays over the Bank Holiday
weekend because of a French seamen's dispute.

The seamen are planning to take industrial action that will disrupt Sealink's
routes between Dover and Calais and Newhaven and Dieppe.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              130 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                                The Independent

                             March 24 1989, Friday

The Lockerbie Disaster: Fourth warning given before Lockerbie bomb: Phoney
police tested Frankfurt airport security

BYLINE: NICK COHEN

SECTION: Heathrow security, page 2

LENGTH: 712 words


A FOURTH warning of the dangers of a potential terrorist bombing attempt was in
circulation in the weeks before Lockerbie, it was revealed yesterday. It too
highlighted the danger to US flights from Frankfurt.

The American Federal Aviation Administration sent out an alert bulletin to
airports, airlines and governments on 7 December after phoney 'policemen' twice
questioned American officials working for TWA at Frankfurt airport - where Pan
Am flight 103 began its fatal journey - on how US carriers transported
explosives, detonators and pistols.


Last night politicians in Britain and West Germany demanded to know who had been
told about the warning, which, when put together with previous alerts, rubbed in
the danger of terrorists striking at US flights from Frankfurt. The British
Department of Transport, which received other FAA alerts, refused to say if it
had been given the Frankfurt warning. The West Germans said they had not been
sent a copy.

The Frankfurt alert followed:

The 'hoax' call to the US embassy in Helsinki on 5 December that an attempt
would be made to bomb a Pan Am flight from Frankfurt to the US in the next two
weeks. The FAA warning on that call was issued on the same day as the
'policemen' alert.

The discovery of a sophisticated bomb hidden in a radio cassette-recorder, of
the type that killed 270 at Lockerbie on 21 December, by anti-terrorist officers
in Frankfurt and other West German cities at the end of October.

Two Department of Transport warnings: an outline description of the bomb on 22
November and a detailed follow-up on 19 December, which the department did not
post until the second week in January. West Germany issued details and pictures
of the recorders in mid-November to Western countries and US airlines.

The existence of the suspicious attempts to discover how US airlines guarded
against bombs at Frankfurt was revealed by the American House of Representatives
Transportation Sub-Committee, in Washington, which has been holding hearings on
the Lockerbie bombing.

It quoted from an FAA bulletin issued on 7 December, the 21st warning the
administration released last year. In it the FAA described: 'Two incidents that
may indicate attempts to test security procedures of a US carrier operating from
Frankfurt Airport.'

The sub-committee said that on at least two occasions individuals claiming
'phoney law-enforcement status' sought information from TWA on procedures for
transporting pistols, explosives and a detonator. No one was detained or
questioned.

The FAA bulletin noted that: 'The incidents occured within a few days of each
other. There is a possibility they are related.'

The committee said: 'Despite the Helsinki warning of a Frankfurt bombing, the
discovery of a radio-cassette player bomb, and two attempts to test Frankfurt
airport security, the FAA failed to order US airlines to take any security
measures beyond those already in place.' The Lockerbie investigators have said
that the radio-cassette bomb was probably placed on a Pan Am 727 flight from
Frankfurt. It would then have been transferred at Heathrow into a luggage
container on the 747 which left London and was destroyed over Lockerbie.

Last night John Prescott, the Labour transport spokesman, said Paul Channon, the
Secretary of State for Transport, must say if Britain received the Frankfurt
warning and what action was taken. 'If we did get it, we must know if it was put
together with all other alerts and if Heathrow and other airports receiving
flights from Frankfurt were told. The Americans are complaining that tighter
security was not enforced, but at least they alerted airports and airlines.'

Linda Mack, one of the British relatives said: 'A public inquiry is now needed
to establish why the Department of Transport or other ministries did not collect
and collate this information. Frankfurt is mentioned explicitly three times
within a period of 19 days. Yet we know that baggage and passengers arriving
from Frankfurt were not screened at Heathrow airport.'

There were new scares at British airports yesterday after three youths
penetrated security at Heathrow and a threat of a terrorist hijacking was
revealed.

Heathrow security, page 2

Title Page 1

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1989 Independent Print Ltd

                              131 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             March 26 1989, Sunday

Consequences of Carnage; Lockerbie air disaster

BYLINE: MICHAEL JONES and JAMES ADAMS

SECTION: Issue 8589.

LENGTH: 2703 words


THE NEWS that IBM, the world's biggest multi-national group, was advising
387,000 employees in 130 countries not to fly on American airlines from Europe
or the Middle East confirmed that the bombing of Pan Am's Boeing 747 over
Lockerbie on December 21 was the single biggest terrorist success of modern
times.

IBM's decision came at the climax of a series of political and security rows and
recriminations in the wake of the disaster. Yesterday's reaction from
politicians and the international business community showed how quickly IBM's
embargo could snowball.


The effect on America's biggest international carrier may be catastrophic, and
the terrorist danger to other Western airlines even greater. Lockerbie's
fall-out has already been more widespread than the terrorists, conclusively
identified by authoritative American sources yesterday as the Popular Front for
the Liberation of Palestine General Command, could possibly have hoped.

All last week, political controversy in Britain swirled around the future of
Paul Channon, the transport secretary, and pressure built up on Margaret
Thatcher to reshuffle her cabinet.

Channon's dismissal was widely predicted in many newspapers yesterday despite
his beating off fierce opposition attacks in the House of Commons last Tuesday
on his handling of the terrorist threat. His latest crisis comes after weeks of
controversy over his department's handling of the warnings received before the
Lockerbie crash about terrorist plans to attack an American airline.

Speculation over his future escalated last Tuesday after weekend denials by him
that he had told political journalists over lunch in London's Garrick Club that
the police knew everything about the bombing. The Daily Mirror, one of the
newspapers represented at the lunch, ran a front page editorial headlined: 'You
are a liar Mr Channon.'

What Channon had told the Garrick Club group, said the Mirror, was 'that the
bomb came from the Middle East, that it was placed aboard the ill-fated jumbo at
Frankfurt, that the police knew who had planted the bomb and that they knew
where he or she was'. All this, Channon said later, was 'total news to me' an
assertion made all the stranger by today's American leak to The Sunday Times
corroborating what he was reported to have said.

To the terrorists responsible for the Lockerbie outrage, such mayhem at the
heart of the British parliament and political system must have been pure joy.
Their pre-Christmas murder of 270 people had set events in train which
threatened a cabinet minister's career by making him and not the terrorists the
prime target for the British media and opposition.

Reckoning themselves to be safe for the moment, they could look at the wider
effects of their bombing with growing satisfaction.

First came the delayed official admissions that earlier warnings had been
received of terrorist attacks against aircraft after the discovery of a
radio-cassette bomb in Frankfurt last October.

This brought instant demands that passengers, not just security officials and
privileged groups like US diplomats, should be alerted of possible terrorist
threats a view strongly contested by president George Bush last Friday.

The second bonus came with the public dismay over both the royal family's
absence from the memorial service and remarks by the Duke of York in the
stricken town that he felt particularly sorry for the American victims.

Amid the anguish caused by the loss of life, the pattern developed of
well-meaning people providing easy targets.

The prime minister was criticised for always visiting disaster areas ahead of
the royal family. American tourists interviewed at Heathrow said the royal
family had no excuse for not attending the memorial service. The Sun stormed
that royalty might have no role at all if it did not 'recognise its part in the
most solemn and demanding moments in our national life'.

It was not until the Prince of Wales visited Lockerbie on January 24 to a warm
welcome that the rumpus subsided. But anti-royal sentiment had been given a
field day.

Channon was also an early target, made all the easier by his lack of political
flair and, it would seem, his subsequent lack of discretion. He left for his
holiday home in Mustique within 48 hours of the crash. When investigators
announced the Pan Am jet had been blown up, newsmen who followed him made the
most of his resting in 'the world's most exclusive retreat'.

'Unbelievable and intolerable, ' said John Prescott, Labour transport spokesman.
Opposition leaders quickly decided Channon's term as transport secretary was
disaster-prone; the Garrick Club episode seemed conclusive.

Attacks on him reached their pitch last week as he was forced to face a packed
House of Commons and defend his conduct. In the event, he made what seemed an
effective counter-attack and was generally judged to have kept his cabinet place
until the next reshuffle. But the questions remained and, after today's American
corroboration of his reported Garrick disclosures, are bound to be raised again.

'In all honour, ' Channon declared, he could not remember saying anything more
about the hunt for the terrorists other than it was making 'brilliant progress'.
According to Washington sources and to the fury of the government's law officers
it was indeed.

How far it has been compromised by premature disclosure and to what extent
Channon is really responsible remains to be seen. Channon has not yet taken
legal action to clear his name against the Mirror.

Downing Street's view is that cabinet ministers who lunch with political
journalists in groups are asking for trouble. Channon would now surely say amen
to that.

THIS WEEKEND, the full impact of the security scare set-off by Lockerbie hit
British airports as departures were delayed by one to four hours because of
extra checks. Airport troubles, however, are nothing compared with the danger to
Pan Am. The repercussions of Lockerbie are threatening to push the airline to
the brink of closure. After five years of enormous losses, it expects 1989's
first quarter results to be terrible.

Airline analysts in London and New York believe there has been a serious
fall-off in bookings and that was before the IBM move. 'Not only is IBM a major
purchaser of air tickets, but its lead is followed by hundreds of small
companies all over America, ' one analyst said yesterday.

Pan Am also faces huge legal costs. Just days after the crash, a US lawyer filed
a Dollars 50m lawsuit on behalf of a 20-year old victim. The civil suit charged
that Pan Am had failed to provide adequate security against a bomb being stored
on the jet.

The lawyer said: 'This is the first of many civil suits against Pan Am and I
expect them to be consolidated into one suit at a later date.'

THE REAL hunt for the perpetrators of Lockerbie involves satellites, other high
technology gadgetry, traditional agents who have infiltrated terrorist
organisations and painstaking police work.

Although Scotland's Dumfries police are officially leading the hunt, the real
work is being done far from the crime scene. Almost immediately after the
bombing, US intelligence narrowed the list of suspect terrorist groups to four:
the organisation named yesterday by American sources PFLP-GC the Fatah
Revolutionary Council controlled by Abu Nidal, the Guardians of the Islamic
Revolution controlled by the Iranian government, and the Japanese Red Army.

Since then the American list has narrowed to the PFLP-GC but without hard proof.

'In a case like this, the terrorists have become very experienced at covering
their tracks and it is very difficult indeed for us to pin the blame squarely on
a group or individual, ' one US intelligence source said yesterday.

The British and Americans routinely intercept thousands of telephone
conversations made on microwave as well as targeting specific places used by
terrorists. These calls are automatically retained by databanks. But there have
been no clear leads in this case.

There is routine sharing of anti-terrorist intelligence by western security
forces. Information gathered by the security service in London will appear the
same day on the computers of the Defence Intelligence Agency's counter terrorism
unit in Washington. This co-operation has helped to improve the West's response
to terrorism.

Even so, the PFLP-GC, in common with other terrorist groups, has a tight cell
structure which is difficult for Western agents to penetrate.

The PFLP-GC split from the PFLP in 1968 because its leader, Ahmed Jibril (nom de
guerre Abu Jihad), believed there was too much talk of politics and not enough
military action. Jibril is a former captain in the Syrian army and many of his
followers come either from Syria or have experience in the Syrian military.

He and an estimated 500 followers are based in Syria and Lebanon, financed and
armed by Syria's president Assad as well as receiving some support from Iraq.

Jibril himself lives in some style in Damascus. He is in his early 50s with
thinning grey hair and a large paunch. He favours casual leather jackets and has
little of the charisma of some Palestinian leaders. Instead he is a dull
conversationalist who, as befits his military background, talks in political
cliches peppered with military terms.

His consistent support for the Syrian president, Hafez alAssad, who has always
used Palestinians to enhance his power in the Middle East, has distanced him
from all but the most militant Palestinian groups. Yasser Arafat, the PLO
chairman, makes no secret of his dislike of Jibril, particularly since Jibril
helped Syria to organise an attempted coup against him in 1982.

Immediately after its formation, the PFLP-GC carried out a series of bloody
attacks, including the bombing of a Swiss airliner in February 1970, killing 47
people, an attack on an Israeli school bus the same year, when 12 children and
several adults died, and the killing of 18 people at the Israeli settlement of
Kiryat Shemona in April 1974.

In recent years, the PFLP-GC has tried extraordinary tactics against Israel
including hot air balloon and hang glider attacks.

A month before the Pan Am attack, West German police arrested 14 members of a
PFLP-GC cell in Frankfurt. Among the weapons police discovered in a flat was a
bomb containing half a pound of explosives hidden in a small radio. A
sophisticated trigger passed through a barometric pressure device and a clock.
Although this bomb was not big enough to bring down a jumbo jet, investigators
believe the cell had the capability of making a bigger device.

Jibril has denied responsibility for Lockerbie. But terrorism experts point out
that the PFLP-GC has attacked aircraft before and that, in 1986, Jibril
threatened to attack US airliners. As Arafat's line on Israel has moderated in a
bid for Western recognition, Jibril has vowed to prevent any peace formula.
'Arafat has knelt to the United States and the Zionist enemy, ' he said.

Some British and American reaction might be interpreted this weekend as
kneeling, however understandably, to a ruthless splinter group of terrorists
backed by Iranian revenge money. None of the uproar over Channon, international
efforts to avert disaster, the mourning at Lockerbie or the ruckus over a lunch
at the Garrick Club has brought those responsible any closer to justice.

One of the basic aims of any terrorist organisation is to provoke an
overreaction by those it opposes. This gives it the publicity it needs to
survive and retain the credibility it does not deserve.

Whoever planned the Lockerbie bombing must take great satisfaction this weekend
as they view the continuing damage to Western interests, a lot of it
self-inflicted, that their terrorism has caused.

October 26, 1988: Frankfurt police arrest Palestinians and discover Toshiba
radio-cassette bomb, apparently designed for aircraft.

November 15, 1988: West Germans display bomb at international conference of
detectives and warn of implications. Detailed international circular, with
photographs of device distributed.

November 18, 1988: Department of Transport (DoT) and Ministry of Defence get
copy of US Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) security bulletin to US
airlines. DoT also receives West German photographs of radio-cassette bomb.

November 22, 1988: DoT telexes UK airports and airlines with some details of
cassette bomb; mock-up built at Heathrow.

December 5, 1988: Anonymous telephone call to US embassy, Helsinki, warns of
plan to sabotage US airliner flying on Frankfurt-US route in fortnight starting
December 5. Only one Pan Am makes that flight 103.

December 7, 1988: FAA sends alert bulletin to airports, airlines and governments
after 'phoney' policemen twice questioned US officials with TWA at Frankfurt on
how US carriers transport explosives, detonators and pistols.

December 9, 1988: DoT and US airlines receive US bulletin on Helsinki call;
specialist assessment says no further action needed, no special action taken.

December 19, 1988: Supplementary bulletin prepared by DoT on cassette bomb
threat with 'a little extra' information, including clues for recognising
device. Distribution delayed until January by lack of colour photographs,
despite pictures issued by West Germans.

December 21, 1988: Pan Am flight 103 takes off from Frankfurt, lands at
Heathrow. Passengers transfer to Boeing 747, which falls on Lockerbie killing
243 passengers, 16 crew and 11 residents.

December 22, 1988: Paul Channon, transport secretary, addresses Commons on
disaster; no mention of security bulletins. On BBC Radio Four's World at One he
says he had no information about earlier warnings.

December 23, 1988: On Radio Four's Today programme Channon confirms a prior
warning. He flies to West Indies for winter holiday.

December 28, 1988: Investigators confirm bomb (not structural failure) caused
tragedy. John Prescott, Labour's transport spokesman, demands inquiry into DoT
handling.

January 5, 1989: Emergency meeting of National Aviation Security committee
decides on security measures. Channon announces increased security at airports.

January 10, 1989: Channon makes second Commons statement, saying FAA's Pan Am
warning no more significant than 215 others in 1988, adding he was forbidden by
FAA from 'further disseminating the alert'. Copies of bulletin show FAA
specifically said information was for 'airport aviation security personnel'.

Mid-January, 1989: Supplementary circular, photographs, posted to UK airports
and airlines and some foreign airlines including Pan Am.

February 16, 1989: British relatives of Lockerbie victims say they sense
'cover-up'. Lockerbie investigators believe bomb in radio cassette player taken
on board at Frankfurt by one of 17 people who transferred at Heathrow.

February 17, 1989: DoT circular recommends procedures to be taken in light of
bomb being in cassette player, and possibility of more such devices.

February 23, 1989: FAA and US State Department deny telling Britain Helsinki
warning was hoax before disaster.

February 24, 1989: Prescott says Channon failed to tell Commons that of the 215
warnings he mentioned in earlier statement only 24 were from FAA and, of those,
16 related to Britain.

March 15, 1989: Channon lunches with five political journalists known as the
'magic circle' and is alleged to claim that Lockerbie investigators know
bomber's identity.

March 16, 1989: Lockerbie police deny they know the bomber. West Germans dismiss
the reports as 'rubbish'. Opposition politicians accuse Channon of jeopardising
investigation. Lord Fraser, the Lord Advocate for Scotland, says in written
parliamentary answer that those responsible were not identified.

March 20, 1989: DoT reminds airports and airlines of circular and supplementary
security procedures.

March 21, 1989: Channon forced to answer in Commons for his handling of aviation
security and denies allegations that he leaked sensitive information about
Lockerbie investigation. He successfully resists opposition demands for
resignation.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              132 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                                The Independent

                             March 27 1989, Monday

Yard reviews search plans after failure on IRA clues

BYLINE: NICHOLAS SCHOON

LENGTH: 507 words


THE HEAD of Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist squad has ordered a tightening-up of
search procedures after it was revealed that detectives twice failed to discover
vital evidence hidden at an IRA bomb factory in London.

The search of a flat in Clapham on 21 December revealed almost 200lbs of Semtex
explosive, bomb-making equipment and guns. But the Yard has admitted it missed
two passports and a list of names of prominent people - probably targets for
assassination by an IRA 'active service unit' based in mainland Britain.


Two weeks later, the flat's owner rang the police to say he had discovered a
passport while changing a carpet. It is understood to have belonged to Patrick
Sheehy, one of two IRA men who fled from the flat shortly before the police
arrived, and who are still on the run. The passport is thought to have given the
anti-terrorist squad the first clue to his identity.

Sheehy has been linked by police to the bombing of the Inglis Barracks in Mill
Hill, north London, last August and the Parachute Regiment's Tern Hill Barracks,
Shropshire, in February.

He is also thought to be connected with a plot to assassinate Tom King,
Secretary of State for Northern Ireland, for which three people have received
long prison terms, and with the discovery of a large quantity of Semtex buried
in woods near Scarborough this month. There has been speculation that the find
was linked to a Conservative conference addressed by the Prime Minister, which
was due to be held in the town.

After the first passport was uncovered, anti-terrorist squad detectives searched
the flat again - but failed to locate a second passport and a list of names of
prominent people hidden in a ventilation duct. These were discovered in January
by decorators working in the flat. The list, culled from Who's Who, included the
names of Mrs Thatcher, government ministers and other MPs, judges and senior
civil servants.

'Despite the urgency and pressure imposed on the searching officers, this
unfortunate lapse should not have occurred and is a matter of serious concern,'
a Scotland Yard spokeswoman said yesterday.

'The head of the anti-terrorist squad, Commander George Churchill-Coleman, has
completed an urgent review of search procedures on such occasions and more
systematic methods along with additional teams of officers will be introduced.'

The police were first alerted to the existence of the Clapham bomb factory after
a local youth who was breaking into a car woke up an IRA man sleeping on the
back seat. He shot the youth in the stomach before fleeing with his companion,
who had been assembling a bomb.

An off-duty RUC officer and his 15-year-old son were shot and injured early
yesterday as they slept in a caravan at Dromara Road, Dundrum, Co Down. The
police described the attack, in which a number of shots were fired, as 'cowardly
and indiscriminate'. The officer's wife, who was also in the caravan, escaped
unhurt. Both men were 'satisfactory' in hospital last night.

Home News Page 2

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1989 Independent Print Ltd

                              133 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             March 27 1989, Monday

Hurd to ask for Arab support against terror

BYLINE: NICHOLAS WOOD, Political Correspondent

SECTION: Issue 63352.

LENGTH: 457 words


Mr Douglas Hurd, Home Secretary, flew to the Middle East last night on a mission
aimed at winning Arab backing against terrorism.

Airport security, the exchange of information about terrorist networks and the
possibility of joint operations to track down suspects are expected to be
discussed when he meets his counterparts.


Mr Hurd will see the interior ministers in Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Oman and
Bahrain during his eight-day tour. He is said to retain excellent personal
contacts in the four countries from his days as a Minister of State at the
Foreign Office.

Although his trip was arranged before the Lockerbie disaster, it has assumed
added significance in the light of reports linking the bombing to Middle East
terrorists.

According to reports disputed by ministers, the bomb that killed 270 people in
December originated on a Middle East feeder flight. It is now widely thought it
was placed on board the Pan Am flight in Frankfurt. Yesterday The Sunday Times
cited Washington sources which

named the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine-General Command, as the
group behind the bombing.

Whitehall sources said Mr Hurd would primarily be sharing information with his
Arab counterparts about the nature of the terrorist threat, police and
intelligence reports and possible counter-measures.

With British airlines operating in the four countries, he is likely to pay
particular attention to security measures designed to prevent a repeat of the
Lockerbie disaster.

Official sources drew a cautious parallel between Mr Hurd's attempt to enlist
Arab support and the Trevi group, in which Britain and other European countries
pool information to counter the international threat to public safety.

They said through this forum the level of trust and co-operation was so strong
that police and the intelligence services regularly swopped information with
little political interference. It was unrealistic to expect a similar degree of
co-operation between Britain and the Arab countries, but Mr Hurd would trade
information provided by the police.

Drug-trafficking, police training and organized crime are the other issues Mr
Hurd will raise on his trip.

The Department of Transport yesterday refused to comment on a report that police
guards for VIPs were to be allowed to carry loaded weapons on board aircraft.
The report said that until now police had been allowed to carry guns provided
they were not loaded.

Scotland Yard sources said no one knew of the change, which covers British
airlines, although the Yard provides protection teams for politicians and the
Royal Family.

The leader of a union representing cabin crews said that staff were disturbed by
the report.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              134 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                                The Independent

                            March 29 1989, Wednesday

Ulster CBI warns of new terrorist threat to business

BYLINE: DAVID MCKITTRICK, Ireland Correspondent

SECTION: Home News ; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 483 words


THE CONFEDERATION of British Industry in Northern Ireland yesterday warned its
members that terrorists are thought to be gathering information on business
premises, including factories and industrial estates, and advised that security
should be kept at a high standard.

The warning was contained in the CBI's regular bulletin to its Northern Ireland
members, who were asked to be vigilant and to make contact with their local RUC
divisional commanders.


The alert seems to have been passed on to the CBI by the RUC, though police in
Belfast said yesterday that they did not wish to comment on the specific advice
they gave to individuals or bodies.

The CBI is not, however, known as a scaremongering organisation.

An RUC spokesman added: 'We do repeat our warnings to the entire Northern
Ireland community that terrorist criminals are no respecters of persons or
rights. It is therefore crucial that everyone continually examines their
personal security, at home or at work, and tells the police immediately of any
concerns they may have.' The episode suggests a strong suspicion by the security
forces that the IRA may be on the point of one of its periodic changes of tack.
For many months its prime targets have included members of the security forces
in Northern Ireland, especially British soldiers.

These have been attacked with mortars, impact grenades, boobytrap bombs,
rockets, landmines and gunfire. In addition, IRA campaigns have been waged both
in Britain and in continental Europe.

Troops and police in Northern Ireland are braced for more such attacks on their
bases, their patrols and their off-duty members.

In the past, however, the IRA has sought to catch the security forces
off-balance by sudden switches of targets, and it could be that the organisation
has been planning attacks on commercial and business premises.

These have been much reduced, though not entirely abandoned, in recent years.
Last year a number of hotels were badly damaged, while some commercial areas of
Belfast and elsewhere suffered widespread damage from car bombs. Such attacks
have not, however, occurred on the monthly or even weekly basis to which Belfast
was once accustomed.

There are, however, considerations weighing against a commercial onslaught by
the IRA. Bombs which inflict large-scale destruction are popular with the
organisation's rank and file, but less so with the wider reaches of Sinn Fein's
support. This is because they may endanger civilian life, may cost jobs and may
disrupt the shopping boom currently being enjoyed by Belfast and other centres.

For these reasons - and with Sinn Fein hoping to maintain its vote in elections
in May and June - it is difficult to envisage a sustained commercial bombing
campaign over the next few months.

None the less, the authorities are clearly taking the threat seriously.

Home News Page 3

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1989 Independent Print Ltd

                              135 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                                The Independent

                            March 29 1989, Wednesday

IRA orders 'sent by newspaper messages'

BYLINE: DAVID MCKITTRICK, Ireland Correspondent

SECTION: Ulster CBI warning, page 3

LENGTH: 414 words


SCOTLAND YARD'S anti-terrorist squad believes IRA members hiding in Britain may
be communicating with their leaders in Ireland - and possibly with associates in
Britain - through messages in the personal columns of Irish newspapers.

This has emerged from examination of a diary thought to have been kept by
Patrick Sheehy, an IRA suspect, which was discovered with other material at an
IRA bomb factory in Clapham, south London, in December.


In addition to guns and large amounts of Semtex plastic explosive, police found
the diary and a number of other documents which are being examined. They have
led detectives to suspect that IRA members at large in Britain have been using
the personal columns of at least one Irish newspaper as a comparatively
risk-free means of communication with those directing the current IRA campaign
in England.

Possible clues have been discovered in Sheehy's diary. In addition to the
Clapham find, he is also wanted for alleged involvement in two bombings.

These were the attack last August on an army barracks at Mill Hill in north
London, in which a soldier was killed, and the bombing last month of a Parachute
Regiment base at Tern Hill in Shropshire.

It emerged at the weekend that police who searched the flat, which was
discovered after an IRA gunman shot a man who was trying to steal his car, had
twice missed important information hidden there.

On the first occasion the owner of the flat discovered Sheehy's passport hidden
under a carpet. Later, decorators found a list of VIPs, who were apparently
potential IRA targets, hidden in a ventilation duct.

The IRA unit or units at large are regarded as highly dangerous. The Clapham
find has clearly not disrupted the capacity for violence, and they evidently
retain bomb-making equipment and at least one 'safe house'.

Although a considerable amount of Semtex was recovered at Clapham, the plastic
explosive has turned up on three occasions since then: in the Tern Hill attack;
in a reservoir at Stoke Newington, north London; and in a wood near Scarborough.

Republican sources in Belfast have said the IRA is intent on marking the
twentieth anniversary of the arrival of troops in Northern Ireland, which takes
place in August of this year.

Police in London and Belfast fear this will mean attempts to inflict heavy
military casualties in Northern Ireland, and attacks on prestige targets in
England.

Ulster CBI warning, page 3

Title Page 1

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1989 Independent Print Ltd

                              136 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 30, 1989

Yard thinks IRA bombers used personal columns, says paper

BYLINE: By GARETH PARY

LENGTH: 199 words


Scotland Yard officers investigating the IRA bomb factory in Clapham, south
London, believe the terrorists used the coded messages in the personal columns
of Irish Times, the newspaper says.

Detectives are said to have visited the London office of the newspaper on
several occasions, in their hunt for the terrorists who are thought to have been
behind the bombing of Ternhill barracks in Shropshire in February and the Mill
Hill barracks, north London, last year.

The Irish Times said the officers called after the discovery of the bomb factory
last December, when more than 200lb of Semtex explosive and an IRA hit list of
100 public figures were discovered in a flat.

Several back copies of the Irish Times were found, together with a diary
containing an entry for March 1988, referring to the newspaper.

Police have named one of the suspected members of the IRA unit as Patrick
Sheehy, from Limerick in the Irish Republic. He is believed to be operating with
up to six others.

The unit is thought to be planning further terrorist attacks in Britain, to
coincide with the 20th anniversary of the introduction of British troops to the
streets of Northern Ireland.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              137 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 31, 1989

Bombs slip through hijack net: Anti-terrorism specialists call for international
reappraisal of airport security

BYLINE: By GARETH PARRY and LARRY ELLIOT

LENGTH: 699 words


Airport security is still concentrated on preventing hijacks, despite the steady
rise in the number of airline passengers killed by terrorist bombs - more than
700 in the past 40 months. Anti-terrorism specialists say that this
preoccupation is crucial to the success of the bombers.

The technology at British airports makes it much easier to spot a concealed gun
than a plastic explosive, perhaps moulded into a suitcase lining or, as at
Lockerbie, concealed in a radio-cassette recorder.

Experts want an international review of airport security. The deficiencies in
search and detection procedures were highlighted once again by the discovery of
a gelignite stick on a British Airways jumbo jet, left behind by Surrey police
after sniffer-dog training exercises at Heathrow.

Surrey police said yesterday the gelignite was inherently harmless and, at
worst, would have flared up in the event of a fire. But gelignite can 'sweat'
after a time and become unstable, particularly in the warm conditions in which
any aircraft might be parked. The BA Boeing 747 is understood to have carried
the gelignite for at least three weeks.

American scientists have filed patent details of an onboard system which could
have sniffed it out and automatically prevented the jumbo from taking off.

Sniffer dogs get bored with the work and suffer stress, which can affect their
efficiency and shorten their lives. Gerbils have been tried experimentally but
were difficult to train.

Gas detectors can do the job by 'sniffing' baggage and blasting the absorbed air
with beta particles to free electrons. If explosives are present, they absorb
the electrons, reduce the flow of current through a detector and activate an
alarm.

The American development combines gas detectors with the aircraft's
air-conditioning system, which is connected to every row of seats and overhead
baggage lockers. The air-conditioning ducts continuously suck in air, and if a
sensor detects explosives it not only sounds an alarm on the flight deck but
also locates the seat or locker hiding the explosive. If the aircraft is
stationary, all engines are automatically shut down.

Airlines and the British Airports Authority refuse to discuss their security
arrangements, even in terms of their general philosophy, but it is understood
that Heathrow has no sniffer devices in regular use to detect explosives,
instead relying on monochrome X-ray machines giving a 'shadowgraph' of what is
inside a suitcase. This technique is unlikely to detect a plastic Semtex bomb.

BAA at Gatwick is testing a new X-ray machine, made by the British company
Astraphysics, which helps to pinpoint plastics through two detectors for high
and low-energy X-rays emanating from different substances, and shows suspect
materials on a colour screen.

Another system records the infra-red heat, but the most commonly used sniffer
device in Britain detects the vapour given off by an explosive. AI Security of
Cambridge provided bomb detectors for the Seoul Olympics and has six of its
walk-through Entry Scans, which cost Pounds 18,000 each, in the House of
Commons. Mr Geoffrey Bray, its managing director, said yesterday: 'It would cost
Heathrow less than Pounds 1 million for the same sort of security.'

Larry Elliot writes: The pressure group representing air passengers said
yesterday it was astounded by the security lapse which allowed the explosive to
be left on the BA jumbo.

Mr John Cox, chairman of the Air Transport Users' Committee, said the Department
of Transport should lay down rules and enforce them.

'The police and BA have to answer the questions,' he said at a press conference
called by his group to press the Government to ease the overcrowding at Heathrow
and Gatwick. 'It is an example of how difficult it is to maintain security when
so many people are employed at our airports'.

The AUC is sceptical about plans for a London airport system comprisng Heathrow,
Gatwick, Luton and Stansted, given the poor land communications between the
sites. It was essential to concentrate on the two main airports, it said, to
prevent passengers from deserting Britain for Amsterdam and Paris.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              138 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 3, 1989

Secrets bill 'could hide safety risks': Report outlines hazards as Lords debate
amendments

BYLINE: By RICHARD NORTON-TAYLOR

LENGTH: 608 words


Information about public safety hazards could be suppressed under three separate
clauses of the Official Secrets Bill, critics of the measure say in a report
published today.

These include warnings of a terrorist threat to airlines, imports of poisoned
food or dangerous waste.

The report, by the Freedom of Information Campaign, is timed to coincide with
the bill's committee stage in the House of Lords, which today debates amendments
from all parties.

During the first Lords debate on the bill last month, Lord Belstead, Leader of
the House, attacked proposals that would allow officials or editors to claim in
court that they had disclosed information in the public interest. 'A public
interest defence would do untold damage to the public interest,' Lord Belstead
said.

Mr Maurice Frankel, the campaign's director, said last night the Government
seemed to ignore that there may be greater priorities than upholding official
secrecy. It was arguing that a citizen's highest duty was to remain silent, even
if he had information that revealed crime, danger to public safety, or grave
abuse of authority.

The Local Government and Housing Bill, would require local authorities to
appoint monitoring officers whose specific duty was to alert every councillor to
such problems within the authority. Yet, the campaign says, a civil servant or
journalist who disclosed such problems in relations to central government risked
going to jail.

Three clauses in the Official Secrets Bill could catch information relating to
public safety:

An unauthorised disclosure of information supplied to Britain in confidence by
another government or international agency would be an offence if it was likekly
to jeopardise UK interests abroad.

A disclosure of information originating in Whitehall about international
relations would be an offence if it was likely to jeopardise UK interests
abroad. In this context, international relations are defined in the bill as
information on any subject which is 'capable of affecting the relations of the
UK with another state or with an international organisation'.

It would be an offence to reveal information if it was likely to damage the
capability of any part of the armed forces.

Examples of information caught by the bill could include food imports suspected
of being poisoned, threats to an airline by terrorist groups, and an analysis
that the Channel Tunnel was a fire hazard. A foreign government or the EEC may
have asked Whitehall to keep the information secret for fear of commercial or
other implications. All the Government needed to show in court was that the
disclosure was likely to jeopardise Britain's relations with the country
involved.

The disclosure of the official report about the 1957 fire at a Windscale reactor
producing plutonium for nuclear weapons also could have been caught by the bill.
The official report was suppressed for fear of its effects on Anglo-American
relations.

the campaign says the Government has broken undertakings given to journalists
and authors that they could be convincted for disclosures about security only if
they were shown to have damaged the security and intelligence services.

Anyone who discloses information about telephone tapping or mail interception by
the security services - not just the official who was the original source -
could be prosecuted. The Government would not have to show any damage was done
by the disclosure.

People could be imprisoned for revealing that they had once been suspected of a
serious offence, had their phone tapped, and then cleared of all suspicion, the
campaign says.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              139 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 8, 1989

Gorbachev In Britain: Thatcher welcomes Queen's invitation

BYLINE: By JOHN CARVEL, Chief Political Correspondent

LENGTH: 559 words


Mrs Thatcher yesterday concluded the Gorbachev visit by welcoming his invitation
for the Queen to visit Moscow and effusively praising the Soviet leader's
qualities.

But at a press conference in Westminster she did not divulge any substantive
results from the exchanges, and cast doubt on his pledge to reduce facilities
for the production of military-grade uranium. She quoted 'Winston' to supprt her
insistence on the need to maintain a nuclear deterrent.

When the idea of a visit by the Queen to Moscow was first mooted several months
ago, it was dismissed by Mrs Thatcher's press secretary, Mr Bernard Ingham,
citing the memory of the Russian royal family's murder in 1917.

Yesterday Mrs Thatcher said her reaction to the invitation was 'very positive,
very plus, very happy'. The timing of the visit had yet to be settled. 'As you
know the Queen has accepted. You know her programme is sorted out a little bit
in advance .. I think there will be a tremendous advantage. It will indicate the
warmth and the relationship'. The Prime Minister described Mr Gorbachev's visit
as 'very successful, warm and friendly.' She said: 'I found Mr Gorbachev as
dynamic, determined, stimulating and confident as ever in carrying out his
reform programnme.

'I think he is a man engaged on an historic mission and he has our full support
in pursuing perestroika. We want to make that support apparent because we not
only believe it's good for the people of the Soviet Union in having their
greater freedom which eventually will lead to greater prosperity. We think it is
also good for humanity as a whole .

'Some years ago I think I said Mr Gorbachev was a man I could do business with.
I might just repeat today that I think that he is a person with whom I look
forward to doing more business with so that we can make steady progress.'

But the warmth was not supported by mention of any specific benefits. Mrs
Thatcher argued that Mr Gorbachev's apparent concession on uranium production
would make little difference. 'I think it would be reasonable to say that they
probably have quite a sufficient stockpile of uranium.

'It doesn't deteriorate, you know. And, if some of the negotiations that we are
upon now come about, then those weapons - the 50 per cent reductions for example
- are dismantled and the uranium is taken out and preserved.'

Mrs Thatcher rejected the suggestion that news of the Soviet deal to supply
long-range bombers to Libya had been put out from the US to influence the
climate of the Gorbachev visit. 'For very obvious reasons we are against
supplying attack arms to states which have practised terrorism.'

Asked about the lack of further arms control initiatives from Mr Gorbachev she
said: 'We have lived through periods in this century when we should have been
very much better off and very much less in danger of the wars we had, had we
kept our defences strong and sure. Strong and sure at the moment means also
nuclear. That was Winston's advice and it is still I believe the correct
advice.'

Mrs Thatcher said the arms control process had a big agenda. 'So the differences
are likely to come up a long time hence.' She insisted that even after the
conventional military reductions offered by the Soviet Union at the United
Nations, it would have a preponderence of 2-1 over the West.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              140 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                                The Independent

                            April 20 1989, Thursday

US Lockerbie inquiry is grounded by conflicts: The criminal investigation into
the Lockerbie air disaster continues, but scrutiny of the security issues has
been thwarted, Nick Cohen reports

BYLINE: NICK COHEN

LENGTH: 871 words


INTERNATIONAL scrutiny of the bombing of Pan Am Flight 103 is grinding to a
halt, hampered by institutional strait-jackets and bureaucratic conflicts.

Three months after the Boeing 747 blew up over Lockerbie killing 270 people, the
US House of Representatives Government Activities and Transportation sub-
committee seized on the disaster and became the first body in any of the three
countries affected by the bombing - Britain, the US and West Germany - to freely
volunteer information.


But this month the investigation effectively collapsed, before getting into its
stride. Its chief investigator, who had uncovered significant new evidence, was
sacked for reasons which are still unclear.

On the same day the sub-committee was condemned by Samuel Skinner, US Transport
Secretary, for the unauthorised release of sensitive materials. The
sub-committee had shown that the US Federal Aviation Administration had issued
seven warnings before the Lockerbie disaster in November and December last year,
which were in varying degrees related to the bombing.

Three dealt with the arrest of Palestinian terrorists in Frankfurt and the
discovery of a radio cassette-recorder bomb of the type which exploded at
Lockerbie, one with the threat of bombs in other disguises, one with an attempt
to find out how to get guns and explosives on to American planes at Frankfurt,
one with a warning phone call to the US Embassy in Helsinki that a Pan Am flight
from Frankfurt would be bombed and one with a Palestinian hi- jacking threat.

The bulletins were passed to US airlines and the British and West Germans
governments. Before it was hit by internal discord, the sub-committee had
signalled that it intended to look at Pan Am's security at Frankfurt, where Pan
Am 103 began its flight, and Heathrow where passengers transferred to the 747.

The sub-committee is believed to have been trying to obtain a copy of a report
written by Yossi Langotsky, the president of KPI, an Israeli security firm.
Although not released, the report has been seen by The Independent.

KPI was calledin by the airline in 1986 after a spate of terrorist incidents. It
looked at airport security in Frankfurt, London and seven other US and European
airports. The findings were scathing. The report said that Pan Am was highly
vulnerable to most forms of terrorist attack and had an 'an organisational
set-up which suffers from a lack of authority, and an alarmingly low level of
training and instruction'.

KPI attacked the security system used by most Western airports which designates
citizens from their own countries as 'safe' when they check in and reserves
searches for foreigners, usually those from countries which have been associated
with terrorism.

The report said: 'It must be pointed out that the question of citizenship is
irrelevant. Most international terrorist organisations carry out proxy
operations for each other and false passports are widely used.

'In conclusion, there are no adequate safequards under the presently operating
security system which would prevent a passenger from boarding a plane with
explosives on his person or in his baggage.'

Pan Am has said that all the loopholes the report identified were closed before
Lockerbie. But it will not be possible to test this assertion until the full
facts about the disaster are known.

However, some parts of the KPI report appear to be relevant to the deaths on
December 21.

The report is very critical of the screening of baggage before it goes into the
hold - where the Lockerbie bomb was placed in a radio cassette recorder.

Bags could be put on planes without checks being made if a passenger was
travelling with it. When luggage was X-rayed, 'even an experienced and watchful
security officer' could not see and idenitfy an explosive charge. Luggage was
rarely searched.

US investigators and relatives of Lockerbie victims have criticised the Federal
Aviation Administration for failing to co-ordinate the communication of
potential bomb warnings and for allowing airports and airlines too much freedom
to decide what should be done to guard against the threats.

But the FAA did send warnings to the industry. The British Department of
Transport failed to send details of the warning on 5 December of an attack on a
Pan Am flight from Frankfurt which was phoned to the US embassy in Helsinki, to
British airports because it had little credibility.

Relatives hoping to find out what happened are pinning their hopes on a new
congressional investigation starting in the US.

The US State Department yesterday denied that US government officials had
'systematically cancelled reservations in Flight 103 based on the FAA aviation
security bulletin that was erroneously posted at the US embassy in Moscow'.

Margaret Tutwiler, the department spokeswoman, was responding to an article in
The Independent yesterday. The article did not say there was a systematic
cancellation of seats on Flight 103. It said large numbers of US diplomats
cancelled their seats on Pan Am flights around the time of the bombing. When
this was pointed out to Mrs Tutwiler she said she would seek further
information.

Home News Page 6

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1989 Independent Print Ltd

                              141 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                                The Independent

                             April 28 1989, Friday

An explosive test for Britain's hard line on terrorism: Richard Dowden on the
scandal that has linked South Africa and Ulster

BYLINE: RICHARD DOWDEN

LENGTH: 1121 words


Margaret Thatcher's hard line on terrorism will bend a little if she does not
act against South Africa for supplying paramilitary groups in Northern Ireland
with weaponry. Three Ulster loyalists were this week charged with arms offences
after allegedly selling UK Blowpipe missile secrets to a South African diplomat
in return for weapons. Who can doubt what Mrs Thatcher's reaction would have
been if it had been Libya or Iran supplying the arms to terrorist organisations
in the UK or attempting to steal UK military secrets?

Terrorism is an easy target, but terrorists sometimes melt away into the
political jungle and their tracks become confused with those of governments -
sometimes those of allies. The Prime Minister's position - we will never
negotiate with terrorists - has led her into a morass in southern Africa. One of
Britain's top priorities in South Africa is to secure the release of Nelson
Mandela, the leader of the banned African National Congress, and to persuade the
South African government to talk to him. But Mrs Thatcher has denounced the ANC
as a 'typical terrorist organisation'.


Before 1986 the Foreign Office used to follow the principle that Britain would
not talk to any organisation which was committed to the violent overthrow of a
government recognised by the UK. When it seemed that the uprising in South
Africa might lead to the ANC becoming the government, this principle was
replaced in favour of 'keeping in touch with all the parties'. Lynda Chalker,
the Foreign Office minister, and Sir Geoffrey Howe, the Foreign Secretary, met
the ANC. The following year Mrs Thatcher attacked the ANC as terrorists and
since then there has been no ministerial contact.

Britain has, however, provided the ANC with first-class protection. The ANC
offices in London have been provided with round-the-clock special branch
protection. Senior ANC personnel are given armed guards whenever they visit
London. This both ensures that Britain knows every move that the ANC makes in
London and saves Britain the embarrassment of having dead ANC members on its
streets.

Like Libya and Iran, South Africa has taken to hitting its exiles on the streets
of European capitals. In 1987 the anti- terrorist squad stumbled across a plot
to kidnap members of the ANC in London. In public Britain stressed, perhaps
overstressed, that there was no evidence of South African involvement. British
security sources, however, revealed that several clues led back to the South
African embassy and to South Africa's 'privatised' security services.

The case was dropped but it did expose the ease with which South African agents
moved in and out of Britain unchecked since they needed no visas. In one case,
when the police wanted to check if a South African had come to Britain, they had
to beg South African Airways for a passenger list.

Last year the ANC representative in Paris, Dulcie September, was murdered. The
police implicated Joseph Klue, a former South African diplomat in London. Mr
Klue had been named in a London court in 1982 in connection with break- ins at
the offices of the ANC and South West Africa People's Organisation (Swapo).
Scotland Yard said it wanted to interview him, but he claimed diplomatic
immunity, even though he was not on the diplomatic list. Britain took no action
against South Africa over the incident.

The London embassy was involved again in 1984 when it helped four
representatives of the South African arms manufacturer Armscor to break the arms
embargo. When the four were released on bail they went back to South Africa and
did not reappear for their trial. The embassy forfeited the surety but no other
action was taken.

Britain's use of the terrorism concept to define goodies and baddies in southern
Africa is leading to a muddle elsewhere. Last month during her visit to Zimbabwe
and Malawi Mrs Thatcher visited British troops training the Mozambique army to
fight the rebels of the Mozambique national resistance movement Renamo. Renamo
is a particularly brutal and apparently aimless organisation; Mrs Thatcher
denounced it as 'terrorism of the worst kind'. She offered more military help
for Mozambique to defeat it. Privately, however, she was breaking her own rule
about not talking to terrorists by urging the Mozambique government to talk to
the rebels and find a

political solution.

There is a further twist. Mrs Thatcher refuses to recognise that Renamo is
backed by Pretoria. When she was asked about this recently, she said that Pik
Botha, the South African foreign minister, had assured her that South Africa was
no longer supporting Renamo. She left a strong impression that she believed him.
Her officials, however, did not. Earlier this year Britain and the United States
are understood to have presented the South African leader, President P W Botha,
with evidence that elements in his defence forces were and are supplying Renamo.
Britain is giving more aid to Mozambique and recognising the fact that the aid
will have to be protected with guns. There is a possibility that British troops
will soon operate in Mozambique itself. If Pretoria continues to back Renamo, it
could find itself in direct, as well as indirect, confrontation with Britain.

There have been significant indications that South Africa is shifting its
foreign policy away from brute force and clandestine crime towards diplomacy.
The number of attacks in the frontline states has decreased dramatically and
South Africa has accepted a negotiated withdrawal from Namibia. Pik Botha is
stressing the need for peace and stability in southern Africa.

Mrs Thatcher has decided to accept his words at face value - perhaps believing
this will give her more influence over Pretoria. But what is she to do if
Pretoria breaks its promises and is found in a Paris hotel up to new tricks?
This has always been the weakness of a no-sanctions-in-any-circumstances policy:
it looks good when the South Africans appear to be acting with restraint, but
when Pretoria is caught breaking the rules the policy is exposed as mere words.

In the past the lack of action has upset only the Africans and the
Anti-Apartheid Movement. Refusal to act against breaches of the arms embargo and
attacks on the ANC in London may make a mockery of Mrs Thatcher's hard line on
terrorism, but they do not hurt

Britain.

This time it is different. The weapons are being provided by South Africa to
kill British citizens, perhaps even British soldiers, on British soil. No one
would disagree with firm action against Libya, Iran or Eastern Bloc countries if
they were caught in a similar deal. Why should Britain be lenient towards South
Africa?

Leader Page 26

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1989 Independent Print Ltd

                              142 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            April 29 1989, Saturday

Father Ryan wants to be MEP

SECTION: Issue 63381.

LENGTH: 228 words


(Photograph) - Father Patrick Ryan, the Irish priest accused of terrorist
offences by the British Government, who yesterday announced that he intended to
run as a candidate for the European Parliament in the June elections. Since last
summer, Father Ryan, aged 58, has evaded attempts to extradite him from Belgium
and Ireland to face charges related to an IRA bombing campaign in London.

He told a press conference in a hotel in Cashel, Co Tipperary, that he would
stand as a candidate in Munster. 'My campaign is a serious one and I will take
my seat if I win', he said. Father Ryan plans to stand as an independent
candidate and will fight on an anti-extradition platform. His candidature is
bound to infuriate the Government, which is still waiting to hear whether the
Irish government is to force the fugitive priest to stand trial in Dublin for
the offences he is alleged to have committed in Britain. British ministers are
known to be angry at what they see as an unnecessary delay in charging Father
Ryan under extra-territorial legislation.


The Irish Director of Public Prosecution, Mr Eamonn Barnes, is considering
whether to mount a case against Father Ryan after refusing to extradite him,
saying he would not get a fair trial in Britain. The Government alleges that
Father Ryan has acted as a supplier for the IRA and as a fund raiser.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              143 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 4, 1989

IRA bomb gang still in Britain says head of anti-terror police

BYLINE: By GARETH PARRY

LENGTH: 217 words


The head of Scotland Yard's Anti-Terrorist Branch warned yesterday that the IRA
active service unit hunted after the discovery of a bomb factory in Battersea,
south London, last December was still in Britain.

Detectives have also issued descriptions of a third man they believe is a member
of the gang, and of a young woman and her baby seen with two IRA men in
Battersea.

The two men - Patrick Sheehy, an IRA sniper, and John Conaghty, a leading
Provisional bomb maker - lived in a flat in Battersea where a large amount of
explosives and arms were found after a car thief was shot at by one of them.

Commander Churchill-Coleman said he was convinced the gang had not left the
mainland but no longer thought they were in London.

Detectives want to trace the young woman, seen near the Battersea bomb factory
with three men when a vehicle was being unloaded. The woman was described as
aged 23-29, about 5ft 4in, slim-built, with dyed short brown or blonde hair, and
an Irish accent. She was seen with a baby, aged nine-12 months, and may have
used the name Sue or Susan Watson. Detectives are also trying to trace an
unidentified man, aged 23-27, about 5ft 8in tall, stockily built, with brown
hair and a double chin. He had a soft Irish accent and possibly a droopy
moustache.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              144 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                                The Independent

                              May 4 1989, Thursday

Prostitutes provide clues in search for IRA bombers

BYLINE: JAMES DALRYMPLE

SECTION: Home News ; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 537 words


A GROUP of London prostitutes who advertise in shop windows have given valuable
evidence to the Anti-Terrorist Squad about a team of three IRA bombers who are
permanently based in Britain and may be planning major terrorist activity.

The three men, who are probably accompanied by a young Irish woman and a baby to
provide 'cover', frequently used the services of the prostitutes as they moved
at regular intervals between rented accommodation in London. A number of the
women have been interviewed.


A clear picture of the IRA's major cell operating on the mainland has now been
built up by Commander George Churchill-Coleman, head of the Anti-Terrorist
Branch, SO13, after the discovery last December of an arms dump and bomb factory
at a flat in Battersea, south London.

Commander Churchill-Coleman believes the unit contains at least three
experienced IRA operatives, with the woman and her baby playing the role of a
wife to one of them.

They have large sums of money and false documents, allowing them to rent various
premises all over London and in other British cities, which they use on a rota -
moving from one to the other every month or six weeks. At least nine such
premises have been traced.

The names and backgrounds of the three men are also known, and police believe it
is possible they carried out the last two major terrorist attacks in Britain -
at Tern Hill Barracks in February, and at Inglis Barracks in August.

Two new photographs were issued yesterday by Scotland Yard. The first shows
Patrick Sheehy, aged 28, from Limerick. He is 5ft 11in, walks with a slight
stoop, has brown hair, prominent teeth, and a strong muscular build. He is a
plasterer by trade and may seek work on building sites.

The second is John Conaty, aged 28, believed to be from Dublin. He is between
5ft 8in and 5ft 9in tall, well built, with prominent ears which have no lobes.
Both men speak in soft Irish accents.

The Yard also issued two artist's impressions of a third man, one showing him
with a moustache, the other without. He is aged 23 to 27, about 5ft 8in tall,
thick set, stockily built and has brown hair and a double chin.

The woman, who uses the name Sue or Susan Watson, is described as between 23 and
29, with short, untidy brown or blonde hair with black roots. She is around 5ft
4in, of slim build, and has an Irish accent. The baby, thought to be her own, is
between 9 and 12 months.

The men have used a number of names including, J Errington, K Hill, P Fane, I P
Flynn, J O'Dea, J O'Dee, J Williams and R Houghton. They are known to have
rented accommodation in Battersea, East Ham, Tottenham, Wood Green, Brixton and
Shoreditch.

Commander Coleman-Churchill said yesterday he was convinced the group was still
in Britain, although they may have left the London area and may be living -
either separately or together - in other parts of the country. He said: 'Despite
the recovery of a large amount of arms and explosives belonging to this group in
Battersea, there is a very strong possibility that they have access to other
explosives and firearms which will enable them to participate in other terrorist
activities here on the mainland.'

Home News Page 3

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1989 Independent Print Ltd

                              145 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                              May 4 1989, Thursday

Woman with baby is key suspect; Bomb factory, Clapham

BYLINE: STEWART TENDLER, Crime Reporter

SECTION: Issue 63385.

LENGTH: 494 words


A young Irishwoman with a baby has become a key suspect in Scotland Yard's hunt
for the the IRA unit linked to a bomb factory in Clapham, south London, police
revealed yesterday.

She may have been used as part of an IRA network supporting the unit's
operations and could still be providing cover for the terrorists as they evade
the police hunt.


The woman has a baby aged 9 to 12 months and was seen close to the bomb factory,
based in a flat, with members of the unit twice before its discovery last
December.

Detectives believe she hired another flat for the unit in London earlier last
year when she used the name Sue or Susan Watson.

On one occasion the woman was standing by as members of the unit were believed
to have been unloading from a car arms and part of the 150lbs of Semtex plastic
explosive found in the flat.

The woman is described as aged between 23 and 29 years old, with short brown or
blonde hair which may be dyed. She is of slim build and speaks with an Irish
accent.

The woman's existence was disclosed by the Yard yesterday as police issued fresh
pictures of Patrick Sheehy and John Conaty, the two Irishmen already linked to
the flat.

The police also released artist's impressions of an unknown third man also seen
near the flat in Northcote Road, Clapham.

The Yard's anti-terrorist branch believes that the unit could still be hiding
somewhere in Britain after fleeing from London when the factory was discovered.

The unit has been linked to bomb attacks at Mill Hill barracks, north-west
London, last summer and Tern Hill barracks, Shropshire, in February.

Yesterday Commander George Churchill-Coleman, head of the Yard's anit-terrorist
branch, said it was possible the woman was now providing a cover for Sheehy or
Conaty by posing as his wife.

Asked about the woman's role, the commander said the IRA 'can't operate here
without assistance from people who give them cover'.

He said police believe the baby, whose sex is not known, is thought to be the
woman's own child. The unknown third man is thought to be aged between 23 and 27
years, of medium height and thickset.

Mr Churchill-Coleman said Sheehy, thought by police to be a guard and bomb-layer
for the unit, was a plasterer by trade and might look for work on a building
site.

Conaty, aged 28, is thought to come from Dublin and is suspected of being a
bomb-maker. He is sometimes very well-dressed and has worn spectacles with plain
lenses as part of his disguise.

Both men speak with soft Irish accents and have used prostitues in London,
answering an advertisement in a shop on one occasion.

Since the discovery of the bomb factory just before Christmas when Sheehy shot a
would-be car thief and led police to the explosives and arms cache detectives
have traced other temporary addresses and garages used by the unit across
London.

The unit would hire premises for a month or six weeks and then move on.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              146 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                                The Independent

                              May 6 1989, Saturday

Commentary: We could count for more if Thatcher were less strident

BYLINE: NICHOLAS ASHFORD

SECTION: Foreign News ; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1052 words


I HESITATE to add to the thousands of words which have been spewed out to mark
the 10th anniversary of Thatcherism, but the Prime Minister's claim to have put
the Great back into Britain's reputation abroad should not be left unanswered.
In her interview with the Press Association - the one in which she likened
herself to a tigress defending her cubs - Mrs Thatcher said her greatest
achievement had been 'to restore Britain's reputation in the world . . .
Everybody knows now that Britain counts for something.'

That may be true up to a point. But is the reputation which 10 years of
Thatcherism has conferred on this country one of which we should be proud? And
if Britain does indeed now count for something in the world, as the Prime
Minister asserts, are we going to use our refurbished status simply to promote
narrow British interests, or will we take the lead in tackling problems of a
more global nature?


It would be churlish to deny that Mrs Thatcher has succeeded in halting the
downward spiral in which Britain seemed to be irrevocably locked before her
election in 1979. Undoubtedly her most important contribution has been to
restore this country's economic strength. It is impossible to pursue a robust
foreign policy from a weak domestic base. A strengthened economy has enabled Mrs
Thatcher to behave as though she is a leading actor on the world stage, even
though her achievements have not always matched her Superwoman reputation.

She has also earned this country a reputation for resoluteness, something which
Britain was lacking as we staggered through the 1970s. She was resolute in
dealing with the unions, in shrugging off an IRA bomb attack, in driving the
Argentines out of the Falklands and in reshaping the European Community budget.

The personal toughness displayed by the Prime Minister has now become associated
in foreign eyes as a feature of British diplomacy in the 1980s. As William
Waldegrave, the junior Foreign Office Minister, observed during a Chatham House
discussion on British foreign policy this week, having Mrs Thatcher on one's
side gives British diplomats an immediate advantage in negotiations with foreign
counterparts. No one wants to tangle unnecessarily with the Iron Lady.

However, I suspect that it is not so much Britain's prestige that has been
enhanced as a result of her 10 years in office as her own reputation as a
determined and wilful leader. This has been achieved partly by her own actions,
but also by a very effective public relations campaign conducted by Downing
Street. Her belief in the disciplines of the market place has been widely
imitated, and the term 'Thatcherism' has become part of the international
political lexicon.

As one of the longest-serving - and certainly most talked about - leaders, Mrs
Thatcher has also become something of an international super-star. She has
skillfully used her stellar status to create the impression that she has more
influence in the corridors of international power, particularly in Washington
and Moscow, than other leaders of medium-sized nations. But does she really?

While not denying the close relationship she had with former President Ronald
Reagan and appears to have with President Gorbachev, does Thatcher's Britain
have any more influence on American and Soviet decision- making than, say,
Kohl's West Germany or Takeshita's Japan? I hardly think so.

What worries me as we enter the second decade of Thatcherism is that the
reputation which the Prime Minister and her cohorts are clearly trying to
project, as a tough, no-nonsense, she-who- must-be-obeyed type of world leader,
seems to be going to her head. There is a danger, I fear, that she is beginning
to believe that Britain's ability to influence world events is greater than it
really is.

The present dispute within Nato over short-range nuclear missiles is a good
example. She seems to believe that if she shouts loudly enough about the need to
'modernise' these weapons and to eschew suggestions that they should be
negotiated away, then the Germans would cave in and the rest of the alliance
would fall into line. But this hasn't happened, nor is it likely to.

There is now a danger that at the Nato summit in Brussels later this month Mrs
Thatcher will still be maintaining her Canute-like opposition to negotiations
while the rest will have agreed on a compromise. Instead of clinging to a Nato
strategy of flexible response, which is looking increasingly threadbare around
the edges, I believe Mrs Thatcher should instead use her very considerable
influence within the alliance to encourage new thinking about how best Nato
should respond to the challenge of Gorbachevism.

Even more alarming, in my opinion, is her increasingly high- handed and
disruptive attitude within the European Community. She is almost alone, even in
her own cabinet, in her opposition to full British membership of the European
Monetary System. Ideas such as a common European currency and a central bank,
which are surely the natural by- products of the creation of a single European
market, are resisted because they are said to impinge on British sovereignty.
Even something as politically innocuous as the EC's Lingua programme to improve
modern language teaching is blocked because it is seen as encroaching into
national education policy.

This unbending resistance to greater European integration is bound to be
self-defeating in the long run because Britain has become an inextricable part
of the Community, and future British foreign policy decisions will increasingly
have to be taken in a European context. Britain's scope for unilateral action is
extremely limited. However, this country can continue to be a major world player
by taking a leadership role within the Community. This means working
constructively with our partners, not continually obstructing them through a
crude defence of national interests. Instead of being seen as a spoiler, Mrs
Thatcher could genuinely make 'Britain count for something in the world' by
getting the EC to take the lead on matters of great international concern, such
as combatting the drug problem (a more immediate threat to Western society these
days than the danger of nuclear war) or cleaning up the environment.

Foreign News Page 14

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1989 Independent Print Ltd

                              147 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                                The Independent

                              May 6 1989, Saturday

Rafsanjani in call to murder Westerners

BYLINE: HARVEY MORRIS, Middle East Editor

LENGTH: 585 words


IRAN was last night accused of 'incitement to murder' after Ali Akbar Hashemi
Rafsanjani called on Palestinians to kill Americans, Britons or other Westerners
in revenge for deaths in the uprising in the Israeli-occupied territories.

In an emotional sermon to mark the annual Qods (Jerusalem) Day, Hojatoleslam
Rafsanjani, the parliamentary Speaker, said: 'If, in retaliation for every
Palestinian martyred in Palestine, they kill and execute, not inside Palestine,
five Americans or Britons or Frenchmen, the Zionists would not continue these
wrongs.' He also urged Palestinians to hijack planes and to bomb Western
factories in their struggle against Israel.


'It is not hard to kill Americans or Frenchmen. It is a bit difficult to kill
Israelis but there are so many (Westerners) everywhere in the world. Those who
give dollars 10bn a year to preserve Israel, and know what they are doing, is
their blood worth anything?'

Reacting to first reports of Mr Rafsanjani's speech, a Foreign Office spokesman
said last night it amounted to an 'incitement to murder'. 'This marks a further
Iranian affront to standards of international behaviour,' he said, adding that
the latest threats vindicated Britain's decision to withdraw its diplomats from
Tehran in February over the Salman Rushdie affair. He said Britain was in touch
with its European and US allies over the speech, which the US said was 'an
attack on all who are trying to bring peace to the Middle East'.

The official Iranian news agency, Irna, referred to Mr Rafsanjani's comments as
'strong advice' to the Palestinians. Although he is a senior clergyman, Mr
Rafsanjani's remarks yesterday were purely political and he made no attempt to
imbue them with the theological weight which Ayatollah Khomeini placed on his
death sentence against the author of The Satanic Verses. The speech was
nevertheless bound to raise concerns in the West about a possible upsurge in
terrorist acts related to the Palestinian crisis.

Mr Rafsanjani said he was not worried about Western accusations that he was
encouraging violence and nor should the Palestinians be. 'Now they will start
saying that so-and-so, as a man in charge and as the speaker of parliament, has
officially called for acts of terror. But let them say it. Aren't they saying it
now?'

It seems likely that on one level, Mr Rafsanjani intended his speech for
domestic consumption. He is involved in an undeclared campaign for presidential
elections this summer which he appears almost certain to win. From being an
advocate of closer ties with the West after the Gulf war ceasefire last year, he
has taken up the aggressive anti- Western rhetoric of radicals within the regime
who exploited the Salman Rushdie affair to force changes in Iran's foreign
policy.

On the external front, his speech marks a renewed effort by Iran to stake a
claim to a role in the Middle East crisis. Iran opposes Yasser Arafat's
recognition of Israel and his diplomatic approach to achieving a settlement.
Instead, Tehran maintains close relations with radical Palestinian groups
through its Hizbollah surrogates in Lebanon, which are reported to have been
recently reinforced by fresh detachments of Iranian Revolutionary Guards.
Without naming Mr Arafat, Mr Rafsanjani yesterday castigated the PLO leadership
for abandoning armed struggle. 'God knows there is a solution if you announce
today that from now on you will threaten American interests throughout the
world.'

Title Page 1

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1989 Independent Print Ltd

                              148 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             May 11 1989, Thursday

Rafsanjani retracts his call for murder of Britons; Iran

BYLINE: MICHAEL EVANS

SECTION: Issue 63391.

LENGTH: 333 words


The Foreign Office challenged the Iranian Government yesterday to renounce
publicly 'the use or threat of terrorism and violence' after a statement by the
Speaker of the Iranian Parliament, backtracking from his call on Palestinians
last week to murder Britons.

Hojatoleslam Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani changed his tune yesterday after
international protests greeted his outburst last Friday. He was quoted on Tehran
Radio as claiming that his remarks, during a prayer meeting before tens of
thousands of people in Tehran, had been distorted.


He was reported to have said that, in retaliation for every Palestinian killed
by Israeli troops in the occupied territories, five Americans, Britons or
Frenchmen should be executed. He added that he would not mind if he was branded
an advocate of terrorism.

But yesterday he said: 'I really do not advise this and consider it (killing
ordinary people) a weak point.'

What he had meant was that Israeli oppression of Palestinians would naturally
lead to violent reactions. He also emphasized that his statement was based on
his own personal analysis and did not necessarily reflect official policy.

Hojatolelsam Rafsanjani, who is also Iran's military Commander-in-Chief and is a
front-runner in the presidential elections due in August, added that the
position of Iran remained the same.

'Terrorism is a scourge of the people. But we should not judge it one-sidedly,
as the Americans and British would that is, allowing for state terrorism by the
likes of Israel, but not the people's reaction to it, ' he said.

The Foreign Office said yesterday: 'We now want to hear this and all other
Iranian death threats lifted unequivocally.'

A spokesman said: 'We expect the Iranians to renounce publicly the use or threat
of terrorism and violence in all forms.'

Britain, the US, the European Community and Israel condemned Hojatoleslam
Rafsanjani's original remark and the Palestine Liberation Organization rejected
it.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              149 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                                The Independent

                              May 16 1989, Tuesday

'South African weapon' used by loyalists in rocket attack

BYLINE: DAVID MCKITTRICK, Ireland Correspondent

LENGTH: 602 words


THE WEAPON used in a rocket attack on a Sinn Fein office in Belfast yesterday is
believed to have been part of an arms consignment supplied to extreme loyalist
groups by South African intelligence agents.

According to reliable sources, the RPG-7 launcher used in the attack was one of
10 which reached Northern Ireland in December 1987. Although the IRA has had the
weapon for more than a decade, this was the first time loyalists have used an
RPG-7.


No one was injured in the incident in the Ardoyne area of north Belfast. A
warhead passed through an upstairs window and two offices before lodging in a
wall. Local people said the attackers, who used a hijacked van, also fired a
number of shots.

The incident raises the possibility that loyalists may go on to use the RPG-7 in
attacks on homes where they believe members of Sinn Fein or the IRA live.
Republicans are known to have been worried about this prospect for some time.
Many have fitted security gates across the bottom of their stairs to prevent
loyalist gunmen reaching their bedrooms, but there is no realistic defence
against RPG-7 attack.

Seamus Mallon, the deputy leader of the Social Democratic and Labour Party, said
yesterday he was seeking an urgent meeting with Tom King, the Secretary of State
for Northern Ireland, to discuss reports that the Israeli intelligence service,
Mossad, was involved in the South African arms operation. Mr Mallon said he
believed substantial numbers of arms had reached Northern Ireland in this way,
and said the Government should consider applying trade sanctions against both
South Africa and Israel.

It has been known for some time that the weapons consignment was shipped to
Northern Ireland from Lebanon, and that a prominent loyalist paramilitary, the
late John McMichael, visited Israel several years ago.

The Israeli and South African governments and defence industries co-operate
closely on various arms deals. These facts gave rise to a suspicion that
Israelis might have been involved in the exercise, though no firm evidence has
emerged to link Israel with the arrests of three loyalists in Paris last month.

The loyalists are believed to be connected with the Ulster Resistance
organisation, which was attempting to acquire more weapons from South African
agents in return for equipment from the Shorts missile factory in Belfast. A
South African diplomat was also arrested, but later freed. Since then Britain
and France have each expelled three South African diplomats.

The first consignment of weaponry was supplied for money, though it was sold to
the loyalists at rates far below the normal black market price. It is known, for
example, that the RPG-7s were supplied, together with 15 warheads for each
weapon, for pounds 5,000 each. Two of the 10 have since been recovered by the
security forces, one of them in a Co Armagh arms dump last year, together with
Shorts missile parts.

Official sources continue to maintain that there is no firm evidence that the
arms consignment originated with the South Africans, although other reliable
sources confirm the connection.

In another loyalist attack yesterday, a 34-year-old Catholic man was shot dead
in the Rathcoole housing estate in the northern suburbs of Belfast. Malachy
Trainor, a father of two from Kilkeel, Co Down, was unloading timber from a car
in the Protestant estate when he was shot by a gunman with an automatic rifle.
Both security and republican sources had predicted a rise in loyalist violence,
and there is concern that yesterday's attacks will be followed by more.

Title Page 1

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1989 Independent Print Ltd

                              150 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                                The Independent

                              May 23 1989, Tuesday

The Gibraltar Inquest: Intelligence experts stalked IRA's movements

SECTION: Home News ; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 801 words


ON THE morning of 8 March, last year, when a powerful explosive was to have
shattered Gibraltar, the Irish bombers planned to be 30,000 feet above the
carnage, winging their way out of Spain.

But the IRA terrorists, for all their cautious precautions, had failed to
realise British intelligence was shadowing almost every move they made.


Britain's knowledge of the IRA's plans on the Rock was so flawless that,
afterwards, the IRA began to suspect that somehow Special Branch had tapped into
its highest command.

Two years before the shootings, British anti-terrorist experts had been alerted
to the presence of IRA suspects mixing with British and Irish tourists in
Spain's Mediterranean resorts. But the British were unsure of the IRA's target.
They called in Spanish help. A Costa del Sol police superintendent said: 'We
knew the IRA were setting up a kind of network on the Costa del Sol. Agents from
Special Branch were regularly coming down here to keep an eye on the Irish.'
Then, in November 1987, Daniel McCann and Sean Savage, two of the Gibraltar
bombers, were spotted flying into Malaga airport using fake passports. They
stayed a month, travelling up and down the coastline stretching from Malaga to
Gibraltar, before flying out through Madrid. The pace of the IRA planning began
to quicken.

In February, a warning was flashed to Spanish police in Valencia - about 800kms
from Gibraltar - from the British. At least two IRA suspects, a man and a woman,
had flown into Valencia and, at the British request, were tailed by police
there. However, the Irish terrorists gave the Spaniards the slip in their hire
car.

On 10 February, the British asked the Spanish to keep watch on a long-haired
Irish woman who had checked into the Hostal Buena Vista in Estepona, a coastal
town an hour's drive from Gibraltar. She was the stalking-horse for the IRA
bombers. Using a false passport in the name of Mary Parkin, she made frequent
trips to Gibraltar, Malaga and nearby San Pedro de Alcantara where she made
regular calls from public booths. 'We knew she was timing runs to Gibraltar from
different spots along the coast,' one inspector said. 'Afterwards she would go
to mass at Estepona's church. She seemed very religious.'

By this time, the British had elaborated a line of command, counting on support
of Spanish counter-terrorism officials in Madrid - steeled by hard years of
combat against Basque ETA guerrillas - along with dozens of superintendents,
chief inspectors and plain-clothed police in the string of resort towns running
from Malaga to the Rock.

Spanish government sources say the British Embassy in Madrid acted as liaison
between the British intelligence agencies and the Spanish Interior Ministry. A
counter-terrorism expert from Belfast, code-named F-5, arrived in Madrid to
oversee the setting of the trap.

One indication of how much British intelligence knew of the IRA bomb plot came
two days before McCann and Savage arrived. MI5 had already passed on their ID
photographs to a police command centre hastily set up in the Marbella. The
British were also able to advise the Spanish of the exact flight and time of
McCann and Savage's arrival on 4 March from Paris. Plain-clothed police met the
IRA men at Malaga airport. Policemen interviewed by The Independent contradicted
British claims that the three terrorists - Farrell was also spotted at Malaga's
international terminal - eluded surveillance from then on.

Nor were the British prepared to rely exclusively on Spanish police
surveillance. The Independent has learnt that at least one British police
officer and another intelligence expert surfaced in Marbella a day before the
Gibraltar shootings. The two booked into a hotel less than 50 yards from the car
hire firm where, that same evening, a woman drove off with the white Ford Fiesta
that early Sunday morning was filled with 140lbs of Semtex and bomb-making
equipment.

The Spanish say the close and constant communication between the British and
Spanish police forces heightened their sense of betrayal when the IRA trio were
killed. One high-ranking officer said: 'The British told us that the IRA had
died in a shoot-out, which wasn't true. We couldn't believe that they had killed
all three of them. Maybe just two. But with them all dead, how in the hell were
we supposed to find the car bomb?'

The danger existed that the IRA members had already set the bomb's timer and
that the car - hidden somewhere on the Costa del Sol - would go off at exactly
11:20am on Tuesday, the time of the Gibraltar parade. It was not until 5:30pm -
long after the bomb would have detonated - that a Spanish inspector, Feliz
Sanchez, located the Semtex-laden white Ford Fiesta in an underground Marbella
car park.

Home News Page 3

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1989 Independent Print Ltd

                              151 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                                The Independent

                              May 23 1989, Tuesday

The Gibraltar Inquest: Spanish police contradict British line on IRA deaths

BYLINE: TIM MCGIRK and HEATHER MILLS

SECTION: Leading article, page 16

LENGTH: 890 words


CRUCIAL PARTS of the British government's justification for the shooting dead of
three IRA members in Gibraltar 15 months ago have been flatly contradicted by
senior Spanish police sources.

Officers involved in the case have revealed that:


British security forces were told that the terrorists' car was in place in
Gibraltar on the Saturday, the day before the shooting, giving them at least 15
hours to verify Spanish advice that it contained no bomb;

The three unarmed terrorists were not discovered by chance on the Rock on the
Sunday. Hours before they were shot, they had been tracked by the Spanish to the
border where they crossed on foot. The surveillance operation was then passed on
to the British.

These claims undermine the British authorities' explanation for killing Daniel
McCann, Sean Savage and Mairead Farrell on 6 March last year. Britain has
maintained throughout that the three were killed because the SAS soldiers feared
that they were about to detonate a car bomb.

The security forces claimed to have been taken by surprise by the sudden arrival
of the trio and the car and blamed the Spanish police for sloppy surveillance
work which allowed the IRA members to slip undetected on to the Rock.

The Spanish version raises questions about the accuracy of information given to
the Commons by Sir Geoffrey Howe, the Foreign Secretary, after the killings. The
latest allegations led to a renewed call last night by the Labour Party for a
public inquiry into the shootings. Mo Mowlam, a Labour spokeswoman on Northern
Ireland, said: 'The Spanish police have been badly treated. They clearly feel
that their evidence has been suppressed.'

But British ministers remained adamant that their version of events was correct.
They dismissed the reports from the Spanish police as part of an internal power
struggle. However, both the Spanish and British governments were concerned that
the continuing dispute could harm diplomatic relations.

A senior Spanish police officer involved in the operation told The Independent:
'The white Renault (the suspect bomb car) was driven into Gibraltar a day before
the shooting. We told the British we were 90 per cent certain that the car
contained no bomb.'

The security forces would then have had ample time to check whether the car
carried explosives before the trio were shot dead just after 3.30pm on the
Sunday.

Although Britain maintained that the Renault was thought to contain a bomb, no
attempt was made to evacuate the area until several hours after the shootings.
No bomb was found in Gibraltar.

On the Monday after the shootings, Sir Geoffrey told the House that one
terrorist had brought a white Renault car into the colony and parked it at the
parade ground shortly before 1pm. He said that the other two were not spotted
until an hour and a half later. They had entered on foot and met up with the
first terrorist at around 3pm.

'Their presence and actions near the parked Renault car gave rise to a strong
suspicion that it contained a bomb, which appeared to be corroborated by a rapid
technical examination of the car,' he told the Commons.

The Spanish police tell a different story. The officers who tracked the
terrorists have given a picture of their last days. They reveal that the
Gibraltar bomb team consisted of at least two others and that it was probably
one of these who hired the car on Saturday at 1pm and drove it to Gibraltar,
parking it in the target area a day before the arrival of McCann, Savage and
Farrell.

At the inquest, it was confirmed that a surveillance operation was taking place
in the colony on the Saturday. Although the inquest was told 'nothing of any
consequence occurred' that day, the authorities were on sufficiently high alert
to call a midnight briefing for security services, SAS and police. It was at
that meeting that they set the trap. The inquest heard that the SAS had been
deployed on the streets half an hour before the terrorists arrived on Sunday.

On the day of the killings, Spanish sources say that the three terrorists
driving a red Ford Fiesta were tracked from their hotel in Torremolinos down the
coast for two hours to La Linea at the border with Gibraltar. It was an
intricate surveillance operation involving several police relay teams to avoid
being spotted. The three parked the Ford and walked over the border. 'We were
surprised when the three were not arrested the moment they entered Gibraltar,'
said one of the senior investigating officers.

The shootings created another problem. Only the terrorists knew where the
explosives were and whether they had been assembled and primed. This was a vital
flaw in the intelligence operation.

The sources said that although close watch was kept on Savage, McCann and
Farrell, at no stage were they seen handling the explosives. It is thought most
likely that other IRA terrorists brought the bomb material from a cache near
Valencia. Police had missed the transfer of the explosives early on Sunday
morning into the proposed bomb car in an underground Marbella car park near a
busy shopping precinct. Frantic searches turned up explosives two days after the
shootings and several hours after the parade which was to have been the target.

Background, page 3

Leading article, page 16

Title Page 1

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1989 Independent Print Ltd

                              152 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                                The Independent

                              May 26 1989, Friday

Channel Tunnel Special Report (13): Terrorism: Police prepare for tunnel test of
counter-terrorism measures

BYLINE: JEAN-PAUL COLLETTE of Le Soir and SARAH HELM of The Independent

SECTION: Channel Tunnel Special Report, ; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1618 words


Nothing about the man, who was tall and thin with red hair, betrayed the fact
that he came from the Middle East. He stopped off in Lille for two hours on his
way from Copenhagen. No one had taken any notice of his Austrian passport; it
had not even been stamped. The Danish authorities were supposed to have done it
at the EC border, but since the man had come from Malmo on the hovercraft, which
is linked to the airport by a special shuttle, the police at Kastrup had assumed
that, in line with all the regulations, their Swedish colleagues had done all
the necessary paperwork when the 'Austrian' set foot in Scandanavia.

The traveller had just arrived on the high-speed Lille-Sangatte train at the
French terminus where the TGV disappeared into the tunnel's black hole. He made
straight for the first available train and found a seat without trouble, which
he abruptly left a minute before the train pulled away, leaving behind his
leather briefcase. The tunnel train had barely covered two kilometres beneath
the Channel, when a British customs officer queried the forgotten briefcase. He
was soon joined by the French and British police. They opened the case and found
a stick of plastic explosive and a detonator with a primed timing device.


It took scarcely a minute for the train to stop and the passengers to be
transferred, with a minimum of fuss, to the parallel service tunnel. The bomb
disposal experts from Calais turned up a split-second before their colleagues
from Folkestone and the device was dismantled just before it was due to go off.
In Beirut, an anonymous phone call to AFP warned of a bomb in the Channel tunnel
.. but the caller had jumped the gun. The world's Press scrambled to report the
first (failed) attack to blow up the Channel tunnel - it is 18 November, 1993.

This scenario is not as far-fetched as it may seem. It is being considered by
counter-terrorist organisations in mainland Europe, as well as the UK. But while
the British prefer to see the problem in global terms, believing the Channel
tunnel to be Britain's principal frontier, where an elaborate system of controls
would simultaneously block drug-trafficking, terrorism and the spread of rabies,
others - notably the Germans, Dutch and Belgians - see the opening of the tunnel
as a testing ground for a new European approach to the battle against terrorism.

Within this context, the Beirut-Copenhagen-tunnel scenario takes on real
meaning. The free movement of goods and people within the Community would make
it easy for a would-be terrorist to travel unchecked from Denmark to the tunnel,
while a policy of reinforcing control procedures on the EC's exterior borders
would put a very heavy burden on the shoulders of the police and customs. And,
in the case of our scenario, there is an additional difficulty in that, under
the terms of the Nordic Union (Denmark, Sweden, Finland, Norway and Iceland),
Denmark would be obliged to rely heavily on its Scandanavian colleagues.

Such considerations already figure in the daily problems of countries at the
northern gateway to Europe. In Brussels, some members of the Trevi group regard
Denmark's ports and airports as a Scandinavian filter. The Germans make no
secret of the fact that, were someone to arrive in the EC by land from a Nordic
country, the EC would draw its border across the Aarhus/Hamburg motorway or in
the trains.

Other possible scenarios point to the difficulties posed by opening up the
European continent. Take Greece, for example. Linked by the EC to Nato, but
also, for reasons of geography, to the Arab world, it is the perfect target for
terrorist blackmail, and a weak link in the chain of international anti-
terrorist efforts - the attack in July 1988 on the City of Poros serves as a
stark reminder of how easy it is to hold a country to ransom.

It is not beyond the bounds of possibility that a terrorist, having come by
plane from Athens, could get into France by car, via Italy, and booby-trap the
vehicle before driving it on to the tunnel train. He could even get an innocent
tourist to carry the bomb on board for him. Such sabotage is technically
possible across any one of the Community's borders or at any airport.

The EC's more far-flung neighbours pose even greater problems, especially those
with long coastlines or hard-to-patrol mountain ranges. During discussion on the
implications of a frontier-free Europe, Ireland is always quick to point out
that it has only two coastguard patrol vessels.

In these circumstances the tunnel itself becomes a terrorist target, along with
the goods and passengers that use it. Presumably British servicemen stationed in
West Germany will use the tunnel when they come home on leave and they are
surely at least as at risk travelling through the tunnel as they are taking a
ferry; and remember how easy it was on 12 August 1988 for the IRA to assassinate
a British soldier as he waited to board a ferry in his car just outside Ostend.

Eurotunnel - which must somehow persuade the public that the danger is minimal -
says fears that the Channel tunnel might be a terrorist target are raised by the
British just to scare people off the project. 'People say these things so it
doesn't get built,' said Alan Bertrand. 'The trouble is the more people talk of
it the more it might give ideas to the terrorist.'

Police on both sides of the Channel are less dismissive of the threat. Nobody
wants to exaggerate the danger, but it is clearly accepted that the symbolic
nature of the tunnel - a manifestation of European co-operation and
technological advance - makes it inevitably sensitive to attack.

What if the tunnel is eventually used for troop transport? The route would be
forever 'strategically sensitive' and prey to the political tensions of the day.
Moreover, the bulk transport of arms would only exacerbate the situation and
further encourage terrorist attacks. The same argument applies to the
transportation of any dangerous substances - toxic chemicals and perhaps even
nuclear waste. When you add to the equation those parts of the tunnel's
infrastructure which are above ground - buildings, customs posts, police,
electricity generators, ventilation systems - prevention is the only effective
deterrent against terrorist attacks, and that would involve co-operation between
the various border posts and national police.

Those countries, like Germany and Spain, which advocate the establishment of a
European police force cite the Channel tunnel in support of their case. It may
be the only solution to a serious and strangely fascinating dilemma. All
terrorist groups, whether operating within Europe or not, could target,
according to their political objectives, Great Britain, France, both countries
together, the whole Community or any of its individual member-states. Extreme
right-wing 'euro-terrorist' factions - the Red Army Faction, the Red Brigades,
the CCC in Belgium or the French-based Action Directe might resurface and attack
those European countries it perceived as Euro-capitalist.

The French have experience of tunnels under the Alps and see no reason, in
principle, why a tunnel should offer an attractive target to the terrorist. They
also have experience of international trains which have not attracted the
terrorist. But there have been attacks on the TGV, and this, it is accepted, was
an attempt to hit at a symbol of French progress. To blow up the tunnel
effectively would, say the experts, be almost impossible. The amount of
explosives needed would be so massive that it would be impossible to conceal.
But to cause horror under the sea it would be enough for any terrorist attack to
take place, however ineffective. Some senior British police officers doubt
whether the tunnel would prove a particularly symbolic target because it is too
non-specific. But Paul Condon, the Chief Constable-designate of Kent police,
thinks the tunnel must be considered vulnerable simply because it is new. 'It is
another opportunity. That is what is important,' he said.

In some respects the tunnel will be an easier target than a plane for the
terrorist. With the emphasis on speed and free movement, controls are inevitably
going to be somewhat less stringent than they are at most international
airports. Although authorities on both sides say security screening will take
place - and police on both sides will almost certainly be armed - the checks
will inevitably be random. On the shuttle train there will simply not be the
time to screen every vehicle for hidden explosives. Police will have to rely,
instead, very heavily on advance intelligence.

The sheer volume of people - trains with 750 passengers coming in at peak hours
every 15 minutes - will make it quite easy for terrorists to mingle hidden. The
authorities are doing what they can to combat a possible terrorist attack, but
what they can do is, in the end, limited. The public will want to know before
the tunnel opens what the preventive and emergency measures are.

Eurotunnel says it will announce what safety measures exist 'when it is time to
do so'. It adds that the test of whether the safety measures are sufficient will
be commercial - whether the public uses the tunnel or not. But when it comes to
a terrorist attack these measures probably only have one chance. As Jean-Louis
Langlais, the French interior ministry representative on the Intergovernmental
Commission on the Channel tunnel, said: 'It is all about psychology of the
public. If in the first month, for example, there was any form of attack, it
would just scare people off. It would be a disaster for the tunnel.'

Channel Tunnel Special Report, Page 5

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1989 Independent Print Ltd

                              153 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  June 3, 1989

Freedom for Old Bailey bomber

BYLINE: By DAVID PALLISTER

LENGTH: 348 words


A Provisional IRA member jailed for life 16 years ago for the Old Bailey and
Scotland Yard bomb attacks was freed from the Maze Prison, Belfast, yesterday.

Gerard Kelly was released because, after escaping in 1982, he was extradited
from Holland in 1986 on condition that he would not complete the life sentence.

At a trial in 1988 in Belfast he was sentenced to a further five years for his
part in the breakout. Under Northern Ireland rules he gained 50 per cent
remission, including time spent on remand.

Kelly, who was met by relatives at the prison gates, hurried away without making
any comment.

Mr Ken Maginnis, Ulster Unionist MP for Fermanagh and South Tyrone, said that
Kelly had been allowed out too early because of a 'shoddy' extradition treaty
between Britain and Holland made in 1898. 'Britain has got into a situation
where it does not have proper arrangements with its EEC partners on the
extradition of terrorists,' he said.

'Our system of justice is undermined, and people become angry and
disillusioned.'

The 1973 bomb attacks, the Provisionals' first mainland campaign, were carried
out by the 'Belfast Ten', all of whom were caught. After a protest hunger
strike, he was transferred to a Northern Ireland prison, but in 1982 played a
key role in the escape from the Maze of 38 republican prisoners. A prison warden
was killed.

He was recaptured in Amsterdam three years later with another leading
Provisional, Brendan 'Bik' McFarlane, who had been serving a life sentence at
the Maze for the murders of five Protestants in a Belfast pub bombing.

After an 11-month legal battle to have the pair extradited, the Dutch Supreme
Court advised the Minister of Justice that Kelly should stand trial only for the
limited offences covered by the extradition request. McFarlane, who was treated
as a separate cast, is still serving his life sentence.

Last night, Mr Ian Gow, chairman of the Tory backbench Northern Ireland
committee, said Kelly should have served his full sentence. 'His release will
give aid and comfort to the IRA.'

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              154 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                                The Independent

                             June 3 1989, Saturday

IRA car bomber freed from jail

BYLINE: JACK O'SULLIVAN

SECTION: Home News ; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 434 words


THE IRA's most celebrated prison escaper, the convicted bomber Gerard Kelly, was
a free man again yesterday after serving only a fraction of numerous sentences,
including two life terms.

Kelly could thank his most famous escape - with 37 other republicans in the 1983
Maze jailbreak - for his early release, a fact which has provoked outrage among
Unionist politicians.


Kelly, 35, was originally jailed for two life sentences plus 20 years in 1973
for taking part in a London car-bombing campaign in which 100 people were
injured. The targets were the Old Bailey and New Scotland Yard.

In 1974, Kelly - already a republican folk hero - gained further prominence when
he and three other members of the gang, including the Price sisters Marion and
Dolours, staged a hunger strike. After 207 days, the authorities agreed to
transfer them to Northern Ireland.

In all, Kelly has attempted five escapes, three of them successful - from the
Maze, Belfast's Crumlin Road jail and Dublin's Mountjoy prison, after which he
hid up a tree for three days. He was caught at the outer wall of Wormwood Scrubs
while trying to escape during the hunger strike, and later as he tried to flee
from the military wing of a Belfast hospital.

After the Maze escape, he was finally recaptured in Holland in 1986. But the
terms of his extradition to Britain demanded that his original double life
sentence for the London bombings be set aside. Thus Kelly could be convicted
only of imprisoning a Maze warder, and received a fresh five- year sentence,
from which he gained the standard half remission yesterday.

Five of the nine-member IRA car-bomb gang are still in prison serving long
sentences. Although one is expected out soon, the others will probably be behind
bars for many years, as Kelly would have been, had he not escaped from the Maze.
Ken Maginnis MP, the Ulster Unionist Party spokesman on security, said Kelly had
been returned to Northern Ireland under a 'shoddy and shabby deal' between
Britain and Holland.

'Britain has got into a situation where it does not have proper arrangements
with its EEC partners on the extradition of terrorists,' he said.

'Our system of justice is undermined, and people become angry and disillusioned.
I am angry because there was a prison officer killed in the Maze escape who
appears to have been forgotten as Kelly is released from jail.'

Ian Gow, chairman of the Tory backbench Northern Ireland committee, said Kelly
should have served his full sentence. 'His release will give aid and comfort to
the IRA, ' he said.

Home News Page 2

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1989 Independent Print Ltd

                              155 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             June 3 1989, Saturday

IRA bomber's release angers Tory backbench; Gerard Kelly

BYLINE: JOHN LEWIS and JAMIE DETTMER

SECTION: Issue 63411.

LENGTH: 384 words


The Government is to face angry Tory backbench demands that it stops remission
for all terrorists after Gerard Kelly, the IRA bomber, was released for 'good
behaviour' after serving only half of a five-year sentence in the Maze prison .

Mr Ian Gow, chairman of the Conservatives' backbench Northern Ireland committee,
said when Parliament returned next week he would ask for a short 'immediate'
bill to end remission for terrorists. The prospect of a short Bill, which could
become law within weeks, came hours after Kelly, an IRA terrorist who helped to
draw up plans for the 1983 mass break-out from the Maze prison by 37
republicans, was released after serving only 2 1/2 years.


Kelly, aged 36, was originally jailed for life for his involvement in the bomb
attack on the Central Criminal Court, London, in 1973. After escaping he fled to
the After escaping he fled to The Netherlands where he was arrested in January,
1984.

He and Brendan McFarlane, leader of the Maze escape, fought an 11-month legal
battle to evade extradition. They appealed to the Dutch Supreme Court and the
European Commission of Human Rights. The Dutch Labour Government opposed
extradition on the grounds that the men's bombing offences were political acts.

The life sentence being served by Kelly when he escaped had to be remitted by
Britain as part of an eventual extradition deal. On his return to Northern
Ireland in 1986 Kelly was charged with 16 offences, including attempted murder
and causing grievous bodily harm.

Mr Gow said: 'Extradition arrangements between the UK and The Netherlands are
wholly unsatisfactory. The release of Gerard Kelly is greatly to be deplored.

'That release will give aid and comfort to the IRA and will be received with
dismay by the Royal Ulster Constabulary and the innocent and long-suffering
people of Northern Ireland, ' he said.

Unionist politicians reacted with outrage yesterday after Kelly's release.

Mr Ken Maginnis, Unionist MP for Fermanagh and South Tyrone, said such
extradition deals should not be tolerated by Britain.

He said: 'This is the fruition of a shoddy deal that has undermined the British
system of justice and it was a mistake that we extradited him in a way which
allowed him to be released from prison so quickly.'

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              156 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 June 15, 1989

Suspected Provos face BAOR bombing charges

BYLINE: By ANNA TOMFORDE

LENGTH: 433 words

DATELINE: BONN


West Germany's chief public prosecutor yesterday charged two suspected members
of the Provisional IRA with attempted murder in connection with bomb attacks on
Rhine Army targets in 1987 and 1988.

Terence Gerard McGeogh and Gerard Thomas Hanratty, both aged 30 and from
Northern Ireland, were arrested last August while crossing the Dutch-German
frontier near Aachen in a hired car.

They are charged with membership of a terrorist organisation and with the
attempted murder of 46 British and German military and civilian personnel.

Their trial, for which no date has been set, will be held at the North
Rhine-Westphalian supreme court in Dusseldorf.

The two men are suspected of a car bomb attack in March 1987 which injured 36
people in an officers' mess at Nato's joint headquarters in Rheindahlen, which
is also the main BAOR and RAF base in West Germany.

They are also accused of an early morning bomb attack on Glamorgan Barracks in
Duisburg on July 13 last year, in which 10 British soliders were injured.

Their arrest came a fortnight after the murder in Ostend of RSM Richard Heakin
of the Royal Regiment of Wales, on August 12 while he was travelling to Britain
from his base in West Germany.

It also followed an attack on the BAOR's Roy Barracks at Ratingen, near
Dusseldorf in early August in which three British soldiers and a German woman
were injured when a bomb planted on a bicycle placed against the barracks fence
exploded.

The trail of suspected IRA attacks on the European continent reached its peak in
May 1988 with the murder of three RAF officers in the Dutch towns of Roermond
and Nieuwbergen while they were off duty from their posts in Germany.

At the time McGeogh and Hanratty were arrested, the German authorities said they
were investigating a possible link between their activities and the attacks in
Belgium and Holland.

Yesterday a spokesman for the West German public prosecutor said neither the
Belgian nor the Dutch authorities had officially asked the West Germans to take
over the prosecution for the attacks.

West German sources said the evidence in German hands was insufficient to bring
charges over the Dutch and Belgian incidents.

They said the two suspects had failed to make an 'essential contribution' during
the pre-trial investigation, but they had given the impression that they would
prefer to be tried in Germany.

It was doubtful whether their trial will begin this year. The Dusseldorf court
is at present preparing major proceedings against suspected Kurdish terrorists
due to start in the autumn.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              157 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             June 15 1989, Thursday

IRA suspects charged after West German bombings; Terence Gerard McGeough and
Gerard Thomas Hanratty

BYLINE: MICHAEL EVANS, Defence Correspondent

SECTION: Issue 63421.

LENGTH: 473 words


Two suspected IRA men were yesterday indicted for attempted murder after bomb
attacks against British military bases in West Germany which injured 46 people.

Herr Kurt Rebmann, the West German chief federal prosecutor in Karlsruhe, said
the IRA was responsible for a series of attacks against British military targets
in Europe.


The indicted suspects, Terence Gerard McGeough and Gerard Thomas Hanratty, have
been in prison since they were arrested last August near the Dutch border by an
alert customs official. Several weapons were discovered.

The federal prosecution office said: 'McGeough and Hanratty are suspected of
being members of the IRA, not ringleaders.' It is not yet known when the two men
will go on trial.

Both men were indicted after two bombings on charges of attempted murder and
'other crimes' that were not specified in a written statement. In the first
attack, a car bomb exploded on March 23, 1987, outside a mess hall at the
British Army of the Rhine headquarters in Rheindahlen, outside Moenchengladbach,
near the border with The Netherlands.

Most of the 36 people injured were West Germans. The IRA said it intended to
'inflict a devastating blow' on Britain's Nato forces in West Germany.

Herr Rebmann said Mr McGeough and Mr Hanratty, both aged 30 and both born in
Northern Ireland, were also charged in connection with the bombing on July 13,
1988, of a British Army barracks in the Wanheim residential section of Duisburg.

After the early-morning attack, which injured 10 sleeping soldiers, police in
the area tried to stop a suspected get-away car that had Dutch licence plates.
Ten shots were fired from the yellow BMW saloon, which sped away.

At the time of the two bombings in West Germany, the IRA was stepping up attacks
on British targets on the European continent.

Soldiers in the Ulster Defence Regiment may be given plastic-bullet guns, the
riot control weapon nationalist politicians want banned.

Many among the 6,300 full-time and part-time soldiers have already been trained
to use the gun but up to now it has been used exclusively by the RUC and regular
Army units from Britain.

An Army spokesman said yesterday that no final decision had been taken to allow
UDR soldiers to carry the weapons on the streets of the province.

'Operational use of the plastic-bullet gun, on a strictly limited basis, to the
UDR is an option which has been under consideration for some time, ' he said.

Nationalist churchmen and politicians on both sides of the Irish border want the
guns banned because they have caused so many deaths.

A boy aged three was hit in the arm by crossfire when security forces operating
a vehicle checkpoint in West Belfast were attacked by terrorists last night. The
boy was taken to hospital to be treated for minor injuries.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              158 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            June 21 1989, Wednesday

Yard seeks UK version of FBI to fight crime

BYLINE: STEWART TENDLER, Crime Reporter

SECTION: Issue 63426.

LENGTH: 308 words


Scotland Yard's senior officers are to launch a campaign for a British version
of the FBI to deal with rising organized crime and meet the demands of a Europe
with reduced barriers in the 1990s.

The call for the creation of a national investigative agency is expected to be
launched in the next few weeks in a speech by Sir Peter Imbert, Commissioner of
the Metropolitan Police.


The unit would investigate crimes such as drug trafficking, national and
international gangs and aspects of terrorism. It would be the first national
investigative police unit and could eventually link up with Continental agencies
to form a European unit.

Britain has a national drugs intelligence unit staffed by police and Customs
officers. The Serious Fraud Office, created two years ago, takes over complex or
big frauds with seconded police.

The idea may be resisted by politicians fearful of anything approaching a
national police force. Some chief constables may not want to lose part of their
powers.

However, supporters of the concept see the agency as the only way of fighting
the potential for international criminals presented by 1992. a single force
would meet the growing menace of drug trafficking.

Investigation of terrorist incidents such as the Lockerbie disaster would no
longer have to be split between a number of forces.

Sir Peter brought up the idea of a British version of the FBI in a speech to
European police chiefs in Oslo last month. Urging greater co-operation against
increased international activity by criminals, Sir Peter noted that there were
55 police forces in different regions of Britain.

'Such diversity brings great rewards but it also presents a major obstacle when
we seek to combat law-breakers who operate without any regard for social, police
or national boundaries, ' Sir Peter said.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              159 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                              June 23 1989, Friday

IRA units may be preparing attacks; Twentieth anniversary of the Army's
intervention in Ulster

BYLINE: EDWARD GORMAN and STEWART TENDLER

SECTION: Issue 63428.

LENGTH: 198 words


Five IRA active service units could be preparing attacks in Britain and Europe
to mark the twentieth anniversary of the Army's intervention in Ulster.

Detectives quoted yesterday in the Irish Independent estimated at least 20
activists are operating in Britain and Europe in five units. They said IRA
commanders had ordered the activists almost all of whom are unknown to European
and British police forces to change groups regularly to avoid detection.


The Garda, the RUC and British police have been on alert for months, facing the
prospect that the IRA will try to mark the anniversary of the appearance of
British troops on Ulster streets.

Senior Scotland Yard detectives investigating the discovery of a bomb factory in
Clapham, south London, have spoken privately of the possibility of IRA attacks
on the mainland in the next few months. They suspect two units are hiding in
Britain. They also believe suspects linked to the bomb factory are still in
Britain.

At least one unit is operating in Europe it was involved in the attack this week
on the British Army barracks at Osnabruck, West Germany, where five bombs
containing 330lb of Semtex were planted.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              160 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                                The Independent

                              June 26 1989, Monday

Thatcher set for EC compromise: PM to avert Madrid clash by accepting first
stage in moves to monetary union

BYLINE: From DAVID USBORNE and TIM McGIRK in Madrid

SECTION: Leading article, page 20

LENGTH: 726 words


IN A GAMBLE to avert confrontation at the European Community summit in Madrid
this week, Margaret Thatcher will today confirm her readiness to accept the
first stage of a new departure towards economic and monetary union.

Although Felipe Gonzalez, the Spanish Prime Minister, said in an interview that
an agreement to the first stage alone would not satisfy him, it seemed last
night such a move might mollify even those countries most supportive of union,
as well as the President of the European Commission, Jacques Delors.


The Delors report, drafted by the president with a team experts and central bank
governors, depicts a three-stage progression towards monetary union, culminating
in an EC central banking system and, eventually, a single currency. Stage one
would involve the strengthening of existing co-operation procedures, while
stages two and three would entail a revision of the EC constitution, the Treaty
of Rome.

Government sources played down reports that Mrs Thatcher would indicate a loose
timetable for entering sterling fully into the European Monetary System (EMS),
perhaps even by July next year. 'This is a voyage into the unknown,' one said.
It is none the less widely assumed that the Government's 10-year-old dictum that
sterling will join the EMS exchange rate mechanism 'when the time is right' will
have been modified before the end of the summit tommorrow afternoon, if not by
this evening.

In its place, Mrs Thatcher may indicate that sterling will play its full part
once British inflation has fallen to a reasonable level and French and Italian
exchange controls have been lifted, in the middle of next year. She is expected
to argue that only when the full effect of capital control liberalisation on the
exchange rate mechanism has been judged can Britain decide. This cautious
approach is believed to reflect the views of her economic guru, Sir Alan
Walters, that the mechanism might not survive free capital flows.

The fortunes of this summit now appear to rest with Mr Gonzalez, the host, and
those leaders most enthused by the Delors report - Chancellor Helmut Kohl of
West Germany, Ciriaco de Mita, the Italian Prime Minister, and President
Francois Mitterrand of France. If they choose to insist, as some predict, that
Mrs Thatcher must commit herself to all three stages, the meeting will almost
certainly end in acrimony.

This was the unyielding position maintained by Mr Gonzalez in his interview with
the Spanish daily, El Pais. 'There will be no agreement if there is a compromise
on stage one, but an impasse on stages two and three,' he said, adding that
Britain should not be allowed to block an immediate commitment to the whole
Delors report. 'No one country should be given the right to veto the desire of
the rest to move towards monetary union,' he said.

In what would the worst possible outcome for Mrs Thatcher, the Spanish Prime
Minister refused to rule out a vote on calling a special inter-governmental
meeting, at which the ultimate treaty revisions could be negotiated. 'There is
some possibility of this,' he said.

Mr Delors seemed confident last night that a compromise could be struck on the
basis of Mrs Thatcher's proposal. This would allow the leaders to agree to
'urgent preparatory' work on stage one and to separate consideration of the
latter two, without prior commitment to carrying them through. It would also
defer any confrontation between the member states at least until the Paris
summit in December.

Most governments would also welcome any solution which avoided isolating Britain
so early in a process that most of them consider vital to the EC's future. Most
admit, moreover, that Mrs Thatcher's position inside the Twelve remains
relatively strong, in spite of the Conservatives' dismal showing in the European
elections. At least four of the other leaders are either in difficult straits at
home, like Ireland's Charles Haughey, or in charge of caretaker governments,
like Mr de Mita.

A Spanish government official said yesterday the Basque separatist group Eta had
threatened to launch a terrorist attack on the summit, AFP reports.

Security forces were searching for a member of Eta's military wing who may be
hiding in the Madrid area, he said.

The verdict on Spain, page 13

Leading article, page 20

Title Page 1

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1989 Independent Print Ltd

                              161 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 June 27, 1989

Barracks security alert after sentry shoots at intruder

BYLINE: By PAUL KEEL

LENGTH: 272 words


SURREY police were appealing for information yesterday about a possible armed
intruder who was shot at by a sentry at the headquarters of the Royal Army
Medical Corps on Sunday night.

The incident, which occurred shortly after 9pm at the regiment's Keogh Barracks
in Mytchett, prompted a security alert at the base, which was searched yesterday
for any traces of explosives. None was found.

The soldier challenged and shot at the man he saw in bushes outside the
barracks. He was carrying what appeared to be an automatic pistol and swung
round when challenged.

Yesterday Inspector Andrew Nielson of Surrey Police said there was no suggestion
that the sentry had acted improperly.

'The soldier felt threatened and discharged his weapon. The suspect ran off. We
are trying to identify this man and would urgently like to speak to people
living in the Mytchett area or who might have been travelling past at about the
time the shooting happened.'

A Ministry of Defence spokesman said it was believed that the gunman sped off by
car.

He was about 5ft 4in with straggly, light-coloured hair and wearing a blue coat.

British servicemen have been targets in a series of terrorist attacks in Britain
and Europe. The most recent was on June 19 when a bomb exploded at Quebec
barracks, Osnabruck, West Germany.

The IRA also bombed two army bases in Britain: Mill Hill, north-west London last
August and Tern Hill, Shropshire in February this year.

The police spokesman said there was no firm terrorist link in the latest
incident but added: 'It is an obvious possibility. We are keeping an open mind.'

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              162 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                                The Independent

                            June 28 1989, Wednesday

Anti-terror squad calls for Ryan TV tapes

SECTION: Home News ; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 496 words


SCOTLAND YARD'S anti-terrorist squad moved yesterday to seize all the
transcripts and tapes of Thames Television's controversial interview with
Patrick Ryan - the Irish priest at the centre of an extradition dispute between
Ireland and Britain.

In a programme, screened two weeks ago, Mr Ryan - at the time an
anti-extradition candidate in the European elections - made no secret of his
republican sympathies and admitted buying pieces of electronic equipment, which
it is alleged ended up in IRA bombs.


He said: 'I buy them the same as I buy anything else and pass them on. It's none
of my business - but I would stress that the IRA never requested that I buy any
such items for them.'

He also admitted that in the Seventies he bought hundreds of memo park timers -
designed for parking meter monitoring, but now a recognised IRA bomb trademark.

He said he bought them for 'somebody that might have been connected with a
particular government'. 'At least that would be my impression. The real identity
of these people, of course, is a matter of speculation,' he added.

The interview was with journalists from the This Week programme, which made the
'Death on the Rock' documentary dealing with the SAS shootings of three IRA
members in Gibraltar.

The programme came after months of research into Mr Ryan's activities in Europe
before he was arrested in Belgium and deported to the Irish Republic.

It screened evidence allegedly linking Mr Ryan with the IRA's London bombing
campaign in the early Eighties. It alleged that one of the electronic devices
bought by Mr Ryan with a serial number 8131 was found in bombmaking circuitry in
an IRA arms cache discovered in Salcey Forest in 1984.

Identical circuitry was used in the Hyde Park bomb, which killed eight people
and injured 53 others on 20 July, 1982.

Last night a spokesman for Thames said only that the application from Scotland
Yard was being considered.

However, it is understood that because of concern that its reporting crews are
not placed in danger for willingly collaborating with the authorities, the
company is seeking legal advice.

It is unlikely that Thames will be able to avoid parting with the Ryan footage.
The 1984 Police and Criminal Evidence Act enables the police to enlist the power
of the courts to acquire untransmitted as well as transmitted material.

It has been used before - as in the killing of the two British soldiers at an
IRA funeral.

It is possible that the material will be passed to Eamon Barnes, the Irish
Director of Public Prosecutions, who has been considering for months a British
request that Mr Ryan be tried in Dublin under extra-territorial legislation.
John Murray, the Irish Attorney- General, had refused to extradite Mr Ryan to
Britain on the ground that allegedly prejudicial comments in the tabloid Press,
and in the Commons by Margaret Thatcher and others, meant he could not expect a
fair trial.

Home News Page 2

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1989 Independent Print Ltd

                              163 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            June 28 1989, Wednesday

Children among 13 injured; Londonderry shop bomb

BYLINE: EDWARD GORMAN, Irish Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: Issue 63432.

LENGTH: 276 words


Three children, including a boy aged eight, were among 13 people injured last
night when an IRA incendiary device exploded in a paint and wallpaper store on
Strand Road, Londonderry.

Later, a member of the RUC Reserve force was killed when a booby-trap device
exploded under his car as he got into the vehicle at Balymagorry near Strabane,
County Tyrone.


Police said two warning calls were made by the IRA about 30 minutes before the
Londonderryexplosion but they were unable to clear the shop in time. The calls
detailed five bombs planted in Londonderry, but police said some of the
locations given were indistinguishable from each other. The store had been
searched, but nothing was found. The bombing followed a visit to the city by Mr
Tom King, Secretary of State for Northern Ireland.

Earlier, several people were held in a swoop by security forces in south Armagh.

Police said they had been brought in for questioning about 'serious terrorist
crimes', including the murders of Chief Supt Harry Breen and Supt Bob Buchanan
near Jonesborough in March.

Thames Television was last night considering a police request to hand over a
filmed interview with Father Patrick Ryan, wanted in Britain for alleged
terrorist offences, which was shown on the This Week programme.

During the programme, the former priest admitted buying timing devices, but said
he did not know who they were for.

Three Irish brothers held after the IRA bombing of Tern Hill barracks,
Shropshire, are not to be prosecuted. Andy McDonagh, aged 31, Thomas, aged 29,
and Lawrie, aged 27, all of Stoke-on-Trent, were released on bail six weeks ago.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              164 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 June 29, 1989

Tory rage at Livingstone's Neave 'slur'

BYLINE: By ALAN TRAVIS and RICHARD NORTON-TAYLOR

LENGTH: 536 words


THE Commons Speaker, Mr Bernard Weatherill, and other senior Conservatives
yesterday launched an emotional attack on Mr Ken Livingstone, Labour MP for
Brent East, over his allegation that the late Airey Neave was involved in
treason.

In an adjournment debate on Tuesday night, Mr Livingstone called for an inquiry
into allegations of a cover-up over the conviction of a former army intelligence
officer, Mr Colin Wallace, to protect Mr Neave's reputation. Mr Neave was the
head of Mrs Thatcher's private office when he was killed by an Irish National
Liberation Army car bomb as he was leaving the Commons car park.

It was alleged that Mr Neave approached Mr Wallace, who had been involved in
disinformation campaigns against the IRA and the Labour government, after he
left his job in army headquarters in Northern Ireland. Mr Wallace prepared
papers and speeches on the British left and its alleged links with the IRA and
Soviet Union for Mr Neave, and he kept letters in Mr Neave's hand, Mr
Livingstone claimed.

'When all the evidence and the witnesses are assembled, the full scale of the
conspiracy aimed at the heart of our democracy is truly shocking,' Mr
Livingstone said.

His speech deeply upset Mr Neave's former colleagues at Westminster. Mr
Weatherill deprecated it and the Father of the House, Sir Bernard Braine, said
Mr Neave had been one of Britain's most courageous war heroes. He demanded that
the leader of the Opposition reprimand Mr Livingstone.

The Speaker said Mr Livingstone's speech did not breach the House rules, but he
drew attention to the obligation on MPs to use freedom of speech with
responsibility. 'The whole House would accept he (Mr Neave) was a patriot in the
true sense of the word,' he added.

Labour MPs said they could not support attack9 the dead but regretted that the
Conservatives were trying to turn an MP's adjournment debate into a political
issue.

Mr Livingstone's allegations are based on a letter sent by Mr Neave to Mr
Wallace, a former Army press officer involved in psychological warfare in
Northern Ireland in the 1970s. In the letter, dated August 31, 1976, Mr Neave
said he had read 'with great interest' material supplied by Mr Wallace and asked
if it could be updated.

Mr Neave referred in particular to a document entitled Ulster - A State of
Subversion, one of many Mr Wallace says he compiled from material supplied by
elements within MI5 as part of a campaign to smear prominent Labour politicians.

According to Mr Wallace, the two met in early August 1976 when he handed over
some of the material he had used for black propaganda in Northern Ireland.

Speaking in Northumberland on September 10, 1976, Mr Neave referred to the
'increasingly Marxist aims' of the IRA and to 'subversive organisations.'

Mr Livingstone, who devoted his Commons maiden speech in 1987 to Northern
Ireland and has pursued his campaign by tabling numerous parliamentary
questions, said that a recent book 'decisively proves that Wallace was framed
for a crime he did not commit.'

The book, by Mr Paul Foot, suggests that Mr Wallace was framed during an
investigation into the death of a friend in Arundel, West Sussex, in 1980.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              165 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                                The Independent

                              June 30 1989, Friday

Bomb plot to free 'IRA man' foiled

SECTION: Home News ; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 242 words


A PLOT to free a suspected IRA terrorist by triggering a bomb in a courthouse
cell was foiled by police yesterday.

They found a primed bomb containing 1lb of plastic explosive, detonators and a
timing device wired behind a grille near the cell where Desmond Ellis was being
held at Dublin District Court.


Police also discovered that a metal grid outside the cell had been replaced with
a cover of light timber.

A police spokesman said it appeared a minor explosion was to be triggered and,
in the confusion, Mr Ellis would have had an opportunity to escape.

The court buildings at the Bridewell were evacuated, the guard on Mr Ellis
increased and Irish Army bomb disposal experts called in to inspect the package
after police noticed a man acting suspiciously.

Mr Ellis, 36, a television engineer from Finglas, Dublin, was making a remand
appearance in court on British warrants seeking his extradition.

One man was detained by police and the spokesman added: 'We must consider the
possibility it was an attempt by the IRA to spring the man wanted on the
extradition warrants.'

Mr Ellis is wanted on warrants alleging possession of explosives and conspiracy
with three others to cause explosions in Britain between January 1981 and
October 1983.

He was jailed by a Dublin court for eight years in 1983 for possession of
explosives, then arrested on the British warrants on release last April.

Home News Page 3

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1989 Independent Print Ltd

                              166 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 July 13, 1989

Return of the arch raider: Sir James Goldsmith is big game hunting in Britain
again - his sights, and his charm, pointed at BAT Industries in a 13 billion
pound bid

BYLINE: By MARY BRASIER and HAMISH MCRAE

LENGTH: 1392 words


IT IS the charm that hits you. Financiers are not supposed to be charming.
Clever, yes, decisive of course. But with Sir James Goldsmith, it is the Shirley
Williams ability to make the people on the other side of the table think they
are the most important person in the Goldsmith world that knocks them sideways.

If charm is the weapon the game is money. It could be money on the gambling
tables or the horses, but in fact is the money you make or lose by buying and
selling companies that turns Sir James on.


He was an important figure in British finance in the 1970s, the man who
evidently made a fortune, but retreated to France, tail between the legs,
protesting about British socialism but clutching the knighthood from Harold
Wilson's resignation honours list. Now he is back.

Reports of his retirement were premature: after spending most of the 1980s in
the US (France had gone socialist too) he had got out of the stockmarket just
before the crash in 1987. The story that he had then retreated to his vast
Mexican palace to count his gold was one more myth.

Instead he is back with the biggest bid Europe has seen, for the Pounds 13
billion bid for BAT launched on Tuesday is classic Goldsmith raider stuff.

The technique was developed in the sixties and seventies with bids for British
food and supermarket groups. It was refined and given free rein in the no-holds
barred atmosphere of Reagan's roaring eighties economy in the US. And now it has
been re-imported back to the UK this week.

Goldsmith's obsessions are famous and grandiose. In this country they were most
publicly on show during his relentless pursuit of Private Eye editor Richard
Ingrams through the libel courts in the mid 70s. Others have sued Private Eye
and been content to retreat with an unequivocal apology and handsome damages.
Goldsmith became convinced that the Eye was staffed by Marxist 'vermin' who
spread their insidious poison throughout Fleet Street. He embarked on a furious
vendetta to close the magazine down, issuing more than 60 writs and seeking to
have Ingrams jailed for criminal libel.

In a subsequent book about the feud Ingrams wrote of seeing Goldsmith for the
first time in court: 'A tall restless, nail-biting man, expensively dressed, he
looked at least 10 years older than 43, his face was tanned, his eyes a steely
blue. In repose, his expression was peculiarly dead. But his face would
frequently crinkle into a smile and - which was disconcerting - from time to
time he looked across at me, nodding and grinning, as if trying to convey a
message of some kind.'

In the end Goldsmith abandoned the action only because he wanted to clear the
decks before bidding for Beaverbrook Newspapers. He was thwarted in his wish to
own a British newspaper - though he attempted a brave but brief stab at a colour
news magazine with Now! But his obsession with Communist infiltration of the
press continued with the offer of a large annual cash prize for anyone able to
produce concrete evidence of it.

For 10 years, Goldsmith has fed his business addiction in the US which provided
him both with a congenial climate for making money and the appropriate sleepy
companies upon which to hone his skills. Goodyear Tire, Colgate-Palmolive, and
Pan Am were all household names. They were bastions of American pride. The
attraction of swiping at such corporate goliaths was irresistible to someone who
made his name in Europe by taking on the stuffed shirts of the City
establishment .. in rather the same way he defied social conventions by openly
keeping a mistress and family in one country and a wife and children in another.

Half British, half French, he is the permanent outsider who uses his ambivalent
background to overcome any inhibitions about busting up the status quo. In a
rose-coloured biography of him by Geoffrey Wansell in 1987, Sir James explained:
'I am a Jew to Catholics and a Catholic to Jews, an Englishman to the French and
a Frenchman to the English. I have always been neither one thing nor the other.'

He is not an American either, despite the offer of an honorary citizenship by an
admiring US senator in 1985, who was smitten by Sir James's enthusiasm for
unfettered capitalism and President Reagan's entrepreneurial revolution. He was
also given the ultimate accolade in American terms by having a film character
based on him. Sir James is said to be the model for the grey urbane financier
Sir Larry Wildman played by Terence Stamp in the film Wall Street.

The American episode was enormously profitable for Sir James. When he left
Britain his empire was extremely shaky. His French expeditions made a name: he
bought a media group, something no truly ambitious tycoon likes to be without,
but he did not make by his standards an enormous fortune.

It was in America that it all came right. He launched six major takeovers,
completing only three but walking away with profits every time. For example, he
bought 11.5 per cent of Goodyear Tire, threatened a full scale takeover, but
eventually backed down in the face of fierce opposition and sold his shares back
to the company at a profit of Dollars 90 million in a technique known as
greenmail.

His deals were typically high risk, financed by huge loans and highly complex.
Famous for his hatred of the see-through society in the UK in his frequent
brushes with the press, his financial affairs are deliberately complicated.

In the UK this week he created a smokescreen by appearing to take aim at one
company and then emerging with a bid for another. The bid for BAT came after he
announced he had bought a large share in the millers Ranks Hovis McDougall. You
cannot even see where the money is coming from: the bid is being made through a
Bermuda company with BAT shareholders being offered a mysterious mixture of
sophisticated IOU's.

Unlike T. Boone Pickens, the Texan oil raider, Sir James never claimed to be
crusading for small shareholders in the companies he raided. He relishes what
others might treat as an insult - his reputation as the buccaneer and the
ultimate gambler in the world's biggest casino. 'Takeovers are for the public
good', he has said. 'But that is not why I do it. I do it to make money.'

Challenged by a congressman in 1986 who feared what his bid for Goodyear would
do to widows and their pensions that he had taken over an earlier target just to
make a profit, he replied cheerfully: 'Of course, I cannot think of a better
reason for doing business.' At the time, Goodyear workers were demonstrating on
the steps of the Capitol and Sir James was branded an economic terrorist, his
bid akin to the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbour.

He had been among the earliest and arguably the most successful of the break-up
artists who changed the landscape of American business. Their assertions that
takeover bids which bust up America's big business created more efficient, more
inspired management are not yet old enough to have been tested. While the fate
of employees, consumers, and communities is still unclear, Sir James has thrived
by spotting companies in unfashionable industries like forestry, corralling the
large sums of money washing around Wall Street for hostile bids and selling off
the businesses he acquired for more than he had paid for them. The ends were
simple - the means were rarely so.

But the climate was changing in the US by 1987. Prices for the kind of companies
he wanted to buy had been driven up as others joined the raiding party. 'If you
see a bandwagon it is too late', he has said and by the time the stock market
crashed in October 1987, Sir James was gone. He had sold out. He boasted to Sir
Gordon White, who runs the American half of the Hanson group, that they were the
only two people left with plenty of money. Sir James had bet against the crowd
again - and won.

And now he is back. Whatever you might think about the chosen victim, BAT, a
tobacco giant which is not very good at spending the money it makes from
cigarettes, we should not feel too flattered that Sir James should rediscover
Britain. He is no here because he loves us. He loves the game. He is here
because we are the best game in town. Behind the mask of charm, the upholstered
suit, is the passion, the rage of the outsider. Yes, and he uses that rage as a
weapon too.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              167 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                              July 14 1989, Friday

Judge's right to sit in doubt; Extradition ruling

BYLINE: EDWARD GORMAN, Irish Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: Issue 63446.

LENGTH: 276 words


An Irish judge at the centre of an extradition dispute with Britain last year is
under scrutiny because of doubts over his qualifications.

District Justice Jarlath Ruane freed Patrick McVeigh 13 months ago. He was
wanted in Britain for IRA bombing offences, but the judge ruled that there was
not enough identification to extradite him. The decision was later overturned by
the High Court in Dublin.


Mr McVeigh, aged 37, from Belfast, was wanted on warrants alleging his
involvement in the 1981 attack on Chelsea Barracks in which two people died, the
Oxford Street Wimpy Bar bombing, and two other London bombings. His whereabouts
are unknown.

The judge is on extended leave of absence from the bench.

An inquiry is taking place into allegations about a required number of
practising certificates issued by the Dublin Incorporated Law Society.

Alleged discrepancies on his qualifications throw into doubt all decisions
handed down by Justice Ruane, who has been a district justice since November
1977.

Justice Ruane is expected to apply in the High Court for his position to be
restrospectively legalized. If that fails, the government might be forced to
enact special legislation to make his decisions valid.

Last December, similar legislation was passed affecting 120,000 decisions handed
down over a four-year period by Justice Seamus Mahon after a mix-up over his
age.

Mr Desmond Ellis, aged 36, a television engineer, from Finglas, Dublin, was
remanded in custody by a Dublin court yesterday. He is being sought for
extradition to Britain for allegedly taking part in the same bombing campaign as
Mr McVeigh.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              168 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 July 19, 1989

Brighton bomb suspect held

BYLINE: By DAVID PALLISTER

LENGTH: 541 words


ONE of the three IRA members arrested in France last week has been identified as
Patrick Murray, one of the organisation's most experienced members, who is
suspected of taking part in bombing the Grand Hotel in Brighton during the 1984
Conservative Party conference.

Murray, aged 45, and his two colleagues, Donnogh O'Kane, 29, and Pauline Drunns,
22, appeared before a judge in Paris yesterday charged with violating explosives
laws, conspiracy and using false documents.


One of the three told the French prosecutor, Mr Laurence Le Vert: 'We are
soldiers of the Irish Republican Army. We won't say anything. We have nothing
against France.'

Murray, originally from Co Mayo, has led a charmed life since he joined the IRA
after selling republican literature in Preston, where other members of his
family lived.

In 1983, he was nearly caught by Lancashire police after a car chase. In 1986,
before he went underground, he lived openly in Dublin and although there was a
warrant out for his arrest in Lancashire for conspiracy to cause explosions, the
Director of Public Prosecutions decided not to apply for his extradition.

Security forces in France and Britain believe he was working with the couple who
were arrested by Irish police off a ferry from France last Wednesday. Leonard
Hardy, aged 28, and Donna Maguire, 22, from Northern Ireland, were described in
a Dublin court yesterday as part of a top IRA unit working in Europe.

Opposing bail, Detective Inspector Kevin Carty told the court: 'They had unique
knowledge that was too valuable for the Provisional IRA to lose. They are
members of the Provisional IRA, part of a group who were operating and engaged
in criminal activities .. it has international connotations.'

They have been charged with possessing explosives and mercury tilt switches, a
favourite IRA device for detonating car bombs and were remanded in custody.

Irish police alerted their French counterparts, which led to Friday's arrests.
The three are suspected of preparing to attack British targets in West Germany.
They were seized on the motorway from Paris to Saarbrucken as they tried to
escape in a hired car.

Murray came to the attention of the British police when he and Patrick Magee,
who was convicted of the Brighton bombing, were planning to bomb a public house
used by the 2nd Battalion of the Light Infantry, based at Wheeton, near
Blackpool. Alerted to the surveillance, the men sped to Preston railway station
where they abandoned their car, with the engine running, minutes before the
police arrived.

Murray's brother and cousin, who said they did not know the men were wanted,
drove them to South Wales where they took a ferry to Ireland.

In the trial of a nephew of the Irish Defence minister who was acquitted of
conspiring to bomb the pub, it emerged that Murray was a close associate of
senior IRA operations men in Dublin.

Murray is believed to have stayed with Magee in the Grand Hotel where a bomb
planted in a bathroom killed five people. In Dublin in 1986, he was arrested and
charged with shooting a man and possession of a gun. Released on Pounds 1,000
bail, he disappeared and a warrant was taken out for his arrest.

IRA murder, page 2

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              169 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 July 20, 1989

Fury at PLO visit to Palace

BYLINE: By IAN BLACK in Jerusalem and HELLA PICK

LENGTH: 329 words


ISRAEL reacted angrily last night to the visit to Buckingham Palace of Mr Bassam
Abu Sharif, a close aide to the Palestine Liberation Organisation leader, Mr
Yasser Arafat, and said it would 'encourage terrorism'.

Mr Avi Pazner, spokesman for the Prime Minister, Mr Yitzhak Shamir, said: 'I
think it's a great pity that a representative of a terrorist organisation is
received in a formal and official manner in London, and not just in Buckingham
Palace.'


Mr Abu Sharif was admitted to the Palace yesterday to meet the President of the
United Arab Emirates, Sheikh Zaid Bin Sultan al Nahyan, who is on a state visit
to Britain.

Even though he saw no British officials or members of the Royal Family, the
event has been seized on in Israel as further evidence of growing international
recognition of the PLO.

'It doesn't serve the cause of peace in the Middle East,' Mr Pazner said. 'It
encourages terrorism and extremism.

'The PLO is still planning and executing acts of terror. Only a few days ago the
same Bassam Abu Sharif praised the attack on a bus in which 16 innocent people
were killed. It's a great shame.'

British officials, embarrassed by the disclosure, went out of their way to
insist that this had nothing to do with them, that there was no political
significance to it, and that the arrangements had been made by the Sheikh.

A Palace official said that the President 'is the guest of the Queen. It is
entirely up to him who he sees outside his official programme. There are no
programmes. There are no restrictions.'

The disclosure that he had been inside Buckingham Palace came as Dutch Foreign
Ministry officials and PLO sources revealed that Israel's Deputy Finance
Minister, Mr Yossi Beilin, had a secret, indirect meeting last month with Mr
Abdullah Hourani, a member of the PLO's executive committee. It took place in
the Hague with a former Dutch Foreign Minister, Mr Max van der Stoel, acting as
intermediary.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              170 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 August 3, 1989

IRA has railway as top target

BYLINE: By DAVID HEARST in Belfast

LENGTH: 531 words


AFTER seven months of continuous attacks on the Belfast-to-Dublin railway line
and two near misses when passengers could have died, Northern Ireland Railways
has stopped asking the IRA why the North's only rail link with the South is a
target.

The number of attacks on the line from Belfast to Newry has made the publicity,
which the railway managers originally sought, counter-productive. A total of 18
bombs and 19 hoax warnings or devices have closed the line for 56 complete days.
The service was disrupted for another 148 days.


It has lost up to 75 per cent of its first class passengers, a third of its
regular passengers and millions of pounds revenue from freight. The campaign has
been condemned by trade unionists north and south of the border. Jobs have been
threatened as the traffic moves to the roads.

Ulsterbus yesterday announced a joint service to Dublin with Bus Eireann, its
southern counterpart, but denied this had anything to do with the bombing
campaign.

With each incident, the IRA's campaign appears to have gained momentum.
Republican spokesmen give two reasons for hitting the rail network. Firstly,
they claim, it ties up large numbers of troops in clearance operations, inviting
them into a potential minefield of booby traps. In a warning to railway workers,
the IRA said that anyone venturing closer than 700 metres to the 'target' area
would be taking their life in their hands.

The second reason is less obvious. On several occasions Republican spokesmen
have insisted that blowing up a railway line had parallels with what other
'resistance movements' had been doing.

In March, Mr Pat Doherty, vice president of Sinn Fein said: 'The IRA's exposure
of Britain's inability to protect its railway line in South Armagh is similar to
attacks by the Patriotic Front guerillas on pre-independence Zimbabwe.'

A concerted attempt to blow up bridges roads, railways and the airports would
represent a departure for the IRA, which has always been ambivalent about
industrial targets. But the fact that British forces would try to keep the lines
of communication open would be reason enough to disrupt them.

Two other IRA attacks have pointed in this direction: one on three Short
Brothers aircraft on the industrial side of Belfast Harbour Airport and the
other on the Moybridge border crossing.

Each attack on the rail network brings more demands from Unionists to deploy
undercover troops or units of the Spearhead Battalion to protect the line. When
the current IRA campaign started, Mr Roy Beattie, chief executive of NIR put out
a statement denying that 'some form of feud existed between the railway and Mr
Ken Maginnis MP', the official Unionist security spokesman who accused the
security forces of leaving the line defenceless.

For the past 48 hours, the line has remained open. On one occasion a passenger
train from Dublin with 70 people on board came within four minutes of an
explosion on an 18-span viaduct near Newry. In another incident, a train driver
was injured by a bomb on the Belfast to Londonderry line. Railway drivers fear
it is only a matter of time before there are major civilian casualties.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              171 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                                The Independent

                             August 4 1989, Friday

Terrorist dies in London hotel bomb explosion

BYLINE: TERRY KIRand ANDY GLINIECKI

SECTION: Photograph, page 2

LENGTH: 748 words


A TERRORIST bomber, believed to be linked to Middle Eastern groups, died
yesterday in a large explosion that ripped through two floors of a London hotel.

Scotland Yard confirmed last night that the explosion and fire which severely
damaged the third and fourth floors at the Beverley House Hotel in Sussex
Gardens, Paddington, was caused by an 'improvised explosive device'.


Commander George Churchill-Coleman, head of the Anti-Terrorist Squad, said the
explosion was not believed to involve the IRA but would not speculate who might
have been responsible. It is understood police suspect the involvement of Middle
Eastern groups, some of which have carried out previous attacks in London.

He said the body, which was severely multilated, was still wedged in debris
between the third and fourth floors. By checking hotel records and interviewing
staff detectives swiftly established the identity of the man. He was of Middle
Eastern origin and had been a resident at the hotel for several days, almost
certainly using a false name, and was due to leave today. It was not clear last
night how long he had been in the country.

The man is believed to have been in the same room, a front bedroom, as the
explosion. Police are working on the theory that he died while carrying or
possibly priming the device. Mr Churchill-Coleman said inquiries were widening
but the incident appeared to be an isolated one rather than part of a large
campaign.

Detectives were checking the man's background, the movements of known
Middle-Eastern groups in London and potential targets or victims. The Paddington
area has a large Arab population but there was no immediate indication last
night whether the incident is linked to current events in the hostage crisis in
the Middle East. There was also speculation that the incident could be linked
the Iranian threat to the life of Salman Rushdie over The Satanic Verses.

It is believed that no one else was in the 18-room, five storey hotel at the
time of the explosion, at about 2.40pm, which blew out window frames, caused a
substantial fire and scattered glass and debris across a wide area, hitting
passers-by. Initially, it was believed there was a second explosion, but police
later attributed this to falling rubble. The body was discovered by firemen.

The Anti-Terrorist Squad was called to the scene immediately and sniffer dogs
brought in to check for explosives. Because of the unsafe state of the hotel,
neighbouring buildings and the surrounding area were evacuated. The red brick
hotel is in the middle of a Georgian terrace of small bed-and-breakfast style
hotels.

Last night, an area 100 yards either side of the hotel remained cordoned off by
police as forensic teams sifted throught the wreckage looking for clues such as
traces of explosives and detonators.

Anne Currie, 39, was returning to her flat opposite the hotel when she heard the
blast: 'I heard a tremendous explosion. It was absolutely terrifying. I was
about a 100 foot away opposite the hotel and I was hit by flying debris. I
covered my head; it was very frightening. I looked in the direction from where
the noise had come from. There was no fire at that time. Then a fire started.
There was a second explosion ten minutes later and the fire started going
through the roof. I saw a man at a window after the first explosion but I never
saw him again.'

Emmanuel Boi-Doku, 67, a freelance journalist who lives at the Albro House Hotel
opposite the scene, said of the explosion: 'It sounded like a rocket.

'There was glass being showered all over the place and the curtains were hanging
out of the windows.'

Previous incidents involving Middle Eastern terrorism in London have included
the assasination in July 1987 of a leading Arab cartoonist, Ali Naji Awad Al-
Adhami, who was shot in the head by an unknown man near his Chelsea office. Mr
Adhami was known for cartoons critical of the Palastinian leadership.

Also in July 1987, a car bomb in Kensington injured Amir Parvis, an opponent of
the Khomeini regime. A group called the Guardians of the Islamic Revolution said
it was responsible. A year before, a bomb at a video shop in Kensington High
Street killed Began Fazeli, a prominent opponent of the Iranian regime, and
thirteen other people. In 1984 a series of explosions in London and Manchester
aimed at Libyans in Britain opposed to Colonel Gaddafi's regime left 23 injured.

Photograph, page 2

Title Page 1

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1989 Independent Print Ltd

                              172 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             August 6 1989, Sunday

IRA leaders split over terror drive

BYLINE: JAMES ADAMS

SECTION: Issue 8608.

LENGTH: 932 words


INTELLIGENCE gathered by British sources in Northern Ireland has revealed a
serious leadership crisis in the Provisional IRA.

According to senior British intelligence sources, the terrorist group has split
into two camps over its 'bullet and ballot box' strategy.


Gerry Adams, the president of Sinn Fein and MP for West Belfast, continues to
believe that a political solution might be possible. But Martin McGuinness, the
Londonderry-based hardline leader of the IRA military wing, argues for more
terroris.

Adams is supported by Tom Hartley, the former Sinn Fein general secretary, while
McGuinness's main supporter is Mitchel McLaughlin, a leading Derry republican.
Danny Morrison, the Sinn Fein publicity director, who was previously a close
ally of Adams, is staying neutral.

The rift between these key members of the IRA's ruling clique emerged in
conversations at meetings believed to have been monitored by British
intelligence. Relations between the two camps have become increasingly tense.

The IRA leaders have met secretly several times in the past few weeks to try to
reach a solution. But the split is essentially as old as the Provisionals
between those who favour a political solution and those who want more terrorist
attacks on British targets.

Both sides of the strategical divide have failed in the past year: political
support is fading and the military campaign has proved unsuccessful. Senior IRA
leaders have privately acknowledged that the 'bullet and the ballot box' has no
future.

'Adams recognises there is no future with the present strategy and the internal
debate has focused on finding a realistic way forward, ' said one British
security source. 'There has been talk of using their current position to
negotiate some political deal, but the military wing won't tolerate that.'

The leaders also realise that terrorist acts are the cement that binds the
organisation together. If a purely political policy were to be adopted, the
movement would quickly fragment into different factions.

The tensions have developed as the 20th anniversary of British troops arriving
in Northern Ireland is marked next week. More than two years ago, the IRA
leadership agreed to launch a push on both the political and military fronts,
which would climax this month.

The military wing began what has proved to be the most ambitious military
campaign in the organisation's history. New terrorist networks were
painstakingly established in Britain.

A number of arms dumps were hidden, complete with weapons and explosives.
Similar moves were made on the Continent, and an extensive reconnaissance
campaign was undertaken. At the same time, Sinn Fein, the political wing of the
IRA, launched a campaign to win political support in advance of the local and
European elections last June.

The military campaign was planned to start with the bombing of Gibraltar in
April 1987, and continue with a sustained campaign in Britain and elsewhere in
Europe. The Gibraltar attack was exposed in advance and the terrorists were shot
by the SAS before they could plant their bomb.

Over the next two years the IRA saw a series of attacks go badly wrong, either
through their own bad luck or good intelligence by the British. A terrorist cell
working in London was discovered by accident, and a number of attacks later
failed.

In Europe, a number of IRA terrorists have been arrested and most of the team
operating on the Continent is now compromised. In Northern Ireland, too, the
organisation has suffered heavy losses.

These problems may have helped erode support for Sinn Fein, which performed
badly in the June elections. In Northern Ireland, the Sinn Fein share of the
vote declined in the council elections from 11.8% to 11.3%, and in the European
elections from 13.4% to 9.1%.

The decline in the vote in the republic was a serious personal blow to Adams,
who had promised his followers that Sinn Fein would make a breakthrough.

But, even with these reverses, the Provisionals remain a potent force. Thanks to
Libya's Colonel Gadaffi, the IRA has more modern weapons than ever, including
Sam-7 ground-to-air missiles and enough Semtex high explosive to last into the
next century.

The IRA can still rely on around 800 supporters in Northern Ireland and the
republic to carry out terrorist acts or provide supports. These men are better
trained and are organised on a much more secure cell structure than before.

However, the IRA faces the dilemma of becoming increasingly alienated from the
Catholic community it claims to represent. In the 1970s, it justly claimed that
the voting system was biased against Catholics and that they were widely
discriminated against in housing and jobs. Many of these problems have
disappeared, undercutting the IRA's political platform.

At the same time, as the IRA has become more militarily competent, it has
changed from a community-based organisation to a security-conscious force, where
penetration by British agents is of more concern than working in the community.

The most startling change has been the IRA's infiltration of the Irish business
community. The IRA now raises much of its annual income of Pounds 3m-Pounds 5m
from legitimate business such as video shops, estate agents and restaurants,
ensuring a substantial income for the future.

Just as the 20-year campaign has taught the IRA there is no prospect of the
British withdrawing troops from Northern Ireland, so the British realise the
terrorists have enough cash and guns to continue the fight for years.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              173 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             August 6 1989, Sunday

Anti-terrorist barrier for No 10; Downing Street

BYLINE: DAVID HUGHES and ALISON SMITH

SECTION: Issue 8608.

LENGTH: 474 words


AN anti-terrorist barrier is to be installed in Downing Street in an
unprecedented tightening of security to protect the prime minister.

Described by government officials as a 'blocker', the automatic steel barrier is
designed to spring up and halt any vehicle bursting through existing gates at
the entrance to Downing Street. It will be installed later this month and is the
most elaborate security measure yet in Downing Street.


Approval for the barrier was given after a full-scale review of security last
year uncovered serious lapses in the measures designed to protect the prime
minister's official residence.

Downing Street is Britain's top terrorist target home to both the prime minister
and the chancellor of the exchequer, and often the venue for meetings of senior
ministers and visiting heads of state and government. Both presidents George
Bush and Mikhail Gorbachev have been to No10 this year.

There has been growing concern among security chiefs about the vulnerability of
Downing Street to a determined terrorist attack.

While there are closed-circuit television cameras covering every part, and armed
police officers patrolling both inside and outside the building, the physical
barrier to the street itself is flimsy.

A pair of chest-high steel gates guarded by two police officers straddles the
entrance at its junction with Whitehall. They were designed for crowd control
when free pedestrian access to Downing Street was ended after the Brighton
bombing five years ago.

The risk of 'kamikaze' attack by the IRA has never been thought great. 'They
have a very healthy regard for their own skins, ' according to one security
source.

But the Middle East has seen suicide bombings where vehicles packed with
explosives are driven to targets and detonated. The most notorious was in Beirut
in October 1983, when Shi'ite terrorists got into the United States Marines
compound, killing 241 Americans and 58 French paratroopers.

In the wake of that attack, access to American government installations
throughout the world was blocked with heavy concrete obstacles.

After the Whitehall security review, ministers considered permanent changes to
the topography of Downing Street, a move that would have required parliamentary
legislation.

That plan was abandoned earlier this year and the new barrier is being put in
place under existing laws, which rule out a permanent fortification.

The blocker in the roadway has been matched by an up-grading of security
measures inside Downing Street itself, including structural changes.

Tanks and troops moved into Heathrow airport yesterday in a joint police and
army exercise codenamed Operation Tonnage.

Scotland Yard emphasised it was a routine security exercise and unconnected with
the heightening of tension in the Middle East.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              174 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             August 11 1989, Friday

Vigilance urged over bomb risk; Ulster anniversary

BYLINE: STEWART TENDLER and EDWARD GORMAN

SECTION: Issue 63470.

LENGTH: 628 words


Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist branch yesterday issued a warning to the public
for greater vigilance and care against an IRA attack over the period of the
twentieth anniversary of the deployment of troops in Northern Ireland.

The statement with the warning said: 'This appeal is being issued as a sensible
precaution during an emotive time in Irish history. Attacks on the mainland
against commercial and other non-military targets during this period cannot be
ruled out.'


The warning called for the public to report any suspicious packages on the
Underground, British Rail trains, buses and in department stores.

Scotland Yard has been on alert for IRA activity since an active service unit
blew up part of a barracks in Mill Hill, north London, almost a year ago and
killed a young soldier. Just before Christmas an extensive bomb factory was
found in a south London flat.

Detectives have been hunting two men who fled from the flat, another man later
linked to it and a woman.

A report into the death of a boy aged 15 hit by a plastic bullet is to be sent
to the Director of Public Prosecutions to consider whether charges should be
brought, Mr Peter Brooke, Secretary of State for Northern Ireland, said
yesterday.

The family of Seamus Duffy will accompany his coffin from their home in
Ballycarry Street in north Belfast to the Sacred Heart Church for a requiem mass
today.

The boy became the 2,753rd victim of violence in Ulster during rioting on
Wednesday marking the eighteenth anniversary of internment without trial. The
Royal Ulster Constabulary, which says it resorted to plastic bullets in defence
against a rioting mob, has appointed a senior policeman to investigate his
death.

Mr Brendan Duffy and his wife, Kathleen, maintain their son was not involved in
any of the unrest and was shot needlessly and in cold blood.

Mr Brooke said yesterday the Dublin Government had asked questions about the
teenager's death and he promised speedy answers. Repeating his 'profound regret'
at the incident, Mr Brooke said the RUC inquiry report would be submitted to the
DPP.

Dr Cahal Daly, the Roman Catholic Bishop of Down and Connor who visited the
Duffy family yesterday, said the tragedy highlighted the dangers of using
plastic bullets.

Mr George Galloway, the Labour MP for Glasgow Hillhead, sparked off another
political furore yesterday after announcing that he would take part in a 'troops
out' march on the British Embassy in Dublin on August 19 in the company of
Father Patrick Ryan and Mr Gerry Adams, MP, the president of Sinn Fein (Kerry
Gill writes).

Mr Galloway, who caused a storm two years ago after admitting to having
relations with two women while representing the War On Want organization in
Greece, said he had accepted an invitation to speak on the same platform as
Father Ryan and Mr Adams after the march. He said: 'The issue of who is on the
platform is a red herring. I share a platform every day in the House of Commons
with extremists ranging from Ian Paisley to Margaret Thatcher.'

Thousands of protesters will be bussed from within the Irish Republic and
Northern Ireland to take part in the march from Dublin's city centre to the
British Embassy.

Irish police will mount a stringent security operation to avoid a repeat of
rioting that erupted during a similar demonstration in 1981. Britain has failed
twice to extradite Father Ryan for alleged bombing offences from Belgium and the
Republic where he is still free.

Mr Galloway recently survived the constituency re-selection process in spite of
widespread concern at his extra-political activities, but his decision to take
part in the march was described as 'an astoundingly naive move' by a
Conservative Party activist.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              175 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             August 13 1989, Sunday

Dogs of war stalk drugs baron

BYLINE: JAMES ADAMS

SECTION: Issue 8609.

LENGTH: 2287 words


THE job was just too tempting for veteran mercenaries to turn down. There was a
fat fee and the likelihood of untold riches. Wealthy backers would provide
state-of-the-art weapons and helicopters. Political objections appeared
unlikely. Secrecy seemed assured. They would be in and out inside a couple of
months and back home in Britain with big bank balances and few worries.

As Dave Tomkins, a former member of Colonel Callan's Angolan mercenary squad,
talked over the plans with his former comrade, Peter McAleese in the pub in June
1988, it sounded perfect.


Tomkins told his mate how he was first contacted by a captain and a colonel from
Colombian military intelligence. They came to Britain to meet Tomkins at his
luxurious country house on the river Loddon in Old Basing, Hampshire a legacy of
his previous mercenary exploits.

He said the Colombians had explained that they wanted Tomkins to hire a squad of
mercenaries to go to Colombia and train paramilitary groups to fight left-wing
guerrillas.

But there was more and the more was, for the dogs of war, the bit that counted.
The Colombian emissaries said the mercenaries would be expected to attack a
terrorist headquarters in the jungle of southern Colombia.

For this task every mercenary would be paid $ 5,000 a month for as long as the
operation took ..and they would also be able to keep any cash they might find at
the hideout, estimated to total $ 2m.

According to the colonel, military intelligence had forged an alliance with one
of Colombia's biggest cocaine barons, Gonzalo Rodriguez Gacha, one of the
leaders of the notorious drugs cartel which is based in Medellin.

Gacha wanted the terrorists killed because they had been producing and smuggling
cocaine. He would pay the bills for the mercenaries while military intelligence
would smooth their path by supplying arms and making sure they were not troubled
by customs and immigration when entering or leaving the country.

But like so many stories down the years involving mercenaries, there was a
yawning gap between the theory and the reality, and The Sunday Times by piecing
together information from intelligence sources and diplomats in London,
Washington and Bogota is able to tell for the first time the bizarre tale of the
British mercenaries in Colombia.

IT WAS not surprising that Tomkins turned to McAleese to help him find the men
for the job. They had met when they went to Angola in 1976 as part of a
19-strong team of British mercenaries led by Costas Georgiou (alias Colonel
Callan), who murdered 14 of his own men. Neither Tomkins nor McAleese took part
in those killings.

Since Angola, McAleese had gained further fighting experience in Rhodesia and
South Africa. He quickly tapped into the mercenary network in Britain and
recruited 10 men for the operation: eight Britons and two Australians.

Among them was Alex Lennox, a former member of the Parachute Regiment. He was
acknowledged as an expert sniper and a specialist at getting into defended
buildings. There were also two former members of the SAS who had taken part in
the 1980 Iranian embassy siege in London.

By the beginning of August they had assembled the complete team. They flew to
Bogota and were ferried south by truck to Fantasy Island. In this aptly named
haven, McAleese drilled his men in preparation for the training of the
paramilitaries.

A month later the first batch of 12 arrived, all members of MAS (Muerte a
Secuestradores death to kidnappers), a loose coalition of right-wing death
squads which have been responsible for hundreds of murders in Colombia.

The fear of discovery by Colombian authorities unaware of the secret operation
kept the training team shuttling from camp to camp followed by death squad
members. By late September a 60-strong team was under training. But conditions
were primitive and most members of the party became ill, not least because of
the poor food prepared by a cook, one of squad nicknamed Typhoid Mary. Other
problems also began to emerge.

As a military operation, all the equipment had to come from army or police
stocks, and fear of discovery meant that there were never enough supplies. There
was an M60 machinegun, for instance, but no belts for the ammunition.

Tomkins had given his military backers a list of equipment needed, including
guns, grenades and ammunition. The cargo should have weighed five tons. But the
military were unable to resist stocking their own armouries at Gacha's expense,
and the list quickly expanded so that it eventually weighed 53 tons, too heavy
to be smuggled into the country.

On November 2, with no equipment and no prospect of training the squads to
launch an effective attack, the mission was abandoned and the men returned to
Britain.

That experience might have been enough to convince even the most foolhardy
adventurer that it was better to forget the men from Colombia's military
intelligence. But Tomkins and McAleese are no ordinary mercenaries.

IN January this year, Tomkins was enjoying the comforts of his riverside home
when the Colombian colonel contacted him again. This time he was offering a new
deal: in return for several murders there would be new riches.

First, he would be required to kill Pablo Escobar, a leader of the Medellin drug
cartel. According to certain sources another name on the list was none other
than Gacha, the man who had employed Tomkins on his original trip. Such is the
nature of the world of the mercenary, where money is the only loyalty, that
Tomkins accepted the mission.

However, some Colombian political experts believe this is a smokescreen. They
say it is possible that Gacha is still behind the Tomkins team and is using it
to build up a private army to amass political power through violence. Gacha,
according to this view, has been suffering from cocaine-induced delusions and is
willing to kill anybody who gets in his way.

Whatever the case, the intelligence community believes the bills for his
assassination attempt are being paid by members of the Cali drug cartel, which
is in the middle of a savage war with the Medellin cartel. Cali, one of
Colombia's most attractive cities, and renowned for its beautiful women, wanted
a share of the Medellin riches. Colombian military intelligence, previously
allied to Medellin, has changed camps.

Tomkins's team of 12 inevitably known as the Dirty Dozen were promised a monthly
salary of around $ 3,000, but with big bonuses for each kill. They were also
told that Escobar kept several million dollars cash at home and they could keep
any money they found.

Many an evening was spent discussing the size of the aircraft they would need to
ferry this hoard out of the country.

There was no jungle this time, and no Typhoid Mary. The team were put up in a
magnificent villa above the town of Cali. Set in 40 acres and surrounded by
security fences and armed guards, some of the mercenaries were seduced by the
luxury ..and by the local women.

They took to spending their nights drinking in Martin's Bar, run by a Briton.
But one evening two of the mercenaries got drunk and boasted about their
mission. Among their fascinated audience was the local chief of police.

It was not long before such security breaches also brought the men to the
attention of Western intelligence. By May this year, both the British and the
Americans had a clear picture of the men and their mission. Since their main
target was a man the Americans believe is responsible for smuggling billions of
dollars of cocaine into the United States, his death would be of little concern
to them. But the British Foreign Office alerted the Colombian government to the
mercenaries' presence. In recent weeks, the operation has even become common
knowledge among security companies in Britain and the United States. All those
familiar with Colombia believe that the British team are being set up to be
executed.

'If they do manage to carry out their operation, there is no way they will be
allowed to live to talk about it, ' said one Western intelligence official.
'They will simply be killed by a faction in the armed forces to score political
points with another faction. They are crazy.'

IN spite of the fact that the world, including Escobar himself, now knows of
Tomkins's mission, he is still determined to go ahead. Indeed, his group has
already launched one abortive attempt on Escobar's life.

Tomkins decided to attack Escobar at the one place he could be relied on to
visit regularly, his private estate, Hacienda Napoles, 80 miles east of
Medellin. It is a 7,000-acre ranch which Escobar has landscaped with artificial
lakes, a network of roads and an airport. He has a personal zoo of 200 exotic
animals.

His private house in the centre of the estate sleeps 100 and is surrounded by
four watchtowers while patrols of armed guards control the roads. But the site
is vulnerable to air attack.

With an apparently unlimited budget, Tomkins was able to order all the equipment
he needed, including a Hughes 500 helicopter, a Bell 204 helicopter, explosives,
machine guns and rifles. The weapons were shipped from Miami via Mexico labelled
as washing machines.

In May Tomkins returned to Britain to buy special night-vision equipment and
miniature surveillance devices. He was watched by the British authorities, but
not questioned.

On June 4, the team received a message from Colombian intelligence that Escobar
had moved to Hacienda Napoles. The attack was scheduled for 3.30pm that
afternoon. The idea was to distract the guards in the watchtowers by exploding a
bomb in the valley. It was hoped that the first helicopter would therefore get
close enough for McAleese, firing an M60 machine gun, to kill all the tower
guards.

The helicopter would land next to the swimming pool and let out the first team
wearing black jumpsuits and balaclavas, and carrying silenced Ingram Mk10
sub-machineguns. It would then take off to leave space for the second chopper,
with the main team aboard, to land and unload.

McAleese intended to use a favourite technique, perfected in Namibia, to get
into the house: he would throw phosphorous and fragmentation grenades, known as
'a mixed grill', to burn or maim those inside. Then the team would move on to
the main targets Escobar and the huge safe housing the cash and secret papers.

That was the plan. It went all right at the beginning when the two helicopters
took off from their jungle hideout to fly to a refuelling point 10 minutes from
the Escobar estate. The first helicopter, with 10 men on board, landed unscathed
2 hours 40 minutes later.

The second helicopter, a Hughes 500, with Tomkins and McAleese on board, was
following. At the last minute they had loaded some additional explosives and a
late passenger. Towards the end of the journey, the helicopter had to climb over
an 8,200ft mountain. Overloaded and suddenly lost in rain and mist on the
mountain top, the helicopter crashed. The tail rotor flew off and sliced through
the 24-year-old Colombian pilot, the son of a former inspector general of
police, killing him.

McAleese was knocked unconscious and badly bruised. At first, Tomkins thought he
had brpken both legs and his fists swelled to the size of footballs. Later, 40
x-rays were to reveal no broken bones. 'Now I know how it feels to be a fly
hitting the windscreen of a car, ' McAleese told friends later. Tomkins escaped
with cuts and bruises.

The mercenaries managed to call in help using their personal radios and a
searching helicopter spotted a red towel in the jungle canopy. But the unusual
activity alerted Escobar who called in the police. For the next 24 hours, the
main band of mercenaries were hunted by police and Colombian air force
helicopters. Burying their uniforms and weapons, they managed to evade the net
and return to Cali.

It took McAleese three days to walk out of the jungle using Tomkins and the
Colombian passenger as human walking sticks.

Although they survived, the aborted assault seriously damaged the morale of the
group. 'We were only 15 minutes from the operation going down, ' said one
mercenary. 'They were all psyched up and ready to go; so after the crash there
was a lot of depression.'

ONCE Escobar learned of the failed attack he made a swift response. On July 7,
two helicopters left Medellin for Cali loaded with 25 off-duty policemen and
soldiers moonlighting for Escobar. Their aim was to assassinate the leaders of
the Cali cartel.

But in a farcical echo of the Tomkins mission, outside Cali one of the
helicopters broke down and had to land. It was surrounded by local police, who
allowed the helicopters and some of the men to leave after a large bribe had
been paid.

Word soon reached the Cali barons and they in turn sent an army unit to surround
the police and capture the remaining two members of the hit squad. During
interrogation, they learned that the role of the mercenaries was known.

All of Tomkins's team, except for McAleese, left the country for Panama.
Tomkins, still undaunted, returned to Britain to recruit another helicopter
pilot and more mercenaries to replace others who had resigned or been fired.

Last week he went back to Colombia with a fresh pilot. Meanwhile, a new Bell 205
helicopter has been bought and the mercenaries are preparing again to attack
their elusive target.

Tomkins, aware that the authorities and Escobar know about his mission, said
from his hideout this weekend: 'Right now we have three choices: run, hide or go
ahead. There is nowhere to run and we can't hide, so we are determined to go on
until we finish what we came here to do.'

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              176 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                August 14, 1989

Marches pass peacefully

BYLINE: By DAVID HEARST

LENGTH: 406 words


TWO buses were hijacked and burned in Londonderry last night after a weekend in
which the security forces thwarted an IRA bombing blitz and thousands of
Loyalists and Republicans held commemorative marches without major incidents.

Only one of four large IRA bombs, aimed at troops sealing off part of the route
followed by the Apprentice Boys of Derry, went off. But the security forces had
alredy cleared the area.


The parade by 15,000 Loyalists to mark the 300th anniversary of the relief of
the city went ahead an hour later.

Seven people were being held by the RUC for questioning in connection with
serious terrorist offences last night. Five of them had been arrested in two
separate incidents when a car containing a Semtex bomb and a taxi containing two
drogue bombs, capable of piercing armour-plated Land-Rovers, were found in the
early hours of Friday and Saturday morning.

Yesterday, troops sealing off the route of the Republican march at the Falls
Road, Belfast, spotted a command wire leading to a shrapnel bomb under a
manhole. Two people were being questioned after the discovery.

Mr Hugh Annesley, the recently-appointed chief constable of the Royal Ulster
Constabulary, said that these and other important finds helped to contribute to
a generally peaceful weekend during what he acknowledged was a period of high
tension.

Mr Annesley said: 'It is a tribute to ordinary people in Northern Ireland in
both communities that so far things have gone generally peacefully.'

He said the tension would last for some time, but he was optimistic about
getting through without major upset.

At least 5,000 Republicans marched down the Falls Road without incident and only
minor scuffles with the RUC yesterday.

Early yesterday evening there was relative quiet in North Belfast. On Friday
night, two men were injured when more than 100 plastic bullets were fired during
disturbances in the Old Park area. One of the men was described over the weekend
as being 'seriously ill' after being hit on the head by a plastic baton round.

After a week in which the IRA has tried and failed to step up the number of bomb
attacks, the security forces believe there will be an all-out attempt in the
next few days to bring off a series of major incidents against troops and
targets both in Northern Ireland and in Britain.

To combat this, Republican strongholds are being intensively patrolled.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              177 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                                The Independent

                           August 16 1989, Wednesday

Family suffers at a distance

BYLINE: JACK O' SULLIVAN

SECTION: Home News ; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 792 words


FAMILIES of convicted IRA bombers are winning support for their claim that they
are being unfairly treated by having to travel hundreds of miles from northern
and southern Ireland to prisons in England.

The Home Office refuses to transfer republican prisoners to jails in Northern
Ireland, where, the authorities agree, there are plenty of high security places.


Probation officers, some officials in the Northern Ireland Office and the prison
authorities believe the Government is being unnecessarily intransigent.

A group of 54 MPs, including Peter Temple-Morris, a senior Conservative
backbencher, and Paddy Ashdown, leader of the Social and Liberal Democrats,
called in 1987 for more sympathetic treatment of transfer applications. The
complaint is not about the sentences. Some would argue the men brought exile on
themselves through the viciousness of their attacks and the continued IRA
campaign in Britain.

But families, who are taking the Government to court in Europe over alleged
human rights violations, believe none of this justifies the treatment of wives
and children which contradicts the general policy to keep prisoners close to
their families.

Harry Fletcher, assistant general secretary of the National Association of
Probation Officers, says: 'There are no good reasons to withhold the transfer of
these prisoners.'

Margaret McLaughlin, 35, is typical. She lives in Belfast with her six young
children. She was pregnant with the youngest when her husband Paddy was arrested
in 1987 after an arms find in a wood near Manchester. She has just returned from
visiting him in Parkhurst on the Isle of Wight, where he is serving a 20-year
sentence for conspiracy to cause explosions.

'I brought four of them. We took the taxi to the airport and a plane to
Heathrow, then the Tube to Waterloo and a train to Portsmouth. Then we took the
ferry over to the Isle of Wight and then a train and a taxi. I was to bring six
but two of them were sick. I worry about travelling. You're afraid to speak to
people. They hear your voice and they step back from you. They know where you're
going. The journey was a nightmare. We left home at lunchtime and arrived at the
bed- and-breakfast about half eight. I was ready to scream.'

Mrs McLaughlin does the trip four times a year and now suffers from psoriasis,
which she believes is caused by anxiety. She knows women who can visit their
husbands weekly in jail in Northern Ireland.

About 40 families make the trip to England at a cost to the State of pounds
60,000 a year. English prisons house 49 republicans (46 men and three women) and
one loyalist.

Families often face temporary detention on arrival in England. Some are
strip-searched. Those who fly must buy expensive open return tickets. When they
arrive, prisoners may have been 'ghosted' - moved to another jail.

Families from the Irish Republic are worst off. No state aid means visits to
England can cost thousands of pounds over the years. Elderly parents often die
not having seen their imprisoned children for years because they are too ill to
travel.

Prison rules say family life should be encouraged. But in 20 years only six
republicans have been transferred from England to Northern Ireland. Four of
those won transfer 15 years ago after a six-month hunger strike.

Meanwhile, 38 Irish prisoners convicted of non-terrorist offences have been
transferred to Northern Ireland.

The Northern Ireland Office says it can cope with more high security prisoners.
There are 400 prisoners convicted of paramilitary offences serving life in the
province, and the UK's most secure prison, Maghaberry, near Belfast, has
unoccupied wings.

The prison population in Northern Ireland has fallen from 3,000 in the
mid-Seventies to 1,800.

The Home Office has rejected transfers because it says public anxiety might be
provoked, the convicts would be treated as heroes, security jeopardised and
prisoners less likely to sever paramilitary links. But Mr Fletcher argues that
the public would be relieved to be rid of these convicts and that continued
separation encourages paramilitary links.

Some officials in the Northern Ireland Office believe the Home Office will not
transfer prisoners because they might be released more quickly. In Northern
Ireland sentencing is shorter, remission greater and prisons more modern. This
month, 125 lifers there will be released for a long weekend with their families.

Some of Britain's most infamous IRA prisoners - like Roy Walsh, the Old Bailey
bomber, - would almost certainly be among them if they had been transferred.
But, Mr Fletcher says it would be simple to ensure that those seeking transfer
were not released early.

Home News Page 6

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1989 Independent Print Ltd

                              178 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                August 17, 1989

Cameraman charged under firearms law

BYLINE: By DAVID HEARST and GARETH PARRY

LENGTH: 577 words


A WEST German freelance photographer being held by the Royal Ulster Constabulary
in Belfast was last night charged with a firearms offence.

Nick Vogle was due to appear before Belfast magistrates this morning.


The Royal Ulster Constabulary said the man was arrested in the Old Park area of
Belfast during unrest in the city and had been held under the Prevention of
Terrorism Act.

Local politicians have criticised media coverage of the anniversary of the
deployment of troops in Northern Ireland.

On Tuesday, Mr Reg Empey, the Unionist Lord Mayor of Belfast, told foreign
journalists to leave because their behaviour at the funeral of Seamus Duffy, the
15-year-old boy killed by a plastic bullet, was 'intrusive and disgusting'.

Northern Ireland press photographers, who fear for their own professional
standing, joined the criticism.

The Belfast Press Photographers' Association said in a statement: 'We utterly
condemn those members of the foreign press corps whose activities here have led
to current criticism.

'These people, by their actions, jeopardise locally-based photographers who
have, through 20 difficult years, developed an honest working relationship with
all sections of the community.

'In Northern Ireland, news does not need to be manufactured. These unethical and
unscrupulous cowboys leave a stigma which resident photographers cannot shake
off easily.'

Several other foreign reporters and photographers were arrested earlier. Until
now, all photographers arrested have been released without charge.

Mr Martin Galvin, the Republican fundraiser, was deported yesterday after his
arrest during a walkabout in Londonderry on Tuesday. He was escorted by police
on to a flight from RAF Brize Norton in Oxfordshire to Washington DC.

Mr Galvin is publicity director of Noraid, described by an American judge as an
IRA support group. He was excluded from Britain in 1984 after he said he was
'encouraged' by the murder of a soldier.

A Home Office spokesman said: 'He was flown out on an RAF flight to the United
States. It was a point that we wanted him out of the country as soon as
possible.'

The atmosphere in Northern Ireland relaxed yesterday for the first time in a
week.

Earlier, the IRA planted two bombs in Armagh. A car bomb exploded at a petrol
station which an IRA statement said had been supplying fuel to the security
forces. Nobody was hurt. A 60lb bomb was also defused near the Monagahan road
Customs post.

The controversy over remarks made by Mr Peter Brooke, the Northern Ireland
Secretary, about the Anglo-Irish agreement continued yesterday.

Mr Brooke had said there was a possibility of the agreement being replaced under
article 29 of this year's review of the Intergovernmental Conference.

His remarks were criticised by Mr Seamus Mallon, deputy leader of the Social
Democratic and Labour Party, and by Mr Alan Dukes, leader of the Irish Fine Gael
party.

Mr Dukes said that the British government must leave no doubt in the minds of
Unionists that the agreement is here to stay and be expanded.

Security forces came under petrol bomb and stoning attacks in Republican areas
of Belfast last night. The RUC said there were isolated attacks in the
Twinbrook, Woodburn and Springhill Avenue areas.

There were no arrests or injuries and no reported firing of plastic bullets at
either police or the army.

Real life rehearsal, page 2; Letters, page 20

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              179 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                                The Independent

                            September 4 1989, Monday

IRA threat hangs over Army exercise in West Germany

BYLINE: PHIL REEVES

SECTION: Home News ; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 574 words


THE BRITISH Army faces an extra security headache this month as fears of IRA
attacks in West Germany heighten. Thousands of servicemen will travel to the
country for a big exercise.

About 13,500 territorials and regulars will be setting of from Britain for
Exercise Plain Sailing, held every four years to rehearse procedures for
reinforcing the British Army of the Rhine.


The services have long been aware that personnel are targets for the
Provisionals, at home and abroad. However, Exercise Plain Sailing comes when the
IRA has been particularly active on the Continent - with the shooting of two
off-duty soldiers in Munster on Friday, the discovery of a booby-trap bomb under
a serviceman's car a week ago, and the killing last July of Cpl Steven Smith,
also by car bomb.

The British Army of the Rhine has refused to kowtow to terrorists by curtailing
activities, although security has been tightened considerably.

In addition, the services regard large groups of soldiers as a less likely
target for the IRA than 'soft' targets, such as off-duty soldiers - outside
rather than within bases.

There have been specific attacks, or attempted attacks, on five British
servicemen on the Continent this summer - all were off base and off-duty.
Security services sources believe the IRA may be adopting this strategy because
it considers raids on military establishments to be increasingly hazardous.

Two attempts this year to plant bombs within barracks - at Osnabruck, West
Germany, and Tern Hill, Shropshire - almost ended in disaster for the IRA when
the bombers were discovered on base. On both occasions, they fled. The bombs
that exploded did not claim any victims.

The two soldiers injured in the attack on Friday were last night 'very seriously
ill' after further surgery. The men, aged 18 and 19, were returning to barracks
when they were shot at close range by an IRA active service unit. The terrorists
were in a parked car - possibly an Audi 80. They called the men over on the
pretext of asking for directions.

The shooting provided evidence that the IRA still has at least one active
service unit in Europe, despite the arrest of five alleged terrorists whom
police suspected of carrying out attacks on the Continent this summer.

RUC detectives yesterday raided the east Belfast headquarters of the loyalist
Ulster Defence Association, the paramilitary organisation which last week
claimed to have obtained confidential security force files on IRA suspects.

The UDA headquarters, above a bar on the Newtownards Road, was searched and
material, including video tapes, are understood to have been seized and taken
for examination.

Last week the UDA, using its cover name of Ulster Freedom Fighters, showed a BBC
reporter security force files relating to Loughlin Maginn, a murdered Catholic.
They claimed the files proved he had been an active IRA member. The incident
provoked political controversy, with the RUC and government ministers promising
it would be thoroughly investigated.

A man was being questioned yesterday about the sectarian killing of a Catholic
in the republican Ardoyne area of Belfast.

Paddy McKenna, 40, was shot on Saturday by two men who fired at him from a
motorcycle. As they rode off they were seen by an Army undercover team which
gave chase and rammed them with its car. One of the men was shot dead and the
other taken to hospital.

Home News Page 2

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1989 Independent Print Ltd

                              180 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            September 4 1989, Monday

Four hurt as bomb blasts London store; Liberty store

BYLINE: GEOFF KING, JENNY KNIGHT and ARTHUR LEATHLEY

SECTION: Issue 63490.

LENGTH: 696 words


Four people were taken to hospital last night after a bomb explosion outside the
Liberty store in the West End of London.

A woman was treated for leg injuries at University College Hospital. Two men and
a woman were treated for shock.


Police sealed off the area, at the junction of Great Marlborough Street and
Argyle Street, and bomb squad officers were called to the scene in case any
further devices had been planted. Scotland Yard said it was too early to say who
might have set the device.

Well after 2 am, anti-terrorist squad officers, led by Chief Superintendent
Derek Willison, were still scouring the pavement where the bomb is thought to
have been left.

London Fire Brigade said no fire damage appeared to have been caused, although
their officers had been withdrawn from the immediate area as a precaution.

Emergency services were initially told that the explosion was outside a Penguin
bookshop within the store, prompting speculation that it might be connected with
a firebomb campaign against The Satanic Verses by Salman Rushdie.

Police said that telephone calls had been received claiming responsibility for
the attack, though they could not say who had made the calls.

Firemen and ambulances remained on standby outside the store early today in case
of further explosions. There was little or no structural damage to the store's
well-known mock-Tudor facade.

Scotland Yard said: 'A device has gone off outside the store. It is too early to
say who planted it.'

A large area was sealed off, causing widespread disruption to buses and other
traffic. London Buses said that eight bus routes had been diverted via Park Lane
or Tottenham Court Road. 'Quite major disruption has been caused. Most of our
major routes travel up Regent Street. If the problem continues into the rush
hour, other routes will be affected.'

The London ambulance service said the injured appeared to have been passers-by,
and University College Hospital said: 'Four people were brought in. One is a
woman with a quite nasty leg injury who will probably be detained. Three other
people are being treated for shock.'

A witness to the bombing, Mr Hamed Sohrabian, of Brighton, said: 'My wife was in
the car and I was outside getting some fresh air. When we heard the explosion I
knew it must have been a bomb.'

He added: 'I heard one woman screaming she was on the pavement but there were
about 15 members of the public and seven or eight policemen around her.'

Mr Miroslav Imbrisevic, aged 40, who drove up Regent Street within minutes of
the explosion, said: 'I saw one policeman running, with his helmet in his hand,
then more cops running, about a dozen.'

In July Collet's International Bookshop in Charing Cross Road was badly damaged
by an early-morning firebomb attack. In April, Collet's Penguin Bookshop near by
was also attacked and a hitherto-unknown Islamic group claimed responsibility.

Police said the July bomb was a crude, amateur device.

Another arson attack took place in May on a bookshop in King's Road, Chelsea,
owned by Penguin, publishers of The Satanic Verses, with a petrol bomb thrown
through a window. Two men were arrested.

The shopworkers' union, Usdaw, asked shops to step up security in July after
concern about the apparently arbitrary nature of the attack on Collet's
International, which had stopped stocking the book.

The union, which said there had been six firebomb attacks, said staff had also
faced death threats and verbal abuse.

The Union of Muslim Organizations said it did not know who was responsible for
the attacks and condemned violent tactics.

The Rushdie controversy began in October last year with the publication of The
Satanic Verses and the announcement that the novel had won the Whitbread Fiction
Prize.

Muslim leaders in Britain became concerned about the book's allegedly
blasphemous content, and the UK Action Committee on Islamic Affairs, set up to
deal with the issue, called on Muslim countries to ban the book.

The call was followed by book-burning demonstrations in England and by riots and
vociferious demonstrations in India, Pakistan and Iran.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              181 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 5, 1989

Row looms over retained soldier

BYLINE: By DAVID HEARST in Belfast

LENGTH: 594 words


THE first meeting between British and Irish ministers since the appointment of a
new team at the Northern Ireland Office was last night heading for confrontation
after claims that the security forces were soft on soldiers who colluded with
loyalist terrorists.

The controversy arose from the confirmation by the Ministry of Defence that a
British Army corporal convicted of supplying information which could be of use
to the Ulster Volunter Force had been retained by the army and was currently
serving as a training instructor in England.


Corporal Cameron Hastie, aged 23, of the Royal Scots Dragoon Guards, was given
an 18-month suspended sentence along with a part-time woman member of the Ulster
Defence Regiment last year for possessing photographs and car numbers of
suspected Republican activists.

The court did not find Hastie or his co-accused, Joanne Garvin, aged 21, guilty
of knowing or suspecting that the information might be used in connection with
acts of terrorism.

Corporal Hastie is the third British Army soldier involved in controversy to be
allowed to rejoin his regiment.

The others are Private Ian Thain, who served two years of a life sentence for
murder, and Guardsman David Holden, against whom a charge of manslaughter for
the fatal shooting of Aidan McAnespie was dropped.

Coming only a week after Mr John Cope, the new Minister for Security at the
Northern Ireland Office, promised that any member of the security forces found
colluding with terrorists would be prosecuted with the 'full severity of the
law', the news provoked a storm among both unionist and nationalist leaders.

Mr Gerard Collins, the Irish Minister of Foreign Affairs, instructed the Anglo
Irish secretariat at Maryfield to obtain full information from the British about
the incident. Mr Collins said: 'Coming in the aftermath of recent allegations
concerning the passing of confidential information to terrorist organisations,
these latest reports are being viewed with the most serious concern.'

Mr Collins is due to meet his counterpart, Mr Peter Brooke, the Northern Ireland
Secretary, and Mr Cope at a meeting of the Anglo-Irish Intergovernmental
Conference in London next week.

Late last night the British Army issued a lengthy statement about the retention
of Corporal Hastie. It said that according to Queens Regulations a request had
been made to the MoD that he be 'exceptionally' retained. This was approved
subject to the corporal's continued good behaviour during the remaining half of
his suspended sentence.

The army described Corporal Hastie as an able soldier.

A spokesman said: 'In arriving at that decision, the MoD takes account of the
decision of the court that the offence was committed without malicious intent.
The soldier could not have known the use to which the information he was passing
to another serving member of the army was being put.'

Mr Ken Maginnis, the Official Unionist Party's security spokesman, said the
decision to retain Corporal Hastie showed the 'contempt in which Britain treats
the entire community in Northern Ireland.'

Mr Seamus Mallon, deputy leader of the Social Democratic and Labour Party, said
the affair reeked of an ambiguous attitude by the army to loyalist
paramilitaries.

A week ago, Mr Cope promised a full investigation into claims by the Ulster
Freedom Fighters, the illegal wing of the Ulster Defence Association, that they
had been regularly passed intelligence on suspected IRA men by members of the
security force.

Release row, page 2

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              182 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                                The Independent

                           September 5 1989, Tuesday

Bomb attack condemned as 'lunacy': Muslim leader calls for an end to violence
over 'The Satanic Verses' after woman is injured in explosion

BYLINE: JAMES DALRYMPLE

LENGTH: 569 words


A LEADING member of Britain's Muslim community yesterday strongly condemned the
'lunacy' of those who bombed Liberty's store in London and others who advocated
terror tactics against the author Salman Rushdie and his book The Satanic
Verses.

Hesham El-Essawy, of the Islamic Society for the Promotion of Religious
Tolerance, said: 'We would like to express our utter condemnation for those who
commit acts like this in the name of Islam. They are putting to shame the good
name of our religion, and the great majority of Muslim people would grieve for
those who have been injured in this senseless attack.


'The lunacy of this group, whoever they are, is shown by their choices of
targets which do not even stock the book. We would urge them to stop their
activities before somebody is perhaps killed.'

The attack at about 11pm on Sunday night happened near a display of books in the
window of Liberty's just off Regent Street and across from the Palladium
Theatre. A woman, as yet unnamed, suffered serious leg injuries. Yesterday she
underwent major surgery at University Hospital. Two men and a woman, who were
with her, were treated for shock and later released.

It was not clear to police yesterday exactly what happened in the minutes
leading up to the explosion. Detective Chief Superintendent Derek Willison, who
is leading the Scotland Yard anti- terrorist squad's investigation, said a
caller telephoned Marylebone Lane Police Station at about 10.30pm giving a
warning 'based around' Mr Rushdie's book - and police were already searching the
Regent Street area when it exploded. Mr Willison would not speculate further on
the Rushdie link.

Scotland Yard also revealed they were investigating the possibility that the
device was thrown from a moving car and exploded on impact. 'At this stage we
are examining all possibilities,' a spokesman said.

Damage caused by the device was slight, leaving only scorch marks on the shop
frontage.

A spokeswoman for Liberty's said yesterday that they did not stock The Satanic
Verses. She said the store features mainly gallery and 'coffee table' type
books.

'There used to be a Penguin paperback bookshop in the store, near the site of
the present bookshop but it closed two months ago. We stocked The Satanic Verses
when it was first published, but we never sold a copy and we sent all unsold
copies back. That's what makes it all the more annoying.'

A witness to the explosion, Tracy Ryan, who was walking with her four-year-old
daughter, said: 'We were looking in a shop window on the other side of Regent
Street when suddenly there was a huge bang. It was really frightening and the
pavement shook.'

This latest attack on booksellers is the third in five months. On 10 April
Collet's Penguin bookshop was damaged in a firebomb attack, and two months ago
Collet's International Bookstore, in Charing Cross Road, was attacked in similar
fashion. Both shops had decided, after a vote by their staff, not to stock the
Rushdie novel and a notice saying so had been posted in the window.

Yesterday a spokesman for the Booksellers Association, the trade association for
3,300 booksellers throughout the country, said it was 'outraged' at the latest
attack and condemned all acts of violence against its shops.

'The crude attempt to intimidate booksellers from stocking books is
contemptible,' he said.

Home News Page 4

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1989 Independent Print Ltd

                              183 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                           September 8, 1989, Friday

THE ARMY WIVES IN THE FRONT LINE

BYLINE:  Chris Forse and Chris Moncrieff, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 592 words


The families of British personnel stationed in West Germany have considered
themselves to be in the front line for terrorist attack since shortly after the
relationship between the Army and the Catholic community in Northern Ireland
turned sour nearly 20 years ago.  Army wives have had to live at the centre of
potential violence.  They are expected to be constantly vigilant themselves,
locking house windows and checking their cars every trip, while, at the same
time, being on the receiving end of security checks whenever they need to cross
the perimeter of the army camp.  The wife of a soldier would need to enter the
camp for many reasons: to shop at the Naafi store for food or clothing or to use
the library. She might be taking children to school or using dental or medical
facilities.  On every trip she can expect to be stopped, have her bags and
belongings searched and, perhaps, be subjected to a more detailed quizzing at a
suddenly-erected barrier, where she would be asked for the registration number
of the car she was driving, the mileage on the clock and the reason for her
visit.  Single soldiers live in the relative security of "sealed" barracks, but
married soldiers and their families often live off-base in houses or flats
unmanned by guards and unprotected by barriers, as in this case.  Often army
quarters are interspersed side-by-side with houses occupied by German civilians.
Wives can also expect to be left alone for several weeks at a time while their
husbands are sent on exercise or tours of duty, perhaps to Northern Ireland. The
feeling that they are under threat is always at the back of their minds. Wives
say the threat of terrorism "goes with the territory".  There have been at least
10 terrorist-related bombing or shooting incidents in West Germany since March
1987 but all calls to "bring the wives home" have been resisted, not least by
the wives themselves.  Until now, at least, they have always claimed that the
greater enemy of being a soldier's wife there was not the threat of terrorist
violence but boredom.  The view in Whitehall to any calls to return wives to
Britain would be that the terrorists would chalk this up as a triumph. It could
also seriously damage morale among the British garrisons.  Labour today demanded
immediate measures to ensure the protection of wives and children in the wake of
the "chilling and cowardly atrocity".  News of the shooting shocked MPs, most of
whom had thought terrorists would spare the lives of unarmed and defenceless
families living in married quarters overseas.  Shadow defence minister Mr Roland
Boyes said: "We are now all desperately concerned about the safety of the
families of British servicemen.  "I can think of nothing more cowardly and
despicable than the cold-blooded shooting of a defenceless woman sitting in a
car, threatening nobody, harming nobody." Mr Boyes said he would be writing
immediately to Defence Secretary Tom King requesting "the fullest and most
penetrating inquiry imaginable" into the incident.  "It is absolutely essential
in the light of this horrific event that measures are introduced immediately to
ensure their safety," he added.  Mr David Young, Labour MP for Bolton
South-East, said: "I don't call this war. I call it atrocity, of the most
cowardly and unspeakable type.  "There can be no cause that justifies such a
frightful and vicious attack. It is sheer brutality.  "This means that the wives
and families of British servicemen are now the targets of these evil people. It
is a chilling thought."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1989 The Press Association Limited

                              184 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                           September 8, 1989, Friday

THATCHER ANGER AT IRA 'COWARDS'

BYLINE:  Joe Quinn, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 467 words


Mrs Thatcher today spoke of her horror at the murder of a soldier's wife in West
Germany and pledged everything possible would be done to catch "those who
perpetrate these cowardly attacks on innocent and defenceless people".  Speaking
after last night's shooting of the 26-year-old woman by an IRA gang, the Prime
Minister gave little indication whether the murder would prompt still tougher
security measures to protect servicemen and their families.  Mrs Thatcher,
visiting a school in Forres, Grampian, at the end of a two-day Scottish tour,
said: "We are up against the cowardly actions of terrorists who go for innocent,
defenceless people." Britain already had "very good co-operation" from German
security services. "They are as concerned as we are and are constantly trying to
strengthen security," she said.  "We say always to our people to be as careful
and observant as you possibly can. It is very difficult, impossible, to get 100%
defence." She appeared to rule out further restrictions on the movements of
servicemen's families. "Families cannot stay in the entire time. It isn't life -
children have to go to school, they have to do their shopping, they have to
pursue their own interests as well.  "Very considerable vigilance, and watching
the whole time, is required." She added: "I don't think there is any specific
measure, because you need to have constant vigilance on the wider front.  "You
don't hear about the successes we have - you do hear about the tragedies." Mrs
Thatcher acknowledged there had been an increase in terrorist activity against
British forces in Germany and their families.  "It is the characteristic of
terrorists that they go for people who are defenceless - they do not hesitate to
go for wives and children," she said.  "Let this message get across: Terrorists
don't hesitate to attack wives and children, people who are totally innocent.
That shows the evil nature of the work they do." Mrs Thatcher said: "The use one
can make of this is to alert everyone, but everyone, to be vigilant, and to
continue to be vigilant - not just for two or three days after a tragedy, but
each and every day." All should be on the lookout for anything unusual -
different people, anything strange and anything out of the ordinary, she said.
The Prime Minister was speaking after visiting the 1,000-pupil Forres Academy
where she praised the good general grounding of Scottish education and also
revealed a lifelong admiration for her own girlhood head teacher, a Scot called
Mrs Gillies. "I am constantly grateful to her for the valuable education I got,"
she said.  "I would not be here in this capacity if I had not had it." She
praised the common curriculum in Scottish schools and said reforms in English
education were emulating the Scottish experience.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1989 The Press Association Limited

                              185 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           September 9 1989, Saturday

United against the gunmen; Leading Article

SECTION: Issue 63495.

LENGTH: 548 words


The brutal murder of a soldier's wife in West Germany will resurrect the
argument that service families should be withdrawn. The Government must continue
to resist it.

The question has usually been raised for economic rather than security reasons.
By saving money on its social infrastructure, the costs of British Forces
Germany could be cut.


No doubt they could in an actuarial sense. The 67,000 troops in BAOR and RAF
Germany are accompanied by 73,000 dependants, of whom about half are children.
All have to be housed and schooled at some expense.

The capital costs of withdrawal, however, would be high. Married quarters, and
possibly some schools, would have to be built in Britain. Apart from a saving on
foreign exchange, the annual cost to the budget would continue.

The impact on morale would be devastating. Separation would cause more worry for
all involved probably more than the present threat from terrorism. At a time
when it is hard to find recruits, discontent among service wives could be
disastrous. They would in any event still be vulnerable in Britain.

Unaccompanied tours of duty are necessarily shorter. The turbulence caused by
introducing them to West Germany would damage the operational efficiency of BFG.
The problem for the Royal Armoured Corps, whose regiments spend most of their
time in BAOR, would be especially daunting.

The West German economy would also suffer. The BFG payroll is more than one
billion Deutschmarks, much of which is spent in local supermarkets. A further DM
1.5 billion goes on such things as maintenance, rent and construction, to the
general benefit of German businessmen. The West German police and intelligence
networks will clearly now have an interest in tightening their own security.
What happens beyond the gates of British garrisons is technically their
responsibility. But so many servicemen now live outside camp that liaison
between the German civil and British military police must be tightened.

Whether British number-plates on service cars should now be changed is a moot
point. The murder of a soldier by the IRA 12 months ago prompted the Ministry of
Defence to scrap BFG's own vehicle numbering system, but it was decided to
switch to British not German plates.

As most of BFG's 95,000 vehicles are right-hand drive, it was argued that they
looked British anyway. By giving them German plates the forces would still
attract the attention of terrorists. As it is they might be taken for passing
tourists. This argument does not sound hugely convincing and the issue now needs
looking at again. The difference, however, is likely to be marginal. British
servicemen tend to look like British servicemen, and an IRA gunman bent on
random murder could still find a victim.

Last year's decision to change car number-plates at least had the effect of
forcing the terrorists to enter West German towns to find their targets. Tighter
security within the garrisons themselves has made them concentrate on civil
population centres. This brings them into conflict with yet another European
government.

The latest killing of a young West German girl has not only united the two
peoples in their grief. It will also stiffen their joint resolve to give the
Provisional IRA no quarter.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              186 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           September 9 1989, Saturday

IRA admits shooting of soldier's wife; Heidi Hazell

BYLINE: IAN MURRAY, NICHOLAS WOOD and TONY DAWE

SECTION: Issue 63495.

LENGTH: 925 words


The IRA claimed responsibility yesterday, with no hint of remorse, for the
murder in West Germany of the young wife of a British Army sergeant.

The terrorists claimed they thought Mrs Heidi Hazell, aged 26, was a member of
the British forces. They did not apologize for their mistake and warned that
civilians with links to British bases abroad would continue to be regarded as
targets.


Mrs Hazell, who was born in Bremen and whose husband, Clive, comes from
Nottinghamshire, was shot 14 times with a Kalashnikov automatic rifle as she
parked a car with British number plates in a suburb of Dortmund on Thursday
night.

The killing triggered some of the strongest condemnation of the IRA by British
politicians. The Prime Minister called the terrorists 'evil and cowardly' for
attacking innocent people. Mr Neil Kinnock said the murder was the work of a
psychopath rather than anyone who claimed to be a 'political activist'.

Mr Tom King, Secretary of State for Defence and former Secretary of State for
Northern Ireland, said: 'With all my experience of Northern Ireland I can never
remember

such an obscene crime just walking up and shooting a young woman in cold blood.

'It plumbs the ultimate depths of depravity and will reinforce the determination
of all our people, the Army families, the German authorities and the German
people to make sure they bring to justice the person responsible. We shall find
them.'

Mrs Hazell was the seventh victim in a decade of IRA attacks on servicemen and
bases in Europe. A week ago, two unarmed, off-duty British soldiers with the
14th/20th King's Hussars were shot and wounded as they walked along a street in
Munster.

The British Army of the Rhine yesterday promised a further review of security
procedures amid criticisms from serving soldiers and MPs that the forces in West
Germany were not provided with German number plates.

Troops of NATO forces based in West Germany are required by the four power
treaties to drive cars with licence plates identifying the nationality of the
owner. This is done to make it obvious to local police and authorities who the
owner of the vehicle is and also makes it possible for soldiers to claim tax
relief on the purchase of the car and on petrol.

West German police said last night that the killing was the work of one man who
may be part of a 'hit squad' responsible for other recent attacks. The police
are being aided in their inquiries by British and German military intelligence
officers.

British Forces Television advised servicemen and their families to be extra
vigilant, to check their cars carefully, park in well-lit areas, stay out of
isolated places and not to wear clothing which would identify them as
servicemen.

The Prime Minister and her defence chiefs said, however, that it was impossible
to provide total protection for servicemen and their families at all times. They
dismissed any suggestion of recalling service families to Britain, saying it
would be seen as a victory for the IRA.

They believe the IRA chose deliberately to murder a woman. Mrs Hazell was
attractive and long-haired and the gunman, who fired at her from point-blank
range, is unlikely to have mistaken her for a soldier.

The IRA statement claiming responsibility for the killing came in a telephone
call to a Dublin news agency.

The caller, who identified himself with a special code-word, said: 'The woman
killed was believed to have been a member of the British Crown Forces garrisoned
in Dortmund. It has since emerged that she was the German wife of a British Army
staff sergeant.

'As we intend continuing our campaign until the British Army withdraws from
Ireland, the outcome of the attack reinforces a warning we gave on August 2,
1988 for civilians to stay well clear of British military personnel and bases.
This warning still stands and applies to the use of vehicles belonging to
British soldiers and all modes of military transport.'

The terrorists' getaway car was parked beside a drive leading into a parking
area behind Army flats. As Mrs Hazell drove in, a gunman appeared beside the
driver's window and opened fire. He was wearing army trousers and a camouflage
jacket.

Mrs Hazell seems to have sensed danger at the last moment, put the car in
reverse and accelerated away. The car travelled backwards 30 yards, mounted a
bank and crashed into a low concrete wall.

The getaway car had at least one person in it other than the gunman. West German
forensic experts collected 14 spent cartridge cases for comparison with those
used in Munster.

Mrs Thatcher said during a visit to Scotland yesterday: 'It is the
characteristic of terrorists that they do not hesitate to go for wives and
children.'

Mr Kevin McNamara, Labour's Northern Ireland spokesman, said the IRA appeared to
be turning to 'soft targets' abroad because of its lack of success in Ulster.

Mrs Hazell had been married for two years to Staff Sergeant Clive Hazell, aged
27, of the Royal Electrical and Mechanical Engineers. He was on an exercise when
the shooting occurred.

His father, Mr Ken Hazell, of Kilton, near Worksop, Nottinghamshire, said last
night: 'The bottom has dropped out of our world. She was a lovely girl. They
were very happy.

'The people who did this are the lowest of the low. I can't find words to
describe them. This killing was the lowest form of cowardice.'

Bonn condemned the killing as 'an insane action of fanatics'. The Justice
Minister, Herr Hans Engelhart, it was 'cowardly'.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              187 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                                The Independent

                           September 11 1989, Monday

Words, not weapons, are the war strategy in the US: Millions of Irish-Americans
help maintain transatlantic links to terrorism

SECTION: Home News ; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 631 words


SIR CRISPIN TICKELL, Britain's Ambassador to the UN, stopped in his tracks on
catching sight of a briefcase in an ante-chamber to his New York apartment. The
diplomat who made a huge impression on Margaret Thatcher by maintaining his
sang-froid during an earthquake in Mexico City was momentarily thrown off
balance by something a visitor had innocently forgotten.

There has never been an IRA attack on British diplomats or military personnel in
the United States and, in spite of warnings by US terrorism 'experts', neither
the FBI nor republican sources believe there will be. The IRA priority there is
winning political support for its efforts to drive Britain out of Ulster. It no
longer looks to the US as a source of weapons, and terrorist acts would undercut
the latent sympathy of Irish- Americans which many republicans believe is on the
verge of being awakened.


Those supporting IRA methods may be small, but Irish-American's are often happy
to give tacit backing to the cause. The idea of political asylum for IRA
fugitives is now acceptable, for example.

The arrest this summer of three individuals in an alleged plot to develop
computer-guided missiles demonstrates that the IRA still looks to the US for
military support. But instead of trying to mount gun running operations, most of
which have failed, it is turning to sympathisers in high-tech defence industries
for electronic weapons systems which it can manufacture on site.

The US remains a source of funds as the current visit of the prominent
republican Brendan 'Darkie' Hughes shows. But both diplomatic sources and
republicans agree the amount raised in the USA is often overstated by the
British and Irish governments. Noraid reports to the US Department of Justice
that it raises some dollars 300,000 ( pounds 196,000), half of which goes on
expenses.

What the US does provide is psychological support. A visit for prominent figures
such as Mr Hughes is as much for rest and recreation as for official business.
Over two months, he has been feted by local IRA support groups from Florida to
California and throughout the North-east. Some are led by ex-IRA members who
have retired there.

These figures are sometimes described in America's flourishing industry of
terrorist publications as being behind efforts to strike at British targets in
the US. The most recent such report came from Counter-Terrorism Security
Intelligence, a publication monitored by the State Department. It stated that,
on the basis of interviews in New England, it concluded the IRA was planning to
attack British government aircraft using Boston airports.

Much of the report was culled from a recent book about IRA gun smuggling called
Valhalla's Wake, which describes IRA activities in the Boston area. But, far
from making predictions about attacks on British targets, the book claims that
one of leaders of the attempt to smuggle three tons of arms on the Valhalla in
1983 was murdered by British agents operating in Boston.

Written by John Loftus, a lawyer and former Nazi-hunter in the US Department of
Justice, and Emily McIntyre, who worked for German intelligence after the Second
World War, describes in detail the links in Boston between organised crime and
the IRA.

The book is an attempt to clear the name of Mrs McIntyre's son, John McIntyre,
who disappeared shortly after the Valhalla returned to Boston. The authors claim
a government leak to The Times and The Guardian prompted articles stating an
informer in Boston had exposed the arms transfer.

The authors allege Mr McIntyre was killed to protect a senior source within the
IRA in the Irish Republic. That claim is discounted by diplomats, but widely
believed in Irish republican circles in the US.

Home News Page 3

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1989 Independent Print Ltd

                              188 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           September 11 1989, Monday

Hopes rise for British prisoner; Iranian terrorist deported

BYLINE: ANDREW MCEWEN

SECTION: Issue 63496.

LENGTH: 421 words


An Iranian terrorist who had been imprisoned in Britain was deported last night,
raising hopes that Tehran might free Mr Roger Cooper, the British businessman
held in Iran accused of spying.

Mr Kouroush Fouladi, who was jailed in 1982 for his involvement in a bomb plot
in London, was put on an Iran Air flight from Heathrow airport to Tehran.
Handcuffed to police officers, the bearded Iranian appeared subdued as he
boarded the jumbo jet.


Mr Fouladi had been released after serving seven years of a 10-year prison
sentence, but the Foreign Office has denied reports from Tehran that his release
is linked to a deal to free Mr Cooper.

The Home Office confirmed that he was not freed earlier than any similar
offender and insisted there had been no deal. Mr Fouladi, sentenced in 1982, had
earned the normal remission.

The Home Office said Mr Fouladi did not benefit from parole because, under rules
announced in 1983 by Mr Leon Brittan, then Home Secretary, it is not available
to prisoners serving more than five years for violent crimes.

His original sentence stemmed from an explosion in central London in 1981 in
which he and two other Iranians were blown up while on their way to plant a car
bomb. His accomplices died.

To the irritation of the British Government, Iran has repeatedly linked Mr
Fouladi's case with that of Mr Cooper, but sources said yesterday that Whitehall
had received no indication that his release would help Mr Cooper.

The Tehran Times, however, which usually reflects the views of President
Rafsanjani of Iran, said on Saturday that Iran might 'consider' letting Mr
Cooper go. His nephew, Mr Benjamin Cooper, said yesterday that Mr Fouladi's
release might help his uncle.

The Iranian authorities have also claimed that Mr Fouladi, a former doorman at
the Iranian Embassy in London, was ill-treated while in prison. In February, Mr
Abolquasem Sarhadizadeh, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, implied in a
letter to the Tehran Times that Mr Fouladi would like to receive the 'same
humane treatment' that Mr Cooper had received.

Mr Cooper is thought to have been treated well, but has been allowed only a few
family and consular visits. He has never been formally charged or tried despite
the allegations that he was a spy.

Mr Fouladi's complaint of ill treatment related to an incident while he was at
Parkhurst prison, from which he was subsequently moved. In 1985 he was convicted
of beating up a warder during a disturbance over Muslim rights.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              189 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          September 13 1989, Wednesday

Britain's record on man-made disasters the worst in Europe

BYLINE: PETER DAVENPORT

SECTION: Issue 63498.

LENGTH: 513 words


The United Kingdom faces at least two, and possibly four, disasters each year,
in which up to 100 people will be killed each time.

Every three or four years there will also probably be a major incident that will
kill at least 100 people and perhaps as many as 1,000, the disaster prevention
and limitation unit at Bradford University forecast yesterday.


It said that most disasters in this country were man-made and could be
prevented.

The unit, which has nine scientists, was established in July last year and is
sponsored largely by industry. It was formally launched yesterday with a
conference attended by 100 delegates, including representatives of the Home
Office, the European Commission, the emergency services, local authorities and
industry.

At the conference, the scientists produced the 'Bradford Disaster Scale', a
disaster classification method to aid future planning on their prevention and
limitation of effects.

The scale lists disasters in magnitude from one to six, the lowest resulting in
at least 10 deaths and the highest in one million.

They have also established criteria for the absolute outer limits of their
scale, with the destruction of the planet rating a magnitude of 10, the entire
galaxy rating 20 and the end of the universe rating 30.

Dr Alfred Keller, of Bradford University's department of industrial technology,
and the unit's head, said: 'We hope that the scale .. will be an aid to those
responsible for planning the response to disaster and also help in the
identification of hazards. We now hope to establish a national database relating
to disasters, where all those involved in emergency planning can come for
information.'

To produce their scale, the scientists studied disasters in Europe and the
United Kingdom over the 100 years from 1888 to 1988. During that time, 400,000
people lost their lives in European disasters, 31,500 of them in the United
Kingdom.

The deaths resulted from 1,140 disaster incidents, 24 per cent of which happened
in the UK.

Although Britain seems to have been afflicted with a rash of disasters recently,
Dr Keller said that the numbers of such incidents have been rising here since
1936, especially in the decade from 1978, during which there was a 30 per cent
increase.

There have been three 'Class 2' disasters in recent years, with Piper Alpha, the
Herald of Free Enterprise and the terrorist bombing of the Pan Am jumbo jet over
Lockerbie. The unit's scientists cannot say if they were a series of random,
rare events or the start of an upward trend resulting from so far unidentified
causes such as undermanning.

The scientists broke disasters down into three categories: natural, man-made,
and hybrid where the activities of man produced natural disasters that would not
otherwise have happened. They identified 17 types of disaster.

Man-made and hybrid disasters have accounted for more loss of life in the UK
than natural events, the reverse of what has happened in the rest of Europe
where earthquakes and landslides have taken their toll.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              190 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                                The Independent

                          September 14 1989, Thursday

Obituary: Seamus Twomey

BYLINE: DAVID McKITTRICK

SECTION: (Photograph omitted)

LENGTH: 514 words


Seamus Twomey, political activist, born Belfast 1919, died Dublin 12 September
1989.

SEAMUS TWOMEY, the former Provisional IRA chief of staff, is credited - if that
is the word - with the invention of the car bomb. Unknown to most people, he was
an influential figure within the Provisionals almost until the time of his
death.


Twomey's career fell into two phases which, on the face of it, may appear
slightly contradictory. During the Seventies he became a symbol of implacable
apolitical militancy, intent on a bombing campaign designed to blast the British
out of Ireland. In the Eighties, by contrast, he became an ardent supporter of
the faction, headed by Gerry Adams and Martin McGuinness, which has sought to
modernise the Provisionals, in the process jettisoning much of the movement's
treasured but cumbersome ideological baggage.

Twomey's importance in the past decade, as one of the IRA's elder statesmen, has
been to give the sanction of tradition to the Adams faction's innovations which
have combined political activity with straightforward militarism.

Born in the Falls Road district of Belfast, Seamus Twomey was interned without
trial as an IRA activist in the 1940s. When the troubles broke out in 1969 he
was one of those who broke with the then Marxist leadership, with its fanciful
aspiration of uniting Protestant and Catholic workers. Together with Joe Cahill,
Billy McKee and others, he was a founder member of the breakaway Provisional
IRA, who were dedicated to defending Catholic areas and attacking the army.

He was Belfast commander in 1971 and by 1972 was, as Chief of Staff, the IRA's
most important figure. As such he must have been intimately involved in IRA
attacks which took a great many security force and civilian lives. In that year
he was one of the IRA delegation flown to London by the British government for
talks. They met William Whitelaw in Paul Channon's Chelsea home for what proved
to be unfruitful discussions.

The following year he was jailed in the Republic, but was, extraordinarily,
airlifted from Dublin's Mountjoy Jail in a hijacked helicopter and for three
years resumed his post as Chief of Staff. In IRA terms this was not a successful
time: a ceasefire is held to have harmed the organisation and many of its
members were jailed as a result of controversial RUC interrogation methods.

In 1977 Twomey was again jailed in the Republic, this time serving five years.
After his release he was no longer on active service; his significance lay in
his backing for Adams in the debate on the way ahead for the Provisionals.

That debate is clearly still continuing, as different tendencies within the IRA
and Sinn Fein attempt to learn lessons from two decades of violence which have
caused colossal damage but which have not removed Britain from Ireland. A few
months ago another republican veteran, John Joe McGirl, died: he too had given
the cover of tradition to the Adams faction. Together the two deaths may have
weakened Gerry Adams' hand.

(Photograph omitted)

Gazette Page 25

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1989 Independent Print Ltd

                              191 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           September 15 1989, Friday

'Loyalists' or IRA - both sides have killers

BYLINE: ROBERT KILROY-SILK

SECTION: Issue 63500.

LENGTH: 925 words


If the Irish government gets its way then today's meeting of the Anglo-Irish
inter-governmental conference in Dublin will be devoted to the activities of the
security forces in Northern Ireland. In particular, it wants the role of the
Ulster Defence Regiment to be reviewed, saying that its concern about the
behaviour of the regiment 'has been reinforced by the latest evidence of the
involvement of members of the regiment in the most reprehensible crimes'.

The alleged leaking of information about suspected IRA terrorists to 'loyalist'
paramilitary groups, and the killing of a Roman Catholic, Loughlin Maginn, by
members of the Ulster Freedom Fighters in County Down last month, has incensed
ministers in the south and enraged nationalist politicians in the north.


It should be an interesting conference, as there will be a great deal to talk
about. Eddie McGrady, the Social Democratic and Labour MP for South Down, has
demanded that all UDR men be confined to barracks while the investigation into
the killing is carried out. His colleague and deputy leader of the SDLP, Seamus
Mallon, has called for the regiment to be disbanded.

The Irish government and its voluble friends in Britain are entitled to raise
these issues. The leaking of highly sensitive and provocative information on
criminal suspects, the fingering of alleged terrorists, and the killing, is
indefensible.

But there will be many who will pause to wonder why the Irish government, and
all those who adorn 'troops out' rallies, who consort with Sinn Fein activists,
invite them on to their platforms and are quick to point out any breaking of the
law by the British security forces, are not equally prompt, vociferous and
unequivocal in condemning IRA atrocities with the same degree of rage.

They will want to know, these fair-minded people, whether Dublin is as concerned
about the deaths of the 179 UDR men murdered in the province in the last 20
years. No doubt it is, but it does not show. What does show is its passion,
albeit legitimate, about the killing of a Roman Catholic suspected, perhaps
wrongly, of being an IRA terrorist.

Where were they, the spokesmen of the Irish government, when 26-year-old Heidi
Hazell was gunned down by a Kalashnikov rifle on the streets of Dortmund last
week? Where were all the other British sympathizers with the IRA?

Why were they not on all of our television screens and in our newspapers handing
out the same degree of colourful vilification of the IRA thugs as they
habitually dish out to the UDR's 'very brave group of men', as Mrs Thatcher
describes them? Where were they when the two unarmed teenage British soldiers
were shot in Munster?

Neither of these callous and cold-blooded attacks could be defended by anyone
who has an ounce of decency. They were as reprehensible as they were cowardly.
To 'ambush' two young boys is bad enough but there are few things more
despicable than men with guns carrying out that clinical execution of an
innocent and unsuspecting woman. Even the Libyan leader of the delegation to the
Conference of the Inter-Parliamentary Union, El Hamid Ammar, said that he
'regretted' the murder of Heidi Hazell, though the IRA conspicuously failed to
express any remorse.

The Labour party's defence spokesman, the honest and forthright Roland Boyes,
minced no words in condemning the atrocity. Nor did the reliable Northern
Ireland spokesman, Kevin McNamara, or Neil Kinnock. But what did Ken Livingstone
have to say? Did any of the 'troops out' sympathizers speak out? Perhaps they
voiced a disgust and a passion that is exemplary. But if so I did not hear it.

We need to know. We must assume that they would be evenhanded in their treatment
of criminals and murderers.

But I forgot. The IRA killers are not murderers, not at all. You and I and the
rest of the civilized world might so describe them, but not everyone shares our
values. To some people they are 'soldiers'. They are not terrorists, they are
freedom fighters. And freedom fighters are excused all excesses. To them
everything is justifiable.

So Joseph Doherty, who has been in a United States prison for eight years
convicted of murdering an SAS captain in 1980, is described as a 'soldier'. He
has the support of the Mayor of New York, Ed Koch, in his attempt to avoid
deportation to Britain and is seeking 'political asylum' in the United States.

This could be dismissed as rhetoric amid a difficult mayoral primary election,
but it is not. It is the same kind of argument and language that is deployed by
those who should know better in this country.

Ken Livingstone, in 1986, was reported as describing as 'political prisoners'
Brendan McFarlane, convicted in 1976 of murdering five people in a bomb and
machine-gun attack on a Protestant bar in Belfast in 1973, and Gerard Kelly,
convicted in 1973, along with the Price sisters, of bombing Scotland Yard and
the Old Bailey, where one man died and 238 people were injured.

Following the terrorists' escape from the Maze prison, Ken urged the Dutch
government not to return the 'political refugees' to Britain because they might,
he claimed, be subjected to brutality and possibly torture, and perhaps tried
without a jury.

When monsters like these can be placed by an otherwise sane and sensible British
MP in the same category as Anatol Scharansky, then I suppose it should be no
surprise that today the Irish government will make more fuss about a 'leak' than
about the death of Heidi Hazell. She, also, was innocent.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              192 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                                The Independent

                          September 16 1989, Saturday

The Week in Review: Home News

BYLINE: CHRISTIAN WOLMAR

LENGTH: 595 words


RACE, murder, sex, and dogs eclipsed events at the British Association and the
Social and Liberal Democratic Party conferences.

Children at a Birmingham primary school were still finding their way around
after the start of the new term when they were plunged into controversy. Seventy
per cent of the pupils come from Urdu-speaking families, and Asian parents
threatened to occupy the building over the appointment of a white, English-
speaking teacher, Wendy Bartel, to liaise with them and organise special
services.


John Patten, the Home Office minister responsible for community relations,
fuelled the row by saying that the parents should learn English.

The violent campaign against Salman Rusdie's book The Satanic Verses, was
stepped up with bomb attacks on Penguin bookshops. Moslem extremists were
thought to have been behind the latest attacks.

Dogs, which are either man's best friend or his worst enemy, were loved and
hated with equal intensity. An inquiry into the savaging to death of an 11-year-
old girl by two rottweilers led to a call for a ban on the breed. But outrage
greeted the news that 79 beagles had suffocated on a North sea ferry which was
taking them to Sweden for experiments. A taxi driver was jailed for four months
for beating three puppies to death after an argument with his girl friend.

In Northern Ireland, further evidence of alleged collusion between members of
the security forces and loyalist paramilitary groups came to light after
documents identifying IRA suspects disappeared from a police station in Belfast.

John Stevens, deputy chief constable of Cambridgeshire, has been appointed to
investigate the circumstances of the disappearance.

Margaret Thatcher, advocate of a return to Victorian values, reportedly found a
planned survey of the sexual attitudes of 20,000 people too prurient.

The results obtained by the Health Education Authority were to be used in the
fight against the spread of Aids.

The universal nightmare of the dentist's chair was relived through the story of
the patients turned into 'dental cripples' by the allegedly excessive treatment
given by their dentist, Barry Garrett.

Richard Elderton, professor of dentistry at Bristol, said of the work: 'So much
tooth was missing he would twist a drill, just like a carpenter uses for
screwing a nail, into the dentine and put in a pin. This helped hold the filling
in place.'

Mr Garrett's patients had on average been given treatment on 14 teeth involving
43 fillings. One woman had been given 78.

The cold-blooded murder of Insp Raymond Codling, shot at an M62 service station,
led to renewed calls for the restoration of the death penalty for killing police
.

Anthony Hughes, the murderer, committed suicide after he was cornered by the
police.

The streak of philistinism in British attitudes towards culture was revealed by
research from the Policy Studies Institute. It revealed that the Government
spends more on military bands than on subsidising all other forms of music.

According to the report, the services' 81 bands cost pounds 61m annually, while
orchestras, opera companies, concert halls and music festivals received just
pounds 49m in 1987-88.

The week ended with Ian Wrigglesworth, president of the Social and Liberal
Democrats, who sent delegates home at the end of the party's annual conference
in Brighton with the resounding words: 'We have had a marvellous conference and
this demonstrates that we are a major party on the political scene in Britain.'

Home News Page 9

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1989 Independent Print Ltd

                              193 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          September 20 1989, Wednesday

Ministers set for inquiry on Lockerbie; Air disaster

BYLINE: KERRY GILL, HARVEY ELLIOTT and MICHAEL EVANS

SECTION: Issue 63504.

LENGTH: 717 words


The Government is prepared to back a full public inquiry into the terrorist
bombing of the Pan Am Boeing 747 at Lockerbie in which 270 were killed.

Pressure has been mounting on ministers from both sides of the Atlantic to
disclose the events which led to the crash and to explain in detail what they
know and what has been done to prevent a similar outrage.


Security officials from Britain, the United States and West Germany are 'totally
satisfied' that it was the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine General
Command, led by Ahmed Jibril, which planted the bomb. However, they admit they
are unlikely to have enough forensic evidence to bring individuals to court.

As a result of their intelligence reports, government officials in London,
Washington and Bonn are ready to support Lord Fraser of Carmyllie, the Lord
Advocate of Scotland, in setting up an inquiry under a Scottish High Court
judge.

It has always been Lord Fraser's position that he could not commit himself to an
inquiry until the criminal

investigation had either run its course or could not be taken any further.

The public inquiry being considered would be similar to that presently being
held into the Piper Alpha oil rig disaster. It could take place only on the
order of the Lord Advocate in Scotland.

It would be up to the Lord Advocate to recommend to Mr Cecil Parkinson,
Secretary of State for Transport, that a public inquiry should be held under the
civil aviation Acts. The inquiry would be held under the Lord Advocate's control
and be headed by a Scottish High Court judge.

Lord Fraser has to face the difficulty that if he orders a public inquiry, the
bombers could be caught in a country with extradition facilities at some later
date. The question would be whether the accused could be given a fair trial.

The police, whose investigation was the biggest ever undertaken in Scotland, had
hoped not only to identify the bombers but to bring them to trial in Britain,
West Germany or the US.

The FBI and the CIA are understood to have a list of about five individuals from
the PLFP-GC, who are thought to have been recruited by senior officials from
Iran's Revolutionary Guards to carry out a bombing against an American target in
revenge for the shooting down of the Iranian airliner over the Gulf by the USS
Vincennes. However, although the conclusion has been reached after an
examination of more than 10,000 pieces of evidence, the FBI has made clear it is
not enough to seek an indictment.

It is known that Jibril had at least one meeting with Iranian officials in
Tehran last autumn. It is also believed that he met Iranian Revolutionary Guards
at their Lebanese base at Baalbek in the Bekaa Valley soon after the incident
involving the USS Vincennes in July last year when 290 people were killed.

American interception of communications between Tehran and the Iranian Embassy
in Beirut disclosed that Jibril contacted Mr Ahmad Dastmalchiyan, the Iranian
Ambassador to Lebanon, offering to carry out a revenge attack against the
Americans.

Israeli intelligence also intercepted a communication between Hojatoleslam Ali
Akbar Mohtashemi, Iran's Interior Minister, and the Iranian Embassy in Beirut,
indicating that Iran paid for the Lockerbie bombing. Figures of between $ 1.2
million (Pounds 764,000) and $ 2 million have been reported.

But in spite of all the circumstantial evidence of Jibril's involvement,
provided by the intelligence services, the investigators have so far been unable
to uncover hard criminal evidence needed before bringing the case before a grand
jury, although there is enough circumstantial evidence against the PLFP-GC and
certain individuals.

The US is aware that even if the evidence is produced, the chances of
extraditing individuals responsible are remote. Investigators point to the case
of Mohammed Rasheed, charged with the bombing of a Pan Am airliner in October
1982. His fingerprints were found on the ticket of a passenger who occupied the
seat under which the bomb was placed.

But it took the FBI more than four years to get a warrant, a further two years
to track him to a location where he could be arrested in Greece. The Greek
Government has still not decided whether to extradite him to the US.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              194 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                           September 22, 1989, Friday

IRA WARNED OF ATTACKS ON MILITARY

BYLINE:  Lynn Daly, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 1335 words


The last attempted IRA bombing outrage on a mainland military target was in
February at the Tern Hill Barracks in Shropshire.  A sentry prevented a massacre
by challenging two IRA men who had got into the inner area of Clive Camp.
Before that, the last IRA strike against an Army barracks on the British
mainland in which blood was shed was in August last year, when a soldier died
and nine were injured.  The terrorists warned then that the bombing was the
start of a series of strikes against military targets in Britain and Europe -
and have since moved to attacking the wives and children of servicemen station
in West Germany.  The blast in August last year at the main living quarters of
Inglis Barracks in Mill Hill, north London - a forces' post office - was the
terrorists' first success on the UK mainland since the 1984 Brighton bombing.
Lance Corporal Michael Robbins, 23, from Liphook, Hampshire, who died in the
blast, was the first British serviceman to die in England at the hands of the
IRA since 1982.  The IRA said when it admitted the bombing that it would mount a
wave of attacks against military targets - or places used by British military
personnel.  The viciousness of IRA revenge attacks on Army barracks was brought
home to the mainland in February, 1972, when a car bomb exploded outside the
Parachute Regiment officers' mess at Aldershot.  Five civilian women workers and
two men, one a Roman Catholic Army chaplain, were killed. The IRA claimed the
attack was a "successful retaliatory operation" following the Bloody Sunday
clash in Londonderry a month earlier, when 13 civil rights marchers were shot
dead by soldiers from the 1st Battalion, the Parachute Regiment.  Father Gerard
Weston, 38, who had been stationed in Belfast with the 2nd Battalion, the
Parachute Regiment, had been awarded the MBE for gallantry in Northern Ireland a
week before his death - and ordered to return to Aldershot because of threats to
his life.  In September 1973, a lull in the London terror bomb campaign ended
when a 20lb bomb exploded outside the Duke of York's Barracks in King's Road,
Chelsea, injuring five civilians.  Five people - two Women's Royal Army Corps
members, two Guardsmen and a civilian man - died in IRA bomb attacks on 5
October 1974 on two pubs in Guildford, Surrey, which were popular with the
military.  In November 1974, an IRA bomb exploded without warning in a crowded
public house opposite Woolwich Barracks, south-east London, killing a soldier
and a barman and injuring 16 other people, including three soldiers and two
servicewomen.  Two people died and 40 others - including 25 Irish Guardsmen -
were injured by a remote-control IRA nail bomb left in a laundry van outside
Chelsea Barracks in Ebury Bridge Road, London, in October, 1981.  A month later,
two women were hurt when an IRA pistol booby-trap exploded outside Woolwich
Barracks, garrison headquarters of the Royal Artillery.  In July the following
year, the IRA launched two devastating attacks on Army targets within hours of
each other on the same day.  Four men from the Household Cavalry were killed in
a car bomb explosion in Hyde Park, near Knightsbridge Barracks, and seven Royal
Green Jackets bandsmen died in a bomb attack in Regents Park.  In December,
1983, Woolwich, south London, was the scene of a huge explosion which injured
four soldiers and a woman.  Responsibility for that blast was claimed by the
Scottish National Liberation Army, which was believed to have links with the
extremist Irish National Liberation Army.  In November 1985, explosives experts
defused two bombs discovered outside Chelsea Barracks in London - the INLA said
it planted them.

In Europe, servicemen have been targets of a series of terrorist attacks over
the past 11 years.  The most recent was not on a soldier - Army bride Heidi
Hazell, 25, was murdered in a hail of IRA bullets near her home near Dortmund
earlier this month.  On August 5 IRA bombers blasted the perimeter fence of a
depot for Army map makers in Roy barracks at Ratingen, north of Dusseldorf.  In
July Corporal Steven Smith, 31, of the Royal Tank Regiment, was blown up and
killed when he opened the door of his car, which was parked outside his home in
the centre of Hanover.  His wife Tina and their four children, aged between two
and 11, were injured in the blast - they were standing nearby, waiting to get
into the vehicle.  On June 19, 1989, a bomb exploded at the Quebec Barracks,
Osnabruck, damaging the sergeants' living quarters. No one was injured.  Ten
months earlier, on August 12, 1988, Regimental Sergeant Major Michael Heakin of
the 1st Battalion, Royal Regiment of Wales, was shot dead in his car in Ostend
as he drove to catch a ferry back to Britain.  Exactly a week before that a bomb
went off at Roy Barracks, Ratingen, near Dusseldorf.  That blast came shortly
after nine soldiers were injured when a bomb blew a gaping hole in the wall of
the British Army's Glamorgan Barracks in Duisburg. The IRA claimed
responsibility for the attack, on July 13.  Just 10 weeks earlier, three RAF
servicemen were killed in IRA bomb and gun attacks in the Netherlands.  One man
was killed and his two comrades were seriously injured when they were
machine-gunned as they returned to their car after a night out in the Dutch town
of Roermond.  Less than 30 minutes after the ambush and just 30 miles away at
Nieuw Bergen, two servicemen died ana a third was badly injured when they were
blown up by a bomb in their car.  Two days after the attacks, a 1kg bomb was
found under a soldier's car parked next to the officers' mess at barracks in
Bielefeld, West Germany. The security check on the vehicle was prompted by the
airmen's murder.  Thirty people were injured in March 1987 when a 300lb car bomb
exploded at the headquarters of the British forces in West Germany, at
Rheindahlen.  The attack took place a few hours after Mrs Thatcher visited Bonn
for talks with Chancellor Helmut Kohl.  The Provisional IRA claimed
responsibility, announcing in a statement from Dublin: "Our unit's brief was to
inflict a devastating blow but was ordered to be careful to avoid civilian
casualties." A conflicting claim of responsibility came from a group calling
itself the National Democratic Front for the Liberation of Germany.  In August
1982, police in Paris foiled attacks on British targets in France and Holland
when they arrested a gang of suspected IRA terrorists.  The Provos claimed
responsibility for three attacks on British soldiers during four weeks in 1980.
Colonel Mark Coe, a 46-year-old father of six, died after he was hit by three
bullets as he drove out of his garage in Bielefeld.  German police claimed he
was shot by two gunmen. They thought the same two men might be responsible for
an attack on Corporal Steven Sims of the Devon and Dorset Regiment, who survived
being shot five times while jogging close to his barracks at Osnabruck.
Military policeman Cpl Stewart Leach was also seriously injured, hit in the
stomach when his car was riddled with bullets as he waited at traffic lights in
Munster.  In December the same year, the attempted assassination of British
Common Market Commissioner Christopher Tugendhat in Brussels was attributed to
the IRA.  In July 1979, three bombs exploded at Army installations in Dortmund.
No-one was hurt.  The following month, an IRA hit squad placed a time-bomb under
a bandstand in a Brussels square where a British Army band was to perform. Seven
of the band and 11 Belgian civilians were injured.  In 1978, the IRA was held
responsible when eight bombs exploded at Rhine Army bases, including Rattingen.
Protecting the many "soft" targets offered by the armed forces in West Germany
has always been a headache for security chiefs.  There are nearly 70,000
personnel stationed in West Germany, at four RAF and five Army bases.  The
Provisionals are known to have strong networks of support in Holland and West
Germany which could provide hiding places.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1989 The Press Association Limited

                              195 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 23, 1989

IRA escapes shackles by hitting England

BYLINE: By DAVID HEARST in Belfast

LENGTH: 881 words


IRA attacks on poorly defended barracks in England or living quarters of the
British Army on the Rhine show the difficulties experienced for over two years
in mounting an effective campaign against security force targets in Northern
Ireland.

The War News column of An Phoblacht, the Republican movement's newspaper, were
at one time filled with descriptions of the deaths of soldiers or policemen in
IRA operations on the home front. They were accurate accounts.


The defiant tone of the column has not changed, but its content has. Here is a
typical entry from July, headed: Landmine Uncovered: 'Volunteers of the Belfast
Brigade IRA managed to escape after British troops spotted a command wire
leading to a 6lb landmine and made straight for the Volunteers' firing position
.. The alertness of the Volunteers involved ensured that they were able to
escape before being hemmed in by the British Army patrols.'

Items like these underline the fact that the IRA is severely constrained in what
it can do on home territory. Its campaign remains an opportunistic one.

Its two most important hits against British military targets last year, in which
a total of 14 soldiers died (the attack on a minibus of soldiers returning from
the Lisburn fun run, and the bombing of a bus of soldiers at Ballygawley, in Co
Tyrone), were both attributable to complacent army security.

The trend of the campaign in the North has been running against the IRA since it
lost eight men in the SAS trap at Loughgall police station in May, 1987. Each
year, as the security net north and south of the border by the RUC and the Garda
Siochana tightens, the IRA has to risk more to achieve less.

With nearly eight months of this year passed the security forces have captured 8
1/2 tons of explosive, double the quantity seized last year. The 52 attacks on
RUC stations and the 153 explosions are both down on last year, but the arrest
rate remains the same. Some 263 people, the majority of them Republicans, have
appeared on terrorist charges.

A similar situation is reflected in the so-called 'kill-rate' of the IRA.

Over the three-month period around the anniversary of the deployment of British
troops in August, IRA activity has been high. There have been several 1000lb
bombs, but only one reached its intended target - the High Court complex in
Belfast city centre.

Until the sniper attack which killed an army sergeant repairing a radio mast in
Coalisland this week, the last member of security forces the IRA managed to kill
was Reserve Constable Alexander Bell, who died when the car he was travelling in
was bombed on July 7.

The difficulties at home are mounting. The IRA is constrained by the knowledge
that the identity of many of the faces of the 'Secret Army' are no longer
secret, by the high level of covert surveillance, and to some extent by the
increasing risk of causing civilian casualties.

Attacks in Britain and the Europe are harder to equip and entail the risky
transport of arms and explosive, but the element of surprise is greater and the
publicity generated often out of all proportion to an equivalent attack in
Northern Ireland.

An attack abroad would be planned as long as six months or even a year in
advance and there is little correlation between the timing of a bomb attack and
a so-called campaign. But timing of the Deal attack is nevertheless important.

It occurs before the Conservative Party conference and prevents the British
military establishment from congratulating itself that it got through the
anniversary year unscathed.

The attack on Deal barracks also provides a rallying call for Sinn Fein
supporters as they approach their annual conference in Dublin.

The long war is taking its toll on the movement. After two bruising elections
this year, the support of a party that lays claim to the soul of Ireland and
considers itself to be a mass movement is at its lowest point in the South since
the 1981 hunger strikes. This increases the inherent policy conflicts between
electoral and military strategies.

Either strategy needs to show its troops some success if the ideological
cohesion of the movement as a whole is to be retained. As it is, the movement is
kept together more through a collective sense of the losses its families have
suffered, than through a common analyis of where it is going in the future.

The Deal attack will relieve some of the tension around the leadership of Mr
Gerry Adams, president of Sinn Fein, that has been built up over August. He
remains the best political mind in the Republican movement.

Sources in Republican Sinn Fein, who split away from the Provisionals over
Adams' decision to end abstentionism in the Dail over three years ago, have
predicted that the West Belfast MP could be intending to take up his seat in
Westminster as a way of beating the broadcasting ban, a move which has always
been denied by Provisional Sinn Fein.

The publicity over the attack will give the movement time to think and to plan.
The attack adds a military crisis to the political one already generated by
security force leaks. But the leadership of the IRA knows better than anyone
else how quickly the business of keeping the long war going reverts to a long,
hard slog.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              196 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 23, 1989

Conflicting costs at heart of MoD security dilemma

BYLINE: By RICHARD NORTON-TAYLOR

LENGTH: 466 words


THE ATTACK highlights a problem which the Ministry of Defence has been wrestling
with for years: the conflicting human, political and economic costs of the
effort to face the threat to military bases on both mainland Britain and in West
Germany.

The 'softer' the target the IRA chooses, the greater the problem.


The ministry yesterday repeated its longstanding view that there is no such
thing as total security. Ultimately, it says, it is up to individual servicemen
to be vigilant.

In the past decade there has been a deliberate move to make bases less isolated.
The armed forces, the argument goes, are part of the local community and cannot
be kept behind closed doors.

Besides, a return to a bunker mentality would present the IRA with a propaganda
victory, a point the Prime Minister has repeatedly made.

Bases are sprawling areas, with married quarters and exercise areas. But the
ministry has also used the argument to question the economic cost of erecting
new fences - an argument that has been rumbling since the IRA attack on the
Parachute Regiment's base at Tern Hill, Shropshire in February.

High fences alone, the ministry says, would not be enough. Inner fences, extra
guards and regular patrols are also needed.

The emphasis on cost also lies at the heart of the row over the growing use of
private security companies provoked by this latest IRA outrage.

It is cheaper, according to the ministry, to 'civilianise' as many support roles
as possible. Parliamentary answers show the ministry relying increasingly on
private security firms.

In March, the ministry said such firms were employed at 27 military bases. A
month later, it said that private companies were employed at more than 30
establishments. It added that 'it would not be in the interests of security to
reveal their locations.'

Among the 17 companies it listed was Reliance Security Services, which has
guarded the Royal Marines' music school since January 1988.

The armed forces minister, Mr Archie Hamilton, told the Commons in March that
the use of private security firms in guarding establishments 'is an option open
to the Ministry of Defence in cases where their use can satisfy certain security
criteria'.

A decision to switch to a private firm, he indicated, would depend on 'a
reappraisal of the security circumstances'.

The decision to employ Reliance Security Services raises questions about the
criteria the ministry uses.

The company was employed in January 1988 although military bands had been an IRA
target before - the band of the Royal Green Jackets was attacked by a bomb at
Regent's Park, London, in 1982 - and the band of the East Anglia Regiment was
the intended target of three IRA members shot dead in Gibraltar in March last
year.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              197 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 23, 1989

Ten killed by IRA bombers: Marines music school hit - Lax security alleged

BYLINE: By DAVID SHARROCK, MICHAEL WHITE and OWEN BOWCOTT

LENGTH: 797 words


NINE Royal Marines bandsmen and another, unidentified person were killed and 22
injured yesterday when the IRA's strategy of bombing mainland 'soft targets'
erupted at the Royal Marines School of Music at Walmer, near Deal, in Kent.
Police said there was nothing to link the unidentified victim with the
explosion.

Last night police were not discounting the possibility of finding more people.
Twelve were in hospital, eight in a serious condition.


In a statement issued from Dublin, the IRA claimed responsibility for the
attack. 'Mrs Thatcher visited occupied Ireland with a message of war at a time
when we want peace. Now we, in turn, have visited the Royal Marines in Kent, but
we still want peace and we want the British government to leave our country.'
Although the school is a training centre for young recruits, those who died were
members of an adult band, aged from 20 to the mid-30s. The bandsmen are not
trained as fighting soldiers. Kent's Chief Constable, Mr Paul Condon, said he
was not aware of any warning before the blast.

In a message from Balmoral, the Queen told the Royal Marines she was deeply
shocked.

The news was relayed to Mrs Thatcher on a Tokyo-Moscow flight.

She said: 'I would like to express our very great sorrows for the people
concerned and all of those relatives. It will be a time of great sadness and
grief for them.'

The Government faced criticism at the disclosure that a private security firm
had been protecting the bandsmen.

Mr Tom King, the Defence Secretary, visiting the scene , said the 'godfathers of
Northern Ireland' had to realise that the fight against terrorism, whether
committed in England or Germany, would go on.

Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist squad has been on alert in expectation of an IRA
attack after the 20th anniversary of troops being sent into Ulster on August 14
passed off relatively peacefully. Since the discovery of the IRA bomb factory in
Clapham, south London in December, Scotland Yard has assumed that two IRA units
were active in mainland Britain.

But there may be more units on the continent, one of which may have been used in
yesterday's attack, escaping back across the Channel afterwards.

Mr Danny Morrison, publicity director of Sinn Fein, the IRA's political wing,
said that further 'tragic' deaths could be avoided. 'By agreeing to dialogue,
the British government could make a major contribution save lives.'

Political reaction to the statement was forthright. The Labour leader, Mr
Kinnock, said: 'These terrorists must sicken even the people who give them
support.'

Mr John Hulme, leader of the Social Democratic Labour Party, said: 'I wonder
what the minds who think up these outrages believe that they contribute to the
future of Northern Ireland. They contribute nothing except bitterness and pain.'

The explosion ripped through the north barracks complex at Walmer at 8.26am.
Witnesses said they heard the Royal Marines School of Music band playing moments
before the blast. 'I heard music playing and then it went bang and there was
glass everywhere,' said one. 'I heard a marine scream out 'The band is under
there'.'

Mr Sean Minnock, who lives nearby, said: 'I could hear terrified screams of
agony. People started running about all over the place. It was horrible.' The
bombed building was a recreation centre where bandsmen could change into uniform
and have refreshments, said Mr Keith Biddle, Assistant Chief Constable of Kent.

Rescue services, including 12 Kent Fire Brigade appliances equipped with
thermal-image cameras and heat-detecting equipment were rapidly on the scene.
Eleven ambulances ferried the victims and injured to Kent and Canterbury
Hospital and to Buckland Hospital in Dover. Ambulance workers called off their
overtime ban for the emergency.

Forensic officers from Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist squad joined the search
for those trapped in the rubble.

Some of the seriously injured were suffering from flash burns and fractures to
the skull and arms, said Mr Timothy Waite, support services manager at Buckland
Hospital. Mr Richard Collins, consultant surgeon at Canterbury and Kent, who
operated on four of the most seriously injured, said: 'I have never seen
anything like this before, thank God.' One Marine, a married man in his
thirties, was in intensive care last night. All the injured had been sedated.

The last IRA attack on a mainland military target, in February at the Tern Hill
barracks, Shropshire, was frustrated by a sentry.

Last August a bomb at Inglis Barracks, Mill Hill, north London, killed one
soldier and injured nine in the IRA's first successful mainland attack since the
1984 Brighton bombing.

Marines barracks bombing, pages 2 and 3; Leader comment, page 22

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              198 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 23, 1989

Private guards policed base

BYLINE: By RICHARD NORTON-TAYLOR and MICHAEL WHITE

LENGTH: 567 words


THE use of a private security company to guard the Walmer barracks was attacked
last night as it became known that the Ministry of Defence was increasingly
employing such firms at military installations.

According to the ministry, 17 companies work in more than 30 military
establishments throughout the country despite the high state of alert in
barracks after warnings from Scotland Yard of the likelihood that at least one
IRA unit is at large on the mainland. Staff involved have risen over the past
year from 200 to 250.


The use of private firms is based on criteria which the MoD says must be secret.

Mr Martin O'Neill, Labour's defence spokesman, accused the Government of
pursuing 'a penny-pinching policy which may well put our armed services at
dreadful risk'. Mr Paddy Ashdown, the Democrats' leader and former Marine said:
'The lives of our soldiers and their families should not be put at risk by the
Government's foolish and irresponsible pursuit of privatisation and
cost-cutting.'

The former Marines Commandant-General, Lt-Gen Sir Steuart Pringle, who was
maimed in a terrorist bomb attack, said security would be better with MoD
personnel 'because you have got an immediate sanction against any individual who
lapses in his duty.'

But the present Commandant-General, Lt-Gen Sir Martin Garrod, rejected criticism
that security was lax. 'Contract security does enable us to allow Marines to
carry out other more important and operational tasks wherever they are serving,
so freeing further manpower,' he added.

Deal residents and former soldiers were critical of security. Mr Neil Pickford,
who left the Marines in April, said men from Reliance Security Services which
patrolled the barracks did not bother to check identification.

'If a bomber tried to get in it would be very easy,' he added. 'A lot of
soldiers who went out to the pub late at night would often come in over a low
wall round the back where the barbed wire had been pushed down. You could climb
over there at two or three in the morning and not get caught.'

Ms Tracey Palmer, of Walmer, said checking was slack. Other residents said
access to the barracks could be gained through allotments.

A former Reliance security guard, Mr Alan Thompsett, said the perimeter wall was
not patrolled securely and lack of staff meant irregular night patrols. 'It was
very easy to get into the barracks, not just through the gates but by just
jumping over the wall,' he added. Mr Thompsett, whose brother-in-law was injured
in the blast, said the firm had not asked for the return of his uniform or
identity card.

The Kent police press office said there had been a disco in the barracks the
previous evening, but the Chief Constable, Mr Paul Condon, refused to confirm
this. Police said last night there had been 'a function of some kind'.

Mr Tom King, the Defence Secretary, promised a full security review. One was
promised by the Armed Forces Minister, Mr Archie Hamilton, after the IRA
attacked another 'soft' target, Inglis barracks, London.

Mr Peter Paice, managing director of Reliance Security, said he was very upset
but refused to make any other comment because, he said, he was bound by a MoD
contract. His company, the third biggest of its sort in Britain, made Pounds 1.7
million profit from Pounds 30 million-plus turnover last year. It employs 3,500
staff at 700 sites.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              199 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 23, 1989

Ten killed by IRA bombers: Marine bandsmen die in blast - Thatcher speaks of
'great sadness and grief'

BYLINE: By DAVID SHARROCK, MICHAEL WHITE and OWEN BOWCOTT

LENGTH: 781 words


NINE Royal Marines bandsmen and another, unidentified person were killed and 22
injured yesterday when the IRA's strategy of bombing mainland 'soft targets'
erupted at the Royal Marines School of Music at Walmer, near Deal, in Kent.
Police said there was nothing to link the unidentified victim with the
explosion.

Last night police were not discounting the possibility of finding more people.
Twelve were in hospital, eight in a serious condition.


In a statement issued from Dublin the IRA said it carried out the attack. 'Mrs
Thatcher visited occupied Ireland with a message of war at a time when we want
peace. Now we, in turn, have visited the Royal Marines in Kent, but we still
want peace and we want the British government to leave our country.'

Although the school is a training centre for young recruits, those who died were
members of an adult band, aged from 20 to the mid-30s. The bandsmen are not
trained as fighting soldiers.

Kent's Chief Constable, Mr Paul Condon, said he was not aware of any warning
before the blast.

In a message from Balmoral, the Queen told the Marines she was deeply shocked.

The news was relayed to Mrs Thatcher on a Tokyo-Moscow flight. She said: 'I
would like to express our very great sorrows for the people concerned and all of
those relatives. It will be a time of great sadness and grief for them.'

The Government faced criticism at the disclosure that a private security firm
had been protecting the bandsmen.

Mr Tom King, the Defence Secretary, visiting the scene, said the 'godfathers of
Northern Ireland' had to realise that the fight against terrorism, whether
committed in England or Germany, would go on.

Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist squad has been on alert in expectation of an IRA
attack after the 20th anniversary of troops being sent into Ulster on August 14
passed off relatively peacefully. Since the discovery of the IRA bomb factory in
Clapham, south London, in December, it was assumed two IRA units were active in
mainland Britain.

There may be more units on the continent, one of which may have been used in
yesterday's attack, escaping back across the Channel afterwards.

Mr Danny Morrison, publicity director of Sinn Fein, the IRA's political wing,
said further 'tragic' deaths could be avoided. 'By agreeing to dialogue, the
British government could make a major contribution save lives.'

Political reaction to the statement was forthright. Mr Kinnock, the Labour
leader, said: 'These terrorists must sicken even the people who give them
support.'

Mr John Hulme, leader of the Social Democratic Labour Party, said: 'I wonder
what the minds who think up these outrages believe that they contribute to the
future of Northern Ireland.'

The explosion ripped through the north barracks complex at Walmer at 8.26am.
Witnesses said they heard the Royal Marines School of Music band playing moments
before the blast. 'I heard music playing and then it went bang and there was
glass everywhere,' said one. 'I heard a marine scream out 'The band is under
there'.'

Mr Sean Minnock, who lives nearby, said: 'I could hear terrified screams of
agony. People started running about all over the place. It was horrible.' The
bombed building was a recreation centre where bandsmen could change into uniform
and have refreshments, said Mr Keith Biddle, Assistant Chief Constable of Kent.

Rescue services, including 12 Kent Fire Brigade appliances equipped with
thermal-image cameras and heat-detecting equipment were rapidly on the scene.
Eleven ambulances ferried the victims and injured to Kent and Canterbury
Hospital and to Buckland Hospital in Dover. Ambulance workers called off their
overtime ban for the emergency.

Forensic officers from Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist squad joined the search
for those trapped in the rubble. Some of the seriously injured were suffering
from flash burns and fractures to the skull and arms, said Mr Timothy Waite,
support services manager at Buckland Hospital. Mr Richard Collins, consultant
surgeon at Canterbury and Kent, who operated on four of the most seriously
injured, said: 'I have never seen anything like this before, thank God.' One
Marine, a married man in his thirties, was in intensive care last night. All the
injured had been sedated.

The last IRA attack on a mainland military target, in February at the Tern Hill
barracks, Shropshire, was frustrated by a sentry.

In August 1988 a bomb at Inglis Barracks, Mill Hill, north London, killed one
soldier and injured nine in the IRA's first successful mainland since the 1984
Brighton bombing.

Marine barracks bombing, pages 2 and 3; Leader comment, page 22

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              200 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                                The Independent

                          September 23 1989, Saturday

Leading Article: An outrage made too easy

LENGTH: 768 words


ONCE AGAIN the nation is seized by horror as it contemplates the effect of a
serious IRA outrage on the mainland: at least 10 dead, 22 injured, women
grieving for their husbands, boyfriends or sons, nearby houses as well as
military buildings blasted, a community in deep shock. Horror is compounded by
incredulity: the camp near Deal in Kent, housing the Royal Marines School of
Music, was guarded not by armed marines but by the civilian employees of a
private security firm. Over the past 10 years, 17 such private companies have
apparently been used by the Ministry of Defence to protect some 30 'low-level'
military establishments.

The Kent barracks for budding members of the Royal Marines bands may have been
'low-level'. But bandsmen have previously been the targets of IRA bombs, notably
on that black day in July 1982 when seven Royal Greenjacket bandsmen were blown
up in mid-concert in Regent's Park, and four members of the Household Cavalry,
along with their horses, were killed in Hyde Park. It was the vigilance of a
proper army sentry which saved the lives of some 60 soldiers just before an
explosion at a barracks in Shropshire earlier this year.


It looked yesterday as if the Ministry of Defence had made life easy for the IRA
in its search for a military target in Britain. At least one, and probably two,
IRA units were known to be at large on the mainland. Equally, everyone realised
that the organisation was desperate to mark last month's twentieth anniversary
of the deployment of British troops in Belfast with an act of carnage. To the
credit of the police and all others involved, the anniversary had passed without
a major incident on the mainland. Yesterday it seemed not so much shocking that
the IRA had penetrated the security of the Royal Marines School of Music, as
remarkable that it had not done so earlier. It is generally accepted that there
are limits to security: tighten it too far, and army life becomes unacceptably
claustrophobic and restricted. At the Kent barracks, there seems to have been
little danger that it would unduly cramp the lifestyle of the youthful trainee
musicians.

Anger at the apparent negligence over security precautions there should not
diminish outrage at the barbarity of the IRA. Once again it has shown its
readiness to strike against a relatively 'soft' target. The pointlessness of
destroying so many young lives arouses almost as much anger as its
heartlessness. Even to the dwindling number of those who support the IRA's aims
- to remove British troops from Ulster and reunite Ireland - its methods must
seem, on any rational analysis, entirely counterproductive. The Irish to the
south are as horrified by such violence as the British. They cherish their
stability, and have as little enthusiasm for IRA murderers as for those
Protestant thugs who call themselves loyalists. In the recent Irish elections,
support for Sinn Fein - which yesterday expressed 'satisfaction' at the carnage
in Kent - sank to 1.2 per cent of the vote. The only circumstance in which
British troops will leave Northern Ireland is when that province is free of
sectarian violence. Each outrage, whether in Ulster, in Britain or on the
Continent, delays that day.

If violence is counter-productive for the Republican cause, so too is any
collusion with Loyalist undesirables by the overwhelmingly Protestant members of
the Royal Ulster Constabulary and Ulster Defence Regiment. We publish today
details of yet more lists of IRA suspects which appear to have been passed by
the forces of law and order to Loyalist organisations likely to want to use them
as hit-lists. British troops were originally sent to Northern Ireland to defend
the Roman Catholic minority, which for decades had suffered discrimination and
physical persecution.

In their fight against violence, much of it perpetrated by the IRA, those troops
co-operate closely with the Ulster Defence Regiment and Royal Ulster
Constabulary. Northern Ireland is part of the UK, and justice must be seen to be
done there with the same impartiality as in mainland Britain. Such collusion is
no more excusable than if an overwhelmingly Conservative police force in Britain
were giving criminal henchmen lists of suspected Labour extremists whom they
would like eliminated. Only the IRA can benefit from what looks at worst like
incitement to murder, and at best like the aiding and abetting of a conspiracy.
Equally, it is folly verging on criminal negligence to offer the IRA a military
target as easily accessible as the site of yesterday's carnage.

Leader Page 18

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1989 Independent Print Ltd

                              201 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                                The Independent

                          September 23 1989, Saturday

FBI pins Lockerbie blame on Iran: The US Congress opens its inquiry into the
Lockerbie bombing next week. The FBI is already convinced of Iranian complicity,
although others question the evidence, Harvey Morris writes

BYLINE: HARVEY MORRIS

LENGTH: 851 words


AS THE US Congress prepares to open two days of hearings next week on the
Lockerbie bombing, informed American sources said Federal Bureau of
Investigation inquiries point unerringly to an Iranian connection in the attack
on Pan Am flight 103.

But other sources familiar with international investigations into the bombing
insist that, nine months after the Boeing 747 exploded in mid-air with the loss
of 270 lives, evidence against the prime suspects in the case remains
circumstantial.


According to press leaks from the American end of the investigation, the FBI is
satisfied that the attack was carried out by the Popular Front for the
Liberation of Palestine - General Command, led by Ahmed Jibril, a former Syrian
army officer. The FBI is even said to have compiled a list of named suspects,
but has yet to assemble enough evidence to indict them.

The American sources said the FBI was also convinced that Ahmed Jibril's
paymasters were the Iranians, and that the bombing was carried out in revenge
for the shooting down of an Iran Air passenger jet over the Gulf by a US warship
in July last year.

The sources acknowledged, however, that the investigation had not established
whether senior figures in the present Tehran regime were aware of the bombing
plot. 'They haven't found a smoking gun on President Rafsanjani's desk,' one
source said.

President Rafsanjani is known to have opposed retaliation for the Iran Air
disaster, for fear that it would provoke a US military response. He said
immediately after the crash: 'The US may have more crimes in store. Wise men
know why we do not take revenge.'

The implication of the FBI's so far undisclosed findings is therefore likely to
be that a radical faction within the Tehran leadership was behind the bombing.

In Britain, the 21 December bombing is still the subject of a police inquiry in
which thousands of pieces of wreckage from the crash site have been gathered for
forensic tests. West German investigators have also been involved. Flight 103
originated in Frankfurt and made a stop in London on its way to New York.
Forensic investigations point to the bomb having been concealed in a radio-
cassette player which was put aboard the plane in a suitcase at Frankfurt.

Among the circumstantial evidence pointing to involvement by Ahmed Jibril's
group is that, eight weeks before the Lockerbie bombing, West German police
discovered two radio-cassette bombs of the type used against flight 103 during
raids against suspected terrorist targets in Dusseldorf and Frankfurt. The bombs
were designed to explode in mid-air, using barometric pressure devices. Although
all but two of 16 suspects detained in the raids were released for lack of
evidence, the West Germans linked the bomb haul to Ahmed Jibril's PFLP - GC.

Another element of the evidence against Ahmed Jibril is that since the Lockerbie
bombing he is understood to have made one or more visits to Tehran, though he
had previously been considered as a purely Syrian surrogate. The Syrians and
Iranians are united in an often uneasy alliance of convenience against their
common enemy, Iraq. Ahmed Jibril has denied any involvement in the bombing, and
sources who remain unconvinced by the theory that he was responsible say it is
unlikely that he could have mounted such an operation at the behest of the
Iranians without Syria's knowledge.

Leaks about alleged intercepts of conversations between the Iranian embassy in
Beirut and Iran's former hardline interior minister, Ali Akbar Mohtashemi,
suggest he was involved in financing the bombing. The leaks apparently emanate
from Israeli intelligence, which has an interest in linking Palestinian factions
with terrorist attacks and also in undermining the Iranians for their support of
the anti-Israeli Hizbollah faction in Lebanon.

The US authorities, meanwhile, are facing conflicting pressures on disclosing
their Lockerbie findings. There is domestic pressure, not least from families of
the victims of the bombing, to reach a conclusion as to who was responsible.

A public declaration by the United States of Iranian complicity would, however,
further complicate the process of freeing American and other Western hostages
held by Iran's allies in Lebanon. It would also create an unfavourable
atmosphere, both in Iran and the United States, for any moves towards an
eventual renewal of relations between the two countries. There is already
considerable domestic resistance within the United States towards any bettering
of ties with what is considered by many in Congress to be a terrorist regime.

American sources say that President Bush is at present under little pressure to
move on the hostage issue, particularly if this should require a high-risk US
approach to Iran. The message emanating from Washington is that the new
administration of President Rafsanjani should make the first move. Such an
approach would carry with it political risks for the Iranian leader, and would
almost certainly be ruled out if the FBI pointed the finger at Tehran.

Foreign News Page 10

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1989 Independent Print Ltd

                              202 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                                The Independent

                          September 23 1989, Saturday

The Deal Barracks Bombing: Stepping up security to Ulster levels seen as
unrealistic

BYLINE: ANDY GLINIECKI and JOHN PIENAAR

LENGTH: 697 words


DESPITE the universal horror sparked by the Deal bombing - and the apparent ease
with which security was breached - there was acceptance yesterday that it was
unrealistic to increase security measures at mainland military establishments to
the same level as Northern Ireland.

Sir Barney Hayhoe, a senior Tory MP and member of the Commons Defence Select
Committee, said: 'There is no way in a civilised society that one can be able to
have total security.'


General Sir Anthony Farrer- Hockley, former Commander-in- Chief Allied Forces in
Northern Europe, said: 'The answer is not simply to keep stepping up security.
The fact is that if you've got murderers about you've got to root them out
because there are always going to be soft targets. By creating fortresses you
are simply playing into their hands.'

The Deal attack is the most devastating on the mainland since a bomb ripped
through the Grand Hotel in Brighton during a Conservative Party conference in
October 1984, killing five people.

It is almost equal in scale to the 11 bandsmen and soldiers on horseback killed
in separate explosions in Regent's Park and Hyde Park, London, in July 1982.

In recent years the debate on security has turned on two distinct approaches.
One view is that the persistent attacks on 'soft targets' on the British
mainland should be met with a massive stepping up of security, effectively
cutting off establishments from the community; the other is that military
personnel should be able to enjoy a relatively normal life.

But Mark Fielder, of the Royal United Services Institute, the professional body
of the armed forces, said the sort of security imposed in Northern Ireland would
not be acceptable. 'The Army want to integrate with the local population as
representatives of the people of Britain.'

Military personnel wanted a degree of normal life; to be able to go to nearby
places of entertainment and own a local home, for example.

He said the level of security in Northern Ireland would be totally unacceptable
and too expensive on the British mainland. 'There are 10 battalions of British
troops in support of the Royal Ulster Constabulary to carry out the level of
security that they think is necessary to police one and a half million people.
The amount of security you would need on the mainland would be huge.'

The institute says that the way forward is to emphasise the importance of
personal security. 'Military personnel are told to check under their cars and
question strangers inside establishments, but these points need to be constantly
hammered home.'

This view has the backing of Sir Steuart Pringle, a former Commandant General of
the Royal Marines who lost a leg in an IRA car bomb attack eight years ago. 'I
learned that all you can do is be more alert and more careful,' he said.

Although MPs agreed yesterday that there could never be perfect security, their
alarm at the vulnerability of so-called 'soft' military targets to terrorist
attack prompted calls for an immediate security review.

The level of security alert at Westminster and in Whitehall was enhanced
immediately, and the already formidable security planned for the Conservative
Party conference in Blackpool next month is now likely to be enforced with extra
vigour.

The Ministry of Defence declined to comment on any extra precautions being taken
in the wake of the Deal bombing.

Ministers came under immediate pressure from senior figures on both sides of the
Commons to conduct an urgent review of security to limit the threat to exposed
service establishments.

Neil Kinnock, the Labour leader, said the armed forces should 're-examine and
intensify security, especially for soldiers who by definition are off-guard'.

Kevin McNamara, the Labour spokesman on Northern Ireland, said security at
establishments such as Deal should be reviewed carefully. Ministers should 'take
stock immediately of the security arrangements within the UK', he said.

Sir Barney Hayhoe said: 'Obviously something was not satisfactory in this case.
But whether, and how, blame can be apportioned must be a matter for a full
inquiry.'

Home News Page 3

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1989 Independent Print Ltd

                              203 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                          September 23, 1989, Saturday

IRA WARNED OF ATTACKS ON MILITARY

BYLINE:  Lynn Daly, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 1617 words


The last attempted IRA bombing outrage on a mainland military target was in
February at the Tern Hill Barracks in Shropshire.  A sentry prevented a massacre
by challenging two IRA men who had got into the inner area of Clive Camp.
Before that, the last IRA strike against an Army barracks on the British
mainland in which blood was shed was in August last year, when a soldier died
and nine were injured at Inglis Barracks in Mill Hill, north London.  The
terrorists warned then that the bombing was the start of a series of strikes
against military targets in Britain and Europe - and have since moved to
attacking the wives and children of servicemen station in West Germany.  The
blast in August last year at the main living quarters of Inglis Barracks - a
forces' post office - was the terrorists' first success on the UK mainland since
the 1984 Brighton bombing.  Lance Corporal Michael Robbins, 23, from Liphook,
Hampshire, who died in the blast, was the first British serviceman to die in
England at the hands of the IRA since 1982.  The IRA said when it admitted the
bombing that it would mount a wave of attacks against military targets - or
places used by British military personnel.  The viciousness of IRA revenge
attacks on Army barracks was brought home to the mainland in February, 1972,
when a car bomb exploded outside the Parachute Regiment officers' mess at
Aldershot.  Five civilian women workers and two men, one a Roman Catholic Army
chaplain, were killed. The IRA claimed the attack was a "successful retaliatory
operation" following the Bloody Sunday clash in Londonderry a month earlier,
when 13 civil rights marchers were shot dead by soldiers from the 1st Battalion,
the Parachute Regiment.  Father Gerard Weston, 38, who had been stationed in
Belfast with the 2nd Battalion, the Parachute Regiment, had been awarded the MBE
for gallantry in Northern Ireland a week before his death - and ordered to
return to Aldershot because of threats to his life.  In September 1973, a lull
in the London terror bomb campaign ended when a 20lb bomb exploded outside the
Duke of York's Barracks in King's Road, Chelsea, injuring five civilians.  Five
people - two Women's Royal Army Corps members, two Guardsmen and a civilian man
- died in IRA bomb attacks on 5 October 1974 on two pubs in Guildford, Surrey,
which were popular with the military.  In November 1974, an IRA bomb exploded
without warning in a crowded public house opposite Woolwich Barracks, south-east
London, killing a soldier and a barman and injuring 16 other people, including
three soldiers and two servicewomen.  Two people died and 40 others - including
25 Irish Guardsmen - were injured by a remote-control IRA nail bomb left in a
laundry van outside Chelsea Barracks in Ebury Bridge Road, London, in October,
1981.  A month later, two women were hurt when an IRA pistol booby-trap exploded
outside Woolwich Barracks, garrison headquarters of the Royal Artillery.  In
July the following year, the IRA launched two devastating attacks on Army
targets within hours of each other on the same day.  Four men from the Household
Cavalry were killed in a car bomb explosion in Hyde Park, near Knightsbridge
Barracks, and seven Royal Green Jackets bandsmen died in a bomb attack in
Regents Park.  In December, 1983, Woolwich, south London, was the scene of a
huge explosion which injured four soldiers and a woman.  Responsibility for that
blast was claimed by the Scottish National Liberation Army, which was believed
to have links with the extremist Irish National Liberation Army.  In November
1985, explosives experts defused two bombs discovered outside Chelsea Barracks
in London - the INLA said it planted them.  In Europe, servicemen have been
targets of a series of terrorist attacks over the past 11 years.  The most
recent was not on a soldier - Army bride Heidi Hazell, 25, was murdered in a
hail of IRA bullets near her home near Dortmund earlier this month.  On August 5
IRA bombers blasted the perimeter fence of a depot for Army map makers in Roy
barracks at Ratingen, north of Dusseldorf.  In July Corporal Steven Smith, 31,
of the Royal Tank Regiment, was blown up and killed when he opened the door of
his car, which was parked outside his home in the centre of Hanover.  His wife
Tina and their four children, aged between two and 11, were injured in the blast
- they were standing nearby, waiting to get into the vehicle.  On June 19, 1989,
a bomb exploded at the Quebec Barracks, Osnabruck, damaging the sergeants'
living quarters. No one was injured.  Ten months earlier, on August 12, 1988,
Regimental Sergeant Major Michael Heakin of the 1st Battalion, Royal Regiment of
Wales, was shot dead in his car in Ostend as he drove to catch a ferry back to
Britain.  Exactly a week before that a bomb went off at Roy Barracks, Ratingen,
near Dusseldorf.  That blast came shortly after nine soldiers were injured when
a bomb blew a gaping hole in the wall of the British Army's Glamorgan Barracks
in Duisburg. The IRA claimed responsibility for the attack, on July 13.  Just 10
weeks earlier, three RAF servicemen were killed in IRA bomb and gun attacks in
the Netherlands.  One man was killed and his two comrades were seriously injured
when they were machine-gunned as they returned to their car after a night out in
the Dutch town of Roermond.  Less than 30 minutes after the ambush and just 30
miles away at Nieuw Bergen, two servicemen died ana a third was badly injured
when they were blown up by a bomb in their car.  Two days after the attacks, a
1kg bomb was found under a soldier's car parked next to the officers' mess at
barracks in Bielefeld, West Germany. The security check on the vehicle was
prompted by the airmen's murder.  Thirty people were injured in March 1987 when
a 300lb car bomb exploded at the headquarters of the British forces in West
Germany, at Rheindahlen.  The attack took place a few hours after Mrs Thatcher
visited Bonn for talks with Chancellor Helmut Kohl.  The Provisional IRA claimed
responsibility, announcing in a statement from Dublin: "Our unit's brief was to
inflict a devastating blow but was ordered to be careful to avoid civilian
casualties." A conflicting claim of responsibility came from a group calling
itself the National Democratic Front for the Liberation of Germany.  In August
1982, police in Paris foiled attacks on British targets in France and Holland
when they arrested a gang of suspected IRA terrorists.  The Provos claimed
responsibility for three attacks on British soldiers during four weeks in 1980.
Colonel Mark Coe, a 46-year-old father of six, died after he was hit by three
bullets as he drove out of his garage in Bielefeld.  German police claimed he
was shot by two gunmen. They thought the same two men might be responsible for
an attack on Corporal Steven Sims of the Devon and Dorset Regiment, who survived
being shot five times while jogging close to his barracks at Osnabruck.
Military policeman Cpl Stewart Leach was also seriously injured, hit in the
stomach when his car was riddled with bullets as he waited at traffic lights in
Munster.  In December the same year, the attempted assassination of British
Common Market Commissioner Christopher Tugendhat in Brussels was attributed to
the IRA.  In July 1979, three bombs exploded at Army installations in Dortmund.
No-one was hurt.  The following month, an IRA hit squad placed a time-bomb under
a bandstand in a Brussels square where a British Army band was to perform. Seven
of the band and 11 Belgian civilians were injured.  In 1978, the IRA was held
responsible when eight bombs exploded at Rhine Army bases, including Rattingen.
Protecting the many "soft" targets offered by the armed forces in West Germany
has always been a headache for security chiefs.  There are nearly 70,000
personnel stationed in West Germany, at four RAF and five Army bases.  The
Provisionals are known to have strong networks of support in Holland and West
Germany which could provide hiding places.  It is just over five weeks since the
20th anniversary of the deployment of troops in Northern Ireland, which passed
without major incident.  British police, the RUC and the Garda have been on
alert for months against any attempt by the IRA to mark the anniversary with a
major bombing campaign against military bases in England and on the continent.
They marked the 10th anniversary by murdering Lord Mountbatten.  Anti-terrorist
officers are engaged in an intensive hunt for at least two IRA units believed
active in England.  The terrorists, who include two men linked with the
discovery of 150lb of Semtex explosive, bomb-making equipment and weapons in a
flat in Clapham, south London, shortly before Christmas, are said to be a highly
professional "new breed".  They have no previous criminal records, may have been
living in England for some years and have access to "substantial amounts" of
explosives.  The two suspected terrorists still at large - Patrick Sheehy, 28,
from Co Limerick, and another man believed to be John Connaty, also from the
Irish Republic - have been linked to attacks on barracks at Mill Hill, north
London, last August, and at Tern Hill, Shropshire, in February.  For earlier
bombings, the IRA has used the knowledge of at least one former British soldier
living in the United States.  The IRA has claimed in the past that it
infiltrated sections of the Army. Knowledge of the lay-out of buildings,
sleeping quarters and other facilities at military establishments would be
invaluable to an active service unit.  The Ministry of Defence has denied
investigating the movements of former British servicemen with possible
republican sympathies.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1989 The Press Association Limited

                              204 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          September 23 1989, Saturday

IRA unit which fled bomb factory may be responsible; Royal Marines bombing, Deal

BYLINE: STEWART TENDLER, Crime Correspondent

SECTION: Issue 63507.

LENGTH: 458 words


The Provisional IRA active service unit linked to the discovery of a 150lb cache
of Semtex explosive in a south London flat last year must be prime suspects for
the attack.

The unit, which slipped into Britain over the past two years, is suspected of
being the centrepiece of the IRA strategy to mark the twentieth anniversary of
military intervention in Northern Ireland.


Two members of the unit, both from the Irish Republic, were swiftly identified
after they fled when the flat was discovered. Police believe the unit includes a
third man and a young woman.

One of the identified men is Patrick Sheehy, a building worker, aged 28. He has
been linked to plans two years ago for an IRA attack on Mr Tom King, then
Secretary of State for Northern Ireland.

The second identified man is John Conaty, from Dublin, who police suspect is an
explosives and bomb-making expert. Both Conaty and Sheehy were known as IRA
activists in the republic and were probably originally chosen for the unit
because of their low-security profiles.

Since the discovery of the south London cache, found with extensive plans and
material for a long-term campaign, Scotland Yard's Anti-Terrorist Branch has
maintained that the unit has not fled but committed itself to continuing the IRA
offensive on the mainland.

The Deal attack fits the pattern of incidents which have already been linked to
the unit. The unit is believed to have been involved in the Mill Hill barracks
attack in north London 13 months ago and the botched attempt on Tern Hill
barracks, Shropshire, last February.

The unit was discovered when a thief tried to break into a car parked outside
flats in Northcote Road, Clapham. The man was shot by one of the unit and, when
police arrived, they found the cache.

Within hours of the blast, Scotland Yard's highly specialist bomb scene search
teams were at the site, beginning days of work which may eventually lead to the
conviction of the bombers.

Key to the police investigations will be the discovery of the size and
construction of the bomb because that will help to narrow or widen the scope of
the investigation.

The bomb evidence will be compared with other IRA attacks on the mainland,
revealing the work of one bombmaker or a series of experts and whether the bomb
is part of a chain of attacks. Portions of bombs such as batteries and metal
parts survive the blast in some form to be identifiable later.

After the Brighton bomb in 1984, police found parts of the bomb including
sections of the timing mechanism within a few days of the attack.

The Yard keeps a specialized collection of thousands of fingerprints linked to
terrorist incidents and these will be checked against any Deal evidence.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              205 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          September 23 1989, Saturday

Highest toll since bombings in parks; Royal Marines bombing, Deal

BYLINE: QUENTIN COWDRY and EDWARD GORMAN

SECTION: Issue 63507.

LENGTH: 296 words


The attack against the Royal Marines barracks ranks as one of the worst IRA
atrocities on mainland Britain and the most devastating strike against a
military target outside the province since the 1982 Hyde Park and Regent's Park
bombings, which killed 11 soldiers and injured 50.

The Provisional IRA has been trying to mount a concerted bombing campaign on the
mainland for the past 18 months to lift morale, dented by a string of setbacks
in Northern Ireland and an apparent weakening of its status among republican
sympathizers.


Until yesterday, though, the police and security forces had staved off the
threat with a mixture of improved security and good fortune.

Concern peaked last month, with the twentieth anniversary of the deployment of
British troops on Ulster's streets.

The opening shot in the IRA's renewed mainland campaign came 13 months ago, when
a soldier died and nine

other were injured in a blast at the Inglis Barracks in Mill Hill, north London.

The worst strike against a military target was in February 1974. Twelve soldiers
were killed and 14 hurt when a bomb ripped apart their coach on the M62 near
Leeds.

The bombing in Deal is the first IRA atrocity since a pledge given by the
organization's leaders in an interview last month.

Republican News quoted the Provisionals' commanders as saying the will of the
British Government to remain in Ireland would be broken through a continued and
sustained 'armed struggle'.

In a stark forewarning, the Provisionals said: 'Our tactics remain fluid and we
will continue to stretch British resources to breaking point. We will never fall
into the trap of easing their military nightmare by restricting ourselves to
specific sets of targets, whatever their nature.'

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              206 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          September 23 1989, Saturday

Security row as IRA kills 10; Royal Marines bombing, Deal

BYLINE: MICHAEL EVANS, PHILIP WEBSTER, DAVID SAPSTED and MARK SOUSTER

SECTION: Issue 63507.

LENGTH: 1406 words


An urgent review of the Government's policy of guarding military establishments
with civilian security personnel was called for last night after an IRA bomb
left 10 bandsmen dead and 22 people injured at the Royal Marines School of Music
near Deal, Kent.

The outrage provoked an angry reaction after it was disclosed that the gates and
perimeters of the sprawling complex close to the sea-front were guarded only by
civilians without weapons or dogs.


In spite of the fact that the Royal Marines, who have made many tours in
Northern Ireland, are an obvious target and that the Deal barracks were rated
'Bikini Black', requiring a high degree of vigilance, the responsibility for
external guarding was switched 18 months ago from the Marines to a private
company, Reliance Security, in an operation designed to be more cost-effective.

Mr Paddy Ashdown, leader of the Social and Liberal Democrats and a former
Commando, was one of several MPs who voiced misgivings over the use of private
security forces for guarding military installations.

'The lives of our soldiers and their families should not be put at risk by the
Government's foolish and irresponsible pursuit of privatization and
cost-cutting, ' he said.

Kent police were last night hunting three young Irishmen who were believed to
have rented for a week a house in Campbell Road, overlooking the barracks block.
A senior police source said the three, who were thought to have planted the
bomb, had left on Thursday night, hours before it went off.

Campbell Road was sealed off and forensic scientists were combing the building
while ports were alerted. Police and security officials were considering the
possibility that an IRA active service unit known to be based on the Continent
might have come to Britain on a cross-Channel ferry.

The Queen sent a message of condolence to the Commandant-General of the Royal
Marines, saying she was 'deeply shocked'. Mrs Margaret Thatcher, who is flying
home tonight from her visit to Tokyo and Moscow, also expressed her sympathy, as
did Mr Neil Kinnock, Mr Charles Haughey, the Irish Prime Minister, and the
Archbishop of Canterbury.

Politicians of all parties coupled condemnation of the Deal outrage with concern
over the use of private security firms to guard military bases and the adequacy
of protection of 'soft targets' such as the Marines' school of music.

Mr Mick Jones, chairman of the Ministry of Defence Police Federation, described
the use of private firms as 'unprofessional and cheap security'.

However, General Sir Victor Fitzgeorge-Balfour, a non-executive director of the
Reliance Group, said it was 'perfectly reasonable' for private security to have
been used at Deal. One of the 'big three' suppliers of private security guards,
Reliance has more than 3,500 employees and has other Ministry of Defence
contracts.

Defence sources emphasized that the civilian guards were supported by armed
Marines on patrol. They insisted that security was tight, and that the alert
status of 'Bikini Black' was imposed after several warnings of bomb attacks this
year.

The IRA was also known to be planning a series of attacks to mark the twentieth
anniversary of British troops in Northern Ireland.

After a tour of the barracks, Mr Tom King, Secretary of State for Defence, and
former Secretary of State for Northern Ireland, declined to be drawn on
questions about security. 'The real evil of these murders is that the people who
commit them, and the 'godfathers' who send them, know that they can achieve
absolutely nothing, ' he said.

Mr Martin O'Neill, Labour's defence spokesman, called for a complete review of
defence establishments. 'Serious questions must be asked about the
penny-pinching policy of the Ministry of Defence, which may well put our armed
services at risk, ' he said.

However, military sources said that unless every facility was surrounded by high
barbed wire, it was impossible to be absolutely sure of keeping terrorists out.
All military personnel were under orders to be vigilant.

The bomb went off at 8.26am, causing devastation at North barracks one of three
at the Royal Marine establishment as members of the 72-man school band paused
for a rest during rehearsals. Fire officers battled throughout the day to reach
victims of the explosion.

High on the list of suspects last night were Patrick Sheehy, aged 28, from Co
Limerick, and another man believed to be John Connaty, also from the Irish
Republic, who have been linked to attacks on barracks at Mill Hill, north
London, last August, and at Tern Hill, Shropshire, last February.

The terrorists were also linked to the discovery of 150lb of Semtex explosive,
bomb-making equipment and weapons in a flat in Clapham, south London, shortly
before Christmas.

Police officers said yesterday there were 'appalling scenes' as rescuers came
across the victims.

One of the 10 dead was at first said to be 'unidentifiable'. Of the 22 injured,
all but one were said to be military personnel. Some were able to walk away with
only scratches. Others were described as critically wounded. Many of the injured
were trapped beneath masonry.

Huge cranes working at the Channel tunnel were brought in to lift the debris
clear. Fire officers also used thermal image cameras to search for victims.

The blast was so powerful that the roofs of two houses in Campbell Road were
blown off and the windows of every home were shattered.

Many local residents expressed concern at the level of security at the
establishment, some describing how people had, in the past, climbed over the
perimeter fencing.

A former bandsman at Deal described security at the barracks as 'inadequate and
appalling'. Mr Neil Pickford, aged 20, a former bugler-drummer with the Royal
Marines Band, said: 'We were told they (Marines) weren't needed at Deal because
it wasn't a top-security establishment. Government cuts were mentioned. Soldiers
hated being guarded by civilians. They much preferred their own men.'

It was assumed that the bombers gained entrance over the perimeter fence near
the North Barracks, which, although far from the main gate, is close to the
road.

The bomb, believed to weigh up to 50lb, probably consisted of Semtex plastics
explosives, the Czechoslovakian-made material 10 times more powerful than normal
commercial explosives. It had a timing device and appeared to have been placed
near a boiler house or beside the recreation room at North barracks.

The main scene of damage inside the barracks was a three-storey, flat-roofed
block. More than half of the roof collapsed and the rooms beneath crumbled to
the ground. Mrs Heather Hackett, aged 26, who at the time of the explosion was
standing with her three boys at her kitchen window facing the barracks.

She was holding her son Luke, aged four months, in her arms with her other boys,
Ben, aged three, and Joshua, aged two, at her side.

She said: 'I looked up from the sink and I just saw the whole building explode.
I told the boys to run and as Joshua turned, a slither of glass embedded itself
in his back.'

Scotland Yard's Anti-Terrorist Branch and an Army bomb disposal team spent the
day at the scene of the explosion, searching for traces of the bomb to help to
identify those responsible. Mr Paul Condon, Chief Constable of Kent Police,
said: 'However long it takes, they will be caught.'

In Dublin, the IRA issued a statement admitting that it had carried out the
attack.

It was the fifth time in 10 years that the IRA had attacked military bandsmen.
The previous worst case was in July, 1982, when a bomb exploded beneath a
bandstand in Regent's Park, London, where The Royal Green Jackets band was
playing. Seven soldiers were killed and 28 were injured.

The School of Music has three barracks, North, South and East. The East barracks
is where musical training is provided for the young Marine musicians, who join
the school at 16 1/2 for a course that lasts 32 months. The South barracks
houses the administration offices.

The North barracks contains the concert hall and rest room for the staff band of
fully qualified musicians one of seven Royal Marine bands which appear on
ceremonial occasions and at concerts around the world. One of the bands, Flag
Officer Scotland and Northern Ireland Royal Marine Band, is now on a programme
of engagements at military bases in Ulster.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              207 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                           September 24 1989, Sunday

Ulster's part-time army in the political firing line; IRA suspects leak

BYLINE: LIAM CLARKE

SECTION: Issue 8615.

LENGTH: 1162 words


WHEN Ken Maginnis resigned his commission as a major in the Ulster Defence
Regiment to become an MP in 1983 he cleared half a stone of intelligence files
out of his house and drove them round to the base where he had served in
Dungannon, Co Tyrone. The files, similar to those sent to journalists at The Sun
and The Independent as well as nationalist politicians during last week, had
never even been missed.

As the Official Unionist party's security spokesman, Maginnis is one of the
UDR's strongest supporters, but even he has warned that the vetting of men who
have access to classified information on this scale must be watertight.


Members of the regiment often make up private dossiers of IRA suspects by using
old photographs or photocopies from their barracks. Security files have also
been found in public dumps or dropped in the street by police and army patrols.

This month the UDR, which is as distrusted by nationalist politicians as it is
valued by unionists such as Maginnis, has caused the most serious crisis in
Anglo-Irish relations in recent years as evidence emerges that some of its files
have been used to draw up hit lists by loyalist terror groups.

The UDA, a loyalist para-military group, has fed files to journalists over the
past three weeks in an attempt to justify the murder of Catholics named in the
files, to avenge itself on the police for attacking its protection rackets, and
to undermine Anglo-Irish security co-operation.

The latest leak of the names of 60 IRA suspects to The Independent newspaper
came as Tommy Lyttle, the UDA's most powerful figure, was arrested under the
Prevention of Terrorism Act.

Two UDR men, both former regular soldiers, have been charged with the murder of
Laughlin Maginn, an IRA suspect, and with passing confidential files on him to
the illegal Ulster Freedom Fighters, a cover name for the UDA. Other files and
UDR training manuals have been found in para-military arms dumps and in the
possession of loyalist extremists in recent months.

John Stevens, the deputy chief constable of Cambridgeshire, has been called in
with a team of 15 British detectives to investigate the leaks, but this has been
insufficient to satisfy the Irish government or the nationalist Social
Democratic and Labour party, which represents most of Northern Ireland's
Catholics.

When the Anglo-Irish conference reconvenes early next month, leaks and the role
of the UDR will be the only items on the agenda. Senior Irish political sources
fear that the Anglo-Irish agreement may fail if their demands for removal of the
UDR from contact with the public and with sensitive security documents are not
met. The only role they favour for the UDR is static guard duties around
sensitive installations.

However, the trend of British policy has been to make more, not less, use of the
UDR. With 6,500 members, it is already the largest regiment in the British Army
and has been operational longer than any other regiment since the Napoleonic
wars. Since it was formed on April 1, 1970, it has lost 180 members in terrorist
attacks and an estimated 49 former members have been murdered because of their
past association with the regiment. In the same period, at least 700 weapons
have been lost by or stolen from the UDR and more than 100 members of the
regiment have been charged with murder or other serious offences.

Unlike other regiments, it serves only in Northern Ireland and 46% of its
members are part-timers, patrolling an average of two evenings a week and two
weekends a month. Originally introduced to replace the B Specials, a
predominantly loyalist police auxiliary force, the UDR once drew 25% of its
membership from the minority Catholic community, but the ease with which the IRA
targets and kills Catholic UDR members has forced that down to 5%.

Its role in internal security in Northern Ireland is immense. In more than 80%
of the province, the UDR, and not the regular army, is the first line of support
for the police. Its use has increased in recent years in line with the
government's policy of using local security forces as much as possible.

It is clear that the British government has no intention of ditching the UDR or
reversing this central thrust of its security policy to meet the Irish demands.
Margaret Thatcher said, during a visit to the province two weeks ago, that she
had 'complete confidence' in the UDR.

Indeed, there are plans to appoint a member of the royal family as the UDR's
formal head in April 1991, when the regiment celebrates its 21st anniversary a
move designed to underline its place as a permanent part of the British Army.

Irish demands that the regiment should not be issued with plastic bullets will
also be rejected. The government has decided that all sections of the security
forces in Britain and Northern Ireland shall have the weapons and that it would
have an unfairly demoralising affect to single out the UDR.

But reforms are being considered in a number of other areas:

Vetting procedures and penalties for mishandling intelligence information in all
arms of the security forces are likely to be stiffened. The Northern Ireland
Office has also asked the Ministry of Defence that it should be consulted on
whether any soldier found guilty of offences in Northern Ireland should be
readmitted to the army.

Efforts will be made to ensure that both the UDR and the regular army are
accompanied by the RUC on all patrolling duties and the police take the lead in
contacts with the public.

In the field of vetting, a loophole has been identified where soldiers transfer
from the regular army to the UDR, as many do if they marry locals or settle in
the province. In such transfers the vetting procedures are not as strict as when
members of the public wish to join. In a current case, an Englishman and a Scot
both of whom transferred from regular army regiments are accused of murdering a
Catholic and passing information to loyalist terror groups.

The flow of security documents will also be restricted and measures taken to
ensure that they are more strictly accounted for.

Whether the yawning gap between the Irish and British governments can be bridged
by such reforms remains to be seen. Behind the sabre rattling and megaphone
diplomacy of recent weeks there is an acute awareness that failure to find
common ground will threaten future intelligence co-operation between the two
governments, polarise the two communities in Northern Ireland and benefit the
terrorists.

One Irish source sees the basic problem as one of satisfying his government that
information given to Britain stays in the hands of the security forces and is
not passed to subversives or murderers.

That trust will be stretched to the limit by the discovery of the names of 25
people living in Donegal in the Irish Republic among security files delivered
anonymously to The Independent's offices in Belfast last Friday.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              208 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                           September 24 1989, Sunday

1m pounds case for top security; Justice

BYLINE: DAVID LEPPARD

SECTION: Issue 8615.

LENGTH: 628 words


Secret new security measures designed to thwart attacks by terrorists and other
criminals on judges, jurors and witnesses have been installed at the Old Bailey,
Britain's oldest court.

The measures, introduced at a cost of about Pounds 1m, make the Central Criminal
Court one of the most secure buildings in the country. The 19 courts housed
below the bronze statue of Justice bearing her sword and scales have witnessed
some of the most sensational trials in British criminal history. The Kray twins,
Dr Crippen, the Yorkshire Ripper and dozens of other notorious criminals have
been tried there.


Last year the Old Bailey's corpus of 14 permanent red-robed judges tried nearly
1,700 cases, and attracted nearly 800,000 people 3,000 every working day
presenting a huge security problem. Most were members of the public who are
allowed only into the public galleries. They remain subject to body and bag
searches and, in many of the more high-risk trials, are observed by armed
police.

But now, with the rise of the IRA and the increasing financial resources
available to organised crime, security officials say that permanent measures are
required.

Security has presented a headache there ever since March 8, 1973, when the IRA
detonated a huge car bomb outside the main entrance, killing one person and
injuring nearly 250 others. A shard of glass, 3in long, still lies embedded in
the wall above the main ground-floor hall. 'It's a reminder that we need to be a
little more careful, ' a senior court official said.

At the centre of the new system are three sets of twin 'tubestiles', a British
invention that is transforming security in buildings worldwide. The 8ft-high
bullet-proof glass tubes consist of two electronically-operated, semi-circular
air-tight doors with standing room for one person in the middle. Anybody
entering the main Old Bailey building must now pass through them.

Once inside, visitors step on to a metal plate on the floor of the tubestile
while the 12.5m airlocked door, made of laminated glass, closes behind them.
They remain there until their identity and reason for being at court are
established.

The tubestiles have been introduced partly to prevent any group from storming
the inner sanctum by ensuring that only one person can pass through at a time.
Concealed scales weigh visitors as they pass through. A shriek alarm will be
activated if two try to get in at once, while guards can also inspect visitors
once they are inside the tubes.

The tubestiles conform to a basic design, but can be modified to contain
microphones and speakers. Closed-circuit television and a system capable of
using voice patterns to identify visitors can also be installed, and they will
soon be able to accommodate an explosive 'sniffing' device able to take an
atomic fingerprint of any chemical or plastic explosive.

Once past the first set of tubestiles, the visitor passes through a metal
detector. Bags are screened separately by an x-ray machine designed to detect
bombs or concealed weapons. Visitors can then be interrogated by police officers
before passing through another set of tubestiles.

They are positioned to create a 'sterile area', so any incident involving
hostages can be confined. A third set of tubestiles serves as the exit to the
main building.

Within the main complex a series of 42 electronically-controlled doors have been
installed to create a further secure area, dividing public areas for uses by
jurors, witnesses and barristers from private areas for important staff, while
infra-red cameras scan entrances and the walls outside.

Court officals are optimistic about the new measures. 'Hopefully it will make
people think twice before attacking the building, ' one said.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              209 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                           September 24 1989, Sunday

The day the music died; Leading Article

SECTION: Issue 8615.

LENGTH: 1007 words


NOBODY should be surprised that the Provisional IRA chose the Royal Marine s
School of Music in Deal, Kent, for its latest terrorist atrocity.

The IRA has already, in recent months, gunned down the West German wife of a
British soldier in Dortmund, placed a bomb beneath a corporal's family car and
bombed some military map-makers. So why should it think twice about taking the
lives of young, innocent musicians who have played no part in the Ulster
conflict? Indeed, the IRA's recent penchant for so-called 'soft' military
targets made the Marines' music school an obvious choice as it desperately
scoured the country for somewhere to 'commemorate' 20 years of British troops on
Ulster's streets; it was much more likely to be hit than, say, the
highly-protected SAS headquarters in Hereford. You do not have to be in military
intelligence, given the recent pattern of IRA atrocities, to work that out. The
'soft' targets are now the most vulnerable.


The tragedy of Deal is that lessons that should have been learned from previous
attacks have been ignored. Again and again the IRA has penetrated inadequate
security at British military bases. After Duisburg and Rheindalen in West
Germany and at Mill Hill and Shrewsbury in England the government privately
admitted that the death tolls could easily have numbered several hundred. It was
only luck that many more were not killed or maimed. That luck ran out in Kent at
8.26am on Friday.

What will be called an 'urgent review' of security will now doubtless be mounted
by the government. We have been here before. After the Mill Hill attack a year
ago, when one soldier died and nine were injured, the government announced a
major review of security at all military bases. It was a smokescreen for doing
nothing very much, even though the intelligence services were warning that the
IRA was better armed than at any time in its history, with an impressive arsenal
of modern Semtex explosives and sophisticated timers (courtesy of Colonel
Gadaffi), and that an IRA terrorist team had been sent to Britain with a brief
to attack 'soft' military targets: sleeping soldiers, off-duty servicemen and
their families, lightly-guarded military bases.

The intelligence was accurate: last December an IRA safe house was discovered by
accident in Clapham, south London, containing explosives, mortars and maps
marking the location of military bases. Evidence enough, you might think, to
place all bases on the highest alert. Yet in February this year the IRA managed
to penetrate security at Tern Hill Barracks near Shrewsbury. This time the
terrorists were disturbed by a passing sentry and 50 sleeping soldiers were
evacuated before three bombs destroyed much of the barracks. The IRA attack had
been partly foiled; but the terrorists could have been killed, or arrested. They
were not because the soldier who challenged them carried an unloaded weapon;
indeed, the hole for the magazine on his rifle was taped over. So much for that
'major review' of security.

After Tern Hill the government again promised to tighten security. This time
there was action, of a sort. More money was found to buy extra barbed wire;
soldiers no longer taped over their magazines; and some guards even carried
loaded weapons. As Friday's bomb was soon to show, it was all pathetically and
fatally inadequate. Security at Deal seems to have been particularly poor.
Locals tell of people habitually climbing over the gates and fences, of people
being allowed in without proper ID, of security largely in the hands of private
guards, without guns or dogs or, apparently, proper training. One former guard
admitted it was 'easy, very easy' to enter unchallenged; and he still had his
company uniform, even though he no longer worked for it.

The folk who work for private security firms are rarely efficient and often
incompetent. To place the lives of Britain's servicemen in their hands is an
outrage. But then, in response to IRA attacks, the Ministry of Defence has often
shown a disregard for the lives of soldiers and their families. After every
attack the men from the ministry have responded with marginal measures
half-heartedly imposed. The evil professionalism of the IRA has been met with
the sort of shoddy amateurism which still permeates so much of the upper
echelons of the British military establishment. As a result, bases that are
known to be likely targets have security that is little more than an open
invitation to the passing terrorist to plant a bomb. After a 20-year war with
the IRA, it almost beggars belief.

Fencing or barbed wire is often non-existent or full of holes; only rarely are
security cameras used to guard perimeters. Gates are guarded increasingly by
either the MoD police known disparagingly as the Mod Plod or private security
guards of the sort 'protecting' Deal. Of course, no security can ever be
watertight, especially when military bases are also the centre of a thriving
local community. But modern technology has produced effective security systems
that are cheaper and more reliable than the more traditional armed (or unarmed)
guard. Despite the fact that they have never really suffered from terrorism at
home, the United States takes security seriously. Big companies and all military
bases are surrounded by high fences which are watched over by video cameras.
Infra-red detectors can give early warning of intruders and well-trained guards
control entrances and exits. It is an efficient system that works without
unnecessarily restricting the lives of those living and working inside the
cordon.

But nobody in the Ministry of Defence has ever worked out what minimum level of
effective security is necessary at all British bases. Such culpable inertia has
already cost the lives of too many innocent people. How many more will have to
die before government ministers, from Mr Tom King downwards, stop mouthing
platitudes about terrorist outrages and start taking seriously the safety of our
armed forces and their families?

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              210 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 25, 1989

The Greens at Wolverhampton: Grassroots reject delegate system

LENGTH: 246 words


GRASSROOT members threw out an attempt to streamline the conference by
appointing delegates from each area.

At present all Green Party members are entitled to attend; under the proposal
ordinary members would have half the places, and delegates the rest.


Mr Phil Rimmer (Newham) accused the party of trying to introduce an all-delegate
conference by the back door and described the proposal as 'an act of terror'.

It failed to achieve a two-thirds majority.

Shell UK should be prosecuted for the oil spill at its Stanlow plant and
Tranmere oil terminal on the Mersey, the conference unanimously decided.

Mr Ray Georgeson (Wigan) said the National Rivers Authority should start as it
intended to go on. Although Shell had promised to clean up, his message to the
authority was: 'Don't just enforce the clean-up, take them to the cleaners.'

The Government should cancel alleged plans to make Britain the prime area for
Nato's mock air battles, the conference agreed. The first such exercise was said
to be scheduled for four weeks from October 2.

Members urged the Government to support the call for an extraordinary meeting of
the United Nations to implement an emergency plan to save the rain forests and
their peoples.

Members called on the party's council to write to the Defence Ministry deploring
its attempts to 'extinguish commoners' rights' at Greenham Common. The military
establishment should be given five years to re-locate.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              211 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 25, 1989

King backs private firms to guard military bases

BYLINE: By DAVID PALLISTER, DAVID FAIRHALL and MADELEINE BUNTING

LENGTH: 680 words


THE Defence Secretary, Mr Tom King, yesterday defended the use of private
security firms to guard military bases but said he wanted to examine the level
of manning provided by the companies and the competence of their staff.

As police pursued inquiries into the explosion at the Royal Marines School of
Music near Deal, in which 10 bandsmen died, Mr King confirmed that increased
security at the base was due to begin soon as part of a programme at defence
establishments which began after the IRA attack on the Mill Hill barracks in
north London 13 months ago.


But it is understood that priority has been given to regimental barracks with a
high operational profile, though the IRA has demonstrated that it regards anyone
with a British military uniform as a target.

Detectives were in Corsica last night to question a holidaymaker, Mr Denis
Johnson, a retired businessman who is the owner of 17 Campbell Road, Walmer,
where three Irishmen stayed before the explosion. Mr Johnson's solicitor said
last night that there was no suggestion that his client had any links with the
IRA.

Police in Britain have questioned 250 residents and taken more than 100
statements. They have descriptions of the three men and are trying to match them
with possible suspects. Some 100 detectives and more than 100 uniformed officers
are working on the inquiry. It will take a week to complete searches on the
bombing site.

As yet there is no evidence of the bomb in the wreckage, suggesting the use of
Semtex, which leaves few traces. It is not known when the bomb was planted or
how long the men stayed at Campbell Road.

Breaking with its tradition of secrecy on security matters, the Ministry of
Defence said that the new security programme so far included 150km of wire, more
electronic detection systems, better lighting and security locks and more
rigorous searches at main gates.

Speaking on BBC Radio, Mr King said that private security firms, which have been
criticised for lax practices, provided a 'very useful supplementary
contribution' to security. About 250 people in 16 firms help to guard 44 bases.

Mr Martin O'Neill, Labour's defence spokesman, said he was encouraged by Mr
King's promise of a security review but added: 'I am not happy about the level
of training and the level of discipline and the attitude of these firms to their
work.'

Although the overall programme is being co-ordinated from Whitehall, local
commanders are responsible for their arrangements.

Mr Bruce George, the Labour MP who has campaigned for regulation of private
security, yesterday demanded immediate steps to build up the Ministry of Defence
police to provide adequate security at military establishments. Mr George called
the Government's efforts to install armed police at military establishments an
example of opportunism - 'politicians seeking to shut the stable door after the
horse has bolted'. He said: 'For ideological and economy reasons the Government
has been cutting back on the Ministry of Defence police force for the last seven
or eight years.'

Meanwhile, police specialists wearing white protective overalls were examining
the house in Campbell Road. Commander George Churchill-Coleman, head of Scotland
Yard's anti-terrorist squad, said there was no proof at this stage that it had
been the bombers' hideout.

In another security alert yesterday police set up roadblocks round a Royal
Marines transport depot at Yeovil, Somerset, after three men were seen running
away from the perimeter. Inspector Don Bond of Avon and Somerset Police said the
depot had been under armed guard since the Deal explosion.

'At this stage there is nothing to suggest anything sinister in connection with
the camp,' he said.

The Duke of Edinburgh visited the site of the Deal bombing yesterday and
departed from royal protocol to condemn the IRA.

The Marines school's press officer, Captain H. de Jager, said yesterday: 'The
band will endeavour to meet all its engagements, but we are not prepared to say
when the next is.'

Last Post, page 2

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              212 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                                The Independent

                           September 25 1989, Monday

The Deal barracks bombing: Too few soldiers for guard duties

BYLINE: MARK URBAN, Defence Correspondent

SECTION: Home News ; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 423 words


ONE of the greatest obstacles to improving security at defence establishments
and their associated married quarters is the limited number of trained soldiers
available for guard duties.

In many cases, where the place is not sensitive enough to justify using Ministry
of Defence Police, there is little alternative other than to turn to security
firms.


Guard duties fall most frequently on unmarried soldiers living within the
confines of barracks. An infantry battalion is likely to have the highest
proportional number of single men, but there are many MoD establishments where
only a few, mostly married, service people work.

Many training establishments have few young soldiers. Instructors tend to be
older non-commissioned officers or officers not normally used for guard duties.
In some cases the number available for such tasks has been reduced during
efficiency drives.

An infantry or armoured unit may be away on exercises for weeks or even months.
Then the security of the soldiers' families and barracks can rest with a handful
of men left behind. Improved fencing and surveillance cameras may boost
security, but many camps cannot be enclosed because they are too widespread.
Even in Northern Ireland, wives and children remain outside protective
stockades.

Garrisons in Britain and West Germany grew with little thought of defensibility.
The threat has been evident since the IRA bombed The Parachute Regiment
officers' mess in Aldershot 17 years ago. But the ingenuity of the terrorist or,
as has so recently been shown, the willingness to kill even the servicemen's
wives, means complete security has never been possible.

The IRA's occasional re-definition of its 'legitimate targets' is designed to
make it more difficult to improve security, a tactic which to some extent
succeeds. A Royal Navy recruiting officer was killed in Northern Ireland last
year - but few would suggest all naval officers should be armed or live in
special areas.

In recent months there has been concern about the effect of terrorist attacks on
the numbers leaving the Army. Stepping up security means more guard duty for
young soldiers. It is now common for them to do two 24-hour guard stints a week.

Officers believe there must be a reasonable balance between security and quality
of life. They do not wish to encourage a siege mentality when the armed forces
are increasingly concerned about how strength will be maintained as the number
of recruitable age in the population falls.

Home News Page 2

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1989 Independent Print Ltd

                              213 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 27, 1989

The SDP in Scarborough: Cartwright calls on party to 'fight again'

LENGTH: 371 words


THE SDP president, Mr John Cartwright, yesterday urged his party to reestablish
itself in British politics, echoing the pledge of former Labour Party leader
Hugh Gaitskell to 'fight, fight and fight again'.

In his presidential address he said: 'We have had to fight to re-establish the
SDP. We have had to fight to keep it alive. We must now fight, fight and fight
again to create the effective force that the people of Britain so desperately
need.' Mr Cartwright, who was given a standing ovation, said: 'Our future
depends on encouraging local initiatives in recruiting, fund raising and
campaigning.'


He attacked the Democrats for having rejected SDP attempts to achieve 'a
sensible working relationship', saying: 'There is a limit to the number of times
that any of us can be expected to hold out the olive branch only to have it
smashed over our heads.'

Conference unanimously called for the 'most stringent inquiry' into security at
military bases. An emergency motion expressed outrage at the IRA bombing of the
Royal Marines School of Music and demanded a full examination of the use of
private security firms.

An emergency motion urging that the troubled defence contractor Ferranti
International remain wholly-owned in the UK was withdrawn after an appeal by
Lord Chandos, who said:'We must not let narrow chauvinism be the balance in
competitive factors.'

The conference endorsed emergency motions supporting the ambulance crews in
their pay dispute and sounding alarm at the redundancies of 70 scientists at the
Agriculture and Food Research Council's laboratories at Langford, Bristol.

The Government's proposed national football membership scheme should be
withdrawn, SDP members decided. They overwhelmingly approved a motion
criticising the plans for the scheme in the Football Spectators' Bill, and
calling for safety at sports grounds to be placed in the hands of the
independent Safety Executive.

Advertising of the water and electricity industries is 'a monstrous misuse of
our money to promote the political aims of the Conservative government', the SDP
president, Mr John Cartwright, told the conference.

TODAY'S BUSINESS Tax reform; NHS; defence; leader's speech.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              214 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                         September 27, 1989, Wednesday

BOMB VICTIMS' RELATIVES TO DECIDE FATE OF TERRORISTS

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 468 words


Relatives of five Britons killed in a Sudanese terrorist bomb attack must decide
whether the murderers should be hanged.  The agonising life-or-death choice from
the Sudanese authorities affects five Palestinians convicted of throwing a bomb
into a Khartoum hotel 16 months ago.  The terrorists, believed to be members of
the Abu Nidal group, were found guilty of "assassination" which carries a
mandatory death sentence.  Yesterday the Sudan News Agency reported that the
Supreme Court had commuted the sentence to "premeditated murder".  Under Islamic
law, this gives the families of the dead the power to decide whether the killers
should hang, buy their freedom or be pardoned.  Now the two British families
whose relations died in the blast face an emotional meeting in a bid to reach a
joint decision.  Charity worker Sally Rockett, 32, of Budleigh Salterton, Devon,
died together with a Brighton family of four - Christopher Rolfe, 35, his wife
Clare, 31, and their children Thomas, three, and Louise, one.  Sally's parents,
retired music teacher Ken Rockett and his wife Ruth, have indicated they will
show compassion to their daughter's killers.  Mr Rockett said they would
probably ask the Sudanese authorities to jail the bombers for "a long time".

Mrs Rolfe's brother, Paul Martin, a social worker in Brighton, said: "At the
moment the family cannot make a response until we have been contacted
officially.  We have heard nothing from the Sudanese or the Foreign Office. We
are not thinking about our reply until then." He added: "At the moment we are
very confused." Mr Christopher Rolfe's father, Edwin, of Maidenhead, Berkshire,
said: "We can't do anything until we have heard officially." After the bombing
Mr Rolfe's brother, Paul, of Forest Hill, south east London, asked the Sudanese
government for clemency for the terrorists.  The Quakers, for whom Mr Rolfe was
a missionary, also said he would not have wanted his killers to be executed.
British embassy officials in Sudan were today checking the local reports that
the relatives would be asked to dictate the killers' fate.  A Foreign Office
spokesman said the situation was still confused for both the families and
diplomats.  He added: "It is not a complete picture and our people in Sudan are
seeking clarification and we are in touch with the families in Britain.  "They
have the same press reports to go on but they have not had any information or
approach as far as we know from the Sudanese authorities."

A spokeswoman for the Sudanese embassy in London said all they knew about the
matter was what they had read in British newspapers.  Embassy officials would be
contacting the relevant Sudanese government departments today to try to clarify
the situation but no response was expected until tomorrow, she added.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1989 The Press Association Limited

                              215 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          September 27 1989, Wednesday

Relatives of terror victims reject murderers' execution; Sudan

BYLINE: MARK SOUSTER

SECTION: Issue 63510.

LENGTH: 361 words


Two British families who, under Islamic law, have the right to decide the fate
of the murderers of five of their relatives killed in Sudan last year, said
yesterday that they would not seek the death penalty.

They are, however, undecided about what punishment should be meted out to the
five Palestinians who murdered the Britons in a terrorist attack in Khartoum.


They have the right to decide whether the men be executed, imprisoned, ransomed
for money or freed. Under Sudanese law, derived from the Koran, victims of crime
and their relatives have the right to demand an eye for an eye.

Mr Christopher Rolfe, his wife Clare, both Quaker missionaries, and their two
children Thomas, aged three, and Louise, aged one were killed when the
terrorists attacked their hotel with machine guns and grenades. The fifth victim
was a teacher, Miss Sally Rockett, aged 32. Mr Rolfe's father, Mr Edward Rolfe,
of Maidenhead, Berkshire, said yesterday that he believed his son would not have
sought revenge.

'My son was a Quaker by

choice, and so was his wife. He would have forgiven them for what they did.'

Mr Rolfe said he believed the family would not be prepared to accept 'blood
money' unless the sum was substantial which would then be donated to the relief
programme his son and daughter-in-law had been working.

Miss Rockett's father, Mr Ken Rockett, of Budleigh Salterton, Devon, said he and
his family would probably decide that the killers should be imprisoned 'as the
only practical solution'.

The Sudanese Supreme Court ruled on Monday that the killers would face the
lesser charge of premeditated murder rather than assassination, which carries an
automatic death penalty.

In London, the Sudanese Embassy said: 'The court will write to the families in
Britain or to their solicitors and ask them to make a decision. They will not
have to travel to the Sudan.'

Relatives have three optional punishments to choose from, alternatively they may
decide to set the men free.

Last night the Foreign Office said its role would be to act as intermediary
between the Sudanese Government and the British families if required.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              216 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          September 28 1989, Thursday

Mad dogs without the magic; 'Understanding and Behaviour in the Second World
War' by Paul Fussell; Books

BYLINE: JOHN GRIGG

SECTION: Issue 63511.

LENGTH: 848 words


Fussel l. Oxford, Pounds 15

To all who were spellbound by Paul Fussell's The Great War and Modern Memory
(1975), the appearance of a similar work by him on the Second World War can only
be welcome. And few are likely to be disappointed. The new book is just as
clever, witty, painful, disturbing and occasionally unbalanced as the first.


There is one important difference. Whereas the earlier book dealt only with the
British experience, the new one deals with the American experience as well,
reflecting the vastly larger part played by the United States in the second war,
compared with 1917-18. It was an experience in which the author shared. Though
he is now a professor of English literature, his attitude to the second war, and
to war generally, is far from being purely academic. At the age of 20 he was
severely wounded as an Army lieutenant in north-west Europe.

To him all wars are horrible, hideous, and mad, but he regards the Second World
War as even worse than its predecessor. In Britain the generation that went
through it was haunted by the folk memory of the Great War massacres: sceptical,
disillusioned, and with hardly any of the romantic spirit that had glowed in the
1914 generation. 'Even the air war, ' he writes, 'had lost most of the chivalric
magic attending it in 1914-18'; and he quotes EM Forster writing to Christopher
Isherwood in 1944 that the flying bombs would 'bitch the Romance of the Air
war's last beauty parlour'.

This view of Britain in the second war contains much truth, and it is certainly
true that the morale of the British Army was a lot less reliable in the second
than in the first, which is why the deplorable attempt was made to win the war
by terror bombing of the German civilian population. On the other hand the Royal
Navy performed, on the whole, even better in the second war. Moreover, whatever
may be said of the general spirit of the nation in 1939, and again in the latter
part of the war, it is hard to deny that in 1940 the British were as intensely
patriotic (though not necessarily as idealistic) as at any other period in
either war.

Professor Fussell has to play 1940 down in order to sustain his thesis, since
clearly there was no lack of 'chivalric magic' in the exploits of Fighter
Command, which are also hard to reconcile with the argument that in the second
war servicemen were 'even more anonymous and bereft of significant individual
personality'. He makes a passing reference to Churchill's 'distinguished radio
oratory', but gives more space and a more heartfelt accolade to Cyril Connolly,
whose Horizon, as a cultural act, 'was a stubborn as Churchill's political
behaviour'.

Even more deflating is the professor's treatment of his own country's ethos in
the second war. He does not neglect to point out that it became a belligerent
only because it was attacked by the Japanese, and because the European Axis
powers then declared war on it. He also gives the astonishing statistics that,
while in 1943 the US Army grew by two million men, only about 365,000 went to
combat units; and that of its total strength of 11 million at the end of the
war, only two million were in combat divisions.

He suggests that the strongest American impulse in the war was the desire to
avenge Pearl Harbor, and dismisses all talk of a crusade in Europe as largely a
figment of the PR industry, which pervaded the forces as well as civilian life.
Among American generals pre-eminent as publicity hounds he cites not only the
obvious MacArthur, but also Mark Clark, of whom it was said that 'his reading of
Clausewitz's famous dictum was that war was the pursuit of publicity by other
means'. Even Eisenhower he depicts as no slouch in courting the media, though at
the end of the book he praises Eisenhower's readiness to take personal
responsibility should the Normandy invasion fail.

The professor goes over the top (to my mind) in attaching general significance
to the pornographic fantasies of Brian Aldiss's Horatio Stubbs trilogy just as,
in the previous book, he makes far too much of Thomas Pynchon's Gravity's
Rainbow (though there the artistic damage is worse, because it occurs in the
last chapter). His tendency to allow the beastliness of war to blind him to the
moral and practical danger of one-sided pacifism is throughout apparent. If
there had been fewer people with his sort of outlook around in the West after
1918, the second war would probably have been avoided; and if there had been
more of them around since 1945 we might already have had a third.

The book stands, however, less on the philosophy it conveys than on a wealth of
interesting, often amusing, detail. For instance, after a German spy in North
Africa succeeded in deceiving a British unit by speaking 'impeccable Other Ranks
English', the War Office issued a pamphlet with the warning: 'It should be
impressed on all ranks that the use in conversation of 'f .. s' and 'b .. s' is
not necessarily a guarantee of British nationality.' Such nuggets abound in the
book and make it a marvellous read.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              217 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           October 4 1989, Wednesday

Project needs extra 24m pounds; Chatham Dockyard

BYLINE: SIMON TAIT, Arts Correspondent

SECTION: Issue 63516.

LENGTH: 352 words


The Government has been warned that unless more than Pounds 24 million is found,
a project to transform Chatham Dockyard into one of the largest open air museums
in the world will grind to a halt.

Lieutenant-General Sir Steuart Pringle, chairman and chief executive of the
Chatham Historic Dockyard Trust, has written to the secretaries of state for
defence and for the environment, both members of the trust, calling for their
support in pushing for the extra money, more than double the initial grant.


Sir Steuart is the former Commandant of the Royal Marines who lost a leg in an
IRA car bomb blast in 1981. A copy of Sir Steuart's letter, carrying a hint that
he might resign from the dockyard post if the Government's response was
unsatisfactory, has gone to the Prime Minister.

The dockyard, one of Britain's four main naval bases until the Royal Navy pulled
out in 1983, was given to the trust by the Government in 1984 for it to create a
museum and heritage centre. It was given a one-off grant of Pounds 11.35 million
to preserve and promote it. With the grant came a message that there would be no
more money for the foreseeable future.

However, Sir Steuart said: 'It was not until we commissioned consultants to
report on the state of the buildings that we became aware of the costs, and that
we realized what enormous potential there is.' However, unless another Pounds
24.2 million came by the start of the next financial year, the project would
grind to a halt, he said.

'For the trust to cease further progress and development in 1990 would prevent
it from completing the two objectives laid on it.

'It is likely that the strong management team and dedicated workforce assembled
would break up in a situation of having to tread water in financial terms, ' Sir
Steuart said. That will be seen as a hint that he might resign.

Suggestions that national museum trustees may threaten a mass resignation if the
Government fails to increase museum funding next year were dismissed last night
as inconceivable by Professor Sir John Hale, a trustee of the British Museum.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              218 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            October 5 1989, Thursday

Police chiefs study FBI-style national force for detectives

BYLINE: STEWART TENDLER, Crime Correspondent

SECTION: Issue 63517.

LENGTH: 603 words


A national detective force fighting terrorism and food contamination as well as
traditional serious crime is to be considered by a high-powered working party of
chief constables.

The study, announced yesterday at the autumn conference of the Association of
Chief Police Officers, brings the possibility of a British equivalent of the
American Federal Bureau of Investigation one step closer. It could be created by
merging existing police units.


Chief constables are said to be divided on the idea of a national criminal
investigation unit, first floated publicly by Sir Peter Imbert, the Metropolitan
Police Commissioner, this summer. Nonetheless, the association is pushing ahead
fast to examine the idea. Some officers predict the national unit could exist
within a few years.

Mr Peter Wright, Chief Constable of South Yorkshire and the association's
president, said the association supported the idea of a national criminal
intelligence unit raised last week by Mr Douglas Hurd, the Home Secretary.

Mr Wright said the working party would examine not only the intelligence unit
but the need for any operational function. 'If the operational need exists, a
way must be found to meet it. Our association is reviewing current and
developing trends in national and international crime and how, if necessary, we
should restructure our operational response.' The working party, chaired by Mr
John Dellow, Deputy Commissioner of the Metropolitan Police, is expected to
report back by Christmas.

Yesterday Mr Wright pointed out that the system of regional crime squads
provided a national system and no change might be needed. However, regional
crime squads would provide the logical basis for a national unit. Regional crime
squads already had wings dealing with drugs and regional criminal intelligence
offices.

A national unit would draw those together with the National Drugs Intelligence
Unit and the operations of Scotland Yard's Anti-Terrorist Branch, which provides
a national pool of expertise not only on terrorist attacks but also on
blackmail, kidnapping and food contamination.

The national unit would raise the spectre of a national police force. The
association is also studying changes in the police service that chief constables
think may be raised in the next few years.

At the conference in Preston, Lancashire, they heard presentations on the
amalgamation of the 43 existing forces into larger regional forces; a federal
system with both local and national police; and outright creation of a national
force.

Mr Wright said: 'Basic changes in the structure and legislation governing the
police will remain an issue and that pressure for change will intensify rather
than recede.'

Chief constables are planning to set up a European unit linking British police
to colleagues in the European Community after 1992.

The unit, based in London, would work from Scotland Yard and act as a clearing
house for information. It would also formulate British police strategy on
Europe.

It was proposed by the Association of Chief Police Officers. The association's
international committee has already joined the EC's TREVI framework of
committees on areas such as terrorism.

Britain's police forces are not spending enough on manpower for fingerprint and
scenes of crime specialists, the head of the Audit Commission told chief
constables.

An increase of Pounds 7 million on spending for the service nationally would
raise the number of criminals identified after crime by 50 per cent to 60,000,
Mr Howard Davis, controller of the commission, told the conference.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              219 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             October 9 1989, Monday

Tory conference security costs 1.1m pounds

BYLINE: STEWART TENDLER, Crime Correspondent

SECTION: Issue 63520.

LENGTH: 336 words


Lancashire police and military security specialists in Blackpool will today
complete a Pounds 1.1 million security operation to protect this year's
Conservative Party annual conference.

Months of planning work has been reviewed and updated for a heightened security
alert in the aftermath of the Deal bombing two weeks ago.


Police know that at least one and maybe two IRA active service units are
operating on the mainland and they also know that two years ago, when the
conference was last held in Blackpool, the IRA started plans to attack it.
Police found evidence in a hotel room booked 300 metres from the main conference
hotel. The aim was to attack the hotel with a delayed action bomb as a soft
alternative target to the centre of the conference.

One of the men linked to the Blackpool IRA plan was Patrick Sheehy, wanted by
Scotland Yard as one of the active service unit which has operated in Britain
for the past year.

The Lancashire force has kept details of its operation secret but the force has
liaised with Sussex police, who guarded the conference at Brighton last year.
That operation involved 1,600 officers, including a group of 250 dedicated to
searching for possible explosive devices.

Concrete blocks were placed around the conference centre and the Grand Hotel to
prevent car bombs being planted and an air exclusion zone was declared over the
area. Lancashire has a similar zone over Blackpool this year.

Police are prepared for possible terrorist attacks, from car bombs and suspect
packages to snipers, mortar attacks and even some form of rocket attack. The
Lancashire force is likely to use military support, including a naval presence
off the coast and forces such as the Special Boat Service of the Royal Marines.

For months in advance detectives have kept a watch on hotel bookings in
Blackpool watching for unusual or suspicious visitors. The Irish desk at
Scotland Yard's Special Branch and the RUC have been building up an intelligence
picture.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              220 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 10, 1989

Tuesday People: Travel and travails of defence chief - Brigadier Charles Ritchie

BYLINE: By STEPHEN COOK

LENGTH: 412 words


BRIGADIER Charles Ritchie, commanding officer of the Ulster Defence Regiment, is
experienced in dealing with foreign armies. He has served in Libya, Oman,
Australia, and Germany, and was assistant director of Britain's military
assistance overseas before he took over in Northern Ireland a year ago.

The UDR is part of the British army but the sectarian complexities which
underlie the present travails of the partially part-time force must make it seem
like another foreign posting to an officer with a classic mainland military
background - Wellington college, Sandhurst, and the Royal Scots.


Fortunately for Brigadier Ritchie, aged 48, his arrival was cushioned by three
earlier spells in the province during his varied and high-flying career: two
four-month tours between 1970 and 1972, and two years commanding the UDR's 3rd
County Down battalion in the early 1980s.

'He knows the way they think in the UDR,' a Royal Scots colleague said. 'He has
had a fair amount of experience with them, rather than going in stone cold from
some desk job. It was a very appropriate appointment, really.'

The context of Ritchie's arrival was the continuing effort to make the UDR more
professional and more closely integrated into the British army in the hope of
countering the view among some Catholics that it is just a reincarnation of the
notorious and now-disbanded B Specials.

But he appears to be playing his part differently from his predecessor Brigadier
Michael Bray, who was very outgoing, ready to give interviews and parade the
successes of the UDR in public. Many Ulster officials thought that such openness
only invited more attacks from terrorists intent on proving the regiment's lack
of success.

Brigadier Ritchie never appears in public and is gaining a reputation as a
backroom counter-insurgency expert. He can be relied upon to defend the UDR
against calls for its disbandment or an inquiry.

Earlier this year, he pointed out that UDR checkpoints stopped and searched a
million vehicles and only drew in 20 complaints, which led to two prosecutions.
But he was criticised for failing to mention Catholic scepticism about the
official complaints process.

Among army colleagues he has a reputation for humour and mimicry as well as
ability.

'He is knowledgeable in things military but is also full of fun,' said one
yesterday. 'He is a tremendous mimic, actually, and can put on an Irish accent
with the best of them.'

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              221 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                           October 10, 1989, Tuesday

EXPERTS EXAMINE HAMPSTEAD HEATH EXPLOSIVES CACHE

BYLINE:  Peter Archer, Press Association Home Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 446 words


Terrorist explosives and other bomb-making equipment discovered dumped at one of
Britain's busiest beauty spots were tonight being examined by forensic experts.
The explosives, believed to to be up 50lbs of Semtex, were found in two bags
hidden in undergrowth on London's Hampstead Heath.  Detonators and timers,
described by Scotland Yard as "terrorist paraphernalia", were also uncovered.
Anti-terrorist squad detectives are anxious to check the bomb-making kit against
police records compiled after terrorist bomb attacks.  Police fear the find
could be just one of a number of explosives caches used by two IRA cells
operating on mainland Britain.  Forensic experts would be able to match the
explosives and other equipment against Semtex and bomb fragments painstakingly
gathered by police officers at the scenes of IRA attacks.  Large quantities of
Czech-made Semtex explosives have been supplied to the IRA by Libya's Colonel
Gadaffi. The powerful plastic explosive is odourless and therefore hard to
detect.  Just 20lbs of Semtex last month devastated the Royal Marines Band
School at Deal, Kent, killing 10 bandsmen.  Today's find, by a City of London
Corporation worker near Spaniards Road to the north of the picturesque heath, is
puzzling because the cache was badly concealed.  In the past, the IRA has stored
explosives and firearms in woodland but the caches have usually been buried.
The circumstances of the latest discovery suggest the cache may have been
dumped, perhaps in panic.  It is possible that the Hampstead explosives are from
the same batch as those found by police in Clapham, South London, last December
when an IRA bomb factory was discovered - also by chance. On that occasion,
police found about 150lbs of Semtex, guns and a hit-list of VIPs.
Anti-terrorist squad detectives, led by Commander George Churchill-Coleman,
suspect that the terrorists who fled had already taken away quantities of
Semtex, possibly made into bombs.  The detectives believe that at least two IRA
cells are active on mainland Britain and could be linking with others on the
Continent who are targeting British servicemen in West Germany.  The Hampstead
find will strengthen police fears that the terrorists have access to a number of
explosives caches and are therefore capable of executing a protracted mainland
bombing campaign.  Commander Churchill-Coleman tonight appealed to members of
the public to remain vigilant "in these difficult times".  Military bases,
government buildings and VIP police protection officers are already on full
alert following the Deal massacre and especially during this week's Conservative
Party conference in Blackpool.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1989 The Press Association Limited

                              222 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 11, 1989

Terrorist cache on Hampstead Heath

BYLINE: By ANGELLA JOHNSON

LENGTH: 354 words


EXPLOSIVES and other terrorist paraphernalia described by police as a
'significant arms cache' were discovered in plastic bags yesterday on Hampstead
Heath, north London.

The find comes two weeks after an IRA bomb killed 10 bandsmen at the Royal
Marines School of Music in Deal, Kent. A search is under way for two men and a
woman believed to have been responsible.


The items were found at about 1pm by a man who became suspicious after stumbling
across two bags hidden in undergrowth near Spaniards Road.

The area was cordoned off and searched by members of Scotland Yard's
anti-terrorist squad, using sniffer dogs. It was not clear whether the 50lb of
explosives were being hidden on the heath or had been abandoned.

A police spokesman refused to say what kind of explosive was unearthed, but it
is believed to have been Semtex, which is favoured by the IRA. He said that the
discovery was 'a timely reminder for all members of the public to be vigilant
and report anything suspicious'.

Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist squad has been on the alert since the discovery
of an IRA bomb factory in Clapham, south London, last December. The IRA had
warned that it planned to step up attacks on British military bases as part of a
campaign to mark the 20th anniversary of the arrival of troops in Northern
Ireland.

It has been assumed that two IRA units are active in mainland Britain. One of
the others which are believed to operate on the Continent may have been used in
last month's bombing at Deal, escaping back across the Channel afterwards.

In February an attempted bombing at Tern Hill Barracks, Shropshire, failed when
a sentry challenged two men in the inner compound. A series of blasts caused
extensive damage, but no one was hurt.

In February, Semtex blocks were found dumped in a reservoir in Stoke Newington,
north London. Police said that they believed terrorists had abandoned the
explosives to avoid detection.

Semtex, which is malleable, highly explosive and odourless, was used in the
bombing at Tern Hill, and at the army barracks in Mill Hill, north London, last
year.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              223 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                          October 11, 1989, Wednesday

EXPERTS EXAMINE HAMPSTEAD HEATH EXPLOSIVES CACHE

BYLINE:  Peter Archer, Press Association Home Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 408 words


Terrorist explosives and other bomb-making equipment discovered dumped at one of
Britain's busiest beauty spots were today still being examined by forensic
experts.  The explosives, believed to be up to 50lbs of Semtex, were found in
two bags hidden in undergrowth on London's Hampstead Heath.  Detonators and
timers, described by Scotland Yard as "terrorist paraphernalia", were also
uncovered.  Anti-terrorist squad detectives are anxious to check the bomb-making
kit against police records compiled after terrorist bomb attacks.  Police fear
the find could be just one of a number of explosives caches used by two IRA
cells operating on mainland Britain.  Forensic experts would be able to match
the explosives and other equipment against Semtex and bomb fragments
painstakingly gathered by police officers at the scenes of IRA attacks.  Just
20lbs of the Czech-made Semtex last month devastated the Royal Marines Band
School at Deal, Kent, killing 10 bandsmen.  Yesterday's find, by a City of
London Corporation worker near Spaniards Road to the north of the picturesque
heath, is puzzling because the cache was badly concealed.  In the past, the IRA
has stored explosives and firearms in woodland but the caches have usually been
buried.  The circumstances of the latest discovery suggest the cache may have
been dumped, perhaps in panic.  It is possible that the Hampstead explosives are
from the same batch as those found by police in Clapham, south London, last
December when an IRA bomb factory was discovered - also by chance.

Home Secretary Douglas Hurd said today: "It is very alarming that the IRA should
be running active service units here and on the Continent and in Northern
Ireland.  "I am very glad the Semtex explosives have been found. That makes
London that much a safer place.  "And I hope, too, that the police have leads to
the people who left it there," he said on BBC Radio 4's Today programme.

A Ministry of Defence spokeswoman ruled out speculation that the explosives
might have been dumped on the heath to attack members of the King's Troop, Royal
Horse Artillery, as they exercised their horses.  "The barracks is over three
miles away from Hampstead Heath and the troopers only rarely take their horses
there," she said.  "They go to other parks nearer to the barracks. Normally the
men would be riding one animal and leading two others, which causes some
problems, so they prefer parks nearer the base."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1989 The Press Association Limited

                              224 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           October 11 1989, Wednesday

Arms cache may yield clue to IRA active units; Hampstead Heath

BYLINE: STEWART TENDLER, Crime Correspondent

SECTION: Issue 63522.

LENGTH: 343 words


Detectives from Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist branch were last night examining
an IRA cache of arms and equipment found hidden under bushes on Hampstead Heath,
north-west London.

The cache, the third to be uncovered in London in the past year, was last night
described by police as highly significant. It is understood to weigh 50 to 60lb
and may have been hidden in the summer with the intention of using it for an
attack in August at the time of the twentieth anniversary of British troops
being sent to Ulster.


Scotland Yard would not say if the cache had followed the pattern of previous
discoveries; at least four large arms and explosives dumps had been discovered
before with the arms wrapped in plastic and buried for retrieval at a later
date.

Chemical analysis will show whether the explosives match other finds or bomb
fragments retrieved at the scenes of IRA attacks. Police expect to find
fingerprints on explosives and detonators and timers.

Police will investigate whether the cache had been hidden to await collection by
an active service unit for use against targets in London or if it had been
dumped.

The find could also give provide fresh clues to the identity and plans of active
service units. Commander George Churchill-Coleman, head of the anti-terrorist
branch, was last night directing operations.

The explosives, which are thought to be Semtex were hidden in plastic bags close
to Spaniards Road.

Other equipment found described by police as 'terrorist paraphernalia' is
thought to include material for making timing devices and detonation equipment.

The cache was found by a passerby early yesterday afternoon. Police sealed off a
section of the heath and closed Spaniards Road for a search.

Since December last year three caches have been found in Britain. The first
included 150lb of Semtex and was found at a flat in Clapham, south London. In
February, 22lb of Semtex was found in a reservoir in Tottenham, north London,
and in March a Semtex find was made near Scarborough, Yorkshire.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              225 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 14, 1989

Ryan attacks British 'Hitlers' in Ireland: Priest sees himself as symbol of
resistance

BYLINE: By JOE JOYCE in Dublin

LENGTH: 501 words


BRITAIN's role in Ireland over the centuries made the murderous escapades of
Hitler look like the activities of an old ladies' tea party, Father Patrick Ryan
said in Dublin yesterday.

Mrs Thatcher, as head of a regime that continued the occupation of part of
Ireland through plunder, torture and murder was a 'criminal' and should be
tried, he went on.


Father Ryan learned yesterday that he would not be prosecuted in Irish courts on
alleged offices relating to IRA bombing campaigns in London.

He was in Dublin to savour his victory over the British establishment, dodge a
few questions from the press, and hammer home some political messages.

The occasion had the hallmarks of an Irish country event. There were the
satisfied speeches, the references to the local Tipperary hurling team, the
cheers from the supporters at the back of the hall.

And there, at the centre of the top table, was the priest, the star of the
event.

'Making war was never my business,' he said of his 20 year peregrinations (his
word) around Europe, seeking out the 'enemies of my enemy.'

'Is my conscience clear?' he asked himself. 'Yes.' He had found embassies to
give him money, but he was coy about which and how much.

He insisted the money had never been used for arms and he had never had in his
possession one milligram of explosives. His work was a continuation of his life
as a missionary in Africa and elsewhere.

Victims of the problem in Northern Ireland had approached him for help 'to
ameliorate the effects of the occupation of our country.'

But he was moderately less modest about how he sees his future role. 'I would be
inclined to see myself today as I have been in the past, as a symbol of
resistance to the continued occupation of part of our country by Britain. I am
happy to be perceived in that way.'

The 59-year-old priest has spent recent months touring the Republic, addressing
groups of people along with like-minded fringe politicians about the evils of
extradition and the continued 'occupation' of Northern Ireland.

It is the one subject on which his cautious, circumlocutory style of speaking
tends to be cast aside.

Father Ryan polled more than 30,000 votes as a candidate in the European
elections for the Munster constituency.

Asked if he intended to pursue a religious career or a political career, he
suggested that the terms needed to be defined.

He had spent his life in the service of the poor and oppressed, he said. The
past 20 years had been a continuation of that missionary ideal to help his
brothers and sisters in the occupied part of Ireland.

His relationship with the Pallotine order, to which he belongs, has not been
clarified, he admitted, but he would remain a priest although he is not allowed
to say Mass publicly in Dublin.

Father Ryan has recently acquired a new Irish passport - his previous one was
confiscated by the Belgians who arrested him last year and handed, he claims, to
the British authorities.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              226 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                                The Independent

                           October 14 1989, Saturday

Informers recruited to prevent bombings: Mark Urban analyses the intelligence
war against the IRA in Europe

BYLINE: MARK URBAN

SECTION: Home News ; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 692 words


INTELLIGENCE documents obtained by An Phoblacht, newspaper of the Provisional
Sinn Fein, and said to describe British attempts to recruit informers on the
Continent, mark a new stage in the overseas war between the IRA and the Army.

It began with the bombing of eight barracks in West Germany in 1978. More bombs
were used the following year, and it was this, according to MI5 documents
obtained by the IRA, that prompted efforts to recruit informants among Irish
people in Europe.


The Provisionals realised that the Army's poorly-protected barracks were easier
targets than fortified bases in Northern Ireland. It was normal for sentries to
be given no bullets. This changed in 1980 after a major died in one of two
shooting attacks against soldiers. The Army ordered sentries to wear flak
jackets and constructed many sandbagged emplacements, although most barracks
were still protected by little more than chain link fences.

The IRA did not choose to attack again until March 1987. A possible reason is
that it was difficult to get arms and ammunition to the right place, despite the
virtual absence of border controls between Germany and its western neighbours.
Communication with an 'active service unit' - two to 10 terrorists - far from
Ireland was a further obstacle. Another reason could be that the IRA had become
aware of British intelligence's drive for informers.

It appears that starting in 1979, the Intelligence and Security Group (G), an
Army Intelligence Corps unit based at Rheindalen, West Germany, had recruited
five informants within the Irish community.

These informants were turned over to British intelligence in 1981 under an
operation code-named Ward. Both Britain's Security Service, MI5, and the Secret
Intelligence Service or MI6, appear to have been involved.

The number of sympathisers able to support IRA operations on the Continent is
smaller than in Northern Ireland, so the recruitment of a few informers may have
had a disproportionate effect.

There has been no official confirmation that the documents are genuine, although
sources suggest that they are. This raises a question of how long the IRA have
had them. It can be speculated that the informants recruited in Operation Ward
may have been known to the IRA for months or even years. The IRA says the more
recent of the documents is dated 26 January 1984.

Indeed, it may be that the collapse of the MI5/MI6 informer network in Germany
and other European countries restored the IRA's confidence in its ability to
resume operations on the Continent from March 1987, when it placed a car bomb at
Rheindalen.

The IRA's campaign broadened in March 1988 with the attempt to plant a bomb in
Gibraltar. The attack was foiled and three terrorists killed in a joint MI5/SAS
operation. It is likely that this group was betrayed by an informer.

Two months later the IRA launched a bomb and shooting attack on RAF servicemen
in the Netherlands, killing three. In July last year a German border guard
apprehended two Irishmen with Kalashnikov assault rifles.

Attacks have continued every few months since then. Last month a soldier's wife
was shot dead near Dortmund. It appears that about 20 IRA members, organised
into several units, are operating on mainland Britain and the Continent.

In July, Europe's counter-intelligence agencies scored a coup with the
apprehension of five IRA members. Leonard Hardy and Donna Maguire were arrested
in the Republic of Ireland carrying bomb-making materials on a trip from France.

Five days later three terrorists were apprehended by the DST, French
counter-intelligence, as they drove towards the German frontier. Police said
that their two accomplices arrested in Ireland had been carrying several
addresses of safe houses in France.

It seems remarkable that the three who remained in France did not abandon their
mission following the arrests in Ireland. It may be that the IRA, fearing
informers, had gone to such lengths to restrict the knowledge of where the
'active service unit' was that it was unable to warn them that their presence
was compromised.

Home News Page 3

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1989 Independent Print Ltd

                              227 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                                The Independent

                           October 14 1989, Saturday

Spy network changes target: Security groups liaise on tactics

BYLINE: MARK URBAN, Defence Correspondent

SECTION: Home News ; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 432 words


OVER THE past few years Britain and her European allies have been trying to
adapt a system designed to catch Warsaw Pact spies to the task of hunting
international terrorists.

Information on the IRA threat flows through a myriad of British and West German
organisations - each with its own headquarters, staff and acronym.


Many organisations might be involved after an attack on British forces. The
illustration above however, shows only those bodies involved in combating the
IRA threat in West Germany. The attacks which took place in Belgium and The
Netherlands involve still more organisations.

The British Army of the Rhine and Royal Air Force Germany have their Joint HQ at
Rheindalen in West Germany. Each organisation has its own intelligence and
counter-intelligence units. There is also a unit of Ministry of Defence civilian
intelligence specialists called the British Services Security Organisation
(Germany) or BSSO.

One of BSSO's major functions is to liaise with the Security Service (MI5),
which is particularly active in trying to stop IRA terrorism on the Continent
and in mainland Britain.

BSSO is also the liaison point with the West German equivalent of MI5, called
Bundesamt fur Verfassungsschutz - the State Office for the Protection of the
Constitution or BfV. However, it appears that in sensitive operations where the
military does not have a 'need to know' MI5 and BfV's Section 7, which is active
against terrorist groups, have their own direct channels of communication.

BSSO's director, heads of Army and RAF intelligence, the chief British military
policeman in Germany and MI6's chief of Bonn Station sit on the Joint
Intelligence Committee (Germany). JIC(G) meets occasionally, is chaired by a
senior diplomat from the British Embassy in Bonn, and leaves the daily work of
assessing the IRA terrorist threat to a sub-committee, the Joint Security Group.

The Joint Security Group takes intelligence about possible forthcoming terrorist
attacks - usually provided by MI5 or BfV - and puts Army and RAF units on to a
higher state of alert. When the intelligence experts feel the threat has
receded, the state of alert of military units is reduced.

At provincial and city level there are also many ties between the Royal Military
Police, other British units, and the local West German police. The
Bundeskriminalamt or BKA is supervising the hunt for the IRA units which have
attacked British servicemen and their families in recent months. BKA has
wide-ranging powers to supervise local police operations.

Home News Page 3

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1989 Independent Print Ltd

                              228 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                                The Independent

                           October 14 1989, Saturday

Secrecy is exploited by terrorists

BYLINE: MARK URBAN, Defence Correspondent

SECTION: Home News ; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 461 words


INTERNATIONAL terrorism has been able to exploit the natural competitiveness and
secretiveness of Europe's counter-intelligence organisations. Claims that the
West German authorities have mishandled inquiries into the Lockerbie bombing
have caused ill feeling between officials.

In recent years the British Government has attempted to extradite terrorist
suspects from Belgium and The Netherlands after they had been discovered by
British intelligence. Britain has reacted angrily when it felt other European
governments were not co-operating in these efforts.


Intelligence sources in West Germany say that efforts to stop the current wave
of IRA attacks have not been hampered by rivalries and that different
organisations have been co-operating well together.

Nevertheless, the large number of organisations involved and the fact that their
activities are not centrally co-ordinated as in Northern Ireland, suggests that
there may be scope for confusion or conflict between them.

In 1978 and 1979 a series of changes began in Northern Ireland which resulted
eventually in the direction and co-ordination of intelligence gathering
activities by the Royal Ulster Constabulary Special Branch. Although the Army
and MI5 still retain some independent intelligence gathering capabilities in the
province, the system is now largely centralised and works well - the IRA itself
has admitted that one of the reasons it has exported a growing proportion of its
violence to the continent and mainland Britain is because it has become
increasingly risky for them to operate on home territory.

But in the mid-1970s there was an acrimonious conflict between the different
intelligence gathering agencies in the province. Matters became so serious that
in August 1979 Sir Maurice Oldfield, the former Chief of MI6 - and model for
John Le Carre's fictional spy master George Smiley - was sent to Northern
Ireland to cover the differences between MI6, MI5, Army intelligence and the
RUC. Sir Maurice reportedly decided to reduce MI6's role in Ireland, although it
still conducted operations on the continent and against IRA gun runners in North
America.

During the 1970s intelligence organisations were often reluctant to share
information from their best informants. A participant in discussions between
intelligence organisations in Ulster during the 1970s said: 'There was an
element of 'if you tell them everything, we haven't got a position have we ?' In
the intelligence business knowledge is power.'

This reluctance to share information is alleged to have led to several disasters
where information was not passed to the right people in time, and where one
organisation arrested the informants of another by accident.

Home News Page 3

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1989 Independent Print Ltd

                              229 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                                The Independent

                           October 14 1989, Saturday

Key witnesses in Ryan case 'refused to testify'

LENGTH: 504 words


THE DECISION of Eamonn Barnes, the Irish Republic's Director of Public
Prosecutions, not to bring explosives charges against Patrick Ryan is believed
to be due to the refusal of key witnesses to testify against him.

According to security sources in Dublin yesterday, the absence of two key
witnesses had effectively determined Mr Barnes' decision not to press charges
under the 1976 Criminal Law Jurisdiction Act, which allows for prosecution in
the Republic for offences allegedly committed in Britain and Northern Ireland.


The two witnesses are said to be a retired Swiss shopkeeper who had business
dealings with Mr Ryan in the early 1970s, and a British businessman who had
dealings with Mr Ryan in Libya.

The first witness had decided at an early stage not to travel to Dublin; the
second only recently made his decision not to give evidence. The rest of the
evidence against Mr Ryan is understood to be mainly circumstantial.

In a This Week interview screened by Thames Television in June, Mr Ryan, 59,
admitted he was a republican sympathiser and that he had bought electronic
equipment, which it is alleged found its way into IRA bombs.

He said: 'I buy them the same as I buy anything else and pass them on. It's none
of my business - but I would stress that the IRA never requested that I buy any
such items for them.'

Mr Ryan also admitted buying hundreds of Swiss memopark timing devices in the
1970s. The devices are designed for parking meters, but are also the main timers
used in IRA bombs.

The programme alleged that an electronic device bought by Mr Ryan was found in
bomb-making circuitry in an IRA arms cache discovered in Salcey Forest, on the
Northamptonshire-Buckinghamshire border, in 1984. Identical circuitry was used
in the 1982 Hyde Park bomb which killed eight people and injured fifty- three
others.

Untransmitted tapes of the interview with Mr Ryan were handed over by Thames to
Scotland Yard under the Prevention of Terrorism (Temporary Provisions) Act 1989.

Dublin sources claimed yesterday that following recent examination of the
evidence submitted by the English authorities, the Garda and the DPP had major
misgivings about parts of it relating to the alleged discovery of bomb-making
materials and documents in Mr Ryan's Brussels apartment in July last year. There
were fears that statements made by Belgian security service officers would not
stand up in court.

Neither Mr Barnes nor the UK's Director of Public Prosecutions, Allan Green QC,
would confirm or deny the claims.

Last year the Republic refused to extradite Mr Ryan to Britain to face terrorism
charges, including conspiracy to murder and cause explosions, on the grounds
that allegations in the Press and Parliament linking him with the IRA meant he
would not receive a fair trial in Britain.

The 1976 Act allows charges of possession and handling of explosives to be
brought in the Republic, but not charges of conspiracy to cause murder or
explosions.

Home News Page 3

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1989 Independent Print Ltd

                              230 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           October 14 1989, Saturday

Thatcher quiet on Commonwealth successor for Ramphal

BYLINE: ANDREW MCEWEN and M G G PILLAI in Kuala Lumpur

SECTION: Issue 63525.

LENGTH: 696 words


Mrs Thatcher is not yet ready to say which of the two candidate she will support
to succeed Mr Shridath Ramphal, who next June steps down as Secretary-General of
the Commonwealth after 15 years.

'We are not showing our hand, ' a Whitehall source said yesterday amid
preparations for next week's Commonwealth Heads of Government Conference in
Kuala Lumpur at which the issue is likely to be settled.


Most of the 49 Commonwealth countries have given private assurances of support
to either Mr Malcolm Fraser, Australia's former Prime Minister, or Chief Emeka
Anyaokou of Nigeria, the Deputy Secretary-General, both of whom believe they are
ahead.

Hopes that one of them would withdraw so that the issue can be settled amicably
have come to nothing.

The Commonwealth has had only two secretaries-general in its history and has not
needed to develop a voting procedure.

Mrs Thatcher will be one of the longer-serving prime ministers present, having
attended six similar conferences. She has arranged private meetings with seven
of her fellow leaders, beginning with Datuk Seri Dr Mahathir Mohamed, Malaysia's
Prime Minister, and she is likely to compare notes on the race with all of them.

Mrs Thatcher and Dr Mahathir, in a further move to tighten the net against drugs
smugglers, will sign an agreement on confiscating the assets of convicted
smugglers, the tenth such bilateral agreement made by Britain; two more are
imminent and negotiations are under way with 20 other countries.

Assets worth Pounds 11 million have been seized and another Pounds 22 million
frozen in Britain alone since legislation was passed in 1986.

As well as the leadership issue, the conference will deal with a report on
climatic changes, wider environmental issues, southern Africa, trade and human
rights.

Criticisms of Britain's refusal to accept additional sanctions against Pretoria
have dominated the last two conferences, held in Vancouver in 1987 and Nassau in
1985. Britain hopes that President de Klerk's decision to release eight members
of the African National Congress will defuse the issue, but there will be strong
pressure from other countries for the adoption of new financial sanctions.

The British Government is resigned to the possibility that the other countries
will go ahead without Britain, in line with a pattern established at Vancouver
in 1987.

The Rev Allan Boesak, a prominent South African anti-apartheid campaigner, is
expected to attend the conference, but Mrs Thatcher has no plans to meet him.

A huge security operation began yesterday to protect the leaders of a third of
the world's nations who will begin arriving in Kuala Lumpur for the conference
tomorrow. Of the 49 countries which belong to the Commonwealth 47 are expected
to be represented by heads of government, and more than 7,000 security personnel
will be deployed to deter terrorist attacks.

Most leaders, including Mrs Thatcher, sent officials to examine the arrangements
several weeks ago, and this is understood to have resulted in changes to plans
to accommodate key figures in a large hotel attached to the conference centre.

One of the hotel's greatest weaknesses is that its glass-fronted lifts are on
the outside of the building, putting the leaders within rifle range of the flat
roof of a nearby shopping centre.

The leaders most likely to be targets will now be staying in other hotels, but
this will expose them to some risk while in transit to the conference. The
Malaysian authorities have been conducting practice runs through the main
streets, using escorted limousines travelling at high speed. The tests have
brought traffic to a standstill amid blaring horns and wailing sirens.

Leaders are understood to have been divided into three categories, with
different types of precautions allocated to them according to the assessed risk.

Mrs Thatcher, Mr Rajiv Gandhi, the Prime Minister of India, President Premadasa
of Sri Lanka and Miss Benazir Bhutto, Pakistan's Prime Minister, are thought to
need the greatest protection, and one possibility is that military helicopters
may be used to hover over their motorcades.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              231 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 16, 1989

IRA reveals more details of alleged security breach

BYLINE: By RICHARD NORTON-TAYLOR

LENGTH: 699 words


A DUBLIN newspaper yesterday published further details of what purports to be a
concerted but apparently unsuccessful effort by British intelligence to recruit
agents in the fight against IRA terrorist activities in West Germany.

The documents, published in the Sunday Tribune, give a detailed account of plans
to recruit informers in the Irish community in West Germany in an operation set
up initially without the authority of the West German government.


They appear to have been written by officers in the British Services Security
Organisation (BSSO) which is based in West Germany and liaises with the security
service, MI5, and its West German equivalent, the BfV.

IRA sources told the Sunday Tribune that they had had the documents 'for some
time.' They said they decided to make them public because they had 'outlived
their usefulness'.

Security sources in Whitehall and in Belfast were casting doubt last night on
the authenticity of the documents although publicly the Ministry of Defence
would neither confirm nor deny whether they were genuine. But is certain that
the information about Britain's intelligence network in West Germany and the
names of British security officials contained in the documents are genuine.

One of the officers named is a senior member of MI5's F branch which is
responsible for dealing with Irish-based terrorism. The leaked papers cover the
same operations described, though in less detail, in last week's issue of An
Phoblacht, the newspaper of the Provisional Sinn Fein. A West German paper, Die
Tageszeitung, was also sent the documents last week.

The papers described two operations, code-named Ward and Scream. Operation Ward
started in 1979 - a year after the IRA bombed eight barracks in West Germany. It
was run by an Army Intelligence Corps unit based at Rheindalen, West Germany,
and is said to have recruited five informants 'to identify Republican
sympathisers who might be or become involved in covert PIRA ( Provisisional IRA)
activities'.

The Secret Intelligence Service, MI6, was also involved and one document
suggested that an MI6 officer based in Bonn raised the possibility of recruiting
three former IRA members. All the agents, including a former bar owner in the
town of Hameln, are identified in the documents but were not named in the Irish
newspaper. The IRA is reported to have said the three Irishmen were former
members.

In 1983, BSSO is described as reporting 'Operation Ward has not so far produced
any worthwhile intelligence' and a year later: 'There has been a considerable
turnover since 1981 necessitated by the discarding of unsuitable sources.'

Agents, according to the documents, were proved to be unreliable or got
themselves into trouble with the German civil authorities or pro-Republican
groups in West Germany. One is said to have become a Jehovah's Witness, another
lied to his handler, and one was in trouble for contravening local labour laws.

The second operation, code-named Scream, is described as a joint MI5/MI6 plan -
drawn up without the knowledge of British military intelligence - designed to
place agents from Britain and Ireland in the Irish community in West Germany.

The Ministry of Defence said yesterday: 'Security in the Federal Republic of
Germany and measures taken to prevent terrorism are the responsibility of the
federal authorities. But of course our intelligence and police agencies
co-operate where possible with federal authorities in measures designed to
hinder attacks on British service personnel in Germany.'

The statement was prompted by suggestions in the leaked documents that British
intelligence acted without informing its West German counterparts. The documents
refer to an episode when the West Germans caught a British surveillance team
mounting an unauthorised operation against a pro-Republican meeting.

BSSO liaises with the British Joint Intelligence Committee in Bonn - one of only
two such committees outside the UK. But the BSSO's charter, according to the
documents, states that it is responsible to the head of the West German BfV 'for
the security intelligence activities of the British Armed Forces.'

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              232 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                                The Independent

                           October 18 1989, Wednesday

Guildford Four: Pressures on police have caused doubt over safety of convictions

BYLINE: DAVID MCKITTRICK, Ireland Correspondent

SECTION: (Photograph omitted)

LENGTH: 850 words


THE CASE of the Guildford Four, and two similar cases involving Irish people in
Britain - those of the Maguire family and the Birmingham Six - have caused
unease in some circles for more than a decade.

In each case it has been argued that the convictions of the alleged bombers were
unsafe and might have resulted from the political and social pressures on police
officers to secure convictions in the face of widespread public pressure to
catch IRA 'active service units' in Britain.


The Guildford Four case is closely linked to that of the Maguire family since
two of the four, Paul Hill and Gerard Conlon, named Annie Maguire as a bombmaker
in their alleged confessions to police. Seven people were jailed as a result.
The Birmingham case is separate but arose from the same IRA bombing campaign and
has some similar features.

As early as 1976, figures such as Father Denis Faul, a Co Tyrone priest, and
Sister Sara, a London- based Irish nun, were warning that innocent people had
been jailed. Over the next few years a series of articles in republican and
left-wing publications in Britain and Ireland echoed this theme. In particular,
Chris Mullin, now a Labour MP, sought to draw attention to the case of the
Birmingham Six.

By 1980 a number of MPs from various parties, including the late Sir John
Biggs-Davison and Gerry Fitt (now Lord Fitt), had taken up one or more of the
cases. At that point the Maguire case was attracting most publicity. In that
year The Belfast Telegraph, the New Statesman and BBC Northern Ireland reported
on the issues. On each occasion the Home Office said that no new evidence had
been produced to justify reopening the case.

Until the mid-1980s most media coverage consisted of reiterations of the points
put by the defence in the original trials and appeals. It was said that the
enormous amount of pre-trial publicity might have prejudiced juries.

It was also argued that the Maguires, a solidly respectable Irish family living
in London, and the Guildford Four, three of whom were involved in petty crime
and drugs, made the most unlikely of terrorists. The only evidence against them
lay in their statements to police, which they claimed had been extracted through
beatings, and which contained many inconsistencies and contradictions. There was
no corroborative forensic or identification evidence.

It was further argued that the IRA unit arrested after the Balcombe Street siege
in London in 1975 had told the truth when they claimed responsibility for the
Guildford and Woolwich bombs. This admission had been rejected by the Court of
Appeal as 'a cunning and skilful attempt to deceive the court by putting forward
false evidence'.

The second phase of the campaign to free the Guildford Four was dominated by the
work of Yorkshire Television's First Tuesday, which devoted programmes to the
issue in March 1984, July 1986 and March 1987. These questioned the reliability
of forensic evidence in the Maguire trial and unearthed new alibi evidence in
the Guildford case.

Such material clearly broke new ground and helped create new interest in the
cases. A year ago two members of the First Tuesday team, Garth McKee and Ros
Franey, produced a book Time Bomb - Irish bombers, English justice and the
Guildford Four.

The release of Annie Maguire from prison in 1985 and her appearance on a number
of television programmes also gave impetus to the campaign. Granada Television's
World in Action also produced two programmes in 1985 and 1986, researched by
Chris Mullin, which questioned the Birmingham convictions. Robert Kee, the
historian and journalist, featured Mr and Mrs Maguire on a Channel 4 programme
and, in 1986, published a book, Trial and Error, on the Guildford and Maguire
cases. Channel 4 broadcast a 90-minute special, presented by Olivia O'Leary, in
the same year.

By this time a growing number of influential political, legal and church figures
had voiced doubts on some or all of the cases. These included two former law
lords, Lord Scarman and Lord Devlin, Roy Jenkins, Merlyn Rees, Archbishop Basil
Hume and Cardinal Tomas O'Fiaich. More recently, The Archbishop of Canterbury,
Dr Robert Runcie, has expressed his concern.

In the Irish Republic, large sections of opinion have come to believe that the
three cases involve miscarriages of justice. The Irish government, and
representatives of other major parties, have called for the release of those
concerned. Interest has grown steadily in the cases in the past few years, both
in Britain and in Ireland, though campaigners were bitterly disappointed when
the Court of Appeal rejected the Birmingham Six's appeal.

The cases have all been reviewed by the authorities on several occasions.
According to Douglas Hurd, the Home Secretary, the Maguire case was re-examined
between 1980 and 1983, and again in 1985 and 1986. He also said, in January
1987, that he had carefully reconsidered the Guildford case, especially in the
light of Robert Kee's book, but saw no grounds for reopening it.

(Photograph omitted)

Home News Page 3

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1989 Independent Print Ltd

                              233 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                                The Independent

                           October 19 1989, Thursday

The Guildford Four: Irish fear British courts unfair to terror suspects

BYLINE: DAVID MCKITTRICK, Ireland Correspondent

LENGTH: 671 words


First Edition

COURT proceedings involving IRA suspects in Britain have been the subject of
controversy for well over a decade, with critics questioning whether Irish
citizens can always expect a fair trial in British courts.


Those who have expressed concern range from the IRA to Irish government
ministers, Catholic churchmen, civil liberties groups and representatives of the
general Irish community in Britain.

Their criticisms cover many aspects of the criminal justice system, though
concern has traditionally focused on three cases from the mid-Seventies - the
Guildford Four, Birmingham Six and Maguire family. Cases such as these have
helped the arguments of anti-extradition campaigners, who say that Irish
citizens should not be handed over to face trial in British courts which may
hand down faulty verdicts.

The first specific complaint concerns the Prevention of Terrorism Act, hurried
though Parliament after the Birmingham bombings in late 1974. This allowed
suspects to be held for up to seven days and gave the police other very wide
powers: Roy Jenkins, the Home Secretary who introduced the measure, described
the legislation as draconian.

Critics argue that the Act, which has since been refined, conveyed the message
to police and others involved in the legal processes that measures which would
normally be ruled out might be regarded as permissible.

The police were clearly under pressure to produce results, with great public
outrage at the murder of innocent civilians and a widespread fear that the IRA
bombing campaign would continue. Some arrests made under the PTA were
accompanied by a fanfare of publicity, with police indicating, publicly or
privately, that they were confident they had caught bombers.

This led to headlines in the popular press which many alleged were prejudicial
to subsequent court cases. The tabloid press has continued to attract such
complaints: last week the Daily Express was criticised for running the headline
'Thatcher Bomb Gang Arrested' after five Irishmen were held by police in
Cheltenham. The five were subsequently released without charge.

Among the accusations directed at police is that they have framed Irish people
whom they either knew had nothing to do with bombings, or whom they mistakenly
believed to be terrorists. In some cases two forces have been involved in
investigations, a local force and Scotland Yard's Anti-Terrorist Squad. This
overlap appears to have led to difficulties in some cases.

It must be assumed that lawyers and law officers involved in the decision to
prosecute are under the same pressures as the police have felt. In many cases
the most senior legal figures, such as Lord Havers, become involved in the
trials.

The trials, it is contended, have served to demonstrate that the British jury
system is an imperfect means of dealing with Irish terrorist issues. The
argument is that the jury system may deal adequately with the normal run of
criminal cases, but that the attitude of jurors can easily be coloured when
dealing with external threats, such as terrorism.

Thus jurors might be affected by the nature of the case, by the publicity before
and during the trial, and perhaps also by the intensive security operations
mounted around court buildings. Cases such as these are high-profile affairs and
often take place in a highly-charged atmosphere.

Courts in Northern Ireland which hear terrorist-type cases consist of a single
judge, and have been the object of much controversy, partly because there is no
jury. The general consensus of political and legal opinion, however, is that the
absence of a jury is regrettable but inevitable, because of the risk of
intimidation and because of the danger of incorrect verdicts.

Thus many of those involved in the legal processes in Belfast regard this system
as preferable for dealing with terrorist cases, in that the same problem of
innocents being convicted has very rarely been shown to occur there.

Home News Page 3

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1989 Independent Print Ltd

                              234 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                                The Independent

                            October 24 1989, Tuesday

Irish minister calls for talks with Hurd on Birmingham Six

BYLINE: HEATHER MILLS, Courts Correspondent

SECTION: Letters, page 18

LENGTH: 789 words


THE Irish Republic's Foreign Minister requested an urgent meeting with Douglas
Hurd, the Home Secretary, yesterday in an attempt to force a complete review of
the jailing 15 years ago of six men for the Birmingham pub bombings.

The move follows a claim by Charles Haughey, the republic's premier, that the
Guildford Four affair had shown the British Justice system 'could be subverted'.
As with the Guildford case, there has been a strong body of opinion in the
republic and in Britain that the Birmingham Six are innocent.


Chris Mullin, a Labour MP, claims to have interviewed four of the real bombers
and has maintained police knew the identity of at least three, but chose not to
investigate because of the embarrassing consequences. Twenty- one people were
killed and more than 160 hurt when two Birmingham city centre pubs were bombed
in 1974 during one of the worst IRA attacks on mainland Britain.

Mr Hurd has maintained since the freeing last week of the three men and one
woman wrongly convicted of the Guildford pub bombings, in which seven died, that
he is not prepared to re-open the Birmingham case. He says there is no
connection between the two which would merit a further look at the Birmingham
Six, particularly as their case was reviewed by the Court of Appeal 21 months
ago. But the present appeal system is one of the issues concerning the republic.

Gerry Collins, the republic's Foreign Minister, is understood to be preparing a
list of parallels between the two cases; allegations of false confessions
obtained by police, the falsifying of custody records, and lack of substantial
corroborative evidence.

There is the added dimension of allegations of corruption in the now disbanded
West Midlands Serious Crime Squad. Two members involved in the interrogation of
the Birmingham Six have since been moved after allegations of fabricating and
doctoring interviews with defendants.

They are Det Chief Insp Ray Bennett, who was alleged back in 1974 to have
threatened one of the six into making a confession. The other was Det Sgt
Michael Hornby, who also conducted crucial interviews with one of the bomb
suspects.

But Irish sources suggest Mr Collins also wants the discussions to go much
further. He is understood to be concerned at the Government's apparent
determination to ignore a European Court ruling that the arrest and detention
laws on terrorist suspects, empowering detention for seven days without trial,
are a breach of human rights. The Guildford Four were detained under the
Prevention of Terrorism Act, rushed through Parliament in the wake of the
bombings.

The republic is understood to be listing perceived similarities between the
Guildford and Birmingham cases, particularly those which emerged during the
six's appeal before Lord Lane, the Lord Chief Justice, Lord Justice Stephen
Brown and Lord Justice O'Connor, in January 1988.

Lord Lane ruled out the possibility of retrial early in his judgment as 'an
unreal suggestion' after 13 years. He said if there was any doubt about the
men's convictions their appeal would be allowed and convictions quashed. He
ruled there was no doubt.

The judges reached their decision after lawyers for the six challenged the
forensic evidence which suggested three of them had traces of explosive on their
hands. It centred on the Griess Test, employed by Dr Frank Skuse to detect
traces of chemicals linked to explosives. It was suggested by the appellants
that the test was discredited; that it had picked up traces of nitro-cellulose
found in varnish on playing cards handled by two of the men, which Dr Skuse had
confused with nitro-glycerine.

But Lord Lane said if that was the case, it should have been detected on the
hands of the owner of the playing cards, but it was not. He also ruled out
evidence of two former police officers who purported to support claims by the
six - Hugh Callaghan, now 59; Patrick Hill, 44; Robert Hunter, 43; Richard
McIlkenny, 55; William Power, 44, and John Walker 54 - that they had been beaten
into confession.

The judges also dismissed suggestions that a schedule of interviews drawn up by
Det Supt George Reade, which contained alterations, was a blueprint for a
conspiracy to convict the men. The suggestions was 'preposterous', the court
said.

Lord Lane said: 'The longer this trial has gone on, the more convinced this
court has been that the verdict was correct.' It was at an earlier stage of the
case that Lord Denning stated that the Birmingham Six's claims that their
confessions were fabricated and forced out of them could not possibly be true,
because the implications would be too 'appalling' to contemplate.

Letters, page 18

Home News Page 3

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1989 Independent Print Ltd

                              235 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            October 24 1989, Tuesday

Guildford: Ireland's guilt

BYLINE: CONOR CRUISE O'BRIEN

SECTION: Issue 63533.

LENGTH: 1000 words

DATELINE: DUBLIN


For several days now, the decision in the case of the Guildford four has
dominated the media in the Republic of Ireland, eclipsing the San Francisco
earthquake, the Honduras air crash and everything else. And the media, in this
case, reflect the popular mood. There is a feeling of elation in the air, as if
the home team had just won a big match.

Elation, on the face of it, seems excessive. Certain people have been released
after serving 15 years for a crime they did not commit. The release is to be
welcomed, but hardly calls for rejoicing, given the irreversible damage done by
those years. Yet people are rejoicing, there's no mistaking that.


I don't know how much sympathy there is with the Guildford four personally. I
suspect that if there were more sympathy, there would be less of the rejoicing,
which is not so much about individuals as about symbols. In the Irish collective
mind, the four have come to represent ourselves: the Irish people, unjustly
accused, persecuted and finally vindicated.

The rejoicing is, of course, based on a fallacy originating in voluntary
amnesia. What is forgotton because people want to forget it is that although the
four were not responsible for the Guildford bombings, some other Irish people
were. The IRA has admitted that the bombings were its work, and the IRA is still
in business: it has gone on murdering people in Northern Ireland, as a matter of
routine, during the celebrations over the Guildford four. Those murderous
attacks have attracted hardly any attention. The rejoicing implies a denial of
their importance, even perhaps of their existence.

In the popular mood I sense an obscure and wishful feeling that a long nightmare
is over: that there has never really been an IRA campaign of violence, and that
the British themselves have finally admitted this. We were all wrongfully
accused, and have now been acquitted.

One reason the Irish have been so pleased about the Guildford four is that the
storyline is so satisfying to Irish ambivalence about the British. Bad British
people locked up the Guildford four, but then along came good British people who
let them out. On the whole, these last few days, the positive side of that
chronic ambivalence has been in the ascendant. Father Denis Faul, the well-known
Belfast priest who has a very high ambivalence rating of his own spoke for many
in Ireland when he said of the decision: 'It teaches the people in Ireland that
justice can be achieved by peaceful means that the fairminded Englishman is the
one to have on your side.'

Last Saturday, when the rejoicing was at its height, I reminded readers of The
Irish Independent that we would do well to remember the Guildford seven and the
Guildford 89, those killed and those injured in the bombings. I pointed out that
it was the IRA bombings, and the fear and rage they caused and were intended to
cause that brought about all the Guildford suffering, including that of the
four.

On the whole, the results of the release have been positive in terms of
Anglo-Irish relations. There has been less emphasis here on the corrupt nature
of the original court decision, and of the long period during which it was
allowed to stand, than on its reversal. As it was put over the weekend by Peter
Barry, the Republic's former Minister for Foreign Affairs, 'a system of justice
that admits its mistakes is better than one which does not'.

The new decision strengthens the Anglo-Irish Agreement. That is something about
which I myself am ambivalent. On the one hand, I objected to the agreement from
the beginning, on the ground that it was concluded without the consent of a
majority in the territory to which it applies, and accompanied by nauseating
professions about 'reconciling the two traditions in Ireland' while actually
outraging one of them. On the other hand, now that the agreement is in being, I
don't want it to break down with mutual recriminations and damaging
repercussions for security co-operation between the Republic and the United
Kingdom.

Most people in the Republic don't want that to happen either, and Charles
Haughey, the Prime Minister, knows they don't, so it is unlikely that it will.
Haughey will stick with the agreement, even if he does not get his way over the
Ulster Defence Regiment, the Birmingham six, or anything else whatever, because
he will lose votes if he doesn't. That is what secures the agreement on this
side of the Irish Sea.

The people of the Republic value the agreement not because they believe it does
any good in Northern Ireland they know it doesn't, and they don't care but
because it puts Dublin-London relations on a satisfactory basis: suitably
ambivalent, that is. To have an agreement with Britain and to use it to complain
to the British is most acceptable to the ambivalant.

In the days since the Guildford decision, I have sensed strange stirrings in the
national psyche. There are more feelings of guilt than I had imagined; only that
can account for the extravagant celebrations. The guilt is an acknowledgement
that our political culture and values have bred and nourished the IRA. But there
is also fear, of the unknown destination towards which the IRA's seemingly
endless 'armed struggle' is taking us.

It may seem odd that such dark feelings should find expression in celebration,
but on the whole I think such feelings are healthy, for they are part of the
heartfelt rejection of the IRA that has been taking place in the Republic in
recent years, most especially since the Poppy Day massacre at Enniskillen in
1987.

The national ambivalence has shifted heavily towards rejection of the IRA, and
that cannot happen without arousing a feeling of guilt. The ambivalent person
cannot reject the IRA without feeling guilty about that part of his personality
which has sustained the murderers for so long.

And this was the part of our collective personality that was acquitted in the
symbolic persons of the Guildford four.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              236 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                                The Independent

                            October 27 1989, Friday

Gunmen kill baby and RAF corporal

BYLINE: CATHERINE FIELD, NICHOLAS TIMMINS and TERRY KIRBY

LENGTH: 452 words


An off-duty corporal in the RAF and his six-month-old daughter were shot dead in
West Germany last night in what appeared to be the latest of the recent series
of IRA attacks on British targets on the Continent.

The killings occurred near a BP petrol station in Wildenrath, close to the RAF
base of the same name, near Rhine Army headquarters at Moenchengladbach, about
12 miles from the Dutch border. Last night the dead man was named as Maheshkumar
Islania, 34, a supervisor at the base's communications centre.


The attack happened in one of Wildenrath's main streets at about 6.55pm. Two men
opened fire with automatic weapons as the corporal, his wife and child were
apparently leaving either the garage or a nearby snack bar.

The corporal's wife survived and was said to be unhurt but was last night in
hospital in 'deep shock.'

Witnesses said the two attackers ran to a getaway car which was driven by a
third man.

The attack is presumed to be the work of the IRA and fits into the pattern of
attacks in West Germany, the Netherlands and Belgium which now stretch back over
two and half years.

A number of soldiers and RAF personnel have been killed by terrorists using guns
and Semtex plastic explosive.

Security precautions have been in operation for more than two years but were
further stepped up last month, when the IRA killed the German wife of a British
soldier. Heidi Hazell, 26, the wife of a staff sergeant, was shot dead as she
sat in her car in a quiet suburb of Dortmund.

Her killer was dressed as a British soldier in camouflage jacket, khaki trousers
and beret. The IRA said later that it had believed Mrs Hazell was a soldier.

After that attack, an Army spokesman said: 'We believe this was a deliberate
attack. It appears there's a psychopathic murderer on the loose.'

It was the third attack on a British Army post this year. In July one soldier
was killed and his wife and three children wounded in a car bomb attack in
Hanover. A month earlier, the IRA attacked a barracks at Osnabrck but there were
no casualties.

This year's attacks were the latest in a wave which began in 1987 with a car
bomb at Rheindahlen. In the worst incident, three soldiers were killed in two
attacks in the Netherlands after being followed from their German bases.

RAF Wildenrath is one of Britain's major air bases in West Germany.

Tom King, the Secretary of State for Defence, said last night that he was deeply
shocked by 'this vicious murder', and asked for an immediate report.

British military authorities were working closely with their German counterparts
in an effort to bring those responsible to justice, Mr King said.

Home News Page 6

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1989 Independent Print Ltd

                              237 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            October 27 1989, Friday

Gunmen kill British airman and baby; West Germany

BYLINE: From IAN MURRAY in Bonn and DAVID SAPSTED and MARK SOUSTER

SECTION: Issue 63536.

LENGTH: 997 words


An RAF corporal and his baby daughter were shot and killed by terrorists thought
to be IRA at a petrol station near RAF Wildenrath, 10 miles west of
Monchengladbach early last night.

The dead man was named as Maheshkumar Islania, aged 34. Corporal Islania, known
as Mick, was a supervisor at the RAF base where he was said to be very popular
and a member of the cricket team. He had been awarded his long service and good
conduct medals this year, having joined the RAF in 1974.


His baby daughter Niurutimahesh, who was killed with him, was born on April 24
this year. Her mother, Smita, whose family live in Bombay, was said to be very
severely shocked but not physically injured. She was taken to hospital.

The West German police special anti-terrorist squad has been put in charge of
the inquiry. Investigators believe that the killing has all the hallmarks of an
attack by the IRA.

The family were caught in a hail of bullets as they stopped their car in the
forecourt of the BP petrol station at 6.55pm, just as dusk was falling.
Witnesses told police that the woman was driving the British registered car.

Police said that two men were seen firing into the vehicle at close range on the
passengers' side before they ran off to a waiting yellow-brown Ford Combi,
driven by a third man. The car, West German registered DT-CV 764, set off at
high speed on a road leading towards the Dutch border.

They had fired 10 shots from their automatic weapons, instantly killing Corporal
Islania, who was in the passenger seat, and the baby, who was strapped in the
back.

Herr Willy Otten was at the garage when the shooting occurred. He said that the
two men had been seen skulking around as dusk fell.

The car containing Corporal Islania and his family had stopped at a snack
counter by the garage and was just being driven away by the wife when the two
men rushed forward and began firing into the passenger side.

He said the car slewed out of control across the road and ran into a garden,
where it stopped. The gunmen then ran up and fired through the back window
before climbing into their waiting getaway car. The shooting technique is the
same used twice already in West Germany this year by IRA gunmen, who have
wounded two teenage soldiers and killed a women.

After the shooting last month by the IRA of Mrs Heidi Hazell, the German wife of
a British soldier at a married quarters just outside Dortmund, security has been
stepped up for 'soft' targets, such as housing estates in civilian areas.
However, The petrol station, which is commonly used by the many British service
personal using the area, because it sells tax-free petrol to them, was not
included in these new special arrangements.

This year, apart from the killing of Mrs Hazell, one British army corporal was
killed by a car bomb in Hanover in August, shortly after the IRA let it be known
it was launching a campaign against military targets to mark the 20th
anniversary of troops being sent to serve in Northern Ireland.

The IRA's first attack against British troops stationed on the exploded at
Rheindalen, the British Army of the Rhine headquarters near Monchengladbach.

In May 1988, two airmen based in West Germany were murdered, one shot and the
other killed by a car bomb, in Holland. Shortly afterwards a bomb was found and
safely defused on a barracks at Bielefeld.

In July of last year a bomb smuggled into a barracks at Duisburg wounded nine
men when it exploded. The following month another bomb went off in a Dusseldorf
barracks, wounding five.

In September last year a sergeant-major was shot in his car in Ostend just
before boarding a ferry. After that the distinctive licence plates of the BAOR
were switched for British plates.

All military personnel and their families were put on red alert with the 20th
anniversary this year of troops being sent to Northern Ireland. Despite extra
security arrangements, however, the IRA has been murderously successful, largely
thanks to switching its attacks away from obvious military targets like barracks
to 'soft' targets like married quarters.

The last attempt on a barracks was on June 19, this year, when a German
nightwatchmen disturbed a 'bomb squad' as it was planting five Semtex devices at
Quebec barracks in Osnabruck. One exploded, causing no injuries. After that the
IRA seems to have decided it was easier not to try to infiltrate military
establishments.

Outside a married quarters in a Hanover residential district, Corporal Steven
Smith was blown up and his wife and four children injured on July 2 by a car
bomb which exploded as he was taking the family out for a drive.

On September 1 two soldiers in civilian clothes were seriously injured when they
were gunned down in a Munster street. A week later Mrs Heidi Hazell, the German
wife of a British staff sergeant, was machinegunned as she parked her car
outside the flats they lived in at Unna, near Dortmund.

West German police, who are in charge of all the investigations, want the
extradition of five people, two held in Ireland and three held in France, for
the two bombings this year. They are also holding two men, who may have been
involved in the shootings in Holland and Belgium, who are due to go on trial
next April. The latest shooting, however, shows that either one active service
unit is still operating in BAOR territory, or that a specialist with a thorough
knowledge of service life, is calling up a unit to execute carefully worked out
plans.

RAF Wildenrath is one of Britain's biggest air bases in West Germany. An RAF
statement said the Air Force was outraged and horrified at the senseless
killings.

In London Mr Tom King, the Defence Secretary, said he was deeply shocked by this
vicious murder, and asked for an immediate report. He said the British military
authorities were working closely with their West German counterparts in an
effort to bring those responsible to justice.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              238 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                November 3, 1989

Germans deny Lockerbie claim

BYLINE: By RICHARD NORTON-TAYLOR, DAVID PALLISTER and SAMANTHA SPARKS IN
Washington

LENGTH: 404 words


THE West German federal criminal investigations office, BKA, yesterday denied
claims by Pan Am lawyers that it issued a warning of suspicious activities 90
minutes before the Lockerbie flight took off from Frankfurt.

Pan Am flight 103 exploded over Lockerbie on December 21, killing all 259 people
on board and 11 on the ground. It originated at Frankfurt. Passengers and
baggage transferred to a jumbo jet at Heathrow.


Subpoenas lodged by Pan Am in US courts refer to 'warnings from the BKA within
the 90 minutes before the scheduled departure .. to the effect that suspicious
activities appeared to be taking place in the area where the baggage for Pan Am
flight 103 was being loaded.'

But Mr Willi Fundermann, of the BKA in Wiesbaden, said the agency gave no
warning.

The Pan Am documents also refer to warnings from Mossad, the Israeli secret
service, between 24 and 36 hours before the day of the flight.

In a statement issued in Damascus, the Popular Front for the Liberation of
Palestine General Command denied involvment in the attack.

Monzer Al-Kassar, the Syrian arms dealer named in Pan Am's subpoena, was
convicted and deported from Britain for smuggling cannabis more than 10 years
ago, police sources said.

US intelligence reports describe him as a member of one of the largest Syrian
arms and drug dealing families.

But beyond his being an arms supplier to Palestinian groups, the reason for Pan
Am to identify him remains a mystery. The subpoena seeks information about his
activities in relation to possible warnings of a terrorist attack, the planning
and execution of the bombing, and drug smuggling at Frankfurt airport.

In Britain he is classed as an 'undesirable alien'. In the US he is under
investigation by just about every law enforcement agency. Yet according to
accounts during the Irangate congressional hearings he was paid Dollars 1.5
million for supplying arms to the contras from a CIA Swiss bank account.

He gave evidence at the 1983 trial of John Berry, a Norfolk businessman charged
with supplying electronic timers to terrorists. Berry was jailed for eight
years.

The sentence was quashed on appeal but reinstated by the House of Lords. By then
Berry had fled to Spain, where al-Kassar lives. This year Spain returned Berry
to Britain, where he is in prison awaiting a further appeal hearing.

Monzer Al-Kassar: role remains a mystery

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              239 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                                The Independent

                            November 7 1989, Tuesday

Warning against haven for Ryan

BYLINE: COLIN BROWN, Political Correspondent

LENGTH: 417 words


BRITAIN'S European allies were yesterday warned against offering a haven to
Patrick Ryan, the Irish priest wanted in connection with alleged terrorist
charges.

Sir Patrick Mayhew, the Attorney General, told MPs in the Commons: 'If Mr Ryan
is located in any country outside this jurisdiction with which we have means of
securing his arrest so that he may be brought to face trial here, then those
steps will be taken.


'I give you this assurance: the Director of Public Prosecutions and the
prosecuting authorities in this country will take all steps upon them to ensure
Mr Ryan faces trial.'

The legal battle over Mr Ryan has been protracted and the cause of deep
irritation in Anglo-Irish relations since Britain failed to extradite him from
Belgium more than a year ago.

Britain had hoped to extradite him from Ireland, but, when that failed, the
Attorney General sent the papers to Dublin for his prosecution there.

It was reported that more than half the 60 potential witness had told the
Metropolitan Police that they did not wish to give evidence in Dublin. The Irish
authorities decided that there was insufficient evidence to convict Mr Ryan on
the British charges and released him. Mr Ryan then initiated proceedings against
some newspapers for alleged libel.

Sir Patrick's response in the Commons yesterday was seen as a commitment to
pursue Mr Ryan if he leaves Ireland for Europe or America. However, the Irish
authorities remain convinced that Britain would have difficulty bringing an
action in any other European court.

'We found there was insufficient evidence on which to convict him and we presume
that is how other European courts would see it,' one Dublin source said.

Mr Ryan has strenuously denied the allegations against him, that he helped to
buy timers for terrorist bomb-making equipment.

Britain does not intend to allow the Ryan affair to continue souring Anglo-Irish
relations, but it has proved a diplomatic embarrassment in the past. It was one
of the issues at the Rhodes summit, when Mrs Thatcher met Charles Haughey, the
Taoiseach.

During his extradition tussle in Ireland, Mr Ryan admitted using a false
passport and to having books on explosives, but said these were 'of no
significance'. He denied that during the past 14 years he had purchased arms for
the IRA or anybody else. During his period in Ulster he was raising money for
victims of the political situation on the nationalist side, he said.

Home News Page 2

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1989 Independent Print Ltd

                              240 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          November 15 1989, Wednesday

Government to defy ruling over detention

BYLINE: RICHARD FORD, Political Correspondent

SECTION: Issue 63552.

LENGTH: 320 words


The Government is to defy a European Court ruling and retain powers to hold
terrorist suspects for up to seven days because of the threat posed to the
nation by terrorism linked to Northern Ireland.

Ministers have been unable to find a way of obeying the ruling without losing
the chance of the lengthy detentions the security forces say they need. Mr David
Waddington, Home Secretary, yesterday said Britain was derogating from the
ruling for as long as circumstances required.


He said: 'The Government believes that in the context of the continued threat to
the United Kingdom, on a scale unknown elsewhere in Europe, posed by terrorism
connected with the affairs of Northern Ireland, the power to hold terrorist
suspects for a period of up to seven days is essential.'

The decision could be open to further challenge in the European Court as
derogation is only justified under Article 15 of the convention 'in time of war
or other public emergency threatening the life of the nation'. Although the
Government might find it easy to argue the case for Ulster, some sources at
Westminster say it would be more difficult to make the case for the rest of the
UK.

Ministers are prepared to counter the argument that the UK as a whole is not
facing a public emergency by pointing out that more than 1,800 have died since
1974 as a result of terrorism linked to Northern Ireland, with recent
Provisional IRA attacks at Deal and on the Continent.

Last year the European Court decided that powers under the Prevention of
Terrorism Act allowing the detention of suspects for seven days breached Article
5 of the European Convention on Human Rights. That stipulates that defendants
must be brought promptly before a court.

The Government's decision was attacked by Labour, which accused it of showing
contempt for the European Court and of refusing to abide by basic standards of
international law.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              241 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           November 16 1989, Thursday

Bombers may have been in UK for months; Kensington IRA car bomb

BYLINE: JAMIE DETTMER, STEWART TENDLER and EDWARD GORMAN

SECTION: Issue 63553.

LENGTH: 570 words


The IRA unit responsible for planting the booby-trap bomb intended for
Lieutenant-General Sir David Ramsbotham used equipment and techniques which are
being discarded by republican terrorists based in Northern Ireland, according to
security sources.

The difference in equipment probably means that the IRA terrorists who planted
the bomb in Kelso Place, Kensington, west London, have been based in Britain for
a considerable time and have been out of touch with their superiors for many
months.


Police fingerprint experts and Army explosives specialists have begun
examination of the bomb. The device could provide key information which will be
married with RUC files on a score of similar bombs in Ulster.

As work was under way yesterday at Scotland Yard and the Royal Armaments Defence
Establishment in Kent, Mr David Waddington, Home Secretary, reinforced a
Scotland Yard warning to VIPs to take care.

Police sources said Sir David was not among more than 100 names on an IRA
research list found by police at a Clapham bomb factory early this year.

Security sources in Northern Ireland say that the bomb fixed underneath a car
owned by one of Sir David's neighbours is typical of booby-trap devices used in
Northern Ireland until last spring. The bomb planted in Kensington was made of
5lb of Semtex, the Czech-made plastic explosive, a timer and a mercury-tilt
device, packed in a large plastic box. It was held together by masking tape and
fixed to the car chassis by an orange Sea-Searcher magnet, widely used in the
fishing industry.

In Northern Ireland, IRA bombers use powerful black magnets and smaller boxes
for the explosive and detonators. They disguise the devices under black masking
tape.

The IRA used the better disguised version for the first time in February to kill
a retired police inspector. The security forces believe that Mr Gabriel Mullaly
checked his car, but failed to see the device. IRA bomb-makers have been
updating anti-personnel car bombs since they were first used in the 1970s. The
two biggest developments in IRA anti-personnel bombs were the introduction of
mercury-tilt triggering devices and the abundant supply of Semtex explosive.

The mercury-tilt device triggers an explosion when the target car is driven
away, but one-hour timers reduce danger to the bombers.

Army bomb-disposal experts have also tried to develop ways of counteracting IRA
bombs over the years. They have concentrated their efforts recently on trying to
repel magnets used in the bombs.

Last summer, they examined the possibility of placing resilient plastic sheeting
on the underside of cars belonging to senior policemen and civil servants in the
province. Mr Oliver Molloy, a business manager, is the only person to survive a
Semtex anti-personnel car-bomb explosion. Police believe the tilt device put
under his car last February went off prematurely before he had got in the
vehicle. Even so, he lost a leg and suffered burns.

A man was killed last night in Co Tyrone when a car he was driving exploded and
caught fire at Killymaddy on the main road between Ballygawly and Dungannon.

The man who has not been named was in his thirties and had supplied equipment to
the security forces. He was the father of three children.

The RUC said about 2lb of Semtex was used in the device hidden under the car. It
was probably activated by a bump in the road.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              242 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                                The Independent

                            November 17 1989, Friday

SA police murder squad exposed: A former officer says South African security
chiefs set up a terror network and approved assassinations, kidnappings and
bombings

BYLINE: JOHN CARLIN

LENGTH: 992 words


IN TESTIMONY which presents President F W de Klerk with a devastating challenge
to his claim that he seeks drastic political change in South Africa, a former
captain in the security police has confessed to having headed a special death
squad, formed under orders from the country's highest-ranking police officers,
to eliminate enemies of the government.

He also revealed detailed information of a police-run terror network which
operated both within and outside the country.


It is the first time that hard evidence has emerged from inside police ranks to
confirm long- standing suspicions that the South African security forces have
carried out assassinations, 'disappearances' and bomb attacks, with suspected
members of the African National Congress almost always the targets. It is the
first time too that inside information has placed responsibility on the South
African intelligence services for the bombing of an ANC office in London in
1982.

In an interview with Vrye Weekblad, an Afrikaans weekly newspaper based in
Johannesburg, Captain Dirk Johannes Coetzee implicated several senior figures as
being behind the terror operations.

Repeated calls by human rights organisations for a commission of inquiry to
investigate allegations of police involvement in political assassinations have
yielded no response. For Mr de Klerk to fail to respond now would, in all
likelihood, do great damage to the reformist image he has cultivated. On the
other hand, a thorough inquiry could provoke dangerous tensions among the
country's powerful, and lately simmering, right wing.

Capt Coetzee, 44, left the country last week to start a new life. A Vrye
Weekblad reporter who has been tracking him for months, Jacques Pauw, spoke to
him in Mauritius last week.

Capt Coetzee said: 'I was in the heart of the whore. I know the deepest secrets
of this unit which was above the law. I am guilty of, or at least an accomplice
to, several murders.'

He related how captured ANC guerrillas were made to 'disappear', their bodies
burnt to ashes after they had been shot at point- blank range with Soviet
pistols. He also told of poisonings of anti-apartheid actvists; of ex- ANC
guerrillas - known as 'Askaris' - who were forced to switch allegiance and then
used as killers; how the explosives used to blow up the London office of the ANC
had been smuggled into Britain in the South African Embassy's diplomatic bag.

He also identified a police- owned farm near Pretoria, known as Vlakplaas, as
the operations and training centre for his own hit team.

In total he admitted knowledge of, or direct responsibility in, 10
assassinations, as well as various attempted killings, kidnappings and bombings.
Capt Coetzee said he headed a death squad which operated underground, in
civilian dress, from 1980 to 1982. After that, he said, he kept abreast of
subsequent alleged police terrorist actions through friends in the police until
his retirement, which he said was due to ill-health, in 1986. He decided to tell
his story after Butana Almond Nofomela, a condemned murderer given a temporary
stay of execution hours before he was due to hang, signed an affidavit that he
had been a member of Capt Coetzee's death squad. Capt Coetzee feared that he
would be arrested and made a scapegoat for the killings.

One of the many unsolved political assassinations this decade was of Griffiths
Mxenge, a Durban lawyer and prominent anti- apartheid activist. Capt Coetzee's
story corroborated and expanded on the version provided by Nofomela.

'In November 1981 I was called to Durban from Vlakplaas . . . where I was told
to kill Mxenge. I was told to make it appear like a robbery because . . . the
police didn't want another Biko case.'

Capt Coetzee obtained information on Mr Mxenge's movements from the Durban
police and then dispatched four of his 'Askaris', including Nofomela, to carry
out the killing. 'I made it clear to them that he had to be stabbed and not shot
. . . They told me how they stopped him, kidnapped him and took him to the
Umlazi stadium where they stabbed him to death. They also slit his throat and
cut off his ears . . . The Askaris received 1,000 Rand ( pounds 500) each for
their good work.'

Capt Coetzee said he organised the bombing of an ANC house in Swaziland which
resulted in the deaths of an activist called Patrick Maku and a small child.

An attempt to kill the ANC's top military commander, Chris Hani, in Lesotho,
another small neighbouring state, backfired when a car bomb exploded
prematurely, mutilating the ANC informer who placed it.

Capt Coetzee also said he had a hand in the death of Ruth First, the wife of the
secretary general of the ANC-allied South African Communist Party, Joe Slovo. Ms
First, whose story was told in the film A World Apart, was killed by a letter
bomb in Maputo, the capital of Mozambique, in August 1982. The envelope used,
which bore the seal of the UN, had been stolen by Captain Coetzee himself,
although he said he did not directly organise that killing.

Capt Coetzee said a British citizen working as a South African intelligence
agent placed the 1982 bomb at the ANC office in London. 'Afterwards, (he) said
that the explosives used to blow up the ANC offices had been smuggled to him in
the South African Embassy's diplomatic bag. That was also his unofficial courier
service through which (senior police officers) stayed in contact with him.'

Capt Coetzee said that there were four other units based at Vlakplaas which were
assigned to operate all over the country. In the past 10 years there have been
at least 80 cases of unsolved assassinations of political enemies of the South
African government, roughly half of them inside the country, half abroad. The
most recent, on 1 May, was the evidently highly professional daylight shooting
of an anti-apartheid academic, David Webster. That killing remains unsolved.

Title Page 1

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1989 Independent Print Ltd

                              243 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            November 19 1989, Sunday

IRA in double strike; Mayobridge and Colchester bombings

BYLINE: MAURICE CHITTENDEN and LIAM CLARKE

SECTION: Issue 8623.

LENGTH: 811 words


THE IRA killed three paratroopers and badly injured a military police sergeant
and his wife in bombings in Northern Ireland and Essex yesterday.

The three paratroopers were killed and a fourth seriously injured when their
Land-Rover was blown up on a road near Mayobridge in Co Down.


Staff Sergeant Andrew Mudd, 33, and his wife were injured when a booby-trap bomb
blew up their car in the garrison town of Colchester, Essex.

Security sources believe both attacks were part of a renewed terrorist campaign
against the military on a front which stretches from Northern Ireland to West
Germany.

The Mayobridge bomb is thought to have been concealed behind a stone wall on a
road beside an isolated chapel. It was triggered by a command wire just after
2.15pm.

The victims were members of The Parachute Regiment, based at Aldershot,
Hampshire. They were on patrol in the foothills of the Mourne mountains, a few
miles from Warrenpoint, where 18 paratroopers were killed 10 years ago.

Last night, Brian Oliver, the mayor of Aldershot, said he was horrified at the
'senseless, cold-blooded murder'. He added: 'When an atrocity like this occurs
it hits every family living in Aldershot the town's people go into mourning.'

Julian Critchley, Aldershot's Tory MP, said: 'The people of Aldershot have coped
with previous atrocities and will no doubt learn to live with this one in time.'

The mainland victims were a husband and wife leaving home to go shopping. As
they climbed into their red Volkswagen Golf car outside their married quarters
in Messines Road, Colchester, at 10.25am, it was wrecked by an explosion that
blew off the vehicle's doors.

The sergeant lost both his legs in the blast. His wife was badly cut by flying
glass. Both were pulled from the car by an off-duty lieutenant before it burst
into flames.

They were taken to Colchester general hospital, where the sergeant was later
said to be seriously ill.

Last night, detectives were hunting an IRA gang suspected of planting a Semtex
device under the driver's seat of the car, primed to detonate at the slightest
movement.

The bombing has renewed fears about security at mainland military bases. Tom
King, the defence secretary and former Northern Ireland secretary, had visited
the garrison 24 hours earlier to review security measures.

He and John Wakeham, the energy secretary and MP for Colchester South, whose
first wife was killed by an IRA bomb at the Conservative party conference at
Brighton in 1984, spent Friday evening at a dinner party for Tory party workers
in an officers' mess club less than a mile from the explosion.

Wakeham said last night: 'I am horrified and revolted that the IRA should attack
people in this way. It is terribly upsetting. I know from personal experience
what their relatives must be going through.'

Security was heightened for the ministers' visit. But people living near the
married quarters say they can walk through the area unchallenged.

The injured staff sergeant is one of 4,500 soldiers from the 19th Infantry
Brigade stationed in Colchester. The brigade includes the Royal Anglian
Regiment, units of which have recently served in Northern Ireland.

Attacks against soldiers and their families have become an increasing feature of
the IRA campaign against British units in West Germany.

The IRA has said that military staff and their relatives are justifiable
targets. A spate of attacks in West Germany has killed not only British
servicemen, but a soldier's wife and an RAF corporal's six-month-old daughter.

Security at barracks and military bases across Britain was stepped up after the
IRA bombing at the Royal Marines School of Music in Deal, Kent, in September,
when 11 bandsmen were killed.

Armed soldiers have replaced private security firms. But a town such as
Colchester, an army garrison since Roman times, is notoriously difficult to
protect.

Paul Felton, 38, a building worker, said: 'There has been no noticeable step-up
in security. Road barriers have been installed on entrances to married quarters,
but the barriers are rarely lowered unless there is an exercise. I often walk my
dog unchallenged through the married quarters.'

Felton heard the blast while he was working on the outside of his house. 'The
whole car was engulfed in flames. When the fireman got the couple out, the
soldier had lost both his legs and the woman was covered in blood.'

The prime minister described the bombings as 'absolutely terrible'. Arriving in
Paris for the EC summit, she said: 'Once again we have seen the cowardice of the
terrorist.'

Later, she discussed the outrages with Charles Haughey, the Irish prime
minister. 'I said the absolutely vital thing was that the IRA found no safe
haven anywhere and that we both take all steps possible to catch them, ' she
said.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              244 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 20, 1989

Town's security flaws exposed

BYLINE: By ANDREW CULF

LENGTH: 483 words


THE people of Colchester have known for years that the Essex town could be a
prime target for IRA terrorists. It is the third largest garrison town in
Britain, base for 4,500 troops and their families and the army's Eastern
District headquarters.

The division between the civilian part of the town and the barracks is blurred,
presenting army chiefs with an enormous security headache. The weekend's attack
showed just how easy it was for the bombers to strike, despite increased
security in the wake of the bombing at Deal two months ago.


The car belonging to Staff Sergeant Andrew Mudd, under which a bomb was placed,
was parked in a private road on an estate of married quarters at Goojerat
Barracks. There was a public right of way on the road, as there is on much of
the garrison area, and the flimsy security barrier was often left open and
unguarded.

Mr Peter Simpson, the deputy Chief Constable of Essex, acknowledges the problem.
'Everybody knows the geography of the area. It is a very large area indeed and
military and civilian people do mix very closely. Everyone must be on their
guard and be most vigilant in looking after their own security.'

Mr Tom King, the Defence Secretary, praised security at Colchester when he
visited the town last Friday. He said: 'People are very alert to the threats,
but this (Royal Anglian) regiment is an experienced regiment in terms of
Northern Ireland and they have some knowledge of what they may face.'

A former mayor of Colchester, Mrs Joyce Brooks, the local ward councillor, said:
'We have always felt that perhaps we would get a bomb attack one day. But,
tragic as it is, it could have been even worse. It could have been in the pub
100 yards away, which is full of troops every night.'

Mrs Brooks, leader of the Conservatives on the council, added: 'Security becomes
a way of life - we have always thought we have been lucky. 'The garrison is an
integral part of Colchester and we have always been very proud as a town to be
associated with the garrison.'

Mr John Clouting, an insurance company manager, who saw the immediate effects of
the blast from his bedroom window, said security had been noticeably stepped up
since the summer. 'But because of the large areas involved it is difficult to
have 100 per cent security, and it is impossible for them to keep an eye on
everything.'

Mrs Debbie Noakes, who lives two doors away from the victims, said security was
not tight and the barriers at the end of the road were often left open.

However, since the Deal bombing, residents said there had been more army checks
on cars and extra barriers had been installed.

Major Alick Finlayson, Chief of Staff of the 19th Infantry Brigade, said: 'You
can rest assured that the measures we have taken are commensurate with the
threat.' It was too early to say whether security would have to be reviewed.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              245 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                                The Independent

                            November 20 1989, Monday

Booby-traps warning after Colchester blast

BYLINE: NICK COHEN

LENGTH: 493 words


STAFF SERGEANT Andrew Mudd, who lost both legs when an IRA car bomb exploded in
Colchester on Saturday, regained consciousness yesterday as the Home Secretary
and the Ministry of Defence called for increased vigilance.

The IRA's return to the tactic of booby- trapping unattended vehicles - last
used on the British mainland in the Harrods bombing six years ago - led to
warnings to servicemen not to leave anything in their cars which showed they had
military connections. Evidence from West Germany shows precautionary checks
under cars can prevent IRA attacks.


Since July, when Steven Smith, a lance corporal aged 31, died in a car bomb
explosion in Hanover, the saturation warnings on British forces radio and in
posters and leaflets about the need to check vehicles have led to one car bomb
being found.

However, the IRA has responded to the threat of discovery by reducing further
its victims' chances of escape and by picking even 'softer' targets.

On 7 September, Heidi Hazell, the German wife of a British staff sergeant, was
shot dead near Dortmund. Six weeks later an RAF sergeant and his baby daughter
were killed 12 miles from the Dutch border by men using automatic rifles.

In Britain, haphazard layout of barracks and bases often rules out tight
security.

The Colchester bomb exploded underneath Sgt Mudd's Volkswagen close to the
married quarters area for Goojerat Barracks. The estate borders civilian houses
and is close to Colchester United football ground. It has only a wooden fence
for protection and it is virtually impossible to seal off from the rest of the
town.

Public roads run through many military bases. In Colchester, the Army garrison
sprawls across a large area and its associated married quarters are accessible
to all.

The ministry has always argued that to increase security at mainland bases to a
level which would prevent IRA attacks would be hugely expensive and play into
the hands of terrorists.

Yesterday, it refused to discuss the details of precautions, beyond saying
security was always under review.

It has, however, been widely assumed that the IRA bombing at the Royal Marines
School of Music in Deal, Kent, last September, which killed 11 bandsmen, has
forced tighter security restrictions.

The Home Secretary, David Waddington, yesterday renewed his warning to everyone
to be extra 'vigilant and alert'.

Essex police said the two men wanted in connection with the Colchester bombing
were seen near a telephone kiosk close to the barracks shortly after the
explosion. A dark car was seen leaving the lay-by where the bomb was planted
beneath Sgt Mudd's car just hours before the blast.

The spokesman said one man was aged about 30, 5ft 7in tall and of medium build.
He had long, fair hair, a moustache and blue eyes, and was wearing jeans.

The second was aged 40, about 5ft 8in and of stocky build, with short, dark hair
and glasses.

Home News Page 2

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1989 Independent Print Ltd

                              246 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            November 20 1989, Monday

Bombings rekindle criticism of Brooke; Peter Brooke

BYLINE: EDWARD GORMAN, Irish Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: Issue 63556.

LENGTH: 188 words


Mr Peter Brooke, Secretary of State for Northern Ireland, was last night facing
renewed criticism from Unionist leaders and members of his own party in the wake
of weekend violence by the IRA which killed three members of The Parachute
Regiment in Co Down and seriously injured an Army staff sergeant in Colchester,
Essex.

Criticism of Mr Brooke has gathered momentum since the publication earlier this
month of an interview in which he indicated that the Government might eventually
have to negotiate with Sinn Fein, the IRA's political wing.


Yesterday, claiming responsibility for the bombings, the Provisionals quoted Mr
Brooke's own words: 'Clearly the IRA cannot be beaten.'

Mr Jim Nicholson, the Official Unionist MEP, said: 'This is the start of an IRA
upsurge encouraged by Peter Brooke's remarks.'

Mr Ivor Stanbrook, Conservative MP for Orpington, said the IRA statement
underlined how 'foolish' Mr Brooke's comments had been.

Britain may seek the extradition from the United States of Siobhan O'Hanlon, who
has been accused of being the fourth member of the IRA team ambushed in
Gibraltar.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              247 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            November 20 1989, Monday

IRA pair and car hunted in bombing of garrison; Colchester

BYLINE: STEPHEN WARR and STEWART TENDLER

SECTION: Issue 63556.

LENGTH: 755 words


Police were last night hunting two men who were seen walking away from the scene
of the Colchester bomb which blew the legs off an army sergeant and seriously
injured his wife on Saturday.

The men were spotted near a telephone kiosk minutes after the explosion, which
has reinforced fears of an intense IRA Christmas bombing campaign on the
mainland.


Detectives also want to trace a dark-coloured saloon car which was driven away
from the parking space where the explosion occurred at the Goojerat barracks
four hours before the bomb went off.

Last night it was believed that the injured man, Sergeant Andrew Mudd, a
military policeman, was involved in foiling an attempt on the life of Mr Gerry
Adams, the Sinn Fein leader, five years ago.

He is believed to have been one of a group of plainclothes soldiers who rammed a
car carrying three 'loyalist' terrorists in March 1984. They had opened fire on
Mr Adams hitting him in the neck, shoulders and arm.

It is believed that Sergeant Mudd, who was serving at the time as a corporal
with the Royal Military Police, was later mentioned in dispatches. Mr Adams
recovered from his injuries.

Last night the Ministry of Defence refused to confirm or deny the victim of the
bomb explosion was the same man who had captured the terrorists belonging to the
outlawed Ulster Freedom Fighters.

Police believe that the Colchester device was planted during the night after Mr
Tom King, Secretary of State for Defence, had left the garrison town late on
Friday and that he was in no danger. He was never closer than a mile to the
scene of the bomb when he visited the officer's mess.

Security at the garrison was stepped up recently in the wake of the Deal
barracks bombing in which 11 Marine bandsmen lost their lives in an IRA attack.

During dinner at the barracks Mr King discussed the terrorist threat on mainland
Britain with his fellow guest, Mr John Wakeham, MP for

Colchester, who was severely injured in the IRA blast that killed his wife at
the Conservative conference in Brighton in 1984. In a radio interview Mr King
said he was satisfied with the security arrangements for the 3rd Royal Anglian
Regiment.

Yesterday the IRA claimed responsibility for the explosion in the Essex garrison
town and the killings of three solidiers in Northern Ireland.

The soldiers killed in Saturday's attack on a mobile patrol of the 3rd Battalion
The Parachute Regiment in Co Down were named last night as Lance Corporal
Stephen Paul Wilson, aged 23, of Worcester; Private Donald Cameron Macaulay,
aged 20, of Liverpool; and Private Matthew Edward Marshall, aged 21, of Welwyn
Garden City.

The IRA also said it had planted the bomb aimed at Lt Gen Sir David Ramsbotham,
Commander of the UK Field Army, in London which was found under a neighbour's
car.

The IRA unit which planted the Colchester bomb deliberately changed its tactics
to make discovery of the bomb more difficult.

Other devices planted in cars in Northern Ireland and used against Sir David
were hidden beneath car bodies but at Colchester the bomb was placed in the
front wheel arch on the driver's side.

The terrorists knew that after the failed London bomb last week drivers who
considered themselves at risk might check under their cars but probably not
think of the wheel arches. The bomb was attached by a magnet.

Last night, Commander George Churchill-Coleman, the head of Scotland Yard's
anti-terrorist branch, widened his warning against fresh terrorist attacks. He
urged anyone in the military or civil service who might have a Northern Ireland
connection to take greater care.

A soldier friend said yesterday that Sgt Mudd had struggled to get his wife
Margaret out of their wrecked Volkswagen Golf GTi car despite his severe
injuries.

Sgt Mudd, aged 33, father of two, was yesterday well enough to sit up in his
hospital bed in the intensive care unit and received visits from his wife,
relatives and the garrison commander.

The police believe the bomb could be the work of a small IRA active service unit
which had moved into the area to study the garrison as a possible bomb target.

One of the men police wish to interview is said to be in his thirties, with long
fair hair and moustache. He has blue eyes and was wearing jeans. The other is
aged about 40, with a stocky build and has short dark hair and glasses. Both are
of medium height.

'We want to hear from anybody who might have rented out rooms or houses
recently, ' police said.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              248 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                           November 21, 1989, Tuesday

ROWDY SCREEN TEST LAUNCHES TURBULENT TIME FOR PARLIAMENT

BYLINE:  Chris Moncrieff, Press Association Chief Political Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 1393 words


The House of Commons moved rowdily into the television age today as millions
watched Mrs Thatcher defend a massive and contentious Government programme of
reforms.  As TV cameras glared down on MPs, Labour leader Neil Kinnock moved
swiftly to pinpoint where the bloodiest battlegrounds will lie among the 15
major Bills listed earlier in the Queen's Speech The speech, which set out the
Tory agenda for the next nine months, heralded what promises to be one of the
most turbulent Parliamentary sessions since the Prime Minister came to power
more than 10 years ago.  Mr Kinnock, to noisy support from his backbenchers,
vowed Labour would fight "root and branch" many of the planned reforms.  He
singled out for special attention the proposed shake-up of the National Health
Service.  The Opposition, he said, would employ a "special hostility" against
measures which he claimed would not reform the NHS, but "deform it into a
creature of competition".  The Prime Minister, however, dismissed his attack and
ridiculed Labour's "class-based order" as having now been replaced by one based
on "merit, ability and effort".  She proclaimed to cheering Tory back-benchers:
"This is the new Britain - the Britain for the 1990s." There was no sign of a
let-up in the pace and scale of Mrs Thatcher's reforming zeal.  She has
brusquely ignored pleas from her own back-benchers to slow down and give the
nation pause for breath.  About half the signalled Bills will deal with
so-called green issues. But the skirmishing and warfare will be concentrated on
the NHS reforms, further curbs on trade union power - including a crackdown on
unofficial and wildcat strikes - and reforms to broadcasting in Britain.  The
Prime Minister made clear that the reduction of inflation remained the
Government's priority, but there was no mention of tax cuts in the forthcoming
budget.

The Queen's Speech also disclosed plans to open up more coal mines for private
operation - a move which Labour sees as a step towards privatisation of the
entire coal industry.  The principal features of the Government's programme are:

    New powers of dismissal to cover those involved in unofficial industrial
action, and the extension of union liability to shop stewards
    Introduction of budgets for doctors, and steps to enable hospitals to become
self-governing
    Restructuring of British Coal to write off its debts and pave the way - in
the long term - for privatisation
    Tough new penalties for polluters, a crackdown on litter louts and new
duties for local authorities to keep streets clean
    New powers to prevent unfit food reaching the consumer
    Establishment of an Independent Television Commission
    New arrangements for TV franchises, and a Channel 5 reaching 70% of UK
households to be awarded by competitive tender
    Privatisation of the IBA radio and TV transmission system
    End of the barristers' monopoly of right to appear in higher courts
    Right of building societies and banks to offer conveyancing services
    Loans to supplement student grants
    Establishment of a legal framework for embryo research
    Greater co-operation with other countries in the war on international crime
    New powers to protect aircraft from terrorist attack.

Labour remains unconvinced by Government denials that it wants to privatise the
NHS.  Shadow health secretary Robin Cook said later the Government wanted to
make the NHS "just one more business chasing profit instead of meeting need".
The battle will hardly be less intense over industrial relations. Labour
suspects ministers are now hell-bent on reducing the trade union movement to
total impotence.  The Government will face opposition from its own backbenches
to the sweeping reforms of the legal system.  The principal issue of contention
here is the ending of the barristers' monopoly of audience in the higher courts.
In future, solicitors will also be able to appear.  But the main thrust of the
Government's programme covers what is described as "the quality of life" - with
something like half the legislation signalled dedicated to green issues.  The
new laws could result in Britain's polluters paying heavily for their misdeeds,
and an integrated system will be introduced to control emissions from the most
polluting industrial and commercial processes.  As well as this, local
authorities will be given more powers to deal with lesser pollution of the air.
On the issue of student top-up loans, ministers face the threat of opposition
not only from Labour, but possibly from banks as well.  Some banks have already
expressed reservations about taking part in the controversial scheme. So far
Lloyds has refused to join preliminary work on it.  There is no let-up in the
Government's war on crime, with the emphasis on drugs and international police
co-operation, and there are moves to tighten up aviation security in the wake of
the Lockerbie air atrocity.

During the televised debate, Mr Kinnock launched a fierce assault on the
Government's economic record, pointing out that inflation was running 50% higher
than ministers had forecast.  "When I hear the claim that the economy is
fundamentally strong I have to ask why, if there is such an abundance of
confidence, we in Britain have to pay 15% interest rates to buy the confidence?"
he said.  "As for underlying strength, just look at our economy.  "In 10
oil-rich years of this Government we have seen the economy suffering from
chronic traffic congestion, delay and danger as a result of systematic and
sustained under-funding." The Labour leader accused the Government of turning
the 1980s into a "decade of deficit, division and debt".  And to rousing cheers
from his backbenches, he said: "This Government is out of touch. It is running
out of time - and very soon will be out of power." Mrs Thatcher, no less
robustly, defended the Government's record across the board.  "Economic success
has brought unprecedented prosperity to this country," she claimed.  But she
warned: "We must safeguard and build on these hard-earned economic achievements.
Over the last two years, the economy has been growing at a faster rate than we
could sustain.  "So the threat of inflation has re-emerged and a large external
trade deficit has opened up. Action has had to be taken to deal with both." Mrs
Thatcher also rounded on Labour, saying: "Inflation today is lower than the
lowest that Labour ever achieved between 1974 and 1979.  "But a rate which was a
cause for celebration for them because it was low by their standards is a cause
of concern for us because it is far too high by our standards. The absolute
priority is to get inflation down." Turning to the momentous events in eastern
Europe, the Prime Minister warned gravely: "Times of great change are times of
great uncertainty, even danger.  "We have to be prepared for any threat, however
unexpected. As events demonstrate even more conclusively, we are winning the
battle of ideas. We must make sure that we don't subsequently lose the peace.
"Our nuclear deterrent and the collective security provided by Nato remain the
corner-stone of our defence. How we react to what is happening now will shape
Europe and the wider world for decades ahead." She went on: "Against the
background of a sure defence, our programme of enlarging opportunity, enhancing
the quality of life and improving well-being is the right one for Britain of the
1990s."

Controls are introduced on certain activities in the field of human
reproduction, including a ban on cloning and the creation of hybrids. There will
be controls on artificial insemination and the removal of legal validity from
contracts on surrogate parenthood.  The Government will allow a free vote on
whether to allow embryo research subject to strict controls.  But this measure -
the Human Fertilisation and Embryology Bill - could be dominated by a backbench
amendment designed to reduce the 28-week maximum period for abortions.  Many
people feel the supporters risk total failure if they go beyond 24 weeks, which
is the limit the Prime Minister is prepared to back.  However, there is some
pressure for an amendment to reduce the period to 18 weeks, a move which most
MPs suspect would be doomed to failure.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1989 The Press Association Limited

                              249 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                           November 21, 1989, Tuesday

'WE WILL NOT GIVE IN' PAISLEY TELLS BROOKE

SECTION: PARLIMENTARY NEWS

LENGTH: 355 words


bitterly accused Ulster Secretary Peter Brooke of signalling that the Government
would eventually give in to terrorism in the province.  His attack, during the
Queen's Speech debate, was launched at Mr Brooke's comments to the Press
Association earlier this month that "it is difficult to envisage a military
defeat of the IRA".  Mr Paisley told the Commons: "Can you judge the atmosphere
in Ulster at present when a Secretary of State has made an announcement that
amounts to saying: 'We cannot win the war against terrorism'." He added: "Why
doesn't the Government just announce: at the end of the day we will surrender.
"Mr Brooke has told the people of Ulster, eventually the Government will give
in." He challenged Mr Brooke: "If you have not got the nerve or desire to win
this fight, then go home, and let us have someone who has and will.  "If you
were just uttering the thoughts of Mrs Thatcher, tell her we will not talk or
give in to such people." Mr Paisley also attacked Irish Premier Charles Haughey
for saying there was no "safe haven" for the IRA in the Republic.  "We all know
where they come from and where they go after committing these acts of
barbarism." Official Ulster Unionist Leader James Molyneaux said there could
never be peace in the province while the Anglo-Irish Agreement was in existence.
"All the citizens of the UK have had to tolerate even more violence over the
intervening four years of the agreement's existence. "Considering that it has
failed to produce its other aims of peace, stability and reconciliation, Britain
as a nation will have nothing whatever to lose by its demise.  "That demise
would be a very small price to pay for an end to the slaughter of British
citizens, servicemen and civilians." Later Popular Unionist James Kilfedder
(Down N) also attacked Mr Brooke's comments, saying: "That is not in fact the
words which the leader of the province should direct to the people and the
security forces." He added: "I only hope on reflection the Northern Ireland
Secretary will change his mind and realise ... that the IRA must be extirpated
from the community."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1989 The Press Association Limited

                              250 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                                The Independent

                            November 24 1989, Friday

Parliament and Politics: Tories isolated as MEPs set up Birmingham Six inquiry:
European Parliament

BYLINE: From DAVID USBORNE in Strasbourg

LENGTH: 497 words


IN AN embarrassing development for the British Government, the European
Parliament voted overwhelmingly yesterday to set up its own committee of inquiry
into the convictions of the Birmingham Six for IRA bombings.

British Conservative MEPs were virtually alone in opposing the resolution,
acting on the express advice - if not instructions - of the Home Office in
London.


The inquiry will be conducted over the next few months by the parliament's legal
affairs committee and a final report prepared before next spring. Evidence will
inevitably be sought from the Home Office and the West Midlands police force,
which was responsible for the original prosecution of the Birmingham Six.

Present as guests in the parliament yesterday were Paul Hill, one of those
released last month in the case of the Guildford Four, and the Irish foreign
minister, Gerard Collins.

'This is a major breakthrough and a very welcome expression of support and
encouragement for the Six', the minister said.

A spokesman for Mr Collins indicated that the Irish Government would use its
six-month presidency of the European Community, which begins in January, to
maintain pressure on the British Government to reopen the Birmingham Six case.

Mr Hill, who was invited to Strasbourg by the Fianna Fail member, Niall Andrews,
said that he hoped his presence in the parliament would add weight to the vote.

He later flew back to London to meet his wife for the first time since his
release from prison.

Appealing for the Six to be released immediately, Mr Andrews asked: 'Wouldn't it
be a wonderful gesture if this Christmas the British government found it in
their heart that 15 years of imprisonment for these people should be brought to
an end?' Explaining his group's opposition to the resolution, Bill Newton-Dunn,
Conservative MEP for Lincoln, argued that it was not 'in the parliament's
competence to investigate a legal case'. He added: 'It is not our business and I
think it is wrong'. Mr Newton-Dunn rejected suggestions that his group was
acting under instructions from the Government, but conceded that an 'advisory
brief' had been sent from the Home Office recommending that all Tory members
withhold support from the resolution.

This will not be the first such report to come from Strasbourg. Almost 10 years
ago a report was prepared by a Danish socialist into the general situation in
Northern Ireland and British policy in the province. It was eventually welcomed
by the British Government.

In the debate, the Labour member for Birmingham East, Christine Crawley, said
that while the parliament resolutely condemned the 1974 bombings, the resolution
represented 'a mark of profound international concern and disquiet that a
massive miscarriage of justice had taken place'.

'Confidence in the police and judiciary in Britain is at an all-time low,' she
added, saying it would only recover when the Birmingham case was resolved.

Home News Page 8

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1989 Independent Print Ltd

                              251 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           December 2 1989, Saturday

Security tightened over air bomb fear

BYLINE: HARVEY ELLIOTT, Air Correspondent

SECTION: Issue 63567.

LENGTH: 206 words


Security checks at Britain's airports are being tightened in the run-up to
Christmas as fears grow that terrorists may be planning a 'carbon copy' attack
near the anniversary of the Lockerbie bombing.

Passengers will be subjected to intensive searches. Delays are inevitable as
Christmas presents as well as hand luggage have to be searched.


Heathrow airport appealed yesterday to passengers to help to reduce delays by
leaving presents unwrapped.

Mr Alan Proctor, Heathrow's managing director, said: 'Particular attention will
be given to the examination of electronic goods, including radios, computers,
cameras and battery-powered equipment and this will take longer.' Hand baggage
should be kept to a minimum.

Police asked a court in Sweden yesterday to approve the seizure of 15 bags of
clothing by Scottish detectives in the Lockerbie case.

The clothing was confiscated from the home of Mohammed Abu Talb, a Palestinian
awaiting a verdict on separate charges related to terrorist bombings in
Scaninavia and The Netherlands.

Abu Talb, a former activist in the Palestine Popular Struggle Front, was linked
to the Pan Am flight when it was established he was in Malta two months before
the bombing.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              252 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                                The Independent

                            December 5 1989, Tuesday

The Birmingham Six: City's fear turned to hatred of the Irish: Terry Kirby
remembers the aftermath of the bomb attacks on two Birmingham public houses in
1974

BYLINE: TERRY KIRBY

SECTION: (Photograph omitted)

LENGTH: 749 words


THE MORNING after the bombings, as bodies were still being found among the
devastation of the Tavern in the Town and the Mulberry Bush public houses, a
wave of fear and hatred against the Irish spread through Birmingham.

In this climate, detectives from the West Midlands Serious Crime Squad were
alleged to have beaten, threatened and obtained false confessions from the
Irishmen who became known as the Birmingham Six: Hugh Callaghan, Patrick Hill,
Gerry Hunter, Richard McIlkenny, Billy Power and John Walker.


The second city had known IRA attacks before, but nothing involving the deaths
and horrific injuries of so many young people, in public houses that could not
be described as military targets.

The date, 21 November 1974, had been a dramatic day even before the bombings.
The body of James McDade, an IRA man who blew himself up planting a bomb at
Coventry telephone exchange, was being returned to Belfast accompanied by a
large republican escort and a National Front counter demonstration. Police were
forced to provide a guard for the coffin to prevent clashes - something they
might have found distasteful.

Staff at Belfast airport refused to handle the coffin and the flight spent
several hours on the airport tarmac, with police in attendance. The bombs
exploded while the plane was still on the tarmac.

Amid this atmosphere, detectives from Birmingham went to Morecambe to interview
five Irishmen heading for Belfast and McDade's funeral. The men had left the
city by train shortly before the bombs exploded and were arrested at Heysham,
Lancashire. Even before the Birmingham bombings, police had been under intense
public, political and internal pressure. Bombings around Britain in the
preceding 18 months had caused many deaths, including those at Guildford and
Woolwich, a few weeks previously.

The Birmingham bombings led seven days later to the Prevention of Terrorism Act,
giving police greater powers of arrest and detention in terrorist cases. They
created an atmosphere in which it could be proposed by Roy Jenkins, a Labour
Home Secretary, and passed by the House of Commons within 17 hours.

Although London bomb attacks were investigated by Scotland Yard's experienced
bomb squad, the provincial police response was more makeshift. Forces had
Special Branch officers gathering intelligence, but there was less experience in
collection of evidence and interrogation of terrorists. The West Midlands
inquiry fell to the Serious Crime Squad, responsible for investigating armed
robberies, which also called itself the bomb squad.

The West Midlands detectives, armed and anxious, went to Morecambe in the early
hours of 22 November. When the detectives began the interviews, they knew
certain things: the carnage and the response back in their home city; tests by
Frank Skuse, a forensic scientist, which they believed confirmed that there was
gelignite on the hands of two men; all had been going to a bomber's funeral. By
lunchtime, they had a confession from Billy Power.

The five were taken back to Queens Road police station in Aston, Birmingham.
They returned to a city in ferment. People were unsure if they had known any of
those killed or injured the previous night; city centre streets were littered
with broken glass and barred by police barricades. Anxious crowds were herded
around the centre as bomb scares closed workplaces and routes home.

The death toll mounted - eventually reaching 21 deaths and 160 injuries. The
fear turned to hatred of the Irish, living in the inner city areas and council
housing estates. There were protest strikes at 30 factories and reports of
intimidation and insults. That night, as detectives arrested the sixth man, Hugh
Callaghan, petrol bombs were thrown at some public houses and an Irish community
centre in Birmingham. He spent the night at Sutton Coldfield police station and
the following day, Saturday, was interviewed by a series of officers, during
which he was kicked and intimidated. A confession of sorts was obtained. At
Queens Road police station, in various interviews during the Saturday, Richard
McIlkenny and John Walker were also alleged to have made confessions to the
bombings.

At their trial at Lancaster in 1975, and subsequently, all the men claimed they
were kicked, beaten and intimidated: at Morecambe, during the car journey back
to Birmingham, at Queens Road and at Sutton Coldfield police stations.

(Photograph omitted)

Home News Page 6

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1989 Independent Print Ltd

                              253 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           December 6 1989, Wednesday

Lockerbie disaster inquiry is ruled out by Parkinson

BYLINE: MICHAEL EVANS, Defence Correspondent

SECTION: Issue 63570.

LENGTH: 474 words


The Government has ruled out an independent inquiry into the Lockerbie disaster
after dramatic developments in the search by police and security agencies for
those responsible for the terrorist bombing which caused the death of 270
people.

Mr Cecil Parkinson, Secretary of State for Transport, has decided that a
confidential inquiry, on the lines of the Franks Committee investigation into
the events leading to the Falklands war, was not appropriate, according to his
department yesterday.


However, Mr Parkinson told relatives of the Scottish victims that he believed
the Lord Advocate in Scotland was seriously considering holding a fatal accident
inquiry into the 270 deaths. This would be similar to an inquest but with
broader scope.

The new developments came after fresh leads in the investigation which, it is
felt, could produce a breakthrough in the hunt for the bombers.

Three Scottish detectives are expected this week to interview Mohammed Abu Talb,
a suspected Palestinian terrorist, in a Swedish jail. He is awaiting a verdict
on other terrorist bombing charges.

A judge in a court in Uppsala ruled on Monday that there was a prima facie case
linking Talb with the Lockerbie bombing. A bundle of clothing seized from Talb's
flat by Swedish security police is now being examined by forensic experts.

The experts are trying to trace a link between the clothes and items of clothing
discovered in the debris of the crashed Lockerbie aircraft. All are believed to
have come from the same boutique in Malta. Talb is known to have been in Malta
in October last year, two months before the Lockerbie bombing. His passport
showed he was there from October 19 to 26.

Security agencies in Britain and the United States are now convinced that the
discovery of the clothing and the link with Talb could lead to some of the
terrorists responsible for placing the bomb on board Pan Am Flight 103. US
security sources in Washington said: 'Our feeling is that this will now lead to
something.'

Talb has repeatedly denied any involvement in the bombing. However, it is
believed that clothing bought in Malta had been wrapped around the bomb hidden
in a radio cassette player inside a Samsonite suitcase, which was taken on board
an Air Malta flight to Frankfurt and transferred to Heathrow on December 21.

The US security sources agreed there was continuing interest in a second
terrorist suspect held by the West Germans. Hafez al-Dalkammoni, head of the
German cell of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine-General Command
(PFLP-GC), the group believed to be responsible for the Lockerbie bomb.

Talb, aged 35, is awaiting a verdict, due on December 21, on separate charges of
murder and attempted murder in connection with bombings in Copenhagen, Amsterdam
and Stockholm in 1985 and 1986.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              254 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           December 7 1989, Thursday

Congested airports may ground Britain's economic potential

BYLINE: From HARVEY ELLIOTT, Air Correspondent, Geneva

SECTION: Issue 63571.

LENGTH: 662 words


A devastating report showing that Britain's economic growth could be halted by
early next century without a massive investment in air transport infrastructure
is to be sent to ministers early next year.

Drafts of the report being prepared for the International Air Transport
Association (IATA) have shocked senior officials of the Geneva-based
organization because of disclosures that commerce and industry is preparing to
move from overcrowded, congested cities to those with fast and efficient road,
rail and air links.


Precise figures for the economic losses likely as a result of such a development
are not yet available but are known to run into hundreds of billions of dollars.
The report will claim that Britain is likely to be the worst affected country in
Europe because airports like Heathrow and Gatwick have already reached their
capacity and there is little chance of any improvement.

'Aviation is clearly the engine of economic growth, ' Mr Norman Jackson, senior
technical director of IATA, said. 'The report will show it is going to cost a
lot to put the problems right, but it is going to cost far more if it is not
done.

'When we commissioned the report we thought it was a technical problem and we
started looking at technical ways of solving it. But it is now clear that it is
no more than a political problem and that those countries who do not take the
initiative now will suffer in the end.'

Paris, he said, was a 'classic example of people getting their act together' and
had plenty of scope for development.

Other European airports and transport systems were also being earmarked for
development and would pick up much of the traffic and, therefore, the economic
benefits. IATA, meanwhile, is calling for a new system of military-style alerts
to be flashed to airlines and airports in the event of intelligence warnings
about terrorists.

It is almost impossible for security staff at airports to search all passengers
and baggage for bombs, but if their efforts can be concentrated for a brief time
after an alert, the problem could be resolved. Governments are being urged to
create a worldwide system of alerts similar to those used by the Army when, for
example, an IRA attack is considered likely.

At present, each airline runs its own system. Often, one can be subjecting all
passengers to a search while another at the same airport searches a random 5per
cent sample.

'An internationally recognized standard of security is what is needed, ' Mr
Jackson said. 'The military simply look up a book which gives them precise
details of what they should do in any given alert state. Airlines and airport
staff should have exactly the same thing, ' he said.

Fears are growing that terrorist organizations, often supported by governments,
are training to defeat the most sophisticated technology being installed at
airports.

It is known, for example, that new types of explosives, more sophisticated than
Semtex, are in the hands of some terrorist groups and may have been used to
bring down the French DC10 airliner over Africa earlier this year.

IATA also issued a warning yesterday that moves by the European Commission to
subject airfares to VAT and to abolish the sale of duty-free goods could also
wipe out the benefits of the latest package of liberalization measures reached
by ministers in Brussels this week.

Mr Gunter Eser, director general of IATA, said it had been estimated that
European airports could lose more than dollars 1 billion a year from duty-free
sales, while VAT proposals could force up airfares by 12 per cent when they are
imposed in 1993.

One set of officials in Brussels is pressing for lower fares through
liberalization, while another in an adjoining office is looking at proposals
that would increase them.

IATA, among others, is urging that, if VAT is imposed on airfares, it should be
zero-rated, rather than at the higher levels now being put forward.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              255 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                                The Independent

                            December 11 1989, Monday

Singh government's first crisis

BYLINE: From DAVID WIGG in New Delhi

SECTION: Foreign News ; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 458 words


INDIA's new government, which during its first week in power talked of healing
and the need for tolerance, is already faced with an agonising crisis: how to
save the life of the kidnapped daughter of one of its ministers.

The outlawed Jammu and Kashmir Liberation Front is threatening to kill Rubiya
Sayeed, the youngest of three daughters of Mufti Mohammed Sayeed, the first
Muslim to be appointed Home Minister. Miss Sayeed, who is in her early 20s, was
kidnapped at gunpoint while returning home in a minibus on Friday from the
hospital in Srinagar where she is training to be a doctor. The Front, which is
fighting for a separate Muslim state, is demanding the release of five of its
jailed members. If the deadline of Monday evening (Delhi time) is ignored, then
her body will 'be left within the municipal limits of the city,' the separatists
said. She was being 'treated well as she was their sister and had been provided
a lady companion'.


The government in New Delhi has rushed in special commando units and all roads
out of Srinagar are now barricaded. Police are making house-to-house searches.
Negotiations are taking place through the relatives of the five prisoners. The
British branch of the Front criticised the kidnapping and said in a statement
issued in London: 'Our struggle is against the forces of occupation and not
against civilians.'

Mufti Sayeed, a Kashmiri Muslim who has always opposed the anti-Indian
separatists, is reported to be 'desperate'. His cabinet colleagues, including
the Prime Minister, V P Singh, have called his New Delhi home offering sympathy
and have persuaded him not to resign. He had just been appointed to head a
cabinet committee with a brief to find a solution to the crisis in Jammu and
Kashmir and the Punjab.

Jammu and Kashmir, India's only Muslim-majority state, has been in turmoil since
the middle of last year, with more than 50 killed and many bomb attacks. The
Front, one of several separatist groups, claimed responsibility for kidnapping
and then killing Ravindra Mhatre, an Indian diplomat, in Britain in 1984. Dr
Farooq Abdullah, the chief minister of the state, returned to New Delhi from
London yesterday vowing that Miss Sayeed would be rescued.

The new ministers are having to rethink their attitude to personal security. V P
Singh rode through Amritsar last week in an open jeep to the consternation of
his bodyguard, and others in his cabinet have indicated that they could do
without the sort of security that surrounded Rajiv Gandhi and his family. But
after this kidnapping armed protection will continue to be needed. The honeymoon
period - the hope that all militants would talk rather than strike - only lasted
a week.

Foreign News Page 10

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1989 Independent Print Ltd

                              256 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               December 13, 1989

Japan split on plutonium imports

BYLINE: By KEVIN SULLIVAN

LENGTH: 529 words

DATELINE: TOKYO


Japan's ruling party is deeply divided over a proposal to use armed naval
escorts to guard shipments of plutonium from terrorist attack.

Japan's post-war constitution forbids the use of its navy outside territorial
waters, but there are concerns to safeguard the imports of plutonium, which are
intended to deal with Japan's approaching energy crisis.


The ruling Liberal Democratic Party's National Defence Committee is split over
whether to use the navy, or to spend 15 billion yen (68 million Pounds (pds)) on
a new vessel for the coastguard to escort the ships.

The coastguard is designated a non-military organisation under the constitution,
and its use as an escort would therefore not be as controversial.

Japan's Atomic Energy Commission had planned to begin the shipments of imported
plutonium from Europe from the autumn of 1992.

Japan does not have the facilities to produce as much plutonium as it needs and
plans to import 153 tonnes of the highly volatile material from Britain and
France between 1992 and 2000.

Japan, which has no fossil fuel reserves of its own, wants to stockpile
plutonium because it believes that it can develop the technology to transform it
into plentiful and cheap electricity.

About 140 rightwing members of the ruling Liberal Democratic Party believe that
the Maritime Self-Defence Force, the Japanese navy, should accompany the
shipments of plutonium.

They insist that because the warships would be protecting Japanese property,
they would not be contravening clauses in the post-war constitution which forbid
the use of armed forces outside territorial waters.

However, their opponents warn that other Asian countries are bound to protest if
the Japanese navy once again takes to the high seas, whatever its reasons.

The Prime Minister, Mr Toshiki Kaifu, favours the construction of a 6,000-tonne
coastguard armed patrol vessel, specifically for protecting plutonium shipments.
The coastguard or Maritime Safety Agency, is designated a non-military force,
and its use would circumvent the constitutional stipulation against foreign
military operations.

However, the navy and many MPs are likely to oppose Mr Kaifu's plan, currently
the government's official position, when next year's budget comes before
parliament on the grounds that it is too expensive.

Japan currently sends irradiated uranium imported from the US to Sellafield in
Britain and Le Havre in France for processing into plutonium.

The US, as the country of origin for the uranium, had originally insisted that
shipments be made by air, but the Japanese do not have containers which would
withstand impact in the event of a crash.

Washington then agreed to allow transport by sea.

A spokesman for the opposition Socialist Party contended that transportation of
plutonium was dangerous, whether by air or by sea and in itself. He claimed that
importing plutonium contravened Japan's non-nuclear constitution.

"Making plutonium is not 100 per cent safe," he added. "There have been nuclear
accidents in Japan before and there could be accidents again if the government
persists in using this technology."

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              257 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                                The Independent

                           December 14 1989, Thursday

Trevi seeks 'terrorist' data base

BYLINE: PHIL REEVES

SECTION: Home News ; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 223 words


A EUROPEAN police data base to help combat international terrorism and crime
will be discussed by the Trevi group of EC ministers which meets today amid
continuing concern about IRA attacks on British servicemen on the Continent.

Trevi, a forum of EC justice and interior ministers set up to increase
co-operation in the fight against terrorism, is expected to agree to form a
group of police and civil servants to study the feasibility of a common European
data network.


The idea, under consideration for at least 18 months, is strongly supported by
West Germany but it is understood Britain takes a less enthusiastic position.

The proposals are fraught with difficulties, partly over the differing data
protection laws in EC countries. The issue of ensuring the security of a common
data base, on which highly sensitive details of wanted criminals and terrorists
would be circulated, is also unresolved.

The two-day meeting in Paris, to be attended by David Waddington, the Home
Secretary, will also sign a declaration on cross-border co-operation in which it
is agreed, in principle, to have more police 'liaison' officers in one another's
forces.

West Germany, France, Belgium, The Netherlands and Luxembourg meet tomorrow to
sign a treaty to abolish internal frontier checks from 1991.

Home News Page 3

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1989 Independent Print Ltd

                              258 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            December 15 1989, Friday

Full luggage screening may be introduced at airports

BYLINE: STEWART TENDLER, Crime Correspondent

SECTION: Issue 63578.

LENGTH: 781 words


Proposals for the X-ray scrutiny of all luggage going through British airports,
whether cabin luggage or hold baggage, is to be discussed by the Department of
Transport and airports as part of a package of security measures the wake of the
Lockerbie disaster.

Other government strategies include more security checks on cargo and,
eventually, the segregation of arriving and departing passengers, which could
mean that airports would have to be rebuilt.


The Government's new strategy of total screening will be announced officially
next Thursday, the anniversary of the disaster. The strategy is based onsecurity
recommendations made by the Commons select committee on transport. The screening
measures would result in earlier check-in times for passengers, new procedures
and investment in equipment running into millions of pounds.

A security specialist said that just one of the international terminals at
Heathrow would need up to 40 X-ray machines, each of which would cost a minimum
of Pounds 25,000.

The measures might make it necessary for passengers to check in at locations
outside airports to prevent them from being swamped. The luggage might have to
be delivered for X-ray in sealed vehicles.

In the aftermath of Lockerbie, all American carriers operating in Britain X-ray
hold luggage. X-ray screening is used routinely on all flights to Ulster or
Eire. Luggage arriving at British airports for transfer is also supposed to be
X-rayed. Airlines most at risk of terrorist attack also question passengers
about their reasons for the journey.

Most airline passengers have their hand luggage X-rayed and one in three may
also have their hand luggage searched. Random body checks are also carried out
with metal detectors.

The Government is understood to have turned down another recommendation for a
security levy of between Pounds 1 and Pounds 2 a head a flight on all air
passengers.

The Department of Transport will unveil its Aviation and Maritime Security Bill
today. It makes provision for more powers for the new aviation inspectorate and
widens security controls to include cleaning firms in response to the
committee's recommendations.

Aircraft arriving on aprons are supposed to be checked for any items left in the
passenger areas and should be locked if they are staying for some time.

Aircraft going back to service from maintenance areas must be searched before
being used for flights.

A new security system covering passes to restricted areas is also coming into
force. It is hoped it will end the problem of lost or stolen passes. Records and
photographs of all staff at the main British airports are to be placed on video
on a system that will automatically validate a pass and which will be updated
every 24 hours.

However, not everything has gone according to plan. Last April, the Government
announced that Gatwick would be the European testing ground for the use of a new
Pounds 35 million American explosives detection machine using thermal neutron
analysis (TNA).

The equipment, to be used at the airport for a year on a trial basis, has yet to
be installed because it may be too heavy for the floor of the airport terminal.
The machine is 40ft long and weighs 10 tons.

The spate of mergers and co-operation agreements between the main airlines could
raise air fares in the 1990s and lead to the exploitation of passengers, the Air
Transport Users' Committee, a consumers' group, warned yesterday (David
Nicholson-Lord writes).

Its latest report said the trend towards cartels, coupled with a squeeze on
smaller, more innovative airlines, would mean less competition and more
complacency among carriers. Complaints about safety and service had also
increased substantially. Mr John Cox, committee chairman, said there was a
danger that Europe would repeat the mistakes made in the United States when
deregulation was introduced. There, genuine competition was limited to a
minority of routes and the industry was dominated by a series of monopolistic
'mega-carriers'.

Mr Cox said: 'The creation of large airline groups or alliances vest almost
insurmountable power in very few hands.

'We want a multi-airline competitive environment in Europe. The Americans
managed to create this but they failed to maintain it because they did not
exercise rigorous controls under anti-trust legislation.'

The AUC is calling for a strict enforcement of EEC rules guaranteeing
competition. Mr Cox said: 'Absence of competition means that existing carriers
get complacent and exploit the passenger. It is clear that no dramatic
improvements in punctuality can be expected during the next few years.'

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              259 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               December 16, 1989

US issues terrorist alert for Lockerbie anniversary

BYLINE: By PETER HETHERINGTON and MARTIN WALKER

LENGTH: 570 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A formal warning of a possible terrorist strike by a pro-Iranian group in
Western Europe was issued yesterday by the US State Department, six days before
the first anniversary of the bombing of the Pan Am jumbo yet over Lockerbie.

The alert came as the trail of arms shipments to Shi'ite cells across Europe
triggered a new mechanism of international anti-terrorist co-ordination.


US policy is now to warn the public to possible dangers of terrorist attacks.
The State Department was criticised for alerting US diplomats, but not the
public, to a terrorist warning before the Lockerbie diaster, in which 270 people
died.

In Edinburgh, Scotland's chief law officer yesterday gave approval for a fatal
accident inquiry into the disaster as police revealed they were making progress
in tracking down the bombers of Pan Am flight 103.

The US State Department statement said: "The United States, noting recent
reports of movement of Middle Eastern terrorists in Western Europe, combined
with the discovery of weapons shipments destined for Hezbollah cells in Spain
and Africa, is concerned that terrorists may be planning attacks against a
variety of targets, possibly including US interests."

The most probable locations for the strike were Western Europe and West Africa,
officials said. Low security in small embassies maintained by several Western
countries in West African nations and the uncertainty about security controls at
African airports, makes them possible targets.

The warning was co-ordinated with security alerts in Western Europe. In France,
the CRS special police were deployed in stores, airports and train stations in
Paris this week, and airlines using the Dutch airport of Schiphol yesterday
confirmed that a special alert was in force yesterday.

A high-profile alert was ordered as the 12 Ministers of the Interior and Justice
of the European Community met in Paris yesterday.

Hundreds of pounds of explosives, including the Semtex type which does not show
up on airport X-ray screens, have been traced moving from Lebanon to Valencia in
Spain, Marseilles in France and Larnaca in Cyprus.  The explosives are being
shipped by and through a pro-Iranian network of Shi'ite Muslims attached to the
Hezbollah Party of God militants.

The fatal accident inquiry into the Lockerbie bombing would encounter
difficulties while an international criminal investigation was still being
actively pursued, the Lord Advocate, Lord Fraser, told a news conference in
Edinburgh yesterday.

The inquiry - a quasi judicial hearing under Scottish law - would be held some
time next year.

The Chief Constable of Dumfries and Galloway, Mr George Esson, who heads the
investigation embracing Scottish detectives, the FBI, German police, and other
international agencies, said it was having some success in piecing together "an
international terrorist jigsaw".

Police in Britain and abroad, forensic scientists and the Department of
Transport's air accidents investigation branch, had contributed to the progress.
"The overall inquiry is far from complete," he added.

The fatal accident inquiry will consider precautions which could avoid similar
disasters. It will not consider aspects of the criminal investigation.

Both Lord Fraser and the chief constable said they were concerned that there
should be no premature disclosure which could prejudice the investigation.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              260 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                          December 16, 1989, Saturday

BRITAIN WARNED OF ARAB TERROR THREAT

BYLINE:  Peter Archer and Charles Miller, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 323 words


British security chiefs have been warned of a possible Arab terror campaign on
the anniversary of the Lockerbie bomb outrage.  And it was understood that the
US Federal Aviation Authority was liaising with the Department of Transport in
London over improved security measures at Britain's airports.  The department
declined to comment on the warning, issued by the US State Department in
Washington yesterday, which alerted authorities to feared attacks "against a
variety of targets" in Western Europe or West Africa.  But the department was
expected to pass on the alert to British airlines.  An American Embassy
spokesman said the warning statement would be distributed widely in a bid to
sharpen response to the perceived threat.  It came after intelligence agencies
in the United States received reports of movements of Middle Eastern terrorists
in Western Europe and the discovery of weapons shipments destined for Hizbollah
cells in Spain and Africa.  The alert said: "The United States Government...is
concerned that terrorists may be planning near-term attacks against a variety of
targets, possibly including US interests.  "At this time, we would consider the
most probable venues of such activity to be Western Europe or possibly Western
Africa." The US move was part of a determined new effort by Washington to alert
Americans to potential dangers in the wake of the Lockerbie bombing last
December 21 which killed 259 passsengers on board a Pan Am jumbo jet and 11
people on the ground.  A US State Department official said said several
anniversaries were imminent - Lockerbie, on December 21, and attacks on airports
at Rome and Vienna two days after Christmas in 1985. Terrorists sometimes used
such occasions to stage futher outrages.  Meanwhile, Scotland's Lord Advocate,
Lord Fraser, yesterday announced that a fatal accident inquiry into the
Lockerbie disaster would be held on a date yet to be fixed next year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1989 The Press Association Limited

                              261 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            December 17 1989, Sunday

Lockerbie - the final reckoning; Air disaster

BYLINE: DAVID LEPPARD and NICK RUFFORD

SECTION: Issue 8627.

LENGTH: 3472 words


The first big clue was so tiny it could have been blown away in a breeze. It
might well have remained hidden for ever, or been cast aside as insignificant.

But from the moment, three weeks into the Lockerbie inquiry, a policeman picked
up a little piece of printed circuit board which had fallen on to the floor from
a shattered luggage pallet, investigators were on their way to solving the
mystery of who had carried out the biggest act of mass murder on British
territory.


The discovery happened as they were painstakingly reassembling the fuselage of
flight 103, the PanAm jumbo jet blown to pieces on December 21 last year over
Lockerbie, Scotland, killing 270 people.

It was a crucial piece of evidence in what has become the biggest international
criminal investigation of all time, a trail that has stretched across three
continents and 52 countries.

It has involved more than 5,000 British police, dozens of American FBI
officials, the German federal police, forces in Sweden and Malta, and Western
and Middle East intelligence agencies. The British inquiry alone has cost Pounds
7.75m.

The trail began with the piecing together of millions of tiny pieces of debris
from 845 square miles of Scottish countryside, some collected from as far as 80
miles away along the east coast of England. If the explosion had occurred just
minutes later, vital clues would have fallen into the sea and been lost forever.

The wreckage was taken to a huge hangar at the Ministry of Defence's central
army depot at Longtown, near Carlisle. It was here that the crucial piece of
circuit board was found.

ALL POLICE work is a combination of dogged determination and flashes of insight,
and the Lockerbie investigation has had both in good measure. That the
investigation was masterminded by the Dumfries and Galloway police, Britain's
smallest force, was initially criticised by the intelligence community. But it
was the plodding work of these men, allied to the brilliance of Alan Feraday,
Britain's foremost forensics expert, that laid the basis for success.

Feraday works with a small team at the Royal Armament Research and Development
Establishment at Fort Halstead, near Sevenoaks, Kent. He has spent 34 years
studying the murderous consequences of bomb attacks, and for the past decade has
been at the forefront of the secret fight against terrorism. It is his
experience of IRA bombs that has provided him and his team with the skill of
identifying bombers from the debris of their outrages.

Because of the sensitivity of his work, Feraday's own life is shrouded in
mystery. He travels to work in a hire car which he changes each week. He lives
with his wife somewhere in the Home Counties but even some of his closest
colleagues do not know where.

(For these security reasons, The Sunday Times has decided not to publish
Feraday's picture.)

It was his forensic work that helped police trap the IRA gang that killed 11
people with a bomb in Hyde Park in July 1982.

Lockerbie was, however, his greatest challenge to date: to piece together an
elaborate jigsaw through the most extensive and detailed forensic work ever
carried out. It was to Feraday that the Scottish police sent the tiny scrap of
scorch-marked circuit board.

Nobody doubted that a bomb had destroyed flight 103 but Feraday's first job was
to show how it had been done. The force of an explosion had lodged the fragment
of circuit board in a corner of the pallet's framework. Feraday sent detectives
to Japan to discover where the fragment had come from. They struck lucky at the
headquarters of the Toshiba Corporation in Tokyo. It had belonged to a Toshiba
8016 radio cassette player.

Back in Britain, Feraday's men were at work on the luggage pallet. They found
tiny traces of the high explosive materials known as Pentaerythritol
Tetranitrate (PETN) and RDX, cyclonite.

These are the two constituents of Semtex-H, a high performance plastic explosive
produced by a company called Synthesia in Pardubia, a small town near Semtin in
Czechoslovakia.

Semtex-H is supposed to be used exclusively for mining, quarrying and civil
engineering. But because it is odourless, lightweight, easy to conceal,
malleable and extremely powerful, it has become a favoured weapon of terrorists.

In months of similar, painstaking work, the Feraday team began to discover more
blast-damaged bits of wreckage. There were the scorch marks on pieces of a
loudspeaker grille, for instance further confirmation that the bomb had been in
a radio.

By February, Feraday was sure that the Toshiba had contained 350 to 400 grammes
of Semtex-H. The next task was to discover the suitcase that had contained the
bomb, and where it had been placed in the cargo hold. Only then would they know
at which airport the bomb had been placed on the plane and have any hope of
finding the culprits.

GUIDED by signs of scorching the police eventually gathered 27 parts of a
suitcase, including one piece as small as a fingertip, from a five-mile-square
area at the centre of the search for debris. On one piece of blast-damaged
material, Feraday detected a faint roseate pattern. Matching this by chemical
analysis with a piece of

golden brown plastic, he then identified the suitcase lock, which had been
recovered more or less intact. Feraday concluded that the suitcase which had
contained the bomb was made by Samsonite.

Staff at Samsonite's headquarters in Denver, Colorado, confirmed the model was a
copper-coloured System4 Samsonite Silhouette 4000.

So far Feraday had identified the bomb and knew the type of suitcase: now he had
to discover where it had been placed in the plane. That could only be discovered
by blowing up jumbo jets with similar bombs in similar suitcases. In all he
needed 10 jumbo jets. He turned for help to the FBI, which organised an
astonishing series of test explosions at an American naval base.

Feraday built 10 real bombs, each similar to the one used over Lockerbie. They
were exploded inside the cargo hold of old jumbo jets which had been packed with
luggage in a copycat version of PanAm 103. The tests showed that the Samsonite
suitcase had been placed in luggage on pallet number AVE 4041 at station 14L, on
the port side of the fuselage.

That pallet had contained luggage from Frankfurt along with luggage 'interlined'
from other flights into Heathrow from other airports, such as Cyprus and Paris.

The exact centre of the explosion was 35cm from the floor of the container, and
50cm from its open side. Feraday knew, therefore, that the Samsonite case must
have been on the second layer of luggage, away from the outer skin of the
pallet. It was that conclusion, probably the most brilliant piece of forensic
detective work in the inquiry, that pointed the investigation in the direction
of one airport Frankfurt. Either the bomb originated there or it had come from
another flight into Frankfurt, and been transferred to flight 103.

Among the debris from the crash stored at the huge warehouse which acted as the
Lockerbie property store, police had recovered a pair of man's pyjamas, a man's
jacket and two pairs of trousers. They appeared an unexceptional assortment of
passenger luggage. But they all showed the tell-tale scorch marks, and fibres
from this clothing matched those fused into the inner lining of the Samsonite
case.

Feraday was particularly curious about two items. One was a blue cotton Babygro
babysuit labelled Malta Trading Company. Officers had already been to Malta to
interview the makers of the babysuit. But the Babygro was sold at dozens of
outlets throughout Europe and it was impossible to trace the purchaser.

Another clue was a pair of blast-damaged chequered trousers labelled Yorkie
Trading Company 0005. But the whereabouts of Yorkie was a mystery. It was not
until another remarkable breakthrough by the police several months later that
the true significance of these items was to emerge.

WHILE Feraday was working away at Fort Halstead, the 88 officers carrying out
the police inquiry under Detective Chief Superintendent John Orr, who had been
co-opted from his job as joint head of Strathclyde CID, were still struggling
for leads.

Inquiries at Frankfurt airport, Heathrow, Cyprus and in 50 other countries had
still failed to ascertain three basic facts. How, where and by whom had the
Toshiba bomb been put on board?

Newspaper reporters, unaware of Feraday's work, began to write stories that the
inquiry was grinding to a halt for lack of evidence. Although angrily denied by
senior Lockerbie officers, privately many detectives began to feel demoralised.
Their inquiry seemed to be in danger of petering out.

WHAT was not made public at the time was the fact that the British police were
at odds with their German counterparts, who refused to admit that the bomb had
slipped through Frankfurt security. Yet the Germans had themselves discovered
the strongest evidence to link the bomb to Frankfurt airport.

Their information undisclosed at the time to the British stemmed from a series
of raids in October 1988 on flats in Frankfurt and Neuss, part of an operation
codenamed Herbslaub, or Autumn Leaves.

Israeli intelligence had tipped off the Germans about the movements of
Palestinian extremists whose target was thought to be an Israeli handball team
on tour in Europe.

They identified a man called Hafez Dalkamoni, 44, of unknown nationality.
However, it was known that he was in charge of the European section of the
Syrian-backed Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine-General Command
(PFLP-GC). Dalkamoni, it would later emerge, was at the centre of a complex
network of three Palestinian families, some of whom lived in Uppsala, Sweden.

In early autumn, officers from the German federal police, the Bundeskriminalamt
(BKA), began observing Dalkamoni's flat in Isarstrasse and photographing his
meetings. On October 13, he was joined in Frankfurt by a middle-aged Jordanian
also well known in international intelligence circles, Marwan Khreesat. He was a
veteran bomb-maker with a history of attacks on civilian aircraft.

Khreesat travelled to Germany on the instructions of Ahmed Jibril, the leader of
the PFLP-GC, to lend his bomb-making expertise. While under surveillance, the
men mingled with the crowds of shoppers in Kaufhalle, a busy shopping mall in
Neuss, buying batteries, switches and glue. From another department store they
bought mechanical and digital clocks.

It was also clear from intercepted telephone conversations that a big event was
being planned. One call from Khreesat, believed to refer to the design of the
bomb, said: 'I've made some changes to the medication. It's better and stronger
than before.'

The German police became concerned that things might have been running out of
control and decided to act. On October 26, they raided 12 apartments in six
German states. In one, in Frankfurt, they found an arsenal which included an
anti-tank gun, mortars, rifle grenades and five kilos of plastic explosive.

The German police arrested both Khreesat, the bomb-maker, and Dalkamoni in
Neuss. Inside their car, a green Ford Taunus, they discovered a Toshiba radio
cassette player packed with explosive. Significantly, it also contained a
barometric device designed to trigger at altitude.

What followed was either a display of startling ineptitude by the German
authorities, or a complex and sinister conspiracy which misfired. The answer to
this question will never be known, but its consequences were disastrous.

Khreesat was held for only two weeks and released, despite an international
warrant for his arrest for the El Al bombing in 1972.

Officially, it was claimed there was insufficient evidence on which to hold him.
But the conspiracy theory suggests that Khreesat was a double agent and had
tipped off the German police in the first place. Khreesat vanished and is now in
Jordan. Dalkamoni, however, was charged with the bombing of military trains
carrying American troops.

German police were delighted with their operation and thought they had foiled a
terrorist attack. But they had overlooked a vital piece of information. Khreesat
had disclosed that he had built not just the one bomb found in the Ford Taunus,
but five. It was not until April, following an anonymous tip-off, that the
German police raided the basement of the fruit and vegetable shop in Neuss
belonging to Dalkamoni's brother-in-law. Inside they found two radio tuners and,
afterwards, a television monitor.

The items were not immediately identified as bombs and were left unattended for
several days on a desk at BKA headquarters in Mechenheim. One later exploded
while it was being examined, killing a German bomb disposal officer.

It was not until February this year that a report on operation Autumn Leaves was
finally given to the Scottish police. It contained a detailed description of the
bombs, the bomb-makers and the terrorist cell. But buried in its pages was a
fact which was to prove more significant still to the investigators. The German
police, during their surveillance of Dalkamoni, had noted a white Volvo with a
Swedish numberplate outside his flat.

The driver, who was arrested, later confessed to running an illegal aliens
racket. His name was Mohammed Al-Moghrabi. His sister, Jamila, came from a
family of Palestinian terrorists ..and she was married to a Palestinian
terrorist living in Sweden, Muhamed Abu Talb.

THE British police's anger at German unhelpfulness turned into a fury on August
16 with the unannounced arrival at the Lockerbie incident control centre of a
parcel from the BKA headquarters in Meckenheim.

It contained a computerised baggage loading list of all passenger bags put
aboard PanAm 103A, the first leg of the flight at Frankfurt. The Scottish police
had asked for this information in January only to be told first that it was not
available and then that it had been destroyed. Eight months later they had the
information that married up with the mystery Babygro and the check trousers.

In any investigation of this nature 'unaccompanied' baggage is of prime
importance. The list showed that a bag had been transferred on to the American
jet from Air Malta flight KM180 which had left Valletta at 8.50am on the day of
the disaster. Yet none of the 39 passengers on the Malta flight had transferred
with it. Attached to the list was a BKA report dated February 12.

'We were absolutely staggered, ' one British security source said. 'The list was
obviously a crucial piece of evidence. Hundreds of thousands of pounds of
taxpayers money have been spent sending officers all over the world carrying out
needless inquiries when all the time the Germans knew we should be looking at
Malta.'

At the beginning of September Detective Chief Inspector Harry Bell flew to Malta
to ask Malta Trading Company for a list of all Babygro outlets on the island. In
his briefcase Bell carried photographs of all the items which Feraday had linked
to the suitcase bomb.

Malta Trading is based on the San Gwaan industrial estate. There, quite by
chance, Bell noticed a sign outside another factory. It read: Yorkie Industrial
Clothing. The mystery surrounding the check trousers was over. Bell showed a
picture of the trousers labelled 0005 to Alex Calleja, Yorkie's director, who
confirmed his factory had made them. The number 0005, he said, meant they were
fifth in a batch of five he had recently made. Calleja told Bell he had sold
them to Tony Gauci, who runs a small boutique called Mary's House in Tower Road,
Sliema.

Bell drove immediately to Tower Road, walked briskly into the shop and
introduced himself. Gauci recognised the picture of the trousers and agreed he
had bought them from Yorkie.

But could he recall his customer and when he bought them? Gauci remembered well:
it was at the end of November last year, and the man was of Libyan appearance in
his forties, well dressed, clean-shaven and with a swarthy complexion.

He seemed to buy the clothes indiscriminately. Gauci said that in addition to
the chequered trousers he had sold the man a blue Babygro, a pair of pyjamas,
another pair of trousers, and an old jacket which he had been trying to get rid
of for years. As he was about to leave the man saw that it was raining and asked
to buy an umbrella.

Back in Scotland, five umbrellas had been recovered from the Lockerbie debris.
Until that moment the police had not taken any real notice of them. But after
hearing from Bell they were re-examined. One of them showed signs of blast
damage. It was taken immediately to Fort Halstead and within hours Feraday was
able to prove that fibres of the blue cotton Babygro had been fused into it.
Gauci's story was confirmed.

When Bell returned to Scotland later that week the entire 88-strong Lockerbie
investigation team was hastily assembled for his briefing. The team, he told
them, now had their strongest link so far to the bombers. They had a witness,
immediately put under armed guard, who would be prepared to identify a man who
was irrevocably linked, through the clothes, to the bomb. If they could find
that man, and persuade him to talk, they would be in a position to identify and
find the Lockerbie bombers.

THE Maltese connection was to prove interesting for another reason. Scottish
officers discovered that a PPLP-GC cell was operating from a front company
called Miska Trading, which owned a bakery on the island. Intelligence reports
showed that members of Dalkamoni's cell in Germany had frequently visited the
bakery.

At the same time officers had begun to unravel a complex network to link the
German bomb flat with a group of suspected terrorists who had been rounded up in
Uppsala, Sweden.

Even before Lockerbie, the BKA (German police) and SAPO (Swedish police) had
been running a joint operation aimed at arresting two terror cells in their
respective countries. The link between the two countries was Mohammed
Al-Moghrabi, previously arrested in Frankfurt as part of operation Autumn
Leaves.

German intelligence reports showed that Moghrabi, one of a family of
Palestinians with a long track record of terrorist outrages, had stayed with
Dalkamoni at the flat at the same time as Khreesat had been building his Toshiba
radio bomb. He had driven there in car belonging to Marten Imandi. Imandi was
standing trial with Moghrabi's brother-in-law, Abu Talb, on terror charges in
Stockholm.

Examining the SAPO files Lockerbie detectives discovered that Talb had visited
Malta between October 19 and 26. An interview with Jamilla, Talb's 28-year-old
former wife, revealed that he had travelled to Malta 'to buy clothes'.

The SAPO file also refers to an air ticket from Malta to Stockholm recovered
after a police raid on Talb's Uppsala flat on May 18. The ticket was dated
November 26. It indicated that Talb was on the island when the clothes were
bought from Tony Gauci on November 23, 1988.

The trail to Talb was so strong that exactly one year later, on November 23,
1989, the Lockerbie team applied through the Swedish foreign office for a
warrant to raid Talb's apartment. When the warrant was executed a week later
police seized more than 200 items of clothing. These included a large batch of
clothes which had been bought in Malta. They have now been flown to the island
where Tony Gauci, the boutique owner, is examining them to see if Talb had been
in his shop.

When the application was made in court to remove the clothes from the country,
Talb was formally named as a suspect 'in the murder or participation in the
murder of 270 people'.

A detailed examination of the PFLP-GC cell in Germany and its links to a cell in
Malta and the suspected Palestinian terrorists in Sweden has convinced the
Scottish police that the conspirators will be found among those groups.

Tomorrow, in a stark interview room at a high security prison somewhere in the
south of Sweden, Scottish detectives will quiz Talb about the bombing for the
first time.

They have left the interview with Talb until the last possible moment, just
three days before he is due to hear the verdict of his trial for bomb outrages
on American and Israeli targets in Scandanavia and Holland. He and the three
other men charged with him will hear that verdict on the very day one year ago
that flight 103 fell out of the sky.

'We have cracked about 80% of this case, ' one security source said last week.
'But the remaining 20% is one big black hole.' Alan Feraday, Harry Bell and the
rest of the Lockerbie team are hoping that, tomorrow, Talb will finally fill in
that hole.

Additional reporting by Lars Persson in Stockholm, Mark Whittet in Glasgow, and
Helen Davidson in London

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              262 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               December 18, 1989

Britain 'will not compete on Lockerbie extradition'

BYLINE: By DAVID PALLISTER

LENGTH: 440 words


Lord Fraser, the Scottish Lord Advocate, yesterday said he would not compete
with the United States to extradite suspects for the Lockerbie bombing held in
other countries.

But he said Scotland would hold a trial if the third country refused to
extradite to a US state which still has the death penalty.


"If, on the other hand, the United States was in the position to secure
extradition when the United Kingdom couldn't, I want these people brought to
justice and I wouldn't stand in the way of anything," he said.

Lord Fraser made his comments in an interview with the newspaper, Scotland on
Sunday. He revealed that a few months ago the police investigation was flagging.

"Earlier in the summer I thought, maybe we ought to be winding this up because
we don't want to kid people on that there is an active investigation if really
policemen are just shuffling files around. But it's not; we are in a very active
phase at the moment."

Referring to the discovery that clothes in the bomb suitcase had come from
Malta, he said: "We get breaks and some of it is just good luck. The way the
Malta thing suddenly happened. Routine investigation was going on and suddenly
someone says, 'Oh, yes, I'll tell you,' and in 36 hours it had moved forward
terrifically fast."

The Malta connection will take two Scottish detectives to Sweden today to
arrange an interview with one of the suspects, Mohammed Abu Talb, an experienced
Palestinian guerrilla, who is due to appear in court in Uppsala on Thursday to
hear a judge's verdict on separate bombing charges in Stockholm, Copenhagen and
Amsterdam. Interest in him began when it was discovered that he had visited
Malta a month before the bombing to meet a senior member of the Palestinian
terrorist group thought to have been behind the attack.

The Scottish police have had over a week to examine the clothing which, with
Swedish officers, they seized from Talb's apartment in Uppsala. If Talb talks,
he could give useful information about the Palestinian terrorist network in
Europe.

Meanwhile, the anniversary of Lockerbie on December 21 coincides with the first
formal hearings this week into the disaster by a US presidential panel.

Over the weekend the families of the crew joined with relatives of the
passengers in filing suits in the US which charged Pan Am with ignoring FAA
warnings.

Mr Cecil Parkinson, the British Transport Secretary, said yesterday that the
latest US State Department warning about terrorist activity did not mean that
airport security had to be enhanced. He was satisfied that security coincided
with the perceived threat.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              263 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            December 18 1989, Monday

Parkinson defends security at airports

BYLINE: QUENTIN COWDRY, Home Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: Issue 63580.

LENGTH: 568 words


Mr Cecil Parkinson, Secretarty of State for Transport, expressed confidence last
night in the level of security at Britain's airports as intelligence agencies on
both sides of the Atlantic assessed the risks of a possible strike by Arab
terrorists in West Europe.

In a robust defence of the Government's upgrading of airport security after the
Lockerbie disaster whose first anniversary is on Thursday he refuted allegations
made by Opposition MPs that ministers had not done enough.


Mr Parkinson also defended the Department of Transport's decision not to
increase the state of alert at airports in the wake of last week's public
warning by the US Government that Middle East terrorists could be about to
launch an attack in Western Europe or West Africa.

'We feel that our level of security at present is satisfactory for the perceived
threat to us, ' he said on BBC radio's The World This Weekend.

Mr Parkinson emphasized that the Federal Aviation Administration, the US airline
regulatory body, had concluded that the warning did not justify new preventive
measures simply a 'rigorous' enforcement of existing security. The warning had
also referred to a general threat against a variety of targets, not airports or
airlines in particular.

Claiming that British officials were assessing daily the risks of a possible
terrorist strike, he maintained that security was substantially higher now at
airports than before December 21, 1988, when a terrorist bomb destroyed a Pan Am
jumbo jet over the Scottish town of Lockerbie, killing 270 people.

Rules governing access to airports and guarding and searching planes had been
toughened, while all hand-baggage was X-rayed and a higher ratio of luggage was
hand-searched.

The aviation security Bill, introduced last Friday, would build on those
improvements by creating a new inspectorate which would have strong powers and
enjoy a large measure of independence, he said.

Mr John Prescott, Labour's chief transport spokesman, said he welcomed the Bill
as a 'step forward' but said he did not think it went far enough.

Airlines and airports could only be encouraged to adopt yet more sophisticated
preventive measures if a 'national security fund' financed by a passenger levy
was set up. That has been rejected by ministers.

'We are not doing any more inspections of luggage in the hold and that is where
people are putting their bombs. This is no better than at the time of Lockerbie,
' Mr Prescott said.

Mr John Cox, chairman of the Air Transport Users Committee, said the prime need
was for the training of the airport security officials to be improved.

A memorial to victims of the Lockerbie air disaster was dedicated yesterday in a
council housing scheme devastated by the stricken Pan Am jet. The simple red
sandstone block stands in a recess off Rosebank Crescent, where a block of four
houses was so badly damaged that it had to be demolished.

Of the 270 killed in the disaster, 11 were Lockerbie residents but they lived in
Sherwood Crescent, a private estate about half a mile from Rosebank.

Lord Fraser of Carmyllie, the Lord Advocate, has indicated that any trial of the
alleged bombers would almost certainly take place in the United States and not
in Scotland as was previously believed. He said he would not compete with the
United States to extradite suspects held in other countries.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              264 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                                The Independent

                           December 19 1989, Tuesday

Airport security to be tightened

LENGTH: 504 words


FURTHER airport security measures are expected to be announced by the Government
on Thursday - the first anniversary of the Lockerbie bombing in which 270 people
died.

The measures are expected to include the screening of baggage on international
flights and baggage that has been transferred from one flight to another. This
was one of the recommendations made by the Commons Transport Select Committee
that reported on aviation security last July.


The committee is expected to publish the Government's formal response to the 29
recommendations. Its chairman, David Marshall, Labour MP for Shettleston, said
that the Government is likely to accept most proposals.

These include more checks on the tickets and passports of transit passengers;
searches of every person boarding an aircraft; and security spot checks.

A spokesman for the Department of Transport said some proposals had been
incorporated into the Aviation and Maritime Security Bill, which was published
on Friday, but that there would be some new measures.

At Britain's major airports yesterday there were again long queues at check-in
desks because of security. Emphasis was placed on US airlines where passengers
were questioned and searched and baggage X-rayed. Last week, the United States
State Department said there was a renewed danger of a terrorist attack on a
target in Europe or West Africa.

A British Airports Authority spokesman said that the pre- Christmas rush had
caused the queues and delays at London's Heathrow airport yesterday, not the
security measures ordered by the Transport Department last October. More than
250,000 passengers passed through Heathrow, west London, the world's busiest
international airport, at the weekend.

BAA, which operates Heathrow, Gatwick and five other airports, has appealed to
passengers to leave Christmas presents unwrapped, avoid carrying Christmas
crackers, minimise the number of electronic items they pack, and limit
themselves to one piece of hand baggage, to speed up security checks.

Alan Proctor, Heathrow managing director, said: 'Particular attention will be
given to the examination of electronic goods including radios, computers,
cameras and battery-powered equipment and this will take longer.' The bomb which
exploded on the Lockerbie flight was in a radio- cassette player.

New airport precautions include the hiring of 350 additional security staff and
stricter checks on staff with access to aircraft and tarmacs. Some travel agents
were issuing tickets stamped with a warning to check in early.

A spokesman at Gatwick, West Sussex, where there were long queues, said: 'We are
not aware of the queues causing any flights to be delayed or of people missing
flights. The vast majority of passengers understand that any security check is
for their benefit.'

However, John Cox, chairman of the Air Transport Users' Committee, complained of
delays for passengers and called for staff training to be given a greater
priority.

Home News Page 3

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1989 Independent Print Ltd

                              265 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                                The Independent

                           December 19 1989, Tuesday

New airport security measures expected

BYLINE: DAVID BLACK, Transport Correspondent

SECTION: Home News ; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 543 words


FURTHER AIRPORT security measures are expected to be announced by the Government
on Thursday - the first anniversary of the Lockerbie bombing in which 270 people
died.

The measures are expected to include the screening of baggage on international
flights and baggage that has been transferred from one flight to another. This
was one of the main recommendations made by the Commons Transport Select
Committee that reported on aviation security last July.


The committee is expected to publish the Government's formal response to the 29
recommendations. According to the committee chairman, David Marshall, Labour MP
for Shettleston, the Government is likely to accept most proposals.

These include more checks on the tickets and passports of transit passengers;
searches of every person boarding an aircraft; and security spot checks.

A spokesman for the Department of Transport said some proposals had been
incorporated into the Aviation and Maritime Security Bill, which was published
on Friday, but that there would be some new measures.

At Britain's major airports there were again long queues at check-in desks
because of security. Emphasis was placed on US airlines where passengers were
questioned and searched and baggage X-rayed.

Last week the United States State Department said there was a renewed danger of
a terrorist attack on a target in Europe or West Africa; however, Cecil
Parkinson, the Secretary of State for Transport, described airport security as
satisfactory.

A British Airports Authority spokesman said the pre-Christmas rush had caused
the queues and delays at London's Heathrow airport yesterday, not the security
measures ordered by the Transport Department last October. More than 250,000
passengers passed through Heathrow, west London, the world's busiest
international airport, at the weekend.

BAA, which operates Heathrow, Gatwick and five other airports, has issued an
appeal to passengers to leave Christmas presents unwrapped, avoid carrying
Christmas crackers, minimise the number of electronic items they pack, and limit
themselves to one piece of hand baggage, to speed up security checks.

Alan Proctor, Heathrow managing director, said: 'Particular attention will be
given to the examination of electronic goods including radios, computers,
cameras and battery-powered equipment and this will take longer.'

'I urge all departing passengers to help us to help them by travelling with a
minimum of electronic items and hand baggage this Christmas.' The bomb which
exploded on the Lockerbie flight was in a radio-cassette player.

New airport precautions include the hiring of 350 more security staff and
stricter checks on staff with access to aircraft and tarmacs. Some travel agents
were issuing tickets stamped with a warning to check in early.

A spokesman at Gatwick, West Susssex, where there were queues, said: 'We are not
aware of the queues causing any flights to be delayed or of people missing
flights. The vast majority of passengers understand that any security check is
for their benefit.'

However, John Cox, chairman of the Air Transport Users Committee, complained of
delays and called for staff training to be given a greater priority.

Home News Page 4

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1989 Independent Print Ltd

                              266 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            December 22 1989, Friday

Warship plan off; Japan

BYLINE: JOE JOSEPH

SECTION: Issue 63584.

LENGTH: 92 words

DATELINE: TOKYO


Japan has abandoned a plan to use a warship to escort Japanese ships carrying
reprocessed nuclear fuel from Britain and France .

The proposal angered South Korea and China and generated heated debate at home
about whether the country's Constitution would permit Japan to send its armed
forces across the world again. Instead the task of protecting the vessels from
terrorist attack will fall to a specially built and armed frigate assigned to
the Maritime Safety Agency, which at present is little more than a glorified
coastguard service.


LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              267 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                                The Independent

                           December 23 1989, Saturday

Big cache of arms and Semtex seized

BYLINE: TERRY KIRand TONY HEATH

SECTION: Background, page 2

LENGTH: 266 words


TWO IRISHMEN detained in west Wales when police seized a large quantity of
Semtex plastic explosive, firearms and bomb-making equipment are being
questioned about IRA plans for an atrocity over Christmas or the new year.

Detectives believe the men, arrested on Thursday night after a seven-week
cliff-top surveillance operation on which the news media observed a blackout,
were planning to take the cache to a safe house, probably in London or the
Midlands, in preparation for a bombing attempt.


The surveillance, by Scotland Yard's Anti-Terrorist Branch and Dyfed-Powys
police on a site close to a cliff-top path near Rickets Head at the south end of
Newgale beach in Dyfed, began on 3 November when, it is believed, the arms cache
had been there for only a short time.

It continued throughout the recent bad weather and the men may have returned to
make sure the cache had not been disturbed. The buried store contained 100lb of
Semtex, semi-automatic weapons, including rifles and pistols, detonators and
timers.

The men, taken immediately to Paddington Green police station in London, are
also being questioned under the Prevention of Terrorism Act about IRA bomb
attacks in Britain since August 1987, including the murder of 10 Royal Marine
bandsmen at Deal in September and the discovery of four caches of Semtex.

Police said the two men, one of whom was carrying a pump-action shotgun, had
approached the cache in darkness at about 10pm. They were challenged by armed
officers, one of whom fired a shot. No one was injured.

Background, page 2

Title Page 1

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1989 Independent Print Ltd

                              268 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          December 27 1989, Wednesday

Easing frontier regulations 'could tempt terrorist attacks on London'

SECTION: Issue 63587.

LENGTH: 615 words


Relaxation of the European Community's internal frontiers could make London much
more tempting and vulnerable to terrorist attacks because of the capital's
importance as an international media centre, according to a paper published
today on the security implications of 1992.

Writing for the Institute for European Defence and Strategic Studies, Dr K G
Robertson, of Reading University, argues against the view that tougher exterior
barriers round the community will compensate for lowering controls inside. Much
terrorism is home grown within the community but European groups have so far
avoided Britain.


'The removal of frontiers may alter the calculations. The risks of entering and
leaving Britain to carry out terrorist acts have provided a disincentive which
has so far outweighed the powerful incentives which London provides in access to
the world media.

'Any slackening in British controls could lead to Basque or Action Directe
terrorists operating in Britain, ' he says.

Dr Robertson also points to the doubts about the strength of internal frontiers.
British officials, he says, question not only the competence but the integrity
of some security services.

British ministers may believe that they can maintain controls using a clause in
the Single European Act allowing countries to apply whatever action they feel
necessary to deal with areas such as terrorism. Dr Robertson says they could be
in for a shock because the European Commission believes the Act allows only for
temporary measures which should not disturb free movement. The matter could go
to the European Court with a finding against Britain if the court felt Britain
was in fact maintaining existing practices.

There are too many variables, Dr Robertson says, to be sure that drug

trafficking, smuggling, illegal immigration and toxic waste problems will worsen
after 1992 but the potential will exist for a significant worsening in each of
those areas.

A Green Paper on the face of British policing, police forces and national units
in the 1990s is being prepared by the Home Office for publication in the spring.

Draft details of the paper are being kept secret but the policy proposals are
bound to be influenced by the advent of closer ties within the European
Community in 1992 as frontiers are relaxed. The paper is expected to look at
areas including the need for greater national police operations, whether the
present number of police forces should remain as they are, recruiting and
advances in technology.

The legislation which could follow the Green Paper would serve to take the
police service into the next century.

The question of a national intelligence or investigation group has been under
discussion by chief constables since the autumn. A working party including Mr
John Smith, Scotland Yard's assistant commissioner in charge of specialist CID
operations, Mr John Hoddinott, Chief Constable of Hampshire and Mr Neil Dickens,
co-ordinator of the regional crime squads, is drawing up proposals which go to a
meeting of the council of the Association of Chief Police Officers next month.

There is wide support for the idea of a national criminal intelligence unit,
both from police and the Home Office, but the leap from intelligence collection
to an operational unit such as the FBI raises questions over management,
leadership and accountability.

Such a unit would improve co-operation with the rest of Europe after 1992 by
providing a central clearing house for inquiries and joint operations against
increasing international organized crime.

The Security Implications (Institute for European Defence and Strategic Studies,
Pounds 5).

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited



---- End of Request ----
Download Request: Select Items: 500-767
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  20:42:37

