



Download Request: Select Items: 501-1000
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  20:55:43
Send To:







Terms: (terror! )


Source: UK Publications
Project ID: None



                               1 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               December 22, 1992

FUND PLAN ADDS TO CONFLICT BILL

BYLINE: WILL HUTTON AND PAULINE SPRINGETT

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 403 words


THE Government's acceptance that it will stand as the ultimate insurer of
Britain's commercial property against terrorism takes the potential cost of the
Northern Ireland conflict into uncharted territory.

Already in 1991/2 the Northern Ireland Office estimates that the province's
economy was subsidised by 2.554 billion pounds, up 25 per cent on the previous
year; this will approach 3 billion pounds in the current financial year. The
insurance guarantee is likely to add to this sum, so that the more successful
any IRA bombing campaign on the mainland, the more expensive the cost of the
Northern Ireland conflict.

Although the Government has not disclosed full details of the scheme, it seems
probable that it will offer to stand as an insurer of last resort to a fund
operated by the insurance industry. Insurers will agree to charge sufficient
additional premiums to raise between 250 - 300 million pounds, with the
Government agreeing that it should stand guarantor for any excess if that proves
insufficient to meet claims for bomb damage.

The IRA bomb that wrecked the Baltic Exchange in the City in April is expected
to cost 800 million pounds. Under the Government's scheme, if a bombing on that
scale 4 were repeated, insurers would find up to the first 300 million pounds
from the private fund with the Government putting up the balance.

With 240 billion pounds of British commercial property deemed to be at risk, the
IRA will be aiming to maximise the costs early in the fund's life. With every
repeat of the Baltic Exchange likely to cost the Government 500 million pounds,
it would take two such attacks a year to lift the combined cost of the subsidy
to Northern Ireland and mainland insurance to 4 billion pounds, around 0.6 per
cent of GDP.

With the Government confronting a Public Sector Borrowing Requirement of 37
billion pounds in 1992/3 rising to 45 billion pounds in 1993/4, the cost of
Northern Ireland is beginning to loom large in British public finances. The cost
of security alone will exceed 900 million pounds in 1993/4.

But although the Government has a growing incentive to find a settlement that
will reduce the violence, the IRA in turn has to be careful from contributing to
the deindustrialisation of Northern Ireland. The cost of shouldering the
financial burden will deter the Republic from wanting any form of responsibility
for the north.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               2 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               December 22, 1992

IRA AIMS FOR THE TREASURY;
Government pushed into corner over compensation for mainland blasts

BYLINE: OWEN BOWCOTT IN BELFAST

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 556 words


THE IRA's strategy in its current bombing campaign in Britain is to hit the
Government in the Treasury, where it might be expected to hurt most. Planting
small devices in shop toilets or high street rubbish bins is probably less
intended to cause mass panic than to disrupt Christmas shopping.

Subsequent headlines claiming that Oxford Street retailers in London lost 5
million pounds in the chaos must be gratifying to the Provisional IRA's general
headquarters staff.

In the 1990s there has been a return to a policy of incendiary and bomb attacks
on commercial premises, first in Northern Ireland then this year in Britain.
For most of the 1980s efforts were concentrated on military and political
targets in the United Kingdom and Europe.

The Provisionals' intentions only became fully apparent about a year ago. After
a series of massive blasts in the centre of Belfast and other towns in the
province, the Northern Ireland Office suggested that it might have to cut public
spending in areas such as hospitals and housing. Too much money was being spent
repairing damaged properties. The Government's compensation scheme, which
reimburses insurance companies for "criminal damage", was intitiated in 1969.

Up to this month the scheme, now run by the Compensation Agency, has paid out
around 670 million pounds. Insurance companies send cheques to their clients and
are in turn re-imbursed by the government.

The scheme is also intended to send a message to the Provisionals, that no
amount of devastation will persuade the Government to give in to force.

As the scale of the damage inflicted by the IRA has grown, so the Northern
Ireland Office has sought to prevent a repeat of last year's fears that other
public projects might suffer.

This month Sir Patrick Mayhew, the Northern Ireland Secretary, announced a new
formula for compensation with the Treasury agreeing to pay bills once they
reached an unpublicised figure. During the first nine months of this year 47
million pounds worth of damage was caused, mainly by IRA devices. The year's
final figure is expected to be the highest ever.

After Sir Patrick's announcement, it had become increasingly difficult for the
Government to defend its refusal to offer a similar compensation plan for
Britain.

Furthermore, the IRA has been spurred on to pursue its current line of attack by
what it considered to be the success of its bombing of the Baltic Exchange in
the City on April 10. That device - which killed three people - is estimated to
have caused up to 800 million pounds worth of damage.

Van bombs packed with home-made fertiliser-based explosives were used against
other prestige office developments such as Canary Wharf.

The indirect cost to the Exchequer of funding Northern Ireland has risen sharply
in the past two years.

In 1990/91 the province received 2.018 billion pounds more than was raised
locally in income tax and National Insurance contributions. Most of that
disparity was accounted for by high unemployment and the mounting cost of the
security forces. Last year - 1991/2 - the subvention figure had risen to 2.554
billion pounds.

A catch-all compensation scheme may ease immediate political pressure, but is
unlikely to deter the IRA, knowing it has imposed a new strain on the Treasury.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               3 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               December 24, 1992

IRA's truce scorned

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 159 words


A BRIEF Christmas truce declared by the IRA in Northern Ireland was scorned by
the Government yesterday.

It said in a statement: "If the IRA have any real concern for the people of
Northern Ireland, they should prove it by ending their criminal activities
altogether."

Security chiefs had been expecting a brief halt to the violence and it was
confirmed in a short statement issued by the Provisional IRA.

It said the IRA would temporarily suspend operations for a period of 72 hours
starting at midnight and ending at midnight on December 26.

The statement made no reference to IRA bombing in mainland Britain.

The ceasefire was not unexpected. There have been Christmas truces over previous
years but security chiefs in Northern Ireland intend to keep their men on full
alert.

Security operations in and around all large towns in the province, and
particularly in Belfast, are to be maintained over the holiday period.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: A lone policeman walks across The Strand, deserted yesterday by
thousands of Christmas shoppers during a security alert after a bomb
threat.Picture: RUSSELL BOYCE/Reuter

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1992 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                               4 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                January 7, 1993

Ceasefire ruled out as IRA bombs London

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 191 words


THE IRA last night ruled out any hope of a ceasefire after it admitted it had
placed four firebombs in central London stores in the first mainland terrorist
attack of the year.

The campaign will go on until Britain declares its intention to withdraw from
Northern Ireland, the IRA said.

No-one was hurt in the pre-dawn explosions, which came after telephone warnings
to the BBC and Sky TV of "numerous bombs" in London.

The Northern Ireland Secretary, Sir Patrick Mayhew, and the Army GOC in Northern
Ireland, Lieutenant General Sir John Wilsey, have been among those urging all
terrorists to stop their campaigns.

In a statement clearly directed at them, the IRA said: "The right of the Irish
people to the ownership of Ireland and to their unfettered control of Irish
destinies is a sovereign and indefeasible right, and the sooner British generals
and politicians convince themselves of our absolute determination to assert that
right through force of arms until final British disengagement, the better for
all. They will not, and cannot prevail."

Three of yesterday's bombs were left in stores in Oxford Street.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1993 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                               5 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                January 11, 1993

'Fireball' fears over pipeline

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 157 words


FEARS are being expressed about the safety of a 147-mile undersea gas pipeline
between Ireland and Scotland, on which work is due to start in a few weeks.

The £290m project, partly funded by the EC, will run from Brighouse Bay on the
Solway to Dublin, linking the Irish Gas Board network with Britain's natural gas
grid.

Residents of Loughshinny, a village 20 miles from Dublin, where the gas will
come ashore, are demanding additional safety precautions.

Mr Liam Dinneen, chairman of the local residents association, said: "If the
pipeline were to be fractured, either through an accident or as a result of a
terrorist attack, the escaping gas could produce a fireball in the event of an
explosion.

"Because the pipeline does not have an automatic shut-off facility, there could
be devastating consequences at both the Irish and Scottish ends of the project.

"We are insisting that a shutdown facility be provided.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1993 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                               6 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            January 17, 1993, Sunday

Bomb damage cost hits flats

BYLINE: By NICK GILBERT

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 7

LENGTH: 457 words


HUNDREDS of thousands of flat-dwellers in city centres face huge increases in
insurance premiums to cover their properties against terrorist bomb damage. The
extra charges have led to accusations that householders are subsidising owners
and occupiers of large office blocks in commercial centres such as the City of
London. Few blocks of flats have been substantially damaged by IRA bombs.

The extra premium will be as high as pounds 180 a flat in a block of five in
central London, valued for insurance purposes at pounds 1m.

Leon Brown, an executive with Snell & Company, managing agents, gave the example
of a London block valued at pounds 850,000. The new premium, including bomb
cover, will be pounds 2,200; last year it was pounds 956. ''Frankly it's a bit
of a cheek having residential flat owners asked to subsidise big business in the
City,'' he said.

The IRA bomb that shattered the Baltic Exchange in the City last year cost
insurers pounds 800m. Afterwards the big insurance companies pressed the
Government to pay for all terrorist bomb damage in Britain, as it does in
Northern Ireland.

After first refusing to help, the Government did a partial U-turn. Under
arrangements being finalised now, the insurance industry is to charge extra for
bomb cover on commercial and industrial buildings with the money going to a
central pool to meet claims. If this is not enough, the Government will act as
''insurer of last resort'' and top it up.

But the decision to treat blocks of flats, including converted houses, as
commercial properties will shock leaseholders and tenants, whose landlords are
likely to pass on the extra cost.

Michael Jones, chief executive of the Association of British Insurers, said the
extra premium is likely to be charged on ''flats in what are seen as possible
target areas for terrorist bombs''. Many residents will be unable to avoid the
extra cost. Paying for bomb cover is not compulsory, but Mr Jones said
''mortgage lenders or landlords renting out on a full repairing lease are likely
to insist on the insurance cover''.

Details of the charges are still being worked out. The precise amounts will
depend on the location and size of buildings and whether they are rented or
owner-occupied. Blocks valued at less than pounds 1m may be exempt. ''The
measure is really aimed at flats in places like the Barbican in the City,'' Mr
Jones said.

He estimates that the extra charge will typically be 0.09 per cent of the
building's insurance value in areas such as central London and Birmingham, with
lower charges in some cities and none in smaller towns. Mr Jones said owners of
office blocks in areas such as the City will pay up to 50 per cent more than
flat owners.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1993 Independent Print Ltd

                               7 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           January 21, 1993, Thursday

Sikh activist 'threat to national security'

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 2

LENGTH: 272 words


A LEADING Sikh independence campaigner's claim to political asylum was
overridden by the interests of national security, counsel for the Home Office
argued in the High Court yesterday.

Michael Beloff QC, said it was well established in British and international law
that courts would not interfere with a decision to deport someone if adequate
grounds of national security were presented.

Mr Beloff was opposing a plea by Karamjit Singh Chahal, 44, who has been held in
custody in Britain 30 months while fighting for a court ruling quashing a
deportation order and refusal by Kenneth Clarke, the Home Secretary, to grant
him political asylum.

Mr Chahal, a British resident who is married with two children, also wants
declarations that he is a refugee and will be exposed to a real risk of
''inhuman and degrading treatment'' if returned to India. He claims he has
already suffered torture there and is likely to do so again.

A statement by the Home Office Immigration and Nationality Department said Mr
Chahal was a leading member of a London- based faction of the International Sikh
Youth Federation. The faction had close links with Sikh terrorists in the
Punjab.

Mr Chahal had ''a public history of violent involvement in Sikh terrorism'', the
statement said. He had been involved in planning and directing terrorist attacks
in India, the UK and elsewhere.

His continued presence in Britain was ''not conducive to the public good for
reasons of national security and other reasons of a political nature, namely,
the fight against international terrorism'', it said.

The hearing continues today.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1993 Independent Print Ltd

                               8 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Daily Mail (London)

                            January 25, 1993, Monday

SIKHS HELD OVER BOMB PLOT TO KILL MAJOR

BYLINE: John Deans

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 707 words


A PLOT to assassinate VIPs including John Major was foiled yesterday.

Four Sikhs were caught with remote-controlled bombs which they intended to use
at India's Republic Day celebration tomorrow.

The British Premier would have been a target as he stood alongside India's
leaders commemorating their country's break from the Empire in 1947.

Security chiefs from both countries ordered a strengthening of the protective
screen to be thrown around Mr Major, who was yesterday on the first day of his
first visit to India.

The four Sikhs planned to plant their bombs at key sites in the centre of Delhi,
where more than a million people will gather to watch the two-hour parade
involving tanks, elephants and bands.

Killed

Their capture raised the question of whether other militant terrorist groups
active throughout India are preparing to strike during tomorrow's events.

In May, 1991, India's leader Rajiv Gandhi was killed by a woman suicide bomber
acting for Tamil separatists as he met crowds in the open air at a pre-election
rally.

However, officials said that despite the scare, Mr Major would continue to adopt
a high-profile role as the first leading British politician to take part in the
celebration. 'We are satisfied with the security arrangements that are being
made,' one leading insider said.

Terrorism and the activities of the Sikh militants in Britain will be among the
key subjects on Mr Major's agenda for his talks with the Indian premier P V
Narasimha Rao this morning. 'Both countries are working hard to counter
terrorism in all its forms, and we are co-operating together,' a British
official said last night. Three weeks ago Home Secretary Kenneth Clarke visited
Delhi to discuss counter-terrorist measures and gave assurances that Britain was
doing all it could over requests for the extradition of Sikh terrorist suspects
from the UK and to 'track these people down'.

In an interview he gave to the Indian Press before leaving London on Saturday,
Mr Major himself spotlighted the terrorist problem and called for more
international cooperation to combat the menace.

His next destination after tomorrow's celebrations is Bombay, where 500 died
recently in riots.

Cabinet split - Page NINE

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1993 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                               9 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                January 26, 1993

Major says Indian reforms 'a clarion call to the future'

BYLINE: David Storey

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 739 words


BRITISH Prime Minister John Major said today India's radical economic reforms
were "a clarion call to the future" and he dismissed reported threats to his
security during a five-day visit.

Major, speaking at a news conference after a day of talks with Indian Prime
Minister P.V. Narasimha Rao and other leaders, also denied suggestions Britain
might mediate between India and Pakistan over the divided state of Kashmir.

The British leader said relations between India and its former colonial power
had "never been closer since independence" in 1947. This was symbolised by his
invitation to be the chief guest at tomorrow's Republic Day celebrations.

He offered his full backing for the 18-month-old reforms, aimed at breaking down
state domination of the economy, opening it up to outside forces, cutting
bureaucracy and making it more dependent on market forces.

Major said he was entirely satisfied with arrangements for his security after
police said they arrested four Sikh militants yesterday who had plans to explode
four bombs by remote control in government buildings on Republic Day.

Indian officials said the decision to accord him the honour of being chief
guest, the first time for a British Prime Minister, reflected the shift in
India's strategic priorities after the collapse of the Soviet Union, India's
biggest ally.

They said there had been discussion about whether Russian leader Boris Yeltsin,
who begins a visit on Wednesday, should be invited. "Yeltsin represents the
past, Major represents the future," one senior official said privately.

Major and Howard Davies, the director-general of the Confederation of British
Industry who was one of 17 top businessmen who came on the trip, reported on a
number of deals agreed during the visit and others under discussion.

They include a joint venture between British Gas Plc and the Gas Authority of
India worth £100m over 10 years for the distribution of natural gas in Bombay.

Major's aides said he did not appear to have been a direct target of the
Republic Day bomb plans.

He said if there were any threat aimed at Britain, it would be a response to his
government's commitment to co-operate with India to fight terrorism across the
world.

Simranjit Singh Mann, a prominent Sikh leader, alleged the arrests were part of
India's attempts to malign the Sikhs. "No Sikh can ever harm a British Prime
Minister or a British citizen," he said.

"The government is spreading a canard that the arrested people were targeting
the British Prime Minister. This way (the Indian government) wants to win the
sympathies of the British Government," Mann told Reuters.

Mr Major, who is on a six-day trip to India and Oman, insisted that Britain
would continue its policy of extraditing terrorists.

He linked the reported plot by Indian extremist groups to a treaty signed by
Britain and India in London last September, which allows for the extradition of
suspected terrorists.

Assets and funds of those involved in terrorism and international crime would be
confiscated.

Up to seven Indian terrorist groups were reportedly planning to attack Mr Major
during tomorrow's Republic Day celebrations in Delhi. He will be the chief
guest.

But today he played down the security issue, saying: "I am entirely content with
the security arrangements that have been made here.

"We have been in touch with the Indian authorities for some time about the
security matters during this visit and all those discussions have been entirely
satisfactory."

He told a news conference: "I think, probably, the threat . . . comes
specifically from our commitment to the extradition treaty. I have no
reservations about that treaty whatsoever."

Mr Major said the Indian and British governments were among many that had to
deal with international terrorism and governments often needed to co-ordinate
their efforts.

"I don't believe any threats, wherever they may come from or for whatever reason
they may come, will change the necessity to deal with the terrorist threat in
each and every country around the world," he added

The four alleged Sikh terrorists were remanded in police custody for 15 days by
a duty magistrate in Delhi after police discovered a cache of arms and
ammunition.

Security in and around the city has been tightened and a constant watch is being
kept on the known hideouts of militants.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Mr Major smiles as he is helped with his shoes during a visit to the
Mahatma Gandhi memorial at Rajghat.Picture: RICHARD ELLIS/Reuter

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1993 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              10 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                January 27, 1993

Security surrounds Major for India's show of power

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 510 words


New Delhi, Tuesday

INDIA'S military might and cultural diversity were paraded before Prime Minister
John Major today.

Security was tight for Mr Major, chief guest at the celebrations to mark India
becoming a republic on January 26, 1950.

He is the first British Prime Minister to attend the Republic Day Parade since
withdrawal from India in 1947.

Mr Major sat behind bullet-proof glass in the VIP enclosure as Indian President
Shankar Dayal Sharma took the salute from his armed forces.

The 90-minute parade passed off without incident, despite reported threats by as
many as seven Indian terrorist groups to attack Mr Major, and the arrest of four
Sikh militants said to be planning to bomb Government buildings during the
parade.

Its five-mile route took the slow-moving convoy, which included tanks, rocket
-launchers, missiles, and anti-aircraft guns, past the India Gate memorial to
the country's fallen soldiers.

There was a lighter side too, with camel-mounted troops and children atop
decorated elephants alongside spectacular floats, child dancers, and a
motorcycle display team.

The Prime Minister was given a reminder of difficulties back home by a float
from the profit-making Indian coal company, the world's largest single corporate
employer.

After the celebrations, Mr Major attended a tea party for 1000 guests in the
ornate gardens attached to the presidential palace.

The display was a pointed reminder to Mr Major of India's commitment to crushing
the separatist rebellion in Kashmir.

He watched President Sharma give India's highest award from bravery to a soldier
killed while fighting "Pakistan-trained" Kashmiri separatists.

The nationalists have become a serious problem for Prime Minister P. V.
Narasimha Rao, who is plagued by three separatist movements including Kashmir.

Mr Major today denied Indian media reports that he might try to mediate between
India and Pakistan over Kashmir, where more than 9000 people have died in three
-year rebellion.

"It is not for us to offer artificially to broker a solution," he told
reporters.

A central theme of the parade was national unity after two waves of Hindu
-Muslim violence that killed 1700 people.

India has been polarised by the destruction of a mosque on December 6 by Hindu
nationalists, which plunged the nation into widespread mayhem. In a nationwide
broadcast on the eve of Republic Day, President Sharma pleaded for tolerance.

Some Muslim leaders in New Delhi called for a boycott of the celebrations in
protest against the Government's handling of the communal riots, in which most
of the victims were Muslim. Many mosques flew black flags.

The Prime Minister flies south to Indore in central India tomorrow to see two
slum clearance projects funded partly by the British Government.

Later, in Bombay, he will meet the local governor and give a speech about
business and privatisation.

Mr Major is due to return to Britain late on Thursday after a short stopover in
Oman.--PA/Reuter.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Safety screen: Mr Major and India's President Shankar Sharma watch the
Republic Day celebrations from behind bullet-proof glass. Security was stepped
up after Sikh militants said they would bomb the parade.Picture: SUNIL
MALHOTRA/ReuterFan out, men: A regiment of Indian Army border guards make a
stirring display with their distinctive headgear as they salute John
Major.Picture: LIU HUNG SHING/AP

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1993 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              11 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 30, 1993

FLAT-OWNERS HIT BY RICOCHET EFFECT OF TERROR BOMBINGS

BYLINE: JILL PAPWORTH

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN CITY PAGE; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 822 words


AS terrorists renewed their bombing activity this week in London, people living
in mansion blocks are being unfairly caught up in the wrangle over terrorism
insurance cover for commercial properties.

As a result, domestic flat-owners are having to pay thousands of pounds in extra
buildings premiums to protect their homes against terrorist bomb damage.

Last November, insurers threatened to withdraw cover against commercial
buildings in mainland Britain being damaged by terrorist attack. The move
followed industry pay-outs totalling 750 million pounds for bomb damage in the
spring.

A scheme is being worked out under which insurers are setting up a safety fund
purely to cover terrorism claims. This is being financed by extra premiums from
commercial policyholders who want full terrorism cover for their properties.

The Government has agreed that, should the fund run dry, it will act as the
"insurer of last resort" and pay 90 per cent of outstanding claims, with
participating insurers paying the rest.

The Association of British Insurers has said its members will continue to
include full terrorism cover in domestic policies for private policy-holders'
houses and cars. So, individuals will be able to claim as normal for damage if
their home is the target of terrorism.

But the Government and the ABI have yet to agree on how large blocks of flats,
which would give rise to far higher claims costs if damaged by a bomb, should be
treated.

Insurers tend to treat large blocks, often owned by commercial landlords, as
commercial properties, which should come within the scope of the new scheme and
be charged extra for terrorist cover.

But flat-dwellers, who will end up paying any extra premiums, argue that they
should not have to pay more than people who live elsewhere to cover their homes
against terrorism.

Whatever is ultimately decided, when buildings policies come up for renewal,
insurers are playing safe in the meantime by collecting extra premiums from
blocks requiring full terrorism cover.

The plight of flat-dwellers is clearest in cases where the residents of a block,
rather than an outside commercial landlord, own the freehold themselves.

The freehold of Delaware Mansions, a block of 167 flats opposite the BBC Radio
studios in London's Maida Vale, was bought by its leasehold residents in June
1990. The lessees formed a non-profit limited company, run by elected, volunteer
directors, to oversee the management of the block via Carringtons, a local firm
of residential managing agents. Repairs, cleaning, major works, Carrington's
fees and insurance premiums are all paid for through the services charges and
ground rent paid by the residents.

Two years ago, the mansion block's buildings cover, from Ecclesiastical
Insurance, cost 9,342 pounds. Last year, after a claim for subsidence, the
premium shot up to 26,528 pounds, for all-risks cover, including terrorism.
This year, on the January 1 renewal date, the premium quote had nearly doubled
again, to 46,424 pounds. This time it excludes terrorism cover apart from a
minimal 100,000 pounds per claim for buildings damage.

Ecclesiastical informed Delaware's committee that if they wanted full terrorism
cover, there would be a separate premium of 12,606.10 pounds by January 31.
Calculated on the basis of an ABI preliminary schedule, the money will be held
in an escrow account until it was decided how blocks of flats are to be treated.
If, as is hoped, the Government decides to appease flat-dwellers by funding the
extra terrorism cover for resident-owned blocks, the net premium (without
interest) will be returned to Delaware Mansions. If not, it will go into the
safety fund.

Resident director John Spragg says: "It's illogical to class a block of
residential flats owned by the residents as a commercial property. But we felt
we had no choice about paying up for full terrorism cover. Had we not done so
and the block were blown up, the residents would not be able to claim for the
damage to their homes. And, as unpaid directors, we as individuals could then be
sued for negligence." Simon O'Connor, managing director of Carrington's, which
looks after 15 blocks with resident-owned freeholds, says that at least two
others with January 1 renewals have been put in the same predicament by their
insurers suddenly excluding terrorism cover from their standard policies.
"Ordinary domestic residents are being hit hard by this," he says.

London solicitors Jakobi & Co this week warned householders that the problem
could lead to blocks of flats becoming unmortgagable. "The blight of
under-insured property could cause considerable depression in property values,"
said a partner, Nigel Morris-Cotterill.

An ABI spokesman said that decisions on the treatment of residential blocks,
including those owned by housing associations and local councils, were a
priority.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              12 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                February 2, 1993

COMMUNITY LINKS SECURITY SERVICES

BYLINE: RICHARD NORTON-TAYLOR

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FOREIGN PAGE; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 412 words


THE countries of the European Community have set up a powerful group of senior
officials to co-ordinate activities between their security and intelligence
services - one of the EC's fastest-growing, most successful, and most secretive,
areas of co-operation.

The group, called the K4 committee, has the task of establishing the Maastricht
treaty's "third pillar", which covers inter-governmental co-operation on law and
order, asylum and immigration policy and the proposed Europol.

The K4 committee will answer only to national governments. It will be
responsible for implementing initiatives now in the hands of working groups set
up under an EC system begun in 1976 - the Trevi system. Documents made available
to the journal, Statewatch, and which the Guardian has seen, reveal the kind of
work being carried out by the Trevi network.

They show that 60 meetings of security service officers, customs officials and
Home Office civil servants were held during Britain's six-month EC presidency
last year. Whitehall warned other EC states that the volume of paperwork was so
great that it caused "operational difficulties" for the Trevi secure fax
network.

To overcome the problem, EC home affairs ministers agreed to consider using an
electronic mail system with special codes. The documents also describe the work
undertaken by three Trevi working groups.

WG1, concerned with political violence, has agreed a "full terrorist threat
assessment document", including an unprecedented analysis of future threats.
"Terrorist finances" are the subject of a separate judicial co-operation working
group.

WG2 is responsible for co-operation among police forces, including the exchange
of information on training, forensic science, computers, public order and the
policing of road traffic. It has set up a study on telephone tapping.

WG3 deals with serious crime, including drug-trafficking and money-laundering,
and is responsible for setting up the European drug intelligence unit as the
first step towards the creation of Europol.

This group is also responsible for establishing common definitions. For example,
terrorism is defined as "the use and attempt to use violence by a structured
group to obtain political objectives". Organised crime is "an uninterrupted
series of criminal activities committed by a group of individuals with the
intention of obtaining benefits, influence or power".

Statewatch, PO Box 1516, London N16.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              13 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                           February 12, 1993, Friday

SIKH CAMPAIGNER LOSES COURT BID

BYLINE:  John Aston, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 450 words


Sikh independence campaigner Karamjit Singh Chahal today failed in a High Court
bid to block a Government decision to deport him to India where, he says, he
faces arrest and torture.  A judge ruled that Home Secretary Kenneth Clarke
acted reasonably and within his powers when he ordered 44-year-old Chahal's
removal from the UK "for reasons of national security" and in the interests of
"the international fight against terrorism".  Mr Justice Potts said he was
satisfied that, in reaching his decision, Mr Clarke "implicitly and clearly
evaluated the risk of torture against the risk to national security and decided
that the latter outweighed the former".  The Secretary of State had received
assurances from the Indian High Commission that Chahal would not be ill-treated
or tortured by India's police or security forces, said the judge.  That had to
be set against Mr Clarke's conclusion that the Sikh represented "a substantial
risk" to national security because he had been involved in planning and
directing terrorist attacks in India, the UK and elsewhere.  Chahal has been
detained in Bedford jail for more than two and a half years. He has lived in
Britain for 20 years but the decision to deport him was made in 1990.

Supporters of Chahal, a British resident with two teenage children, claimed the
deportation order was politically motivated and aimed at improving Indo-British
relations.  His lawyers claimed during a four-day court hearing last month that
he was not a terrorist and had already suffered torture at the hands of the
Indian police on a visit to the Punjab in 1984.  He was likely to do so again
because of his role in the Sikh campaign for an independent homeland.  Supported
by Amnesty International, his supporters were seeking a writ of habeas corpus
and a ruling that Mr Clarke's decisions to refuse Chahal political asylum and to
send him back to India were perverse.  They also wanted declarations that
Chahal, whose family lives in Luton, Bedfordshire, was a genuine refugee and
would be exposed to a real risk of "inhuman and degrading treatment" if sent
back.  But Mr Justice Potts concluded in a 90-minute judgment heard by Chahal
himself and a courtroom packed with his supporters that the Home Secretary's
decision could not be impugned.  The judge refused a request for bail pending
any appeal.  Mr David Burgess, solicitor for Chahal, described it as "a deeply,
deeply distressing judgment".  The judge had not been able to see all the
material before the Home Secretary for national security reasons, he said.  "It
is impossible to say what commercial or political pressures may be operating on
the Secretary of State and clouding his judgment."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1993 The Press Association Limited

                              14 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               February 13, 1993

JAILED SIKH LOSES DEPORTATION PLEA

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 390 words


KARAMJIT Singh Chahal, the campaigner for Sikh independence who has spent the
past 2 1/2 years in Bedford prison, yesterday failed in the High Court to
overturn a government decision to deport him to India where, he says, he faces
arrest and torture.

Mr Justice Potts ruled that Kenneth Clarke, the Home Secretary, acted reasonably
and within his powers when he ordered the removal of Mr Chahal, aged 44, from
the UK "for reasons of national security" and in the interests of "the
international fight against terrorism."

Mr Clarke had "implicitly and clearly evaluated the risk of torture against the
risk to national security and decided that the latter outweighed the former." He
had received assurances from the Indian High Commission that Mr Chahal would not
be ill-treated by India's police or security forces.

That assurance had to be set against Mr Clarke's conclusion that the Sikh
represented "a substantial risk" to national security because he had been
involved in planning and directing terrorist attacks in India, the UK, and
elsewhere.

Mr Chahal, who has two teenage children, has lived in Britain for 20 years but
the decision to deport him was made in 1990. He has since been in prison. His
supporters claimed the deportation order was aimed at improving Indo-British
relations.

His lawyers claimed during a four-day court hearing last month that he was not a
terrorist and had been tortured by the Indian police in 1984 while on a visit to
the Punjab. He was likely to be tortured again because of his role in the Sikh
campaign for an independent homeland.

Yesterday his supporters, backed by Amnesty International, were seeking a writ
of habeas corpus and a ruling that Mr Clarke's decisions to refuse political
asylum and to return him to India were perverse.

They also wanted declarations that Mr Chahal, whose family lives in Luton,
Bedfordshire, was a genuine refugee and would be exposed to a real risk of
"inhuman and degrading treatment" if sent back.

But Mr Justice Potts concluded in a 90-minute judgment that the Home Secretary's
decision could not be impugned. The judge refused a request for bail pending any
appeal.

Mr David Burgess, solicitor for Mr Chahal, said the judge had not been able to
see all the material before the Home Secretary for security reasons.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              15 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           February 22, 1993, Monday

Leading Article: Moral obligations to Mr Rushdie

SECTION: EDITORIAL PAGE; Page 18

LENGTH: 549 words


''I AM an innocent man, a free citizen in a free country, being attacked by a
terrorist state.'' These words, spoken on television yesterday by Salman
Rushdie, the Indian- born British writer who has lived for four years under the
threat of murder by Islamic fundamentalists, should help to return public
attention to the essential issues surrounding his case. The fatwa of 14 February
1989, by which the mullahs of Tehran ordered Muslims to go out and kill Mr
Rushdie, was an appalling act worthy of contempt by all civilised people. The
Government's lukewarm response to his plight over the following four years has
been deplorable. Its belated awakening in recent weeks to Britain's moral
obligations to Mr Rushdie is puzzling but welcome. More welcome still, however,
will be an out-and-out change in government policy over the affair.

The handling of his case has been influenced throughout by other considerations.
One was the fear that strong words on Mr Rushdie's behalf might damage attempts
to restore Britain's battered diplomatic relations with Iran. Another was
concern about Western hostages in the Middle East and a wish to do nothing that
would harm them. A third was the desire not to give further unnecessary
publicity to militant Muslims such as Dr Kalim Siddiqui, who had used the
Rushdie affair to stir up religious trouble in Britain.

While all these matters deserved consideration, they should have been firmly
treated as subordinate to the moral imperative; that everything should be done
to get the fatwa lifted. Whether one felt kindly to Mr Rushdie or his writings
was irrelevant. He admits that he has made some political errors, especially
when he tried to convince the Iranians to call off their assassins by
pretending, in one of his darkest moments, that he had become an observant
Muslim. That is now behind him.

The Government is giving Mr Rushdie's case a good deal more prominence; earlier
this month he was allowed to meet Douglas Hogg, a junior Foreign Office
minister. Now it is time to do more. Mr Rushdie said yesterday that he detects
''a gradual acceleration of international interest'' in his case. Other European
countries, notably France and Germany, have come out in his support. Canada has
withheld a $ 1bn trade credit from Iran in protest at the country's failure to
call off its fatwa. Norway has blocked a lucrative oil deal. Most importantly,
the Clinton administration appears ready to link his case to the broader
relations between the United States and Iran.

With such promising signs abroad there is much that the Government could do.
Pressing for concerted action inside the European Community, or the Group of
Seven industrial nations, is one thing; going to the International Court of
Justice is another. While preliminary work is being done by officials on those
matters, however, John Major could make an important gesture. Responding to Mr
Rushdie's public request, he could invite him for a chat at No 10 and pose for
photographers with him on the steps outside. He should declare that however
offensive his book may be to Muslims, Britain will not see Mr Rushdie murdered
by assassins sent from abroad - and that until the fatwa is lifted, Iran can
expect no warmer relations with Britain or its allies.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1993 Independent Print Ltd

                              16 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                          February 24, 1993, Wednesday

MI6, CIA RESPONSIBLE FOR LOCKERBIE TERROR DEATHS, CLAIMS AUTHOR

BYLINE:  Moira Whittle, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 299 words


MI6 and the CIA are "directly responsible" for the deaths of the 270 people who
died in the Lockerbie air crash, an author said today.  David Yallop claims in
his book, published today, he told British intelligence in 1988 that a major
terrorist attack was about to take place just days before Pan Am Flight 103 came
down.  And, with other information that it is now known they had coming in from
other sources, they would have been able to pin down the attack to the flight.
Mr Yallop discloses in his book, To The Ends Of The Earth, that he received his
information when he was interviewing Palestinian terrorist Abu Nidal in Libya.
He returned to Britain and arranged a meeting with an MI6 agent to inform him of
what he had learned.  "But he seemed to be more interested in the food and drink
that Abu Nidal had consumed," he said.  The bombing took place a mere nine days
after the interview, he added.  "I was outraged on behalf of the dead and on
behalf of the relatives of the dead. It makes the CIA and MI6 directly
responsible and directly culpable for the deaths," he said.  Mr Yallop, whose
previous book In God's Name claimed that Pope John Paul I was assassinated, also
attacked security services around the globe for failing to arrest the world's
most wanted terrorist, Carlos the Jackal.  In his book he tells that the man,
wanted in the UK for an attempted murder and a City bombing, is living at
liberty in Damascus. "I can't believe I am the first person to tell precisely
where he is. It's unconceivable that the CIA, MI6 and the French, Italian,
German and Austrian secret services don't know where he is," he said.  His
explanation for the lack of action was political because Syria is now an ally
and to request extradition would be internationally embarrassing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1993 The Press Association Limited

                              17 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               February 26, 1993

LABOUR SEEKS JOINT APPROACH ON TERROR;
Talks offer as Blair aims to consolidate crime initiative

BYLINE: PATRICK WINTOUR, POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 597 words


LABOUR will today step up its efforts to project a tougher stance on crime when
Kevin McNamara, the shadow Northern Ireland secretary, will offer the Government
the chance for an all-party consensus to combat terrorism, particularly in
Northern Ireland.

The initiative follows jibes this week by both the Prime Minister and Tony
Newton, the Leader of the House, that Labour's commitment to fighting crime will
never be credible until it supports the Prevention of Terrorism Act.

A group of 67 Tories, led by Sir John Wheeler, have signed an Early Day Motion
condemning Labour's opposition to the Prevention of Terrorism Act, accusing
Labour of trying to weaken every piece of legislation brought forward by the
Government to crack down on criminals.

Labour has opposed the act for 10 years and is expected to do so again in the
next few weeks when the continuance orders are laid before the Commons. The act
was initially rushed through Parliament in 1974 in the wake of the Birmingham
pub bombings.

In a speech in Hull today, Mr McNamara will attempt to take the issue out of
politics by making the offer of a new concensus, including all-party talks to
achieve a balance between tough anti-terrorist measures and protection of civil
liberties.

The pressure for a Labour initiative is reported to be coming from Tony Blair,
the shadow home secretary, who is anxious that his well-received push on
juvenile crime is not undermined by misrepresentation of Labour's opposition to
the Prevention of Terrorism Act. The pressure has become more intense due to
spate of mainland bombings in the past year.

Mr McNamara yesterday accused Mr Major and Mr Newton of disgraceful attacks on
Labour's stance on terrorism and said a consensus could rapidly be achieved
without the need for fresh legislation.

The act's last continuance order was passed by 281 votes to 170 on 10 June last
year. On that occasion Labour criticised the dormant powers of internment
without trial still in the act and the powers to seize documents. The year
before, during the debate on the passage of the bill making the act subject to
only five-yearly renewal, Labour criticised the exclusion orders effectively
barring UK citizens in Northern Ireland from travelling to the mainland, the
so-called internal exile orders.

Labour's other most serious criticism has centred on the powers to detain in
police custody for seven days without trial, a power that has attacted a hostile
ruling by the European Court of Human Rights.

Mr McNamara is expected to propose that all these issues be put on the table for
discucssion with the aim of reaching a consensus.

Figures released by the Home Office yesterday show that 160 people were detained
in Great Britain in 1992 under the act, in comparison with 153 in 1991. All but
20 of the detentions were in connection with Northern Irish terrorism. Of those
detained, 41 were either charged with an offence, deported, removed or excluded.

At the end of 1992, 81 persons remained subject to exclusion orders, fewer than
in any year since 1982, when 248 orders were in force at the end of the year.
Only eight people in 1992 had been detained for more than 48 hours and not
charged with an offence, excluded, deported or removed.

- An urgent Commons debate on Northern Ireland was demanded last night by Seamus
Mallon, SDLP MP for Newry and Armagh, after the deaths of two policemen in
terrorist attacks. Tony Newton, Leader of the House, deplored the attacks but
said he could not undertake to find time for a debate.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              18 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               February 27, 1993

Clarke sticks to hard line on terrorism Act

BYLINE: Stuart Trotter, Political Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 616 words


THE Government yesterday rejected an Opposition offer to support anti-terrorist
legislation if the Prevention of Terrorism Act was modified.

Mr Kevin McNamara, Shadow Secretary for Northern Ireland, signalled a possible
end to Labour's 10-year opposition to the Act by offering to work out with
Ministers a security policy that would command cross party support.

But Mr Kenneth Clarke, the Home Secretary, said it would be absurd and
irresponsible to make changes to the Act especially at a time when the IRA was
mounting a campaign on the mainland.

This brought an angry retort from a Labour spokesman that it looked as though he
was "playing politics" with terrorism.

The spokesman said that when Mr Tony Blair, Shadow Home Secretary, sent him
suggestions for tackling crime, Mr Clarke said he would consider them carefully.
But he had turned down the idea of a fresh look at anti-terrorism measures
almost instantly.

The Labour Party is refusing to say if it will continue its practice since 1983
of voting against the annual renewal of the Act when it comes before the Commons
in a fortnight.

The Prime Minister has led Government denunciations of Labour's opposition to
the Act, and a day on which mainland violence flared again was not an opportune
one to have proposed amendments to it.

Home Office statistics released yesterday showed that 160 people were detained
under the Act in 1992 compared with 153 in 1991; 140 of the detentions were in
connection with Northern Ireland terrorism (121 in 1991).

The remaining 20 were in connection with international terrorism (down from 32
the previous year). Forty-one people were either charged with an offence,
deported, removed, or excluded from the country.

Mr McNamara, speaking at Hull University, suggested as a basis for discussion:
ending the orders which exclude people either from Northern Ireland or Britain;
introduction of a "judicial element" when authorisation is given to detain
suspects for seven days; introduction of audio recording of suspect
interrogation in Northern Ireland as in Britain; and video recordings of suspect
interrogation in Northern Ireland holding centres.

He said the Government's objective should be to get the broadest consensus among
all citizens in the country and all parties in the Commons for an anti
-terrorism policy. Labour still believes the Act has not been effective in the
fight against terrorism.

The Act allows police to arrest suspected terrorists and detain them for 48
hours with the possibility of extensions for a maximum of a further five day.

It also allows police to carry out security checks on travellers entering or
leaving the UK.

Mr Clarke, speaking on BBC Radio, said some of the people subject to exclusion
orders had a long history of involvement with the Provisional IRA or other
extremist groups. "It does disrupt the activities of terrorists and at a time
when we have a big mainland campaign being mounted for them it would be
irresponsible to take away exclusion orders."

He said he was very hard to persuade that people should be held in custody under
the Act but it provided time, for example, for forensic evidence to establish a
case against them.

It would be "quite absurd if you discovered when the evidence came through that
you had probably arrested a key terrorist activist, you had released him on
bail, and you no longer had any idea where he was".

Mr Clarke said he did not believe anyone's civil liberties had been damaged by
the Act. "We are dealing with people who are so unscrupulous that the ordinary
provisions of the criminal law are sometimes not sufficient to deal with them."

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1993 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              19 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Daily Mail (London)

                             March 1, 1993, Monday

TERROR DOSSIER FOR U.S. 'FACT-FINDER'

BYLINE: Peter Rose

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 854 words


A CATALOGUE of IRA atrocities is to be handed to the American 'fact-finding'
mission to Northern Ireland.

It is being compiled on the orders of John Major, who is determined that the
emissary be made fully aware of carnage over recent years, and is expected to
include attacks on the mainland.

In the wake of the latest IRA attacks in Warrington and Camden, North London,
the American administration seemed yesterday to distance itself from
controversy.

The U.S. ambassador to Britain, Raymond Seitz, said the emissary would not be
acting as a peace envoy, and there would be no attempt to mediate or negotiate
in the peace process.

Senior police sources believe that the bombing on Friday of New York's World
Trade Centre has, for the first time, brought home to Americans the problems of
tackling terrorism.

President Clinton is expected to announce the name of the emissary shortly.
Those under consideration include former President Jimmy Carter and House of
Representatives Speaker Tom Foley.

Unionist parties in Northern Ireland remain deeply suspicious, fearing
interference as Clinton tries to keep pre-election promises.

But Mr Seitz told the BBC's Breakfast with Frost programme yesterday: 'The
President is interested, is considering the idea of appointing a representative
to go on a fact-finding mission and come back and report to him and report to
the Congress.

'It is not a peace envoy at all. The 'peace envoy' phrase suggests that we are
going to come forward with some sort of plan or mediate or negotiate.  That has
not been considered and that will not happen.'

Northern Ireland Secretary Sir Patrick Mayhew urged the American emissary not to
talk to Sinn Fein, the political wing of the IRA. 'I would say it is unwise and
undesirable to speak to people who make use of violence for political purposes
or who encourage it,' he said.

Anti-terrorist officers warned the public to step up their vigilance after the
Camden bombing at lunchtime on Saturday.

Eighteen people, including two children and a policeman, were injured when the
bomb exploded in a litter bin in the High Street. Four of the victims were still
in the Royal Free hospital last night.

Surgeons were fighting to save the sight in one eye of a 22-year-old Swedish
tourist caught in the blast. She was said to be in a 'serious but comfortable'
condition.

A telephone warning from a man with an Irish accent said a bomb was primed to
explode in a Kentucky Fried Chicken shop 400 yards from the scene of the blast.
The IRA later claimed it had given a precise warning - but police condemned it
as deliberately misleading, meaning people were moved directly into the path of
the blast.

Commander Bernard Luckhurst of the Metropolitan Police said it was 'a callous
attempt to injure as many people as possible'.

Sight

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1993 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              20 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 1, 1993

IRA BOMB WARNING UNCLEAR, SAY POLICE;
Four still in hospital after 'callous' litter bin explosion

BYLINE: DUNCAN CAMPBELL AND OWEN BOWCOTT

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 596 words


SCOTLAND Yard yesterday denied IRA claims that a precise warning had been given
for Saturday's lunchtime bomb attack in Camden, north London.

The bomb, containing a small quantity of high explosive injured 18 people, four
of whom were still in hospital yesterday. One woman, a Swedish tourist, had eye
surgery and two men had surgery for leg cuts. Two children and a policeman were
among the injured.

In a statement issued in Dublin, the IRA claimed that people were injured
because "the British authorities deliberately failed to act on what were precise
and adequate warnings".

Scotland Yard denied that the warnings were either adequate or precise. After
the IRA claim, a spokeswoman reiterated that the warnings had been inaccurate
and had made it impossible to evacuate people properly.

At 12.12pm a man with an Irish accent had warned that a bomb had been planted in
the Kentucky Fried Chicken restaurant in Oxford Street, central London. A
warning at 12.24pm said the bomb was in the Kentucky Fried Chicken in Camden,
about two miles north. The bomb exploded at 12.52pm in a litter bin 400 yards
away as police were evacuating people from the area, 40 minutes after the first
warning.

Commander Bernard Luckhurst said that the bomb had been a callous attempt to
injure as many as possible. Many were struck by flying glass. "Some of the
people who were being moved away were moved into the path of this device some
300 to 400 yards away."

The injured were treated at University College hospital in central London and
the Royal Free hospital in Hampstead. The four still detained yesterday were
comfortable.

Camden High Street is a popular shopping place and a traditional Irish part of
London.

The attack follows the IRA bombing last Friday of the gas container in
Warrington, Cheshire. The two men who were arrested in Cheshire are being held
at Paddington Green police station, central London. They have not been charged
and Cheshire police said that they could not comment on the hunt for the third
man. "Joint investigations are continuing," said a spokesman.

Two women and one man were arrested in Nottingham under the Prevention of
Terrorism Act.

The Warrington attack led to weekend speculation that IRA members in Britain had
developed a strategy of hitting industrial targets in the hope of damaging an
already weakened economy. However, both the Warrington and Camden attacks
illustrate the IRA terror strategy of doing the unexpected.

In the Irish Republic, three people were under arrest last night after the
discovery of a large quantity of IRA bomb-making material believed to be part of
the IRA's supplies for bombing operations in both London and Northern Ireland.

Irish special branch detectives found more than 25 kilos of Semtex plastic
explosive, 200 incendiary devices and numerous under-car booby trap bombs in
Kilcock, County Kildare, at the weekend. The hoard included timers, coffee jar
bombs and rocket grenades.

The hoard was the largest find in an Irish police operation, codenamed Operation
Silo, which has uncovered IRA weapons dumps across County Limerick and central
Ireland over the past year. It is thought that the Semtex may have come from a
Libyan arms shipment in the mid-1980s.

Eight people were arrested in connection with the latest find, in a van parked
near a house in Kilcock.

Last night three men were still being questioned and a report was expected to be
sent to the Republic's director of public prosecutions following forensic tests
for fingerprints.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              21 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 3, 1993

TALKS ON ULSTER 'FED INSTABILITY'

BYLINE: OWEN BOWCOTT IN BELFAST

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 418 words


TALKS on the future of Northern Ireland have contributed to instability within
the province, the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland suggested last night.

They had left some people in a "jumpy state" through fears that the union with
Britain was being undermined, Sir Patrick Mayhew said in Belfast.

Having made overtures to the nationalist community last December, Sir Patrick is
attempting to reassure unionists and encourage their political leaders back to
the negotiating table.

His comments follow a rise in loyalist paramilitary violence this year and
suspicion among many politicians that Britain's commitment to Northern Ireland
is increasingly equivocal.

Sir Patrick said that after the last round of talks, which ended in November,
"people ask, Did the talks fail? Will they start again? And what can they have
been about except undermining the union?"

But, he said, "the talks were not about undermining the union. Northern
Ireland's present status as part of the United Kingdom will not change without
the consent of the majority of its people.

"For the foreseeable future that seems unlikely, not least because those who, as
matters stand at present, want to stay within the union are by no means only
Protestants.

"The Government will, as I said in December, warmly, solemnly and steadfastly
uphold Northern Ireland's status. We are not indifferent, we are not neutral.
We are not neutral in our resolve to protect and deliver the people of Northern
Ireland from terrorist violence."

The province, he said, had not been "manoeuvred to the brink of the union", but
he added: "If a majority of the people of Northern Ireland should in the future
come to desire a united Ireland, then it would not be for the Government to
gainsay them."

If the status of the province was ever going to change it would not be through
violence.

Locally elected representatives should be given more powers. As secretary of
state he had "absurdly wide" responsibilities, but any changes should be made
within the context of power sharing to ensure minorities were not excluded.

Political talks would resume soon, he believed. They were necessary to establish
better relationships within Northern Ireland, between people on the island of
Ireland and between Dublin and London.

- Police found Semtex explosive and bomb-making equipment in the grounds of a
west Belfast nursery school yesterday, 48 hours after Semtex was found in a
neighbouring primary school.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              22 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Daily Mail (London)

                             March 5, 1993, Friday

Former soldier facing Harrods bomb charge

BYLINE: Peter Burden

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 720 words


A FORMER soldier was charged last night with the Harrods bombing.

Jan Alexander Taylor, a one-time corporal in the Royal Signals, was accused with
unemployed Patrick Thomas Hayes.

Both men, who are believed to have been born in Britain, also face other
terrorist charges.

Taylor, who is his late forties, became a BT telephonist after leaving the
forces but was made redundant in January 1984.

For the last four years he has worked four nights a week as a shelf stacker at a
supermarket in Bethnal Green, East London.

He lives in a basement flat at Adelina Grove, Stepney, which has been
extensively searched by Scotland Yard experts.

Anti Terrorist Branch detectives did not give the men's ages last night and are
still working on establishing their full backgrounds.

They were arrested on Tuesday, hours after police released film taken by
security cameras five weeks ago, showing two men walking on the pavement outside
the Knightsbridge store.

Armed police raided a flat in Walford Road, Stoke Newington, North London, after
a tip-off. Three shots were fired.

Taylor alone was charged with the attempted murder of PC Philip Thorne at
Walford Road on Tuesday.

He and Hayes are jointly charged on three counts.

The first is that on Thursday January 28, in Brompton Road, Knightsbridge, they
caused an explosion using Semtex high explosive 'likely to endanger life'.

The second is that on or before Tuesday March 2 they conspired at Walford Road
and elsewhere to cause an explosion in the UK.

The third is that on Tuesday March 2 at the Walford Road flat they unlawfully
possessed a quantity of Semtex.

The two have been held at top-security Paddington Green police station under the
Prevention of Terrorism Act.

They are due to appear under heavy armed guard at Arbour Square magistrates
court in East London this morning.

Three men who were arrested at other addresses following the police raid on the
flat were still being held at central London police stations under the
Prevention of Terrorism Act last night.

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1993 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              23 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 6, 1993

SHATTERING DAY THAT BROUGHT THE ULSTER TROUBLES HOME;
David Sharrock looks back at the IRA's 20-year mainland campaign, and the impact
of the car bombs which launched it on March 8 1973

BYLINE: DAVID SHARROCK

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 801 words


"MY girlfriend and I could see the policemen and the firemen rushing about
outside . . . they were really excited and yelling for everyone to get to
safety, to get away. We stood there, wondering what it was all about, when there
was this fantastic great bang. Glass and bits of brick and smoke were all over
the place, and my friend collapsed. She began to cry."

The words barely register; another account of an IRA bomb going off in London.
But it was different when shop assistant Cathy Johnson spoke them 20 years ago
this Monday. She had just been caught in the after-shock of the Provisionals'
first mainland bomb.

The Hillman Hunter, packed with more than 100lbs of explosive, had turned Great
Scotland Yard into a smoking ruin. A blazing, ruptured gas main spewed smoke as
firemen dragged hoses through broken glass from the windows of the Ministry of
Agriculture building, an army recruitment centre and a pub. Thirty-seven cars
were reduced to twisted metal.

Worse was to follow a few minutes later when a still more powerful detonation
rocked the Old Bailey, injuring 147 people, including 10 policemen struggling to
evacuate the area. An injured 60-year old caretaker collapsed and died of a
heart attack just after discharging himself from hospital.

Two other car bombs were discovered and defused. In all, 200 people had been
injured. For the first time London was wounded and scarred, like Belfast so many
times before and since. On the day that Northern Ireland was voting in a
referendum on whether it wanted to remain in the United Kingdom, the IRA had
brought the Troubles to Britain.

Although the IRA was to look back on the attack as an amateurish operation - all
the bombers were arrested the same day at Heathrow airport - little has changed.
Even in 1973 controversy raged over the amount of time and location description
the IRA gave in telephone warnings.

What became of the young IRA volunteers who took part in the first opening shots
of the mainland campaign?

Of the nine men and women convicted at Winchester crown court of plotting and
carrying out car bombings in London in 1973, only Robert Walsh, William
Armstrong and Paul Holmes remain in custody. After a long campaign to overturn
their life sentences the men were transferred to Maghaberry prison in Northern
Ireland last year to begin a nine-month pre-release course. Their 20 years has
earned them the dubious distinction of being the longest serving prisoners of
the Troubles.

The sisters Marian and Dolours Price, who were in overall command of the bombing
operation, were released from Ulster jails in 1980 and 1981 on compassionate
grounds after contracting anorexia nervosa.

In Parkhurst prison William Armstrong said he had learned his lesson, "but it
has been a cruel one." Mr Walsh, Mr Armstrong and Mr Holmes all renounced
paramilitary activities many years ago.

The severity of their 25-year sentences shocked senior officers in Northern
Ireland's prison system, where terrorist lifers have their first review after 10
years. Of the 250 lifers released there since 1984 none have re-offended.  "On
the mainland there's no empathy for them, whereas here it's so much part of our
history," said a senior civil servant.

Mr Walsh is 44, Mr Armstrong and Mr Holmes are 45. The youngest member of their
team was only 18 when they drove the four car bombs into place 20 years ago.
After their capture the IRA Army Council decided to use older volunteers and to
switch to sleeper units, who could emerge from and return to seemingly routine
lives in England.

After the death of 18-year-old Patricia Black - killed at St Albans in November
1991 by her own bomb as it was being primed - it was suggested that the the IRA
had achieved none of its original aims, learned nothing from previous mistakes,
and was running out of experienced bombers.

It takes just two words from highly-placed republican sources in Belfast to
undermine such theories: Baltic Exchange. On April 10 last year, the day after
the general election, the largest bomb since the second world war exploded in
the heart of the City of London, causing damage estimated at pounds 800 million,
more than the total paid in compensation by the Government during the past 25
years of bombings in Northern Ireland.

Current IRA strategy suggests that where 20 years of bombs have failed to
provoke the hoped-for public clamour for withdrawal from Northern Ireland,
hitting the Exchequer may yet do the trick.

"Don't be misled by propaganda about a shortage of volunteers," said one source
recently in west Belfast, where there is a burgeoning generation of young
disenchanted unemployed. "There is no such shortage. There are enough volunteers
to keep going as long as is necessary."

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              24 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             March 7, 1993, Sunday

Revealed

BYLINE: Nick Rufford and David Leppard

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 1368 words


STELLA RIMINGTON, the head of MI5 and a top IRA target, is at serious risk from
terrorist attack because of loopholes in her personal security, an investigation
by The Sunday Times Insight team has revealed.

Insight has obtained plans of the inside of her London home, the timing and
location of her weekly shopping trips and details of calls made by her on her
ex-directory telephone. Insight has also been able to photograph her outside her
home, where she has no protection, and has discovered how easy it would be to
mount a blackmail operation by paying money into her bank account using the name
of the head of the Russian security service, the successor to the KGB.

Kenneth Clarke, the home secretary, faces questions from anxious MPs in the
Commons tomorrow over the findings, which have implications for the safety of
other senior political and diplomatic figures.

Any terrorist group determined to strike against the head of the Security
Service, which spearheads the fight against the IRA, could duplicate the Sunday
Times methods.

The findings are particularly disturbing in the light of the IRA's present
mainland campaign. The IRA is known to target the head of the Security Service:
the name of a previous chief of MI5 was found on an IRA hitlist.  Last year the
terrorists came within hours of planting a huge van bomb outside Rimington's
office. The attack was aborted after they realised they were under surveillance.

In an exercise to test the vulnerability to terrorist attacks of Britain's
senior Establishment figures, Insight obtained through a commercial inquiry
agent details of Rimington's bank, credit card and medical affairs, profiles of
close members of her family and even records of her mortgage and poll tax
payments.

The information was so precise that it was possible to predict her movements and
watch her unnoticed for several days.

The disclosures, which have implications for the security of other public
figures, have shocked MPs and Whitehall officials.

Dame Jill Knight, Conservative MP for Edgbaston and a member of the home affairs
committee, said: ''I am very surprised and extremely concerned to learn that
details which could lead to a very dangerous situation for Mrs Rimington have
been so easily obtained by an investigative journalist.''

John Greenway, Conservative MP for Ryedale and another committee member, said:
''This really does surprise me. For a person in her situation it is essential
she gets adequate protection.''

A senior Home Office official responsible for police and security added: ''The
government has now made her a public figurehead, and figureheads tend to be
attacked. Somebody ought to have realised how easy it is to find out what you've
found out.''

Despite her position, Rimington disregards many of the security guidelines that
her own department helps draw up: her domestic routine is predictable, she has
taken few steps to erase records of herself from public files and she has no
bodyguard.

Plans revealing the exact layout of her north London home can be inspected by
the public at the planning department of her local council. They show vulnerable
points of entry from the garden, drainpipes, basement and roof, as well as
windows, doors, hallways and bedrooms.

Her home is unguarded and close to an IRA safe house where terrorist bomb-making
equipment and guns were recently uncovered. Yet she shops at the same branch of
Marks & Spencer at the same time each week information that can be readily
obtained from her charge card statements.

The only ''security check'' carried out by the shop when asked for information
about her was to ask for her date of birth. This is given on Rimington's birth
certificate, available from St Catherine's House in London for Pounds 5.50.

Contacted on her unlisted telephone number this weekend, Rimington appeared
unaware of the lapses in her own security. ''Thank you for telling me what you
are going to print and what you are not going to print,'' she said.  Rimington
confirmed she had made regular trips to Marks & Spencer, but added: ''One does
actually have to buy food, even in my position.''

The Home Office Blue Book, a survival manual for senior politicians and
officials at risk from terrorist attack, warns potential targets to look out for
suspect vehicles and never to leave their cars unattended.

Yet last week a Sunday Times journalist, who watched Rimington for four days
from a car parked only yards from her home, photographed her as she arrived back
from a shopping trip. The MI5 chief left her car with the boot open as she took
bags indoors, unaware that she was being observed.

It was possible to note the make, model and registration prefix of her vehicle
intelligence that would provide terrorists with

enough information to plant a car bomb.

From telephone records, obtained by the inquiry agent, we discovered who
Rimington had telephoned and when the calls were made over a three-month period.
The records allowed us to trace other members of her family and her
physiotherapist, and even revealed times when Rimington was away from home.

Since becoming director-general of MI5, Rimington has taken a few steps to
protect herself. Her letter box is sealed and a security camera monitors the
front of her house. She has also removed her name and that of her eldest
daughter from the latest electoral register.

But her address is still in the 1988 register and also on the council's poll tax
records. The same records reveal the address of her daughter a potential kidnap
victim.

Rimington is clearly a target for blackmail and extortion. Yet details of her
accounts at Barclays bank were obtained and Insight was able to pay a sum of
money into her account using the names of Viktor Barannikov and Nikolai
Golushko, the head and deputy head of Russia's security ministry.

Statements from a now-closed Classic Visacard credit-card account contained
information on her lifestyle and movements.

Mysteriously, Rimington gave Barclaycard a work telephone number corresponding
to the London offices of the Umm Al Juwaby Oil Service, a Libyan oil company
blacklisted by the United States government two years ago.  American
intelligence had identified the company as a front for the Libyan government.

It was also possible to obtain information about Rimington's gas and electricity
bills, and details of her Nationwide Anglia building society mortgage. The
information was legally obtained from public sources and databases. The inquiry
agent used aliases, but did not hack into any computers or break any law.

Britain's leading figures still remain poorly protected compared to their
counterparts in the United States. Scotland Yard has about 100 officers for
political protection. This is only a handful more than the 90 secret service
agents who travel abroad with the American president. Only a few senior
politicians have full-time protection.

The head of the CIA has several bodyguards, but he has always been a public
figure. In Britain, the intelligence chiefs have traditionally been unknown, so
it was thought they did not need bodyguards. But they are no longer obscure and
the proliferation of data on individuals' lifestyles has made it much easier to
track down targets.

Personal information is stored on computers used by gas, electricity and phone
companies, by the Department of Employment, Inland Revenue, Driver and Vehicle
Licensing Centre, banks and credit card companies. Archives such as the
government land registry, closed to prying eyes for years, are now open to
public inspection.

Last year, Kenneth Clarke announced an inquiry into information available on
public figures after The Sunday Times revealed how easy it was to spy on a
Northern Ireland and a Home Office minister using computer information. So far,
the inquiry, conducted by Eric Howe, the data protection registrar, has produced
no results.

The Sunday Times cleared this story with Rimington and sought guidance from a
senior MI5 officer before publishing its findings. Both were satisfied that the
facts published do not put her at risk.

Additional research: Ian Burrell

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  MI5 chief is easy terrorist target; Insight

                    Copyright 1993 Times Newspapers Limited

                              25 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 8, 1993

FOR HEAVEN'S SAKE, TALK;
Twenty years of IRA bombs on mainland Britain, 20 years of the security forces'
covert war. What has it all achieved?

BYLINE: KEN LIVINGSTONE

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGE; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1496 words


TODAY is the 20th anniversary of the Old Bailey bombing. It was that blast
which, more than anything else, signalled that the violence which had become a
way of life in Northern Ireland had come to Britain with a vengeance. By
striking at the heart of the British state with such lethal force the IRA gave
notice that nowhere and no one was beyond their reach.

It is still easy to recall the horror and revulsion that followed the Old Bailey
bombing (the second of two attacks on London that day) in which 147 people were
injured. It is not so easy to recall the speeches of condemnation that rained
down on the perpetrators of the bombing.

Perhaps that is inevitable for we have heard them repeated so many times since
by so many politicians. The ringing declaration that we will never be defeated
by cowardly bombers, that we will never negotiate while the IRA holds the gun to
our head has become a litany to be reiterated in public by successive prime
ministers and leaders of the opposition.

Last weekend we heard them again, following the callous attack on innocent
shoppers in north London's Camden Town district. It's hardly surprising that the
litany of condemnation has become so familiar we all know it. Last year, the
death toll from the war in Northern Ireland soared past the 3,000 mark. We have
had too many opportunities to hear our politicians condemn the men of violence.

Unfortunately, the tragedy for the people of Britain and Ireland is that similar
clarity, let alone force of logic, is not present when our politicians come to
tell us what they intend to do to bring this endless slaughter to a stop.

Thus our leaders betray the primary duty of the state. Since the dawn of
organised societies, the first responsibility of government to the governed has
been to protect them from violence. This duty has long slipped off the agenda of
government when it comes to the issue of Britain in Ireland.

For more than a decade, Britain's leaders have spoken in private of having
achieved "an acceptable level of violence". What they mean is that the
horrifying upsurge of killing that followed the introduction of internment 20
years ago had declined to roughly the present levels of violence by 1976 and has
largely stayed at that level ever since.

And, of course, the level of violence is only acceptable to British leaders when
it is happening a long long way away in Ireland and not in their own
constituencies. The IRA knows this attitude only too well and it fuels its
determination to bring the carnage of the war to the streets of Britain.

Proponents of the acceptable level theory seem to forget that the population of
Northern Ireland is only one and a half million. They have no answer when it is
pointed out to them that the number of people blown to bits and shot to death in
Northern Ireland during these last 20 years is equivalent to 110,000 dead in a
population the size of Britain and half a million slaughtered in the US.

Faced with this carnage, successive British governments authorised a covert war
in which the security forces were free to use the methods of the IRA to defeat
the IRA as long as they didn't get caught.

There is no serious commentator on the course of the war who would privately
deny that the British forces have used the shoot-to-kill policy against
suspected IRA volunteers, both in Northern Ireland and Gibraltar. When public
pressure forced the Government to concede an inquiry which it expected would be
the usual whitewash, it made the mistake of putting John Stalker in charge. But
even after he had been smeared and discredited while striving to get to the
truth his successor found the evidence so overwhelming that the Government
refused to publish his report and took no action against those involved.

Nor were covert actions confined to British territory. Army captain Robert
Nairac led an assassination squad of Loyalist paramilitaries across the Irish
border to kill IRA volunteer John Francis Green. But as with all covert actions,
things ran out of control. When Edward Heath's government engineered a
power-sharing government into Stormont Castle the security forces worked with
Loyalist paramilitaries to organise the Loyalist workers' strike which broke the
power-sharing initiative.

The following year, when Harold Wilson's government negotiated a ceasefire with
the IRA, rogue elements in MI5 systematically and cold-bloodedly armed and
organised Loyalist paramilitaries in an assassination campaign aimed to end the
ceasefire by unleashing sectarian violence. This goal was only achieved after
the shooting of Ireland's No.1 pop group, The Miami Show Band.

The alleged use by MI5 of youngsters at the Kincora Boys Home to entrap,
blackmail and thus control leading unionist politicians with paedophile
tendencies was another side to the covert war which the British government has
struggled unsuccessfully to cover up. There is also little doubt left that
British intelligence arranged the bombing of Dublin so that revulsion at the
slaughter would be blamed on the IRA and thus speed the Republic's own
Prevention of Terrorism Act through a reluctant Dail.

These incidents will not come as news to most Guardian readers, but the popular
press has largely ignored them. They have, however, been well reported in the
Irish and world press and remain the best recruiting sergeant the IRA could hope
for. When you argue against the use of violence to achieve political ends, as I
have, at meetings with leading Republicans they are able to reel off these and
many other incidents of violence by the British state in order to justify their
own campaigns.

Against the background of this carnage, and the charges and counter-charges,
there was only one period when the IRA's bombing campaign in Britain was scaled
down. This was not because of the successes of the security forces, but as a
policy decision within the IRA. In February 1983, members of the Greater London
Council visited the leaders of Sinn Fein, without preconditions, to begin a
dialogue.

We went in the simple belief that Churchill was right when he said "Jaw, jaw, is
better than war, war." We were the first British politicians to have talks with
Sinn Fein since the Tory government of Edward Heath a decade earlier. We
discovered that the terms for a ceasefire by the IRA would require a British
government commitment to complete withdrawal from Ireland within two years.

Having broken the ground, individual Labour MPs and councillors went to Ireland
to develop the dialogue. In the years that followed, the Labour Party shifted
from its previous bipartisan approach on Ireland. Labour adopted the commitment
to achieve a united Ireland by consent, it promised that Unionist politicians
would not exercise the veto over progress and began to oppose the oppressive use
of the Prevention of Terrorism Act.

During this period of dialogue, attacks on civilian targets in Britain were
dramatically reduced and Sinn Fein's demand for British withdrawal within two
years was relaxed to five years. Throughout this period, many of us warned that
the present Republican leadership was the best that the British government could
hope to deal with and the opportunity should be seized as it had been in similar
situations in the past in Kenya, Cyprus and Aden.

The Tories did nothing. The prospect of a Labour government receded. The moment
passed. The bombing campaign resumed. The initiative inside the Republican
movement seems to have shifted back to the military wing.

Twenty years on, it seems that nothing has changed. The systematic
discrimination against Catholics in housing and employment, which sparked the
violence a generation ago, continues. All government attempts to end it have
failed. The recent trial of Brian Nelson, who operated as a spy for British
intelligence inside the UDA, was cut short by a deal which prevented the public
revelation that British intelligence had allowed Loyalist paramilitaries to
import vast quantities of arms from South Africa currently being used in the new
wave of killings.

The private advice from British intelligence to our government is that it is not
possible to eliminate the IRA. The IRA privately admits it cannot drive the
British army out. Both sides know that in the end there has to be a political
solution which leads to a ceasefire. When I suggested, a decade ago, that the
Republican and the British government should begin negotiations without
preconditions I was loudly denounced. Ten years on, and another thousand dead,
there is still no end in sight to the killings. Those who condemned my proposal
have failed to find an alternative.

The British people have a right to expect that their leaders should either win
the war or negotiate a peace. Another 20 years like the last is not an option
the British people should tolerate.

Ken Livingstone is Labour MP for Brent East

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              26 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             March 8, 1993, Monday

Anniversaries

SECTION: GAZETTE PAGE; Page 23

LENGTH: 381 words


Births: John Campbell, military historian, 1708; John Fothergill, physician,
1712; Carl Philipp Emanuel Bach, composer, 1714; Franco Faccio, conductor and
composer, 1840; Ruggiero Leoncavallo, composer, 1858; Kenneth Grahame, author,
1859; Frederic William Goudy, printer and typographer, 1865; Otto Hahn,
physicist and chemist, 1879; Leonard Alfred George Strong, novelist, poet and
playwright, 1896.

Deaths: Francesco Sforza, soldier, 1466; William III, king, 1702; Abraham Darby,
ironfounder, 1717; Francis Egerton, third Duke of Bridgewater, canal pioneer,
1803; Louis- Hector Berlioz, composer, 1869; Count Ferdinand Adolf August
Heinrich von Zeppelin, soldier and inventor, 1917; William Howard Taft, 27th US
president, 1930; Sir Thomas Beecham Bt, conductor, 1961; Richard Austen Butler,
Baron Butler of Saffron Walden, statesman, 1982; Alan Tindal Lennox- Boyd, first
Viscount Boyd, statesman, accidentally killed, 1983; Sir William Turner Walton,
composer, 1983; Ralph Mcallister Ingersoll, publisher, author and journalist,
1985.

On this day: Queen Anne acceded to the British throne, 1702; the British Army
captured Aboukir, 1801; the Confederate ironclad Virginia sank the USS
Cumberland during the Battle of Hampton Roads, 1862; work began on the
Amsterdam- North Sea Canal, 1865; the ''February'' Revolution (Old Style date)
began in Russia at Petrograd, 1917; President Woodrow Wilson ordered the arming
of US merchant ships, 1917; in Russia, Leon Trotsky resigned the post of foreign
minister, 1918; French troops occupied the Ruhr after Germany failed to pay
reparations, 1921; Mahatma Gandhi started a civil disobedience campaign in
India, 1930; a coal strike began in Britain, 1944; the musical show Gay
Rosalinda was first produced in London, 1945; the USSR claimed to be the
possessor of the atomic bomb, 1950; the first London production of the musical
show Kiss Me, Kate was presented, 1945; the US landed 3,500 marines in South
Vietnam, 1965; in Dublin, the Nelson Column was destroyed by an IRA bomb, 1966.
Today is the Feast Day of St Duthac, St Felix of Dunwich, St Humphrey or
Hunfrid, St John of God, St Julian of Toledo, Saints Philemon and Apollonius, St
Pontius of Carthage, St Senan of Scattery, St Stephen of Obazine and St
Veremund.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1993 Independent Print Ltd

                              27 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 9, 1993

BRITAIN CALLS PLO TO TOP-LEVEL TALKS;
Attempt to revive peace process draws Israeli rebuke

BYLINE: KATHY EVANS, AND DEREK BROWN IN JERUSALEM

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FOREIGN PAGE; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 586 words


BRITAIN has taken the initiative to get the stalled Middle East peace talks
going and decided to receive a senior official of the Palestine Liberation
Organisation at ministerial level.

Faisal Husseini, a senior adviser to the PLO chairman, Yasser Arafat, is to meet
the Foreign Office junior minister, Douglas Hogg, today. He will be accompanied
by the organisation's London representative, Afif Safieh, and a third official,
Hael Fahoum.

The decision reverses a two-and-a-half year policy which banned contact at
senior level with the PLO because of its supposed support for Saddam Hussein
during the Gulf war. Explaining the change, a Foreign Office official said that
the main criterion for deciding on the meeting was whether it would advance the
peace process.

The British move will highlight the fact that the co-sponsor of the peace
process, the United States, still does not recognise the PLO. Contacts were
withdrawn in 1990 over a terrorist attack in northern Israel.

Last week, the British ambassador to Jordan, Patrick Eyres, met senior
representatives of the Palestinian Hamas movement.

The British move coincided with an American announcement of an end to contact
between US diplomats and Hamas. US diplomats had been having lower level contact
with Hamas until last week, when without an explanation, the state department
said there would be no further meetings.

Hamas is about to appear on the annual US list of countries and organisations
sponsoring terrorism.

Israel reacted angrily yesterday to the British announcement.

The ambassador to Jerusalem, Andrew Burn, was summoned by the Israeli deputy
foreign minister, Yossi Beilin, to be told that today's meeting in London would
be unhelpful to the faltering Middle East peace process. Mr Beilin will travel
to London tomorrow to underline his government's objections.

Israel has consistently and vehemently opposed any involvement of the PLO in the
16-month peace process, due to resume in Washington next month. But the embargo
on the PLO is a polite myth: the Palestinian delegation to the talks is closely
aligned with the PLO's Tunis-based chairman, Yasser Arafat.

The negotiations have been in limbo since mid-December, when Israel expelled
more than 400 activists of the hardline fundamentalist Hamas and Islamic Jihad
movements.

Last week, the US secretary of state, Warren Christopher, in a whirlwind tour of
the Middle East, pledged that his country would play a more active role in
reviving the peace process.

He was told by the Palestinian delegation to the peace talks that negotiations
could not be resumed until all the deportees returned to their homes in the
Israeli occupied territories.

In an effort to break the deadlock, the US has enlisted European help in
bringing the Palestinian delegation and its PLO colleagues back to the peace
process. Belgium has already, to the great indignation of Israel, announced an
upgrading of its diplomatic ties with the PLO in Tunis.

According to Israel, today's meeting will reopen the vexed question of the
composition and allegiance of the Palestinian delegation to the peace talks.
According to Israel Radio, the British ambassador rejected this view.

The irony of this tangled debate is that informed opinion in Israel, shared by
many members of the government, believes that the PLO should be included in the
peace process to pre-empt the rapidly growing influence of fundamentalists in
the occupied territories.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              28 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 9, 1993

PAST NOTES: DAY THE BOMBERS CAME

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 323 words


March 9, 1973

THE AUTHORITIES seem to have little or no doubt that the explosions in London
yesterday were the work of members of the Provisional IRA. The intended message
seems clear: if the British remain in Ireland, then the terrorist campaign will
spread to Britain.

Assuming that the IRA is responsible, how shrewd a move, from their own point of
view, is this kind of shot across the bow of the British public? The immediate
reaction in England is one of shock - shock not only at the physical consequence
for people and buildings, but at the wickedness which displays so little concern
for innocent people. Perhaps that wickedness ought not to be a shock. The Irish
war is an unusually cynical one, with the IRA skilfully stirring up public
sympathy at home and abroad when the British Army is at fault, yet displaying an
utter callousness itself.

The people of Northern Ireland will not be surprised at what happened in London.
The people of London, seeing the damage near such familiar landmarks as the Old
Bailey and Whitehall, will be surprised. Surprised, angered, and probably made
more determined.

A busman near the scene of one explosion said that if it was the kind of things
Belfast people suffered every day, then God help them. That is probably a fairly
general reaction. The question is whether it leads to the other, more practical
conclusion: that Britain must continue to help them.

The next few months will be a time for honest political leadership in Britain.
Both parties share responsibility for the policy now being carried out in
Ulster. Both know the consequences of withdrawal of British troops. Both must
know that while political reform is essential, on its own it is not enough. It
is the duty of Mr Heath and Mr Wilson to steady public opinion.

- More than 150 people were injured when two car bombs went off near the Old
Bailey. It was the first IRA bombing in London.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              29 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 11, 1993

ROW AS MPS RENEW ANTI-TERRORIST ACT;
Clarke and Blair in clash over civil rights safeguards

BYLINE: NIKKI KNEWSTUB

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 600 words


MPs last night voted to renew the Prevention of Terrorism Act after an
acrimonious debate during which the Home Secretary, Kenneth Clarke, and his
Labour opposite number, Tony Blair, sparred across the Despatch Box over civil
rights safeguards.

The act was introduced as a temporary measure by the Labour government in 1974
following the wave of revulsion which swept the country after the Birmingham pub
bombings.

Labour supported its annual renewal until 10 years ago, and has voted against it
since because of concern about two provisions of the act: exclusion orders,
under which the Home Secretary can expel someone from Britain to Northern
Ireland, or vice versa, and judicial review under which the Home Secretary
rather than the courts review the detention of a suspect for up to seven days
after 48 hours.

MPs backed the renewal of the measure by 329 votes to 202 (Government majority
127).

Mr Clarke scorned Labour's offer of talks seeking a political consensus on
fighting terrorism: "I can only believe they are giving encouragement to the
terrorists - who find these powers a considerable inconvenience - by accident
because they do not understand the purpose of the order."

Mr Blair, the shadow home secretary, in a series of interventions, said to
suggest that the Labour Party was against legislation to fight terrorism was "an
outrage".

But Mr Clarke replied: "You are unintentionally, but nevertheless giving great
encouragement to the Provisional IRA and others who find these powers so
damaging to them."

He said that last year, 19 people were charged on the mainland with serious
terrorist offences, all of whom had been detained under the Prevention of
Terrorism (Temporary Provisions) Act. He had signed exclusion orders against two
people. Mr Blair did not understand the "vital part" the PTA played on both
sides of the Irish sea.

Mr Blair argued the issue should be outside party politics. The use of exclusion
orders served only as propaganda for terrorists, and the Home Secretary's own
advisers had recommended that it be dropped.

He did not disagree with detention up to seven days under the act, but the
decision to extend detention should be made by judicial review, as the European
Court of Human Rights has ruled, not by the Home Secretary.

The United Kingdom had a derogation from the EC court's ruling, but such
decisions should not be made by a cabinet minister. Under the principle of the
rule of law, to which the UK subscribed, the decision should be made by a court.

Mr Blair decried Conservative attempts to portray "anyone who dares to question
the PTA is a closet terrorist". Referring to the sustained barracking he
received from Tory backbenchers, he said there was "something really quite
distasteful" in their refusal even to listen to the case Labour had to make.

For the Liberal Democrats, Menzies Campbell said: "We should vote for this order
because it is a regrettable but necessary enhancement of police powers in an
area where they need special assistance."

After the debate, Commons proceedings were disrupted by a Labour group seeking
to cause delays and increase the problems of Government business managers. A
series of divisions on technical orders were forced by MPs led by Dennis Skinner
(Bolsover) and Bob Cryer (Bradford S), taking up several hours.

There were chaotic scenes as MPs shouted across the floor at each other,
drowning out the cries for order from Deputy Speaker Michael Morris. Tories
claimed the Opposition MPs were out of the control of their party leadership.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              30 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            March 11, 1993, Thursday

New offences to target cash for terrorism

BYLINE: By COLIN BROWN and STEPHEN GOODWIN

SECTION: POLITICS & POLICY PAGE; Page 8

LENGTH: 690 words


THREE NEW offences to tackle the funds used for terrorist attacks are to be
introduced by the summer in amendments to the Criminal Justice Bill, Kenneth
Clarke announced last night.

The Home Secretary made the announcement when he clashed with Tony Blair, Labour
spokesman on home affairs, over Labour's vote against renewal of the Prevention
and Suppression of Terrorism Act. The vote to renew was carried by 329 votes to
202.

In a move to extend to terrorists the laws applied to money earned from
drug-trafficking, it would be an offence to possess or use funds for terrorist
activities; for bank clerks and others not to disclose assets believed to be
used for terrorism; and to tip off those believed to be involved in terrorism
that their assets were being investigated. They would carry penalties of 5 to 14
years' imprisonment.

Amid stormy exchanges, the Home Secretary rejected an appeal by Mr Blair for
talks to re-establish, for the first time in 10 years, the bipartisan approach
over the Act. Mr Clarke said Mr Blair had laid down two unacceptable conditions
for the talks: that a judge, not the Home Secretary, should review requests for
suspected terrorists to be detained for more than four days; and for exclusion
orders to be scrapped.

But Mr Blair accused the Home Secretary of rejecting the talks for ''crude
propaganda'' reasons: ''Crime has doubled and they are losing the debate on law
and order,'' he said.

Opening the annual debate, Mr Clarke said that Mr Blair's offer of talks to find
a consensus was ''an attempt to sound reasonable'' while still opposing the two
most important provisions in the renewal order - exclusion orders and extended
detention of terrorist suspects. ''He is unintentionally . . . giving great
encouragement to the Provisional IRA and others who find these powers so
damaging to them,'' he said.

Though a Labour government introduced the Act in 1974, following the Birmingham
pub bombings, the party has opposed its renewal since 1983, arguing that parts
are counterproductive and a breach of civil liberties.

Mr Clarke said that he had made only two new exclusion orders in 1992, taking
the total number barred from entering Britain from Northern Ireland to 81 at the
end of the year. He said that he used the power when he was satisfied that a
person is involved in terrorism. ''I am quite convinced that it has a
substantial effect in frustrating and disrupting the activities of terrorist
organisations.''

The second controversial aspect is the Home Secretary's power to grant an
extension order enabling the police to hold a terrorist suspect for up to seven
days. Labour argue that the decision to detain beyond 48 hours should be taken
by a judge, not a politician. Mr Clarke said he had only granted 17 extensions
last year - the lowest since 1984. Ten of the detentions lasted four days - the
maximum period without judicial review, permitted under the European Convention
on Human Rights. Without the power to detain, a person could ''walk free'' after
four days, and then the police would find from forensic science tests that it
was the right man.

But Mr Blair dismissed the scenario as ''absolute nonsense''. The evidence for
extended detention would be presented to a judge in the same way as it was
presented to the Home Secretary. As a result of the decision being taken by a
politician, the IRA had been handed ''a massive propaganda weapon'', which they
used, and Britain's reputation abroad was attacked as transgressors of human
rights, he said.

Labour's Gerald Kaufman said that, in the last 19 years, 7,192 people had been
detained under the PTA. Of these, precisely six had been convicted of crimes
with sentences of more than five years, four of whom were the Maguire family,
who had been wrongly convicted. ''The people for whom this legislation was
rushed through Parliament, namely the Birmingham pub bombers, are still at large
after 19 years.''

Mr Clarke said that Mr Kaufman had ''misunderstood'' the Act. ''It is to prevent
them committing it in the first place - not to wait until the bomb goes off''.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1993 Independent Print Ltd

                              31 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             March 14, 1993, Sunday

Matthew Hennessy

BYLINE: John Burns

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 126 words


Detectives in the Irish Republic believe an IRA man jailed for 10 years in
Dublin last week was responsible for masterminding terrorist attacks in Britain.

A photograph and details of Matthew Hennessy, nicknamed ''The Engineer'', were
sent to Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist squad in 1990 during a mainland bombing
campaign.

Hennessy, 35, had moved to the mainland after escaping arrest in 1989. Irish
police suspect he was the IRA's director of engineering, responsible for
organising bombing campaigns.

The Irish police suspect he was the man who organised the attempt to kill John
Major and the cabinet with a mortar attack in February 1991. Hennessy was also
thought to be behind the Victoria and Paddington station bombings days later.

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Insight

                    Copyright 1993 Times Newspapers Limited

                              32 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 22, 1993

WARRINGTON BOMBS: 'CALLOUS KILLERS' STUN TWICE-HIT TOWN;
Desperate tactics create deadly mainland pattern

BYLINE: OWEN BOWCOTT IN BELFAST

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 579 words


THE DELAY by the IRA's so-called general headquarters staff in Dublin in
claiming responsibility for the Warrington bomb indicates embarrassment at the
outrage.

The insistence that warnings were ignored has been made many times before, but
it appears increasingly that the mainland campaign is being run on different
lines from IRA activities in Northern Ireland.

Placing such a bomb in Northern Ireland's high streets during busy shopping
hours would hardly be acceptable even to hard-line Republican activists.

There is no doubt that the Warrington explosion falls into the pattern of
attacks being established in Britain. Similar bombs have been planted in busy
streets around Britain several times in recent months.

Changing the mainland targets, thus instilling terror and disrupting normal
commercial life, are standard tactics of active service units.

Killing a three-year-old child was, none the less, obviously not the IRA's
intention, even though the bombers have grown more reckless in choosing targets.

Hard-pressed by the police and security forces, it is conceivable that IRA units
have become more desperate to make their presence felt.

Interviewed by the Guardian earlier this year, a member of the IRA's GHQ staff
claimed the police were deliberately ignoring bomb warnings to make them appear
more indiscriminate.

"Our volunteers must take the precaution to avoid civilian casualties," the
masked IRA official said.

Giving an example of a bomb placed on a British Rail line in south London last
November, he said warnings had been phoned to a radio station and the
Samaritans, but were not acted on.

"Similarly a warning was given about the Sussex bar in Covent Garden. The
British police acting on political instructions are the people playing with the
lives of civilians."

Such statements, he realised, would appear largely unconvincing. "On those
occasions when there are civilian casualties it's a matter of great regret to us
and we sincerely regret the loss of life. That's not going to cut any ice with
anybody who has lost relatives through actions but it is a sincere regret."

As regards yesterday's claim that adequate warnings were given, Cheshire police
insist that just one call was received by the Merseyside Samaritans, and then
only about a bomb said to be at an unspecified branch of Boots in Liverpool.

A spokesman for the Samaritans in Liverpool refused to confirm or deny any
details of the warning. "This is a matter for the police."

In 1983, public revulsion - in both Britain and Ireland - at the loss of
civilian life forced the IRA to rethink its tactics. The bombing campaign was
moved to political and military targets for the rest of the decade.

Now, however, the succession of IRA attacks on vulnerable shopping centres and
the insistence that British police are to blame suggests that IRA activists
intend to continue this campaign and that further attacks cannot be ruled out.

- Ken Loach's film, Hidden Agenda, about dirty tricks by the security forces in
Northern Ireland, was dropped from last night's Channel 4 schedule because of
the Warrington bombs. The channel also took out a half-hour interview with Mr
Loach due to be broadcast after the film.

A spokesman for Channel 4 said: "Given the subject matter of the film we felt it
would not have been appropriate to show it last night." Both programmes would be
shown within a month, he added.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              33 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 March 22, 1993

A town in tears: Warrington defies IRA and works through the pain and terror

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 486 words


PEOPLE in bomb-ravaged Warrington today defied the IRA and headed back into the
town.

Less than 48 hours after terrorists targeted Warrington for the second time in
three weeks it was business as usual in Bridge Street today.

The defiant return followed an emotional memorial service on the site of the
blasts. Policemen wept openly as dozens of wreaths, flowers, toys and other
gifts were handed in.

The only sign that there had been a major atrocity was the heart-rending sight
of the mountain of gifts placed at the blood-stained spot where three-year-old
Johnathan Ball was murdered and where dozens of others were maimed.

CHAOS

Such has been the outpouring of emotion since the atrocity that special
arrangements were made for the thousands of tributes which were moved from a
shop doorway to an area where a shrubbery stood before the blast.

But as Warrington struggled back to normality Liverpool city centre was reduced
to chaos as a series of bomb threat calls were received.

The entire Bold Street area was sealed off along with Lime Street Station and
the Royal Liver Buildings and the bomb squad were called.

Today, police condemned IRA claims it gave adequate warnings of the weekend
bombings. It emerged that the terrorist who rang Liverpool Samaritans less than
30 minutes before they exploded did not even say which city or town had been
targeted.

The caller, who did not use a recognised IRA codeword simply said: "There is a
bomb in the town centre, in Boots, which is due to go off in half an hour."

Meanwhile, one of Britain's biggest ever manhunts was today under way for the
bombers.

SUSPECT

Detectives revaled they are working on 100 lines of inquiry and believe that the
bombers may have been captured on store video cameras in the area.

Their main suspect is believed to be the fresh-faced terrorist who escaped after
the attack on Warrington gasworks on February 27.

The parents of the dead boy, Marie and 58-year-old Wilf Ball, were being
comforted at their home in Grappenhall, Warrington.

Johnathan had been shopping for a Mother's Day present with a family friend,
teenager Samantha Thompson, when the litter-bin explosion tore into them both.

Samantha (13) was recovering from her injuries in hospital today - she spent
yesterday semi-conscious and unaware Jonathan had died.

Her mother, Barbara (54), said: "She is very poorly. She just keeps coming round
and asking for Jonathan."

Of the 56 people treated in hospital, five, mostly teenagers, were maimed in the
attack and two are still critical.

One is 12-year-old Tim Parry who suffered horrific head injuries.

A surgeon said most of Tim's face was blown away and his skull was fractured.
He is being transferred to Walton Hospital for neuro-surgery.

* Downing Street said today John Major was "unlikely" to visit the scene of the
blasts.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: No holding back...The pain is all too clear for these grief-stricken
people today at the scene of the bomb blasts in Warrington. Two youngsters are
still critical.

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1993 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              34 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 March 23, 1993

Where the real test lies for MI5

BYLINE: Ian Bell

SECTION: Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1054 words


The IRA atrocity at Warrington indicated that handing leadership of the anti
-terrorist effort to MI5 is no panacea

IT WAS the IRA themselves who summed up the task facing Britain's security
forces. Having tried and failed to murder Margaret Thatcher and her Cabinet in
the Brighton bombing, the Provisionals issued a contemptuous statement. "We only
have to be lucky once," they told the Government, "you have to be lucky all the
time."

That, in essence, is Britain's war against armed Irish republicanism. No success
for the security forces, no IRA spectaculars averted, no arrests made or arms
seized, can compensate for two devices going off in a shopping precinct and a
three-year-old boy killed on the eve of Mother's Day. For Britain, luck is not
enough.

The Warrington attack was, in one sense, horribly predictable. As so often in
the past, the moment commentators began to claim success against the IRA (the
Economist suggesting, for example, that "the anti-terrorist Act" might at last
be coming together) the Provisionals' response to a perceived challenge was
well-nigh inevitable.

They lay the ground with care. Having suffered a series of setbacks, Republican
sources in Dublin were putting it about a fortnight ago that they were preparing
to switch operations to Europe.

In Britain, "the posse" was closing in on active service units, they said. They
believed that MI5 had an informer at work. Western Europe, with its open
borders, made military targets so much softer. After Warrington, a "target" of
no conceivable political or economic worth, it is clear the Provisionals were
disseminating a pure strain of black propaganda.

Warrington may have been picked simply because it is so very ordinary, a town of
no military significance; annihilating the ordinary and the innocent is the
point of terrorism. At the end of last month the Provisionals blew up a
gasometer there and shot a policeman.

Saturday's attack made a mockery of previous IRA claims that they select
"legitimate" targets; that anything else is an accident or the work of the
security services themselves. Twice in recent months police have claimed that
the Provisionals gave telephone warnings intended to mislead; twice the IRA have
claimed the security forces failed deliberately to act on "precise" information.

It means, however, that the Provisionals are not down, not out, not beaten, not
"on the run" or being "squeezed like toothpaste" as Merlyn Rees, then a Labour
Minister, foolishly claimed in the seventies. It also means that handing
leadership of the anti-terrorist effort to MI5 is no panacea.

This is not to say that the security services have not damaged their enemy since
MI5 took over responsibility last October. In November a one-tonne bomb intended
to devastate the Lord Mayor's parade was found by two policemen who had simply
become suspicious, or so it was said, of the truck carrying the device.

On March 2 the anti-terrorist squad released a security video of two men wanted
for the Harrods bombing. Within hours eight arrests had been made in Stoke
Newington. Fifty pounds of Semtex and handguns were found. Afterwards, however,
it became clear that MI5 had been "sitting on" the tape for more than a month.
The question was asked, not least by policemen disgruntled by the spooks' new
ascendancy, if lives had been put at risk for the sake of intelligence.

By its nature, MI5 takes cognisance of both politics and policing. Its own
future has been a matter of discreet political debate since the collapse of the
USSR. But old habits die hard.

On March 10, for example, police announced that several hundred pounds of
explosive had been seized in North London. The seizure had taken place a week
earlier but MI5 waited until the renewal of the Prevention of Terrorism Act was
being debated in the Commons before it revealed its success.

Kevin McNamara, the Shadow Northern Ireland Secretary, was unequivocal. He said
afterwards: "I regard this as a cynical manipulation of information designed to
influence the vote and the debate in the House of Commons . . . I am saying that
the information was deliberately withheld." Scotland Yard refused to comment;
MI5 maintained its accustomed silence.

It is precisely that reticence which is coming under scrutiny, however. With the
collapse of communism Britain's entire security apparatus -- MI5, MI6, GCHQ, the
Ministry of Defence Intelligence Staff, and the Defence Press and Broadcasting
Committee -- is being led blinking into the light of a new day.

MI5, now engaged in surveillance of the IRA, has attracted most attention. The
Prime Minister's commitment to greater openness in government means that at
least we know it is run by a woman, Mrs Stella Rimington (Sir Colin McColl, Sir
John Adye and Air Marshal Sir John Walker run, respectively, MI6, GCHQ, and
DIS). We know, too, that its staff is surprisingly small -- perhaps 400 officers
and 1500 support staff. And we know that some parliamentarians are questioning
the agency's devotion to secrecy.

MI5 has three tasks: counter-

espionage; counter-subversion and, now, counter-terrorism. Its counter
-espionage effort has shifted to industrial spying and Middle Eastern networks
active in Britain. The counter-subversion unit, responsible in its heyday for
bugging trade unionists and CND activists, has been cut back to perhaps 40
officers. Several of these now concentrate on the far right.

The counter-terrorism initiative, which turns on informers and close
surveillance, has led to a "briefing war" between MI5 and the Special Branch
amid rumours that Mrs Rimington intends to expand her empire to take in the
effort against organised crime and the drugs trade. As things stand, however,
she has her hands full with the IRA.

Until the Security Services Act of 1989, the intelligence services had no
official existence. Now they are, to a limited extent, government agencies. But
efforts at openness have been limited. Last November Home Secretary Kenneth
Clarke told the Commons home affairs committee that too much scrutiny could
"compromise the effectiveness of the service".

Sir Ivan Lawrence, the Conservative chairman of the committee, counters that
"the abuse of power flourishes in secrecy". Others point

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Tears for Johnathan: a young mother weeps yesterday at the spot where
the three-year-old died in Saturday's bomb attack.Picture: MALCOLM CROFT/PA

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1993 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              35 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Daily Mail (London)

                           March 24, 1993, Wednesday

HOW THE TERRORISTS ARE FEEDING ON DUBLIN'S HYPOCRISY AND BRITISH STUPIDITY;
A top writer's provocative view

BYLINE: Geoffrey Wheatcroft

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1907 words


IN Warrington on Saturday the IRA killed one child and mutilated another.

Yesterday, Mrs Mary Robinson, the Irish president, sent her sympathy to the dead
boy's family, while in Belfast the British government resumed talks under the
Anglo-Irish Agreement.

In other words, Irish hypocrisy is matched yet again by British folly, the two
things which have bedevilled any real fight against the IRA.

Hypocrisy is a strong word to use of a patently decent woman like Mrs Robinson,
or even of Mr Albert Reynolds, the Irish prime minister. But no other word will
do.

I totally accept the sincerity of the rage and revulsion over the Warrington
murders now sweeping Eire.

Whenever Dublin politicians condemn IRA atrocities they are doubtless sincere in
their own minds. It's from the outside that they look so dishonest.

Mrs Robinson detests what the IRA does in the name of a united Ireland.

And yet she is president of a country whose very constitution begins by claiming
that Ireland is already united, with Northern Ireland part of its territory.

Dublin will add that it wants unification 'by consent', but in truth that's even
more hypocritical.

Everyone who knows Ulster knows the simple truth that a million Protestant
unionists do not consent to joining the Irish Republic, and will not consent in
any conceivable circumstances.

Or if you like, they might consent to join a united Ireland the day the Israelis
consent to join a united Arabia, or the Bosnian Moslems consent to join a united
Serbia.

That being so, to talk of 'unity through consent' has no purpose at all, except
to encourage those tougher and more logical souls who want to force Northern
Ireland into the Republic with or without consent.

Mr Reynolds's credentials for condemning IRA violence are still more dubious.

After all, he leads Fianna Fail, the party which has ruled Ireland for most of
the past 60 years, and which has a deeply ambiguous history.

It began life as the Republican section of the original Sinn Fein party - and it
began life with not one armed rebellion against a lawful government but three:
Against the British government in 1916 and 1919 and, as much to the point,
against the Irish Free State in the savage Irish Civil war of 1922-3.

The Provos want a united Ireland - just like the Dublin government.  The Provos
resort to violence without a democratic mandate - just like Mr Reynolds's own
political progenitors 70 years ago.

And so whenever Dublin primly denounces the IRA, the IRA's leaders are entitled
to ask in Shakespeare's words: 'Why should our endeavour be so loved, and the
performance so loathed?'

All of this haunts Fianna Fail and the Dublin government, but they can't come to
terms with it, given their own history.

For that matter, the Irish people as a whole are disgusted by killings such as
last Saturday's. But they too labour under the same burden of history. However
much their natural decency is affronted by what the IRA does, they can't
entirely renounce what it stands for.

Nor can their Church. It has to be said that Irish Catholicism is guilty of its
own hypocrisy.

One man who has talked more sense on this subject than any other, Irish or
British, is Dr Conor Cruise O'Brien, political commentator and former Irish
government minister.

Ulster protestants have a deep gut feeling that the Roman Catholic Church is
their enemy, and even on the side of the IRA.

In bald terms that isn't true of course - but, as Dr O'Brien says, there's more
truth in it than many Irish Catholics wish to believe.

Harsh words? When a three-year-old child is murdered in Warrington, the Irish
bishops are loud in their condemnations.

But they are strangely muted when a 30-year-old Ulster policeman is murdered by
the IRA.

Why is this? The bishops condemn IRA killings. But the moment an IRA killer is
himself killed by the British Army, episcopal protests are even louder. Why so?

In the past, the Roman Catholic Church has never been slow to use the ultimate
sanction of excommunication against wicked outlaws.

And yet no IRA or Sinn Fein leader has been excommunicated. Well then, why not?

All of this Irish hypocrisy is paralleled by British stupidity. Mr Major
condemns the Warrington outrage. No doubt these are fine words.

But what are the London government's deeds? It resumes meetings under the
Anglo-Irish Agreement, an agreement which itself represented a great victory for
the IRA, as the rage of unionists showed.

London sometimes affirms the link between Northern Ireland and Great Britain.

But it just as often dreams up 'initiatives' whose actual purpose is to cast
doubt on that link, to the glee of the IRA. And London is still trying to
restart fatuous talks in pursuit of a 'political solution' in Northern Ireland.

To understand just how fatuous this is, imagine an English local council split
between Right-wing Tories and Trotskyite Militants.

Then imagine Ulster politicians coming over to impose a 'solution acceptable to
both communities'.

Since no such solution exists, the search for one - in practice rather than
theory - does nothing to staunch terrorist violence but only encourages it.

Apart from the ritual words about 'the evil men of violence', our politicians
always condemn the IRA for their folly in believing that they can ever win.

I wish I could agree. On the contrary, whatever else is said about the IRA, the
evidence is that they are more honest than Dublin, and may well be cleverer than
London.

There would be one real way of honouring last Saturday's victims, and all the
IRA's other victims.

It would be to drop talks, meetings, and the search for a non-existent political
solution; to treat Sinn Fein and its armed wing as a security problem, and
nothing else; and to govern Northern Ireland like any other part of the United
Kingdom. Any other response will only tell the IRA that they are winning.

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1993 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              36 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 24, 1993

RUGBY LEAGUE: WIGAN TOLD TO PLAY LEIGH WITHOUT FIVE GB MEN

BYLINE: JOHN HUXLEY

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN SPORTS PAGE; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 522 words


WIGAN, the league leaders, have failed to get their Great Britain players
released for an important club game 48 hours before the second Test with France
at Leeds on Friday week.

The champions, level on points with St Helens at the top of the table, had been
successful in a similar move before the first international in Carcassonne
earlier this month. A number of matches, including Wigan v Leeds, were allowed
in the week running up to the match, forcing the GB coach Malcolm Reilly to make
wholesale changes to his selection because of injuries.

For the second Test, Wigan had requested that their five players selected by
Reilly be allowed to play in their scheduled league encounter against Leigh two
days beforehand. This was refused by Maurice Lindsay, the Rugby Football
League's chief executive and former chairman of Wigan, who said: "It would be
unfair to Malcolm Reilly, whose preparations for the first Test were so badly
hit."

That response did not impress his successor at Wigan, Jack Robinson: "We have no
option but to play to avoid a fixture pile-up, but if we lose the title as a
result there will be a lot of trouble. It is unfair to be placed in this
position. We cannot afford not to play this vital game. Playing the full Great
Britain team will not help Great Britain or France."

There is also a proposition that Widnes, who should play Bradford Northern on
the Wednesday before the Test, should now play next Monday evening, 48 hours
after Northern's Challenge Cup semi-final against Wigan.

The 19-strong squad lacks Garry Schofield, who is suspended by his club Leeds,
and, surprisingly, the Wigan winger Martin Offiah. Reilly explained Offiah's
omission: "A persistent ankle injury has hampered his consistency this season."
In the absence of Schofield the captaincy goes to Andy Platt.

There are no places for Andy Currier, scorer of six goals in the first Test,
Allan Bateman and David Lyon in a squad that shows nine changes from that for
the first Test. Among several injured players returning to the reckoning is
Jonathan Davies, who is restored to the squad for the first time since last
year's series against France, when he captained the side in the first Test.

- The former Great Britain captain Mike Gregory has suspended his testimonial
for a month so that the town of Warrington can concentrate its fund-raising
efforts on the victims of the IRA bomb attack last weekend. Gregory's fund will
be restarted next year.

- The British Amateur Rugby League Association has suspended Glen Cooper for
life after an alleged assault on the Wigan referee David Bradshaw at the end of
a National League game between Woolston and West Hull on Humberside.

GREAT BRITAIN SQUAD: G Connolly (St Helens), J Davies (Widnes), J Devereux
(Widnes), S Edwards (Wigan), M Ford (Castleford), A Hunte (St Helens), P Newlove
(Featherstone), D Powell (Sheffield), S Spruce (Widnes), A Tait (Leeds), D
Betts, P Clarke, M Dermott (all Wigan), R Eyres (Widnes), K Fairbank (Bradford
Northern), E Hanley (Leeds), K Harrison (Halifax), S Nickle (St Helens), A Platt
(Wigan, capt).

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              37 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 24, 1993

WHY THE MOB MUST NOT RULE;
IRELAND: Is the IRA's unrelenting violence driving the British to a thirst for
revenge and slaking Irish passion for reunification?

BYLINE: SIMON LEE

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGE; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 943 words


IS BRITAIN becoming a more vengeful society? Threats made against the Irish
community in Warrington, following the bomb attack, are serious enough for the
local police chief to warn against an outraged public taking retribution. The
bloody scent of rough justice had the Sun's front page screaming yesterday for
IRA activists to be put against a wall and shot. Desire for revenge also spilled
on to the streets of Merseyside when the killing of Jamie Bulger led to lynch
mobs outside the court and the homes of children questioned by the police.

The Lord Chief Justice of England, Lord Taylor, used a silly phrase in his
weekend speech on sentencing policy when he said there was a real risk that
people could take the law into their own hands if sentences were not in tune
with what the public expected. A senior judge, of all people, ought to realise
that it would not be the law they were getting their hands on: vigilantes
represent the absence or antithesis or nemesis of law.

The one area of Britain which the media presents as a vengeful society is
Northern Ireland, on the basis of the troubles of the past 25 years. No one can
deny the series of tit-for-tat murders which besmirch Northern Ireland, but the
media, in my view, is mistaken in its image of the situation. It might be asked
if the IRA's aim, with the deaths and injuries caused by bombs, is to create a
culture of vengeance in England.

If that is the purpose, there is a powerful trend resisting it: it is remarkable
how those bereaved by terrorism or other vicious crime eschew retaliation.
Gordon Wilson, whose daughter Marie was murdered by the IRA at Enniskillen, has
just been invited to join the Irish Senate and has asked the IRA to meet him.

There are two contrasting readings: that the Warrington murder was a bridge too
far by the IRA, or that it signals the time for a building of bridges towards a
better society. The latter view draws strength from the refusal to follow the
appalling example of the terrorists themselves. For the characteristic of such
terrorists is to claim to act on behalf of people who do not accept the
legitimacy of their methods, to maim and murder indiscriminately and to make
matters worse for those they claim to represent.

In contrast, a famous Victorian lawyer, Mr Justice Stephen, wrote that: "The
criminal law stands to the passion of revenge in much the same relation as
marriage to the sexual appetite." Stephen meant that law channels, directs,
dignifies and legitimises the desire for revenge. For many, this is a general
truth about law; that without it, blood fueds prevail as in the Iliad. Hence our
Odyssey towards a just legal system.

After the carnage caused by bombs there are always calls for draconian laws, or
direct action, to teach the IRA a lesson. It is precisely at times like these
that defendants such as the Birmingham Six, the Guildford Four, the Maguire
Seven or the Broadwater Farm Three can be subjected to miscarriages of justice
as media, political and public pressure mount for the police to get results.

In calmer times, liberal opinion is embarrassed by the quest for revenge.
Liberals tend to give the God of the Old Testament a bad press for the eye for
an eye doctrine. A closer reading of the scriptures, however, might show that
the idea of an eye for an eye was in contrast to the pre-existing acceptance of
the law of retaliation whereby the victim was entitled to seek revenge in any
way whatsoever for any slight. In other words, the retributive principle of only
an eye for an eye can be a limiting one.

The legal system is at its most humane when it does not stoop on occasions like
this to take advantage of popular revulsion but pursues its vital, patient task
of protecting the community while simultaneously respecting the rights of all.

This is not to say that retribution has no place in our thinking. What is
needed, however, is serious reflection on how to channel our individual and
collective disgust into appropriate responses.

We owe it to the victims of such outrages and to their grieving families and
friends, not to sully their memory by compounding the injustice which they have
suffered. The horrific murders of the two corporals who drove into a funeral
cortege in Northern Ireland in 1988 are imprinted on the memories of many around
the world as television cameras were present. Yet now the murders are being
discussed in Northern Ireland more for the 200 arrests which followed, the score
of convictions and the growing sense that these include miscarriages of justice.

Likewise, we do not remember Adrian Carroll so much as the campaign to release
those convicted of his murder, which has seen three of the four soldiers freed
after the Court of Appeal accepted that police officers had falsified interview
notes and lied in court. It is no comfort to the bereaved to know that people
are convicted unless we can be confident that the criminal justice system has
operated fairly. Instead of removing protections for suspects in the wake of an
atrocity, we should increase protection - for example by introducing silent
video recording into the interrogation room.

For once, a tragedy should be used to introduce a measure which is both
protective of those accused and of society which needs to convict the guilty as
well as acquit the innocent. Such a measured response would lead to greater
confidence in the rule of law; would enable the guilty to be put up in court,
rather than upagainst a wall.

Professor Simon Lee is Dean of the Faculty of Law at Queen's University,
Belfast, and the author of Law And Morals.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              38 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 24, 1993

LETTER: CENSORSHIP'S HIDDEN AGENDA

BYLINE: MARTIN COLLINS

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGE; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 195 words


THE decision by Channel 4 to withdraw Ken Loach's film Hidden Agenda, arguing
its broadcast would be "inappropriate" so soon after the Warrington tragedy, is
an act of censorship which flies in the face of any mission to explain.

To create a linkage by which an IRA bombing, however appalling is used to
justify silencing critics of the Government's role in Northern Ireland is to
return us to the days in which Irish people felt unable to protest the innocence
of the Birmingham Six for fear they would be identified with the bombers.

It may be worth remarking that in dealing with the wider problems caused by
secrecy surrounding a "shoot-to-kill" policy in Northern Ireland, Hidden Agenda
touches the same nerve as the Dispatches documentary over which Channel 4 found
itself in the High Court defending the freedom of

investigative film makers.

British politicians' failure to engage in dialogue or take the steps necessary
to resolve the conflict in Northern Ireland is compounded when broadcasters are
complicit in censorship.

Martin Collins.

Britain & Ireland Human

Rights Centre,

c/o 69A Colvestone Crescent,

London E8.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              39 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 25, 1993

LETTER: EVASION, CENSORSHIP AND THE TROUBLES

BYLINE: J SHEPHERD

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGE; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 155 words


WATCHING the latest IRA bombing on TV I was amazed to hear everyone ask, Why?
The "troubles" have been going on for a quarter of a century now and yet no one
seems to have discovered the answer. The reason they kill our children with
bombs is that we kill their children with our baton rounds and lead bullets.

Now the Irish are being asked to condemn this bloodshed but despite knowing all
the IRA songs they are in fact as ignorant as the British public, fed on
censored material and government propaganda. Information like Ken Roach's film
is supressed and replaced with moral indignation; at this rate the British
people will never understand Ireland and therefore never end the war.

It's time we gave up and withdrew in favour of a UN force and let's be more
sparing with censorship and D notices about Britain if we do not want to end up
in the same mess as the six counties.

J Shepherd.

London E5.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              40 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             March 26, 1993, Friday

Letter: Unprovisional rage in Irish voices

BYLINE: From Ms FIONA FOSTER

SECTION: COMMENT PAGE; Page 21

LENGTH: 186 words


Sir: Not for the first time the consensus about the horrific consequences of
Saturday's IRA bombing appears to exclude any possibility of a critical debate
about the causes of IRA violence.

Could it not be that the horror of Saturday could be avoided by removing the
20,000 armed troops currently imposing British rule in a country whose
population still favours Irish unity?

Could it not be that the horror of Saturday could be avoided by dismantling the
artificial state in which Britain continues to guarantee that Protestants are
two and a half times more likely to get a job than Catholics?

Could it not be that the horror of Saturday could be avoided if we removed the
force that has admitted to colluding with Loyalist death squads responsible for
the slaughter of more than 100 Catholics since 1990?

While your readers appear to agree that IRA violence is futile, I wonder if they
agree that 23 years of blaming the victims of British oppression for their
response is much more futile. Or at least agree to debate it?

Yours faithfully,

FIONA FOSTER

London, N19

25 March


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1993 Independent Print Ltd

                              41 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             March 26, 1993, Friday

IRA agrees to meet victim's father to hear ceasefire plea

BYLINE: ALAN MURDOCH in Dublin

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 2

LENGTH: 784 words


THE IRA yesterday agreed to meet Gordon Wilson, the father of Marie Wilson, the
Enniskillen bomb victim, to hear his plea for a ceasefire made after the
Warrington bombings.

In an unexpected move, the IRA said it had considered the request from Mr Wilson
for a meeting and had decided to go along with it. Details of the date and place
of the meeting will be fixed when the IRA makes contact with Mr Wilson.

Mr Wilson, a retired businessman who recently accepted appointment to the Senate
by Albert Reynolds, the Irish Prime Minister, made clear he had sought the
meeting through a Sinn Fein official ''as the father of Marie Wilson and not as
a member of the Oireachtais Parliament ''.

He said it was wrong to accuse him of naivety in making the request. He said he
would meet the Provisionals' leadership ''eye to eye and man to man'' and try to
persuade them to switch to peaceful political methods.

''There has got to be a better way other than bomb and bullet. Three thousand
people have died, not all at their hands. They have had their deaths . . . I
have suffered as they have suffered. In our shared grief and humanity we must
seek another way.''

The IRA decision came as a surprise as Mitchell McLaughlin, a leading Sinn Fein
figure, on Sunday stressed the party's independence from the IRA and declined to
act as a mediator for the military wing.

The growing momentum of popular revulsion in the Irish Republic with the IRA
bombing campaigns in Britain and Northern Ireland is likely to be maintained
following the decision by a peace rally in Trinity College on Wednesday night,
attended by well over 1,000 people, to mount a demonstration against the
paramilitaries in Dublin on Sunday.

Mr Wilson will, as a private citizen, today attend the funeral of the first
Warrington victim, three-year-old Johnathan Ball. At the family's request, the
funeral will be private and no politicians will attend.

Hundreds of floral tributes and messages of sympathy will be sent to the funeral
following an appeal in Dublin by the New Consensus group which opposes all
political violence.

Offerings began appearing at the shrine at St Stephen's Green in central Dublin
24 hours before the group had advertised. Messages attached to the bouquets
echoed the ''not in our name'' sentiment that recurred throughout speeches at
the Trinity College rally.

Messages on the bouquets read: ''Please forgive us. The IRA do not represent the
Irish people.'' And: ''To the people of Warrington - deepest sympathy. They do
not speak for us.'' One of the messages, inscribed in crayon by a child barely
old enough to write, said: ''I am very sorry.''

News of the death of Timothy Parry, the second victim of the Warrington bombs,
and the shootings in Northern Ireland brought more gifts. Drivers in the rush
hour last night sounded their horns as they passed.

Dick Spring, the Irish Foreign Minister, said yesterday that ''the future
welfare of the people of Ireland was overshadowed by the Northern conflict''. He
told the first debate on Northern Ireland in the Senate in eight years that
''far from promoting the objective of unity, paramilitary violence is the
biggest obstacle to achieving understanding''.

Maurice Manning of the opposition Fine Gael, traditionally strong in its
condemnation of Republican violence, gave guarded support to the principle of
talks with Republicans aimed at achieving a ceasefire. ''There are huge
difficulties in talking to Sinn Fein, but if it would help bring about peace
maybe they should.''

Maire Geoghegan-Quinn, the Justice Minister, welcomed the Wilson-IRA meeting,
saying it ''offered a ray of hope''. Dublin ministers have recently seen little
chance of the IRA reconsidering its strategy.

Irish newspapers have this week highlighted the IRA's record over 21 years of
expressing regret at ''civilian'' casualties, blaming security forces for
failing to avert casualties after ''adequate'' warnings and carrying on the
bombing campaign.

The leaders of the Roman Catholic Church in England and Ireland have denounced
the IRA's bombing in Warrington as: ''Utterly inhuman and barbaric . . . totally
incompatible with the teachings of the Catholic Church . . . and to be
unreservedly condemned.'' The unprecedented joint statement from Cardinal Basil
Hume, the Archbishop of Westminster, and Cardinal Cahal Daly, the Archbishop of
Armagh, strongly rejects all IRA violence.

The two churchmen said: ''We know our feeling of revulsion is shared by the
overwhelming majority of people in Ireland, as well as in Britain, who bear no
responsibility for such outrageous acts perpetrated by a very small fraction.''


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1993 Independent Print Ltd

                              42 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 27, 1993

GRIEF TURNS TO ANGER AS TERRORISTS STRIKE;
President Mitterrand determined to hold on to power in France - President
Yeltsin determinedly holds on in Russia

BYLINE: PAUL MYERS AND JACK MASSARIK

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 950 words


WARRINGTON, target for the IRA's latest terrorist attack, began its week
mourning the death of three-year-old Johnathan Ball and ended it with the news
that 12-year-old Tim Parry had become the attack's second victim. The IRA blamed
the police for not heeding specific warnings. The police accused the terrorists
of not giving accurate guides to the location of the two bombs.

In Dublin, more than 1,000 people attended a meeting at the University following
an appeal by Susan McHugh, a creche worker. She told the meeting that the IRA
had not killed Johnathan Ball in her name. Gordon Wilson, whose daughter Marie
was killed in a Remembrance Day bombing in Enniskillen, said he wanted to meet
with IRA members to try and convince them there had to be a better way than
violence.

In mainland Britain, a second provincial town, Plymouth, was shrouded in grief
after four pupils from Southway School died canoeing off the coast of Lyme Regis
on Monday.

In France the Socialist Party endured a widely predicted slump in the first
round of elections to the national assembly. Former prime minister Jacques
Chirac's Gaullist RPR party, together with the more centrist UDF, won 40 per
cent of the vote. Socialists, Communists and ecologist parties are likely to
unite for Sunday's second round.

In Bosnia, the French commander of United Nations operations, General Philippe
Morillon, finally left the beseiged Muslim town of Srebrenica after arranging
for the injured to be ferried out and supplies to be brought in. The UN bowed to
Serb demands to inspect helicopters to ensure they were not supplying the
Muslims with arms. Despite the assurances, several helicopters, including one
belonging to Britain's UN contingent, came under fire.

As the Muslim president of Bosnia, Alija Izetbegovic, accepted the Vance-Owen
peace plan dividing Bosnia into ten provinces, General Morillon travelled to
Belgrade for talks with Serbian president Slobodan Milosevic.

In Russia, President Yeltsin began a long week in politics facing the threat of
impeachment. The self-styled supremo of Russian democracy responded by placing
the media under his control. With the chutzpah of a seasoned Politburo warrior
he said it was to protect freedom of information.

The United States supported Mr Yeltsin's manoeuvring, US Secretary of State
Warren Christopher declaring that, "Democracy is the basis, the only basis, for
the US-Russian partnership". John Major chipped in by making Britain's support
for Mr Yeltsin "unambiguously clear". The European Commission offered a free
trade pact if the Russian economy was allowed to develop towards a market
system.

By the week's end the waves to impeach the president had subsided and a newly
confident Mr Yeltsin addressed the nation saying he would take over the central
bank and introduce a credit squeeze to slow inflation.

Foreign Secretary Douglas Hurd responded to Mr Yeltsin's resurgence by saying
the West should be cautious about blanket support for an all-powerful Russian
presidency.

In Britain, the Labour party pressed for compensation for those in need
following the Government's imposition of VAT on domestic heating bills in last
week's Budget.

While the Government was fighting Labour's charges of being "failures, cheats
and unjust", the Conservative party was choosing the Newbury byelection hopeful.
The local constituency party opted for Julian Davidson, overriding Central
Office's preferred candidate, former Treasury minister John Maples.

Jamaica spent the week preparing for elections. P J Patterson, leader of the
People's National Party and current prime minister is pumping a message of unity
and reconciliation to people bloodied by vicious election campaigns.  Seven
hundred have been killed in campaigns in the last decade.

Michael Heseltine, president of the Board Of Trade, presented his White Paper on
the future of British coal pits. There are hopes of a reprieve for 13 pits,
while 18 are to be closed or mothballed. Nearly 6,000 miners will lose their
jobs in addition to the 8,000 who have quit during the Government's five month
review.

By the end of the week, five more had died in Northern Ireland. A teenager was
killed after gunmen opened fire in a shop in west Belfast. Hours earlier four
Catholic workmen were shot and killed by the Protestant Ulster Freedom Fighters
at the seaside town of Castlerock, on Ulster's north Antrim coast.

The week in sport began calamitously for England's rugby union team, whose 173
defeat by Ireland in Dublin last Saturday cost Will Carling's men the Five
Nations championship. That surprising result also cost Carling the captaincy of
the British Lions on their forthcoming tour of New Zealand, an honour that went
instead to Gavin Hastings of Scotland. France meanwhile beat Wales 2610 in Paris
to clinch the Five Nations trophy.

Unfashionable Norwich City emerged from midweek soccer skirmishes back on top of
the Premier Division. They beat Aston Villa 10 while Manchester United,
championship co-favourites with Villa, were held to a goalless draw by Arsenal
at Old Trafford.

David Gilford, a 27-year-old golfer from Crewe, drew comparisons to the young
Nick Faldo after winning the Portuguese Open, his second European title in quick
succession following his victory in the Morocco Open.

Today, Oxford and Cambridge will line up at Putney Bridge for the 139th Boat
Race. If the Dark Blues continue their winning streak and lift the Beefeater Gin
Trophy for the seventh time running, they will level the score with Cambridge at
69 wins each. Recessionary footnote: the last time such symmetry occurred was in
1929.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              43 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             March 28, 1993, Sunday

A hatred that will keep Ulster's terror machine running smoothly

BYLINE: By DAVID MCKITTRICK

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 3

LENGTH: 930 words


AT A TIME when an unaccustomed ray of hope is just beginning to break through in
Britain and in Dublin, it is sad to have to report that in the backstreets of
Belfast the omens for peace are distinctly unpromising.

The killings of the children in Warrington have undoubtedly damaged the IRA. The
organisation has always appreciated that causing civilian casualties of this
kind is counter-productive, and it has generally tried to avoid them.

But it operates within narrow constraints, being so wedded to the concept of
violence that it gives itself little room for manoeuvre. It starts from the
premise that it must use bombs and bullets, and the only real debate seems to
concern where, when and how to use them to maximum effect.

Its leaders will argue heatedly that the Warrington bombs were not meant to kill
anyone. But they will not take the point that when dozens of such bombs are let
off, as they have been in England over the past year, then inevitably people are
going to die.

The occasional ''bad'' bombings such as Warrington are viewed as serious but
surmountable setbacks, a long line of which has been survived by the IRA. The La
Mon House bombing of 1978, when the IRA killed 12 people in a restaurant near
Belfast, and the 1987 Remembrance Day bombing which killed six men and five
women in Enniskillen, are just two examples among many.

When the IRA army council comes to consider the lessons of Warrington they will,
if the past is any guide, conclude that what are needed are better warnings,
more selective targeting, better bombs. They will not decide that the bombings
should stop.

For 20 years and more IRA leaders have stuck to the belief that force is the way
to achieve their aims. The deaths of two children in an English town will not
deflect them from what they see as their life's work. Their main regret will
probably be a feeling that Warrington will simply make their long war that much
longer.

The ferment of factors which gives the IRA life is still there: the sense of
tradition, memory of British misdeeds, loyalist violence, thirst for revenge,
urban deprivation, the feeling that giving up would dishonour their dead and
condemn another generation to go through it all again.

These are people who have heard or read, on literally thousands of occasions,
condemnations of IRA violence from the British and Irish governments, the
churches and almost every sector of society. But they are so alienated from
society that the condemnations count for nothing.

What makes them so difficult for the outside world to understand is their
profound sense of victimhood. Their unshakeable belief is that Britain, and
Ulster loyalists, have visited so much violence on Catholics and republicans
over the decades - indeed, over the centuries - that the IRA is involved in a
just war. They genuinely feel, after all the IRA's violence, that it is
essentially a defensive organisation, and that its methods are justified by the
decades of injustices inflicted on Catholics.

Nonetheless, events such as Warrington pose a problem for IRA supporters. Much
of the damage has been done on the fringe of the republican movement, among
those whose commitment is not so wholehearted, and who are tired of the endless
violence. Yet even in this area the IRA was last week rescued by the loyalist
extremists who obligingly killed five Catholics: nothing could have been more
calculated to send waverers back to the ghetto, and to the supposed protection
of the IRA.

The loyalists showed they are as committed to violent methods as the IRA, and
are motivated as much by hatred as by any rational consideration of the
rectitude or the effects of their activities. Every time they kill a Catholic
they drive others towards the IRA.

Yeats wrote, in ''Easter, 1916'', that ''too long a sacrifice can make a stone
of the heart''. The years of violence and political failures have hardened the
hearts of many people opposed to terrorism, planting cynicism, lack of hope and
near-despair in their minds.

In the 1970s a peace movement which flowered dramatically in Belfast lasted only
a few years before self-destructing in a welter of bitterness and disagreement.
It could hardly have been worse: for 10 years afterwards the two women who
founded it, Betty Williams and Mairead Corrigan, would not speak to each other.

That deeply disillusioning experience helps explain why much of Belfast views
the movement which has emerged in Dublin with a jaundiced eye. It is in the
south, rather than the north, that Warrington has had a real impact, producing a
spontaneous reaction against the killings.

The Enniskillen bombing led to a sharp fall in pro-IRA sentiment in the
Republic, where its political wing, Sinn Fein, is now polling a dismal 1.7 per
cent. Warrington will increase the isolation. Non-violent northern nationalists
fear, in fact, that the Republic is in the process of rejecting not just the IRA
but the whole northern problem.

The IRA has largely contracted into the northern ghettos, with Warrington
contributing to a process which dates back to Enniskillen. The problem is that
they are substantial ghettos, with a community spirit and life of their own.

The IRA emerged from that milieu and is still part of that life. Its fringes may
be slowly but surely contracting, but it is not being rejected in the ghettos.
There it finds thousands who, whatever the outside world may say or do, are
still ready to give it shelter, hide its guns, and provide it with recruits for
its killing machine.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1993 Independent Print Ltd

                              44 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                 March 28 1993

IRA rethink on bombings: Public outrage at murders forces switch from civilian
targets as the town of tragedy remembers

BYLINE: MARY HOLLAND

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 499 words

DATELINE: DUBLIN


THE IRA is to abandon bomb attacks against the British public and will
concentrate instead on political and military targets.

The decision follows worldwide revulsion at the death of two children in last
Saturday's Warrington bomb blast.


Although Republican sources say there is no question of abandoning its terror
campaign in Britain, the emphasis is to be switched away from public areas such
as shopping precincts, where there is a high risk of civilian casualties, to
more readily identifiable political and military targets.

An IRA spokesman said: 'There is an ongoing strategic objective which is to
stretch the British police in terms of morale and resources. But we are not at
war with the British population. From our point of view, there is nothing to be
gained and a great deal to be lost from civilian casualties.'

A front-page editorial in the latest edition of An Phoblacht, the weekly
newspaper of Sinn Fein, the IRA's political wing, confirms this view.
'Warrington will be remembered by Republicans because of the human cost and
because of the cost to their struggle. They must seek to ensure that the lessons
of Warrington prevent further such tragedies,' it states.

Yesterday Irish Prime Minister Albert Reynolds, speaking for the first time
since Warrington, called for renewed efforts to find a political settlement in
Northern Ireland. He said he was ready to resume peace talks 'any time, any day,
anywhere' with the British Government and the four main Northern Irish political
parties.

Mr Reynolds spoke as the funerals took place of three of the four Catholic
workmen shot dead by terrorists in the seaside town of Castlerock, Co
Londonderry, last week.

His plea was echoed by Liberal Democrat leader Paddy Ashdown who urged Northern
Ireland's warring politicians to respond to the popular demand for peace by
returning to the negotiating table.

Public anger in Britain and Ireland over Warrington has renewed hopes of an
early resumption of the peace talks, suspended last November. And the IRA,
acknowledging that the deaths of Johnathan Ball, three, and Tim Parry, 12, were
a 'public relations disaster', has decided to switch tactics.

Mr Reynolds, speaking on BBC Radio 4's Today programme, condemned the Warrington
bombs which had 'claimed the lives of young innocent children who had no hand,
act or part' in the troubles of Northern Ireland.

Mr Reynolds insisted that the last round of peace talks had made progress and
there was no reason they could not resume before Northern Ireland's May local
elections. 'Everybody must come to the table with an open mind and no
pre-conditions,' he said.

Northern Ireland Secretary Sir Patrick Mayhew has already urged the early
resumption of peace talks. And a Downing Street spokesman said yesterday that
the Prime Minister was 'very encouraged' by Mr Reynolds's words.

A peace rally in Dublin this afternoon is expected to attract thousands of
supporters.

Dublin

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              45 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             March 28, 1993, Sunday

The case for internment

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 1213 words


THE WAR of terror that killed Johnathan Ball and Timothy Parry in Warrington
last weekend has claimed the lives of 25 people in Northern Ireland so far this
year 13 Catholics and 12 Protestants.

Compared with this time last year, that is actually an improvement for the
province by 11. To those of us on the British mainland, such bloodshed is
incomprehensible. In official eyes, however, the situation, while bad, is not
getting worse and demands for more drastic counter-measures are unwarranted.  We
disagree.

It is not enough to say that while the deaths of innocent children are
deplorable, it is still possible to crack the IRA by military success, public
odium and political initiatives. That approach, as implemented by the British
and Irish governments, has not worked and cannot work so long as the IRA is
cunning enough to avoid confrontation with the military and has immunised itself
from denunciation, be it political or religious, local or international. After
two generations of violence, the IRA has closed its ears to the outside world,
loyalist terror has reared its head and millions live in fear. In such a
climate, talk of bringing terrorists ''in from the cold'' is not only misguided;
it obscures what needs to be done.

We believe the endemic terrorism that afflicts Ireland and Britain alike demands
selective internment, applied even-handedly to all terrorist groups, republican
or loyalist. Consider the alternative. Political talks inside Northern Ireland
fail with monotonous regularity, while the terrorists attack when and where they
can. Nobody wins and everybody (bar the terrorists) loses, while another
generation of killers takes to the streets. So it was last week when the IRA
attacked a Cheshire high street and loyalist paramilitaries slaughtered six
Catholics, four in a seaside village, two in west Belfast. In the grim league
table of Northern Ireland's terrorist murders, the loyalists are now killing
more than the IRA. They do not have a skilled bomb-maker yet, but they soon
will. Will Dublin be safe then? Or will it suffer as Belfast and London (and
Warrington) have in merciless attacks?

Public opinion on both sides of the Irish Sea has had enough. When traditionally
rebel Cork joins with brave Dubliners in calling on the IRA to be brought to
account, the politicians should take heed. Now is the time to seize the
initiative that has too long remained with the killers. The British and Irish
governments should act jointly to intern the leading suspects in both the IRA
and the loyalist camps, arrest all those believed to be principally involved in
the planning and execution of terrorist outrages and spare nobody for political
reasons. So-called loyalists, who show their loyalty by killing, are just as
obnoxious as republicans trying to bomb their way to a united Ireland. The Irish
and British security forces have the intelligence on where the top suspects are
on both sides of the border. Let them be taken out of circulation for a fixed
period: as long as the emergency lasts.

It is self-delusion to depend on public opinion defeating the terrorists.  The
IRA's butchery of two children on the eve of Mother's day has created a degree
of IRA revulsion not seen for some years. But we have been here before: similar
upsurges of emotional backlash have not changed the status quo of killing. The
murder of Marie Wilson and other Enniskillen people as they gathered round their
local war memorial six years ago was such a moment.  As people north and south
of the border grieved for them, it was claimed their deaths would be a
watershed. It was not. It made Gordon Wilson, Marie's father, a public figure,
for which we are thankful. But the terrorists continued to kill and maim,
devastating people's lives. Mr Wilson plans to make an appeal to the godfathers
and nobody is better qualified. We have no hope of them recanting nor of the
loyalist gunmen abandoning their terror campaign against Catholics. The latest
upsurge in loyalist violence is just another turn of the wheel of suffering. It
is time for more than ritual denunciation and a spasm of public grief. The time
has come for internment of the bad men in both communities, on both sides of the
border.

British ministers believe such a surgical strike could deliver peace for some
months, but fear the consequences. They predict a new generation of terrorists
intent on avenging those interned and taking their place in the ''armed
struggle''. They also fear the revival of American financial support for the
IRA, after years of dwindling sympathy. All these objections would be misplaced
if internment was properly handled and widely supported. Britain and the Irish
republic must act in concert. The Catholic church and John Hume's Social
Democratic and Labour party must give their support or, at least, acquiescence.

For years fashionable opinion has argued that there will be no peace without
political initiative. It has not worked. Now it is time to tell the terrorists
there will be no political initiatives until they end their violence. Only then,
with the hard men interned, should Northern Ireland's constitutional parties
return to the negotiating table and hammer out a covenant that will entrench the
respective rights of Ireland's nationalist and Unionist communities. The United
States and the European Community must reinforce an Anglo-Irish break for peace
and finance the re-equipment and expansion of the republic's security forces to
enable them to step up their anti-IRA campaign. Irish taxpayers bear four times
the additional security burden caused by Northern Ireland than British
taxpayers. This is too much for a poor country. It is in all our interests that
they be helped.

Ireland's coalition government in Dublin has already created an improved
atmosphere in Anglo-Irish relations. Dick Spring, the Irish Labour leader and
foreign minister, is a welcome representative, a forward-looking politician who
has positive ideas on how to make progress. He acknowledges that it means
painful political choices and much give and take. A fellow countryman, Conor
Cruise O'Brien, underlined one painful choice on Friday: ''There is a nettle
that will have to be grasped before the terrorists can be beaten,'' he wrote.
''That nettle is internment.'' The Royal Ulster Constabulary believes it could
smash the loyalist paramilitaries by internment and weaken the IRA, perhaps
decisively. London and Dublin point out it did not work in 1972. But that was a
botched job: too many were interned and they were all republicans.  It worked
before that and it can work again. Indeed, no IRA campaign has ever been ended
in Ireland, north or south, without internment. Michael Collins, a founder of
the Irish Free State, interned the IRA, as did de Valera. So must Albert
Reynolds, Ireland's prime minister, and John Major, his partner in the
Anglo-Irish agreement.

Mr Spring recently recalled the lines of WB Yeats: ''We had fed the heart on
fantasiesThe heart's grown brutal from the fare.'' In the name of Johnathan and
Timothy and thousands more, it is time to stop feeding our fantasies and face
reality. That means internment for IRA and loyalist terrorists alike, followed
by a new offensive for peace.

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Leading Article

                    Copyright 1993 Times Newspapers Limited

                              46 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 March 29, 1993

Irish to close loopholes in extradition law

BYLINE: John Cooney

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 781 words


THE IRISH Government is preparing to introduce legislation to close loopholes in
the Republic's extradition laws.

The 1987 Extradition Act does not provide for extradition of suspected
terrorists accused of possessing automatic firearms or explosives. These
deficiencies were described as "a scandal" at the weekend by Mr Desmond
O'Malley, leader of the Progressive Democrats.

The loopholes are a cause of concern for the British Government because the IRA
bombers responsible for the Warrington atrocity, if arrested in the Republic,
could claim immunity from extradition.

There had been a commitment to amend the law but this had not yet been done, he
told the party's annual conference in Limerick.

But an Irish Government spokesman last night told The Herald that Justice
Minister Maire Geoghagan-Quinn plans to put legislation through the Dail after
Easter.

This amending legislation would allow for the extradition to Britain of
suspected terrorists charged with possessing guns and explosives.

The spokesman also confirmed that the British and Irish Governments discussed
ways of tightening the Republic's extradition laws at a meeting in Belfast last
Tuesday.

In a radio interview the Irish Prime Minister, Mr Albert Reynolds, called for
new peace talks.

"We are ready to sit at the table, any time, any day and go anywhere to have
peace talks with anybody," he said.

But the spokesman said last night that Mr Reynolds did not contemplate meeting
with the IRA. He was referring to constitutional parties only.

On Saturday Senator Gordon Wilson presented a teddy bear to the President of
Ireland, Mrs Mary Robinson, as a symbolic gift of gratitude from the family of
Warrington bomb victim Johnathan Ball to the people of Ireland.

Yesterday more than 10,000 people stood in Dublin's O'Connell Street as rock
star Sinead O'Connor sang the hymn A Channel Of Your Peace as the adopted anthem
of a new peace movement in the Irish Republic.

Regarded in the past as the Republic's enfant terrible for her outspoken attacks
on the Pope and the Roman Catholic Church, Ms O'Connor became a heroic symbol of
the New Ireland as she sang of how the power of love could defeat the IRA more
effectively than the talk of politicians.

The demonstrators had turned out at the General Post Office, the scene of the
1916 Rising against Britain, in response to an appeal from Mrs Susan McHugh, a
37-year-old housewife outraged by the IRA's Warrington bombing.

In drizzling rain which did not dampen the enthusiasm of the demonstrators, as
they listened to poems and the music of the Dubliners, Mrs McHugh formally
launched the new peace movement.

The Peace '93 Initiative aims to express public revulsion against the deaths of
more than 3000 people killed as a result of the Northern Ireland troubles.

The new organisation set itself the task of achieving what has eluded all
previous peace movements in more than two decades -- persuading the IRA to
abandon "the armed struggle".

The biggest peace rally to assemble in the Republic since Christmas 1974 called
on the IRA and the Ulster Freedom Fighters to end their violence and to call a
ceasefire.

The new campaign calls on all Irish people to send "postcards for peace" to free
post box numbers in Belfast and Dublin to show the world that the Irish oppose
violence. The postcards will be displayed on Easter Sunday as a peace
referendum.

Today the new movement will write to US President Bill Clinton asking him to
take account of "people power" in Ireland when devising his peace proposals for
Northern Ireland.

The Peace '93 Initiative will request the football authorities to hold a
minute's silence for the victims of terrorism at Wednesday's match in Dublin
between the Irish Republic and Northern Ireland.

Other activities include the promotion of peace next Sunday in every village in
Ireland, in conjunction with a peace rally to be held by the Irish in Britain in
London's Hyde Park.

The culmination of this first batch of peace moves will be on Easter Sunday with
a peace march from Slane to the Hill of Tara, places associated with St Patrick.

The symbol of Peace '93 Initiative is the white ribbon, which was worn yesterday
by people from all parts of the Republic and Northern Ireland as well as from
Warrington.

There was an incident before the rally as demonstrators confronted Irish
Republican activists who wanted them to sign a book of condolences deploring
British Army violence in Northern Ireland.

Mrs McHugh said the turnout confirmed her claim that the IRA Warrington bombers
did not kill in the name of Ireland.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: A banner is displayed in Dublin city centre at a rally for peace in
Ireland which was attended by more than 10,000 people. Picture: RUSSELL
BOYCE/REUTER

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1993 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              47 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                           March 31, 1993, Wednesday

SUB'S GULF EXERCISE SIGNALS WARNING TO IRAN

BYLINE:  Charles Miller, Press Association Defence Correspondent, aboard HMS
Triumph

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 408 words


in Abu Dhabi.  The first Royal Navy nuclear ship has entered the Gulf in a clear
warning to Iran as it goes ahead with rearming its war machine.  The operations
exercise involving HMS Triumph, Britain's most advanced nuclear attack
submarine, is designed to deter Iran from making any threats to a third of the
world's oil supplies.  Deployment of HMS Triumph, a 4,500-ton hunter-killer
packed with torpedoes, missiles and sonar detection systems, follows deep
concern in the region about Iran's decision to buy three Russian Kilo-class
submarines as part of a massive rearming programme.  Intelligence experts today
confirmed that Iran was building mini-submarines which could be used for
terrorist-style attacks although British officers believe it will take Iran at
least three years to develop sufficient underwater expertise to launch any
kamikaze missions.  Leaders of Gulf nations have voiced their disquiet about
Iran's submarine capability to Prime Minister John Major and Defence Secretary
Malcolm Rifkind on their recent visits to the region.  The Arab states fear the
submarines will be used to control the entrance to the Gulf through the Strait
of Hormuz and directly threaten world oil supplies.  Triumph's surprise
appearance in the Gulf comes a week after the United States ship USS Birmingham
began anti-submarine warfare exercises with regional Arab states.  Captain
Martin Macpherson, attached to Flag Officer Submarines, said the Iranian Navy
would take 10 to 20 years to pose a full war-fighting threat.  But he stressed:
"I think the purchase of Kilo-class submarines from Russia by Iran is clearly a
worrying strategic threat in this area." The modern Kilos are well-suited to
operations in the shallow waterway and are identically armed with 18 torpedoes
and the capacity to lay 24 mines, each containing 1,000 pounds of explosives.
Triumph arrived in the Gulf region last week and has conducted a series of
exercises with the frigate Coventry. It has tested all its sonar systems and
performed a dive in the middle of the Gulf.  Commanding officer Commander David
Vaughan, 37, from Gosport, said there were specific problems to operating in the
shallow hot waters of the Gulf.  "This is very much a path-finding exercise -
frontier operations. It is hotter, saltier and therefore denser," he said.  "It
affects our ability to dive, the trim and the sonars. So all these little things
we have been finding out about."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1993 The Press Association Limited

                              48 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             April 5, 1993, Monday

IRA suspect on run from Brixton is held in Ireland

BYLINE: DAVID CONNETT

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Page 1

LENGTH: 489 words


NESSAN QUINLIVAN, one of Britain's most wanted IRA suspects, was arrested by
police in the Irish Republic yesterday. Mr Quinlivan, 32, has been on the run
since shooting his way out of Brixton prison in July 1991.

He is suspected of being behind a string of terrorist attacks in Britain over
the past three years, including the mortar attack on Downing Street in February
1991 and the Baltic Exchange bombing in London last April, which killed three
people.

He was arrested after armed police raided a remote farmhouse near Nenagh, Co
Tipperary, early yesterday. Although armed with a pistol he was surprised and
made no attempt to resist arrest, Garda sources said.

Garda Superintendent Pat Moriarty said the arrest resulted from ''good police
work'' rather than a tip-off.

A second man was arrested in a follow-up operation. Both are being detained
under the Republic's Offences Against the State Act, which allows suspects to be
held up to 48 hours without charge.

Last night Mr Quinlivan was being questioned by detectives about a series of
offences in the Irish Republic, including bank robberies and the hijacking of a
police car in September 1989.

He is expected to be transferred from Tipperary and will be charged at Dublin's
anti-terrorist Special Criminal Court today. Irish security chiefs were jubilant
last night at Mr Quinlivan's arrest. ''It shows we mean business in our fight
against the IRA,'' one source said.

Britain is expected formally to seek his extradition but Irish legal sources
said last night that Mr Quinlivan will have to face charges in the Republic
before any request from Britain is considered.

Mr Quinlivan was arrested by British police at Stonehenge, Wiltshire, in October
1990. Another suspect, Pearse McAuley, was also arrested.

Both men were charged with conspiring to kill the former brewery chief and
leading Conservative supporter Sir Charles Tidbury in 1990 and conspiring to
cause explosions. They escaped while on remand in Brixton in July 1991 using a
gun hidden in the sole of a training shoe sent from Ireland. A prison officer
and a civilian were shot and wounded.

The escaped men are thought to have gone to the Irish Republic, but security
sources believe they have returned to Britain on several occasions for IRA
''spectaculars'' - attacks on prestige targets.

The escape of Mr Quinlivan and McAuley provoked a massive outcry with calls for
the resignation of the then Home Secretary, Kenneth Baker.

Detectives were furious with the prison service for allowing two men they viewed
as dangerous to escape after a major police operation to capture them.

An inquiry later criticised Reg Withers, Brixton prison's governor, and Brian
Bubbear, the Home Office Prison Department security chief, although Mr Bubbear
was later cleared of negligence by a disciplinary panel. It also prompted a
government review of top-security prisons.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1993 Independent Print Ltd

                              49 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Daily Mail (London)

                            April 8, 1993, Thursday

CLINTON BLOW TO IRA KILLERS;
President's dramatic message to the people of Warrington

BYLINE: George Gordon

SECTION: Pg. 1, 2

LENGTH: 1427 words


PRESIDENT Clinton condemned the IRA yesterday in a personal message to the
families of the Warrington bomb victims.

His denunciation was directed not only at the terrorists responsible for
violence but, significantly, 'those who support and perpetuate it'.

With that crucial statement, the President effectively climbed off the political
fence and rounded on the IRA's American paymasters.

It was the sign millions in Britain and Ireland have been waiting for: a
rejection of those deluded supporters who rattle collection tins believing they
are helping victims but instead buying bullets and bombs.

The unprecedented message was echoed by Mr Major, who described the search for a
peaceful settlement to the Ulster troubles as 'the only sane way forward'.

The IRA responded with cynical brutality - a bomb attack in London and another
at an Ulster barracks.

Mr Clinton's letter - White House officials could not recall a similar
presidential message in the wake of an IRA outrage - was sent to the Rector of
Warrington, Canon Jack Colling, on the day when two memorial services, for
three-year-old Johnathan Ball and Timothy Parry, 12, symbolised a nation's
grief.

It read: 'Let me join the people of Warrington in extending my deepest sympathy
to the victims of the recent bombing and their families. My prayers are with
them and all the other victims of the recent wave of terrorist violence.

'The United States condemns in the strongest terms such violence and those who
support and perpetuate it. That the most recent outrages have caused the deaths
of young children and injuries to many more, only

emphasises the callous nature of such violence.

'The American people join the people of Ireland and the United Kingdom in
expressing their sympathy to those touched by these outrages, in believing that
violence from whatever quarter can never be justified and in hoping that out of
this tragedy will emerge a new determination to seek peace and reconciliation
through dialogue.

'In my recent discussions with the Prime Ministers of the United Kingdom and
Ireland, I was struck by their dedication to the search for a peaceful solution
to the troubles in Northern Ireland. In this, they have the full support of the
United States.

'With my condolences, sincerely, William J. Clinton.'

A White House source said: 'He sent the speechwriters home and wrote it
himself.'

Mr Major spoke out during his two-day tour of Northern Ireland. In an attempt to
get the stalled all-party talks up and running again, he urged Unionist and
Nationalist leaders to show the 'wit and courage' to work together for a
settlement.

He said: 'It is the only sane way forward, for one thing is certain: the people
of Northern Ireland do not want another 23 years like the last 23 years. They
want peace and they want an end to the murders.'

When he arrived back at Manchester Airport, he added: 'I think everyone will
have their eyes on Warrington. They will remember what happened. They will have
no sympathy for the reason that it happened.' He then went on to attend an
evening service at Warrington Parish Church for the victims of the IRA bombing.

The IRA's reaction to the talk of peace was a small bomb attack near St Pancras
Station in London, in which no one was hurt, and a triple mortar attack at
Crossmaglen in South Armagh, which injured three soldiers.

With Mr Clinton's words, meanwhile, came action.

In the clamour to get a foothold in Northern Ireland's affairs, the pro-IRA
lobby formed a top level action committee during the U.S. election campaign and
pressured him into making a private pledge to appoint a 'peace envoy' to send to
Ireland.

There were two crucial meetings, between Mr Clinton and the co-chairmen, Mayor
Raymond Flynn of Boston and former Congressman Bruce Morrison of Connecticut.

Mr Clinton has now neatly removed both men from the field. Flynn has been made
ambassador to the Vatican, and Morrison looks certain to get a key post in the
Immigration and Naturalisation Service - which will bar him from making any
political statements.

The peace envoy idea was no longer even a consideration, according to the White
House source. That proposal, already watered down to a 'factfinding mission',
had now been 'shuffled to the Never-Never Land of matters pending'.

Speaking on Channel 4 last night, Roman Catholic SDLP leader John Hume welcomed
the words of Mr Major and Mr Clinton and called for reconciliation between the
divided communities in Northern Ireland. 'In this day and age, that should be
possible,' he said. 'Our quarrel is out of date.'

Irish premier Albert Reynolds spoke out in support of Mr Major's latest peace
initiative. Commenting on a probable British bid to break the Ulster inter-party
talks deadlock, he said: 'You can take it we will be involved.' But Democratic
Unionist leader, the Rev Ian Paisley, said of Mr Major: 'I think he is a bit of
a hypocrite because he was the man that entered into a deal with Albert Reynolds
to stop the talks in November.'

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1993 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              50 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 8, 1993

MAJOR PREPARES TO REVIVE NORTHERN IRELAND TALKS;
Prime Minister says way ahead to resuming negotiations is clear, but Paisley
calls initiative hypocritical

BYLINE: OWEN BOWCOTT

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 720 words


THE Prime Minister yesterday promised a government initiative to tempt political
parties back to the negotiating table.

As mourners gathered in Warrington for the memorial service to Johnathan Ball
and Tim Parry, the two children killed by the IRA bomb last month, Mr Major, his
words echoed in Washington by President Clinton and in Dublin by the Irish prime
minister, Albert Reynolds, pleaded with local political leaders to return to the
conference table.

The problems negotiators would face were illustrated at once by a hostile
reaction from the Democratic Unionist leader, Ian Paisley, and by a bomb in
London, assumed to be the work of the IRA.

Mr Major, who flew to Warrington from Belfast, said that, while the dominant
political mood since the collapse of last year's inter-party talks was grim
resignation: "I believe the way ahead is clearer than many people may imagine."

Progress would come through a resumption of talks involving the Irish government
and the main political parties. He suggested that the Government would put
forward its own proposals in contrast with its previous insistence on a neutral
stance in which the Northern Ireland Secretary was merely a "facilitator" to
inter-party discussions.

Mr Major said he and the Northern Ireland Secretary, Sir Patrick Mayhew, would
propose an early start to talks involving the four parties and the two
governments. "When they talk we will put proposals before the participants," he
said.

There was no indication yesterday what the proposals would be but Sir Patrick
has recently repeatedly stated that the Northern Ireland Office wields too much
power and some should be returned to local politicians.

Mr Major's speech echoed sentiments expressed by the new peace movements which
have emerged in the Irish Republic and Britain in response to recent IRA and
loyalist atrocities. "The tragedies we have seen here and on the mainland have
shocked people into thinking afresh about the situation. Moods can be transitory
[but] . . . I don't think we can afford to be prisoners of past failures."

Mr Major said he had been encouraged by recent Irish statements about articles
two and three of the Irish constitution, which lay claim to Northern Ireland.

"I welcome without reservation such readiness to contemplate constitutional
change in the context of an overall settlement."

Mr Reynolds stressed that he shared Mr Major's aim of a resumption of the
political talks. "You can take it we will be involved in any initiative, ideas
or proposals on the North," he said. "There are no differences between the Irish
and British governments, and I have no doubt there will be full consultation."

He did, however, repeat, as he did only days after the Warrington bombing, that
the Irish constitution could be changed only by extensive negotiation and a
referendum.

From Washington, Mr Clinton, who has pulled back from his own Northern Ireland
initiative, said in a message read in Warrington: "I hope that out of this
tragedy will emerge a new determination to seek peace and reconciliation through
dialogue."

The Democratic Unionist Party response was dismissive. Mr Paisley described Mr
Major's plea for talks to resume as hypocritical since it was "the two
governments" which ended the last round.

The North Antrim MP also seized on Mr Major's claim that Dublin had shown
greater flexibility over articles two and three. He said recent pronouncements
from the Irish government had only reiterated previous positions and the DUP
would not re-enter talks until the articles were removed.

Other parties were more guarded. The Ulster Unionist leader, Jim Molyneaux, MP,
said he had written to Mr Major with his own proposals.

Sinn Fein, which has been excluded from inter-party talks because of its stance
on violence, condemned Mr Major's proposals. Mitchel McLaughlin said: "We are
about to embark on a rerun of the failed political formulae of the 70s and 80s."

In London, King's Cross station was left paralysed after a bomb went off in an
alleyway by South-east St Pancras Conservative Club. The area was sealed off and
Underground stations were closed and searched. Trains leaving King's Cross and
St Pancras stations were delayed.

Hugo Young, page 22; Leader comment, page 23

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              51 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 April 8, 1993

Clinton joins calls for new Irish talks. Three-nation attack on terrorism is
answered with a bomb.

BYLINE: Geoffrey Parkhouse,Russell Edmunds,John Cooney

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1015 words


PRESIDENT Clinton joined Britain and Ireland last night in an unprecedented,
three-nation attack on terrorism. He linked the United States with a call for
new talks to find a peaceful solution for Northern Ireland.

The IRA immediately delivered a rebuff with another disruptive bomb in central
London which closed Euston and St Pancras stations for the rush-hour and caused
chaos for thousands of homegoing commuters. But there were no injuries.

Scotland Yard said a man with an Irish accent had telephoned coded warnings more
than 30 minutes before the "small" explosion. The device had been planted among
rubbish surrounding a skip in an alleyway alongside the Conservative Club in
Argyle Square.

The blast happened just a few hours before an official memorial service for IRA
bombing victims in Warrington and on the day the Prime Minister, on a visit to
Northern Ireland, called for fresh political efforts to end violence in the
province.

As the Duke of Edinburgh, Irish President Mary Robinson, Mr Major, Labour leader
John Smith and other political leaders were gathering in Warrington for the
memorial service Mr Clinton despatched a personal message.

"The American people join the people of Ireland and the United Kingdom in
expressing their sympathy to those touched by these outrages," he told
Warrington rector Canon Jack Colling, who led the town's grief for the two
children killed on the weekend of Mother's Day.

The President renounced "in the strongest terms" violence from any quarter and
added that the US hopes that "out of this tragedy will emerge a new
determination to seek peace and reconciliation".

It was a welcome boost to the new UK-Irish initiative to restart constitutional
talks.

The move was welcomed by Mr John Hume, leader of the SDLP nationalist party in
Northern Ireland. But the Ulster Unionists, facing difficult local elections
next month, were suspicious. The Rev. Ian Paisley attacked Mr Major, who
launched the initiative in Strabane yesterday, as a hypocrite.

"The mood of the people in Northern Ireland is this: Mr Major must bring an end
to the terrorist situation," he said. "No amount of political talks will bring
the terrorist situation to an end." The Unionists are threatening to ignore the
call for the resumption of talks involving all the legal political parties,
unless Dublin first drops its constitutional claim to the six counties of
Northern Ireland.

Mr Paisley claimed: "I think Mr Major is a bit of a hypocrite because he was the
man who entered into a deal with the Irish premier Mr Reynolds to stop the talks
last November." The Unionists may need to test the mood of their supporters in
the May local elections before they commit themselves to new talks.

President Clinton, who wants to send a peace envoy to Ireland, was made aware
that the Warrington atrocity so moved people on both sides of the Atlantic that
there could be a chance of a breakthrough if there was sufficient political
backing.

This was given clearly by the new Irish premier Albert Reynolds. He said
yesterday: "You can take it that we will be involved in any initiative, ideas or
proposals on the North. There are no differences between the Irish and British
Governments and I have no doubt that there will be full consultation." His
Labour coalition partners agree.

Mr Reynolds repeated that Dublin's claim, established in Eire's constitution, to
the six counties could be reviewed. But "all constitutional matters must be on
the table together", he said. "I think that anybody who approaches it from one
side or the other, ignoring the fears, the anxieties and concerns of either
community, will not get a successful outcome to the talks."

Mr Major, launching the talks initiative in the border town of Strabane where he
was opening a £10.9m bomb-proof police station, said: "We must press ahead.
There are grounds for hope. The latest tragedies here and in England have
shocked people into thinking again. They have sunk into the national
consciousness. They have fuelled a demand for an end to this senseless
slaughter.

"Moods can be transitory. There have been times before when people have come
together only then to fall apart, times when they have made very determined
efforts which for one reason or another have not succeeded.

"I do not believe that we can afford to be the prisoners of past failures. Now
surely is a time for all who are concerned with Northern Ireland to think
again." He wants the new talks to begin again in May, probably after the local
elections.

If there are to be fresh talks in Ulster, they are most likely to be low-key in
comparison to the earlier failed attempts at a settlement.

Ulster unionists would expect to see more powers being restored to local
councils and to having more say at Westminster through the setting-up of a
Select Committee.

But nationalists in the Social Democratic Labour Party are demanding an even
higher profile for Dublin Government Ministers in Northern Ireland's affairs.

In Warrington, more than 1000 local people joined leading figures from both
sides of the Irish Sea for a special service of remembrance in the town's parish
church.

Hundreds more stood outside the sandstone church to hear the service of
"remembrance, reconciliation and commitment", relayed on loudspeakers.

Near the start of the service two candles in memory of three-year-old Johnathan
Ball and Tim Parry, 12, were lit in the church by their fathers, Mr Colin Parry
and Mr Wilf Ball.

Watching were many of those injured in the two blasts. Among them was 33-year
-old Mrs Bronwen Vickers, who lost a leg but who vowed from her hospital bed
that the IRA would not ruin her life.

Other victims, some of them limping and some still on crutches, were in the
congregation. They included 13-year-old Samantha Thompson, who was shopping with
Johnathan when he was killed.

Mr Parry and his wife, Wendy, whose courage over the loss of their son has
impressed millions, arrived at the service with their children

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: A young boy at the memorial service in Warrington. Pinned to his hymn
sheet are photographs of the two boys who died in the IRA bombing, Timothy Parry
and Johnathan Ball. Picture: BOB COLLIER/Reuter

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1993 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              52 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                            April 8, 1993, Thursday

Major steps up the pressure for fresh talks on Ireland

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 426 words


JOHN Major stepped up the pressure on political leaders in Northern Ireland
yesterday to return to the negotiating table, reminding them that this was the
wish of most people in Britain, Northern Ireland and the Irish republic.

The prime minister, completing the second day of his first visit to Northern
Ireland in just over a year, repeatedly urged politicians to harness the mood
for peace in the wake of the Warrington bombings and to start talking.

This time, he said, real compromises would have to be made and politicians would
have to show the courage and flexibility that this required. Mr Major, speaking
in Strabane, co. Tyrone, said that when political leaders started to talk they
''must be prepared to move away from entrenched positions''.

Earlier, in Londonderry, he spoke of his belief that everyone in Northern
Ireland now wanted the Troubles to end. ''I think there is a great feeling right
across the province that people want a settlement. They want peace.  They want
an end to the murder. That is the mood I hope the politicians will have the
courage and the wit to grasp.''

Mr Major also gave his support to the development announced on Tuesday by Sir
Patrick Mayhew, the Northern Ireland secretary, that the government would try to
push the process in the right direction by offering possible models for
devolution at the outset. The move is designed to try to focus on detailed
options about how Northern Ireland might be governed, the key area of dispute.

The prime minister's optimism that perhaps after the local elections in May
there could be a return to talks for the first time since November seemed hardly
justified by the reaction of the Rev Ian Paisley, leader of the Democratic
Unionist party.

Mr Paisley said Mr Major was being hypocritical to come to Northern Ireland and
express his support for the talks when, in Mr Paisley's view, it was he who had
destroyed the last set by agreeing secretly with the Irish government to hold a
meeting of the Anglo Irish Conference, despite knowing in advance that this
would lead to unionists withdrawing from the process.

Mr Paisley said he had no intention of returning to the negotiating table until
articles two and three of the Irish constitution, which claimed jurisdiction
over Northern Ireland, had been unilaterally scrapped something that is
unthinkable in Dublin.

The IRA made its own views clear with a mortar bomb attack on Crossmaglen police
and army barracks in South Armagh, which caused minor damage and injured three
soldiers.

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1993 Times Newspapers Limited

                              53 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 10, 1993

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 450 words


Second Brixton escaper held

Owen Bowcott in Belfast

PEARSE McAulay, the Brixton prison escaper and alleged IRA gunman, was arrested
by Special Branch officers in the Irish republic yesterday, five days after
armed Gardai seized his fellow escaper, Nessan Quinlivan.

The arrests will go some way towards rebutting jibes from Unionist politicians
that Ireland is a safe haven for Provisional gunmen. Three other republican
suspects were arrested in County Monaghan yesterday after several IRA arms dumps
were uncovered.

Mr McAuley was said to have been spotted by a member of the public travelling on
Dublin's suburban DART railway line. Gardai detained Mr McAuley on the platform
at Connolly railway station in the centre of the city. Like Mr Quinlivan, he was
found to be carrying a pistol, but made no attempt to resist arrest.

Under the republic's anti-terrorist legislation, Mr McAuley, who comes from
Strabane, Co Tyrone, in Northern Ireland, can be held for up to 48 hours without
charge. It is likely that he, like his co-escaper, will eventually be remanded
in custody on firearms offences.

The Irish authorities have indicated that any extradition proceedings against Mr
Quinlivan, who was held following an early morning raid at Neneagh, Co
Tipperary, last Sunday, will have to await his trial.

There were no signs yesterday that Britain would present an extradition warrant
for either man in the immediate future. Both suspects were originally arrested
in 1990 near Stonehenge, Wiltshire, charged with conspiracy to cause explosions
and conspiracy to murder the former chairman of Whitbread, Sir Charles Tidbury,
and remanded in custody.

The following July, having smuggled a pistol into Brixton prison in the sole of
a running shoe, they forced their way out at gunpoint and hijacked a car.

Although he was named by Garda sources in Dublin, Mr McAuley was said to be not
co-operating with officers and refusing to confirm his identity. He is likely to
appear in court today.

The arrests in Co Monaghan are part of the Garda's continuing anti-IRA drive,
code-named Operation Silo, which last year uncovered a series of arms dumps in
south-west Ireland. In the latest finds officers recovered several pounds of
Semtex plastic explosive, rifles and mortar parts. Two men and a women were
still being questioned last night.

The Gardai successes come against a background of growing demands within the
republic for a more hard-line approach towards the IRA.

The IRA yesterday released an uncompromising video "Easter message", warning the
British government that it must chose between the "path of peace" and the
"inevitability of war".

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              54 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 April 10, 1993

In memory of a daughter killed by IRA.  Father relives bomb blast in City

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 676 words


A FAMILY will today lay a wreath in the City of London, and relive the horror of
an IRA bomb blast which killed three people and injured dozens exactly a year
ago.

Danielle Carter, 15, was among those who died. Her younger sister Christiane,
then just eight, suffered terrible cuts to her face and chest from flying glass.

Mr Danny Carter and his family will lay their wreath at the spot where Danielle
died. It will be the first time Christiane has been back.

The Warrington blast last month devastated the family, knowing the pain the
families of Johnathan Ball and Tim Parry would be going through.

"I lost my daughter, but they didn't stop and I don't see them stopping now," Mr
Carter said.

"Every time a bomb goes off, every time someone gets hurt, I feel more anger,
more bitterness."

The IRA chose the night after the General Election to explode its largest
mainland bomb.

Mr Carter, 44, was walking up from an underground car park after delivering a
car to the offices where he works as a chauffeur.

Danielle, Christiane, and other friends were waiting in a Mercedes car outside
the Baltic Exchange building to pick him up when the 100lb bomb packed into a
van exploded. "The memory is with me all the time. It is videoed in my mind step
by step," he said.

"The shock wave from the blast blew me backwards. I ran up the ramp and saw the
loading bay was blown to bits. I ran through the dust and rubble, choking,
hysterical, glass under my feet, debris still falling around me, a terrible
smell of smoke, of burning.

"It was deadly quiet for a split second then I started hearing the sirens, the
screaming, people shouting 'help, help', me shouting 'Danielle, Danielle',
police officers calling 'over here', more sirens, others shouting 'get people
out'."

He said the car was obliterated, blown to bits. "All I could think of was the
kids and then I saw Christiane and the others smothered in blood. "I shouted
'Danielle, Danielle' and ran round the car and found her, lying half out of the
car, face down in a pool of blood."

At the time, he thought she was unconscious. In the chaos that followed, it was
six hours before he learned his daughter was dead.

The couple have two boys Nicky, 15, and Robbie, 12.

He would like to meet the families of the two boys who died in Warrington. "For
the first six weeks, everyone is round, trying to help. Then the doors close and
that's when your grieving really starts.

"Noone knows how you feel. Part of your life is taken away.

"We sent a card to Johnathan's family and Christiane got a get well card to send
to Tim but he didn't make it."

He could not understand how Mr Gordon Wilson, whose daughter Marie died in the
Enniskillen massacre, could meet the terrorists.

"There is no way I could sit opposite those people. I would have to have a
sixinch steel barrier between us and I would still try and get at them.

"Johnathan and Tim's families talk of their hope that their children will become
symbols of peace. I can't accept that. I can't accept that Danielle should have
been sacrificed. I feel such anger, such bitterness."

Mr Carter, who lives in Laindon, Essex, had narrowly escaped injury 10 months
earlier when an IRA bomb exploded in the doorway of the Carlton Club in St
James's in Piccadilly.

He was standing opposite the club with two other chauffeurs. The windows around
them shattered but the glass front directly behind them held firm. "We would
have been cut to ribbons if it had gone too, it was fate," he said.

The head of the Roman Catholic Church in Britain called for an end to violence
and greater regard for human life.

Referring to the child victims of the Warrington bomb, Cardinal Basil Hume said
their deaths may not be in vain.

He also spoke of the nation's shock at the death of twoyearold James Bulger in
Liverpool.

"Our thoughts must now turn from the evil that has been done to the good that
should ensue," he said during his Easter address at Westminster Cathedral.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Danny and Kay Carter, with a photograph of the daughter they lost.
Picture: DAVID GILES/PA

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1993 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              55 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            April 10, 1993, Saturday

IRA terror suspect arrested in Dublin

BYLINE: DAVID CONNETT

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Page 1

LENGTH: 362 words


IRISH POLICE arrested Pearse McAuley, a suspected IRA terrorist, in Dublin
yesterday, the second major success against the IRA in a week.

Mr McAuley, 29, from Strabane, Co Tyrone in Northern Ireland, was detained at
Connolly railway station in the city centre at lunchtime. He has been on the run
since escaping from Brixton jail, south London, in 1991.

His fellow fugitive, Nessan Quinlivan, was arrested by Irish detectives last
Sunday after a raid on a Co Tipperary farmhouse and appeared before Dublin's
anti-terrorist Special Criminal Court on firearms charges.

The Garda said Mr McAuley was held after getting off a DART suburban train.
Police said he had a handgun when arrested by special branch officers from the
Garda's Emergency Response Unit.

He was taken to Bridewell police station, then held at a nearby station under
Ireland's anti-terrorist Offences Against the State Act for questioning about
the possession of a firearm and other offences.

Both men are wanted by Scotland Yard for questioning about a break- out from
Brixton while on remand. They are believed to have used a gun hidden in a pair
of training shoes that had been sent from Ireland. During the incident, prison
officers were shot at in the jail and a civilian outside was wounded.

The men were awaiting trial charged with plotting to kill Sir Charles Tidbury, a
former Whitbread brewery chairman, and causing explosions in Britain. A Scotland
Yard spokesman said that the Irish police had notified them of the arrest.

Republican sources in Dublin suggested yesterday that Mr McAuley was carrying a
gun to ensure he would face charges in the Irish Republic rather than
extradition to Britain. He can be held for 48 hours before being charged.

Mr McAuley is being questioned about the hijacking of a police car at Killaloe,
Co Clare, in the republic, in September 1989. Nessan Quinlivan, remanded to
reappear in court this month, is being questioned about the same offence.

Irish legal sources indicated that charges in the republic against both men will
take precedence. Charges against Mr Quinlivan, if proven, carry jail terms of 10
years or more.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1993 Independent Print Ltd

                              56 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 12, 1993

THE FORGOTTEN TRAGEDY;
Terrorist attacks on the mainland hit the headlines while murders in Northern
Ireland rate a few lines at most. Why?

BYLINE: ROY GREENSLADE

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGE; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1415 words


TWO die in Warrington, newspapers raise a hue and cry, people are moved to
tears, and marchers take to the streets in the name of peace. Last week
thousands were moved to tears at the sombre memorial service in the town. But
within 36 hours of the Warrington bombing, six died in Northern Ireland,
virtually ignored by newspapers.

Let me make it clear at the outset that I share the sense of outrage which
greeted the appalling murders of Johnathan Ball and Timothy Parry. But I cannot
remain blind to the fact that many people in Northern Ireland consider the press
coverage has been disproportionate and the subsequent public reaction bordering
on the hysterical.

The killings were reported with the prominence one accepts as normal after such
acts: front page pictures of the victims; inside pages featured heartbreaking
interviews with witnesses, parents and friends; leader columns bristled with
righteous anger; thousands of words from feature writers and columnists, who
wrote movingly of the bereaved, or raged against the iniquity of the IRA. They
needed little encouragement from editors to urge violent revenge for this
senseless atrocity.

Two newspapers even advocated reprisal by lynch mob. "The evil men should be
hounded down and handed over to the people of Warrington for summary justice"
said the People. "Put the IRA up against a wall and shoot them," said the Sun.
Have they forgotten already the awful miscarriages of justice involving the
Birmingham Six, the Guildford Four and Judith Ward?

These purveyors of hyperbolic headlines would defend their cries for vengeance
by claiming that Warrington was a uniquely ghastly act. It was a massacre of
innocents.

There are, however, as far as the British Press is concerned two kinds of
massacre and two kinds of innocents. There is the unique massacre as against the
everyday, run-of-the-mill, seen-it-all-before sort of massacre. There are
innocents who happen to live in "mainland" Britain, and then there are innocents
who live in Ireland, even that bit of it designated as part of the United
Kingdom.

In the same week as Warrington four men died in a hail of bullets. Two more were
shot dead in further, separate incidents. And how were these deaths reported in
newspapers which depend on a diet of bloody crime to sell copies?

The massacre of four men, and murder of a fifth man, were told in five lines on
page 7 of the Sun and a paragraph in Today. These outrages were reported in a
couple of paragraphs on the bottom of inside pages in the Mirror and the
Express. The Daily Mail thought these atrocities worth six paragraphs.

Broadsheet newspapers did give the story of the killings more prominence, but
there was nothing like the space provided for the Warrington bombing. Nor did
the broadsheets feel it necessary to write leaders.

Damian Walsh, a 17-year-old part-time disc jockey, was shot in the back in West
Belfast. Yet there was no picture of this massacred innocent staring at us from
the front page of a tabloid.

Nor did we read eulogies on four "good; decent, hard-working men", as James
McKenna, 52, Noel Kane, 20, Gerry Dalrymple, 58, and James Kelly, 25, were later
described by their employer. These "Catholics' were stepping out of a van at a
building site in Castlerock, Co. Derry, when two men sprayed them with automatic
fire. A fifth man fell seriously injured.

There is an interesting subtext to this massacre. The day after it happened the
IRA announced that James Kelly was one of their men and one imagines the
collective shrug of the shoulders which greeted this news. He deserved it then.
It was, taking the Sun and the People at face value, justifiable homicide.

Even if we leave aside the fact that, as civilised human beings, we are supposed
to deplore the concept of shoot-to-kill by the security forces, let alone by
gun-toting paramilitaries, the absence of sympathetic and sizeable newspaper
coverage on the Warrington scale does not wash.

Firstly, papers decided to ignore the shootings 24 hours before Kelly's IRA
membership was revealed. Secondly; there was not a scintilla of doubt about the
other three men not having IRA links. In the parlance of tabloids, they were
innocents.

Incidentally, the sixth man to die in that bloody period was builder Peter
Gallagher. But he was a Sinn Fein member, so not a line appeared in the
tabloids. Another shrug.

These deaths do not fit the ideological requirements of the Government's
political policy which is broadly supported by every newspaper. This policy
involves the Government concentrating all its propaganda on one front, against
the evil of the IRA. Newspapers have reflected this simplistic view, treating
the murderous attacks by Loyalist gangs as a regrettable but natural consequence
of the IRA campaign.

Hence the Daily Mail headlined the Castlerock massacre by Loyalist gunmen as a
"revenge attack" for Warrington, as if justifying sectarian murder. Yet the
history of the Troubles since 1969 reveals that Protestant extremists have been
acting violently towards Catholics irrespective of the IRA.

I mention this as only one instance of the way in which British newspaper
readers are receiving partial truth about Ireland. Witness the result, by the
way, of such prejudice against understanding. Is it not odd that actress Emma
Thompson should be traduced by newspapers simply for portraying a lawyer who
fought against a miscarriage of justice involving Irish people, in a film based
on Gerry Conlon's book? And what was the logic behind the public protest because
BBC1's Rough Justice raised yet another possible wrong conviction of a Belfast
man?

These concerns are not unique to me. Every Northern Ireland national newspaper
correspondent I have spoken to has similar misgivings about the difficulty of
getting their reports into their own papers and hence helping readers to grasp
the truth.

Such disenchantment is thought to be the reason why the experienced and
enthusiastic Daily Telegraph correspondent, Chris Ryder, decided to resign last
week after five years with the paper. Like his rivals, he complains both about
"English bias" and the way tabloids, which have no knowledge of Northern Irish
reality, are nevertheless able to set the news agenda, dragging broadsheets down
into similar "superficial reporting."

No British tabloid bothers to employ a full-time correspondent in Northern
Ireland any longer, relying on agencies to cover outbreaks of violence that make
a paragraph or two.

Broadsheets do provide a better coverage, but all their reporters talk of their
frustration at trying to convince London-based newsdesks of the importance of
their stories. Even multiple death is not guaranteed space any longer.

The lack of context which runs alongside an escalating casualty rate has had a
sinister effect on people in Britain and the Irish Republic, according to Liam
Clarke of the Sunday Times. "It is as if Northern Ireland people themselves are
the problem," he says. "Therefore, when something happens, it's almost as if we
aren't considered innocent."

Awareness of this shame is reinforced when mainland deaths attract greater
coverage than deaths in Northern Ireland. The Guardian's Owen Bowcott believes
it is "wounding and perplexing to the people here and sometimes bewildering to
us correspondents."

Then again, as all reporters concede, the story of violence in a province of 1.5
million people is so repetitive that newspapers are only reflecting the apathy
of 57 million in the rest of the UK by refusing to report it. "The Troubles are
like the weather," said one correspondent. "They appear completely beyond
anyone's control."

It would appear the same is also true for papers in the Republic. Mark Brennock,
who has just returned to the Dublin office of the Irish Times after a
two-and-a-half year stint as a Belfast correspondent, wrote a sad valedictory
last week.

"It has proved impossible for the media to shock people with the suffering of
all these killings," he wrote. "There are just too many of them."

He noted how the people in the Republic have stopped listening to or looking at
news concerned with the North, just as they have in Britain.

With disillusioned correspondents amid a community which feels that nobody
outside cares enough to understand, it is no wonder that the peace moves after
Warrington have received little support in Belfast and Derry.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              57 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 14, 1993

TED HEATH'S INCITEMENT TO MURDER;
Is the former PM's support of the Tory anti-Rushdie lobby a mandate for
terrorism?

BYLINE: MICHAEL FOOT

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGE; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 854 words


SIR Edward Heath should be summoned before some European court on a charge of
incitement to murder. His offence is that he has given support to the Tory
pressure group opposing a meeting between the Prime Minister and Salman Rushdie
on the grounds that Britain was losing "masses of trade" in the Middle East
because of "that wretched book".

Neither Sir Edward nor Peter Temple-Morris, Chairman of the Britain-Iran
All-Party Parliamentary Group can have stopped to think what comfort they were
giving to the terrorists. But perhaps the nature and scale of the offence may
best be estimated by comparing it with the other recent exhibition of terrorist
success.

The circumstances surrounding the actual Warrington murders and the potential
murder of Salman Rushdie are not the same, but they are sufficiently similar to
make Sir Edward and all his fellow apologists for the Iranian fatwa extremely
uncomfortable. The psychology of the killers at least is similar, if not
identical. Both the IRA killers and the Iranian killers make the claim that
their act of terrorism, however seemingly inexcusable in its immediate
consequences, is justified by the larger causes which they serve. Both derive
encouragement when their actions are seemingly condoned by those who would never
excuse the resort to such murderous means in other circumstances.

For those who understand something of Irish history and something of the glory
of the Irish fight for independence, nothing has been more wretched than the
attempt of the killers themselves or, worse still, their apologists, to excuse
the wanton murder of innocent bystanders. None of the greatest Irish
freedom-fighters would have stooped to such excuses or such methods. Michael
Davitt would have branded them as the enemies of Ireland's cause and risked his
own life rather than see his beloved Ireland inflict such an injury on itself.

However, the British case against IRA terrorism is, one might have thought,
widely understood. At least, Sir Edward has not stepped forward to jog our
memories with the thought that much valuable trade across the Irish Sea is put
at risk by present controversies. And the Labour MP David Winnick also gives us
the timely reminder: Sir Edward is provided with constant protection against the
IRA, and so far as we know, has made no offer to relinquish these facilities.

Once the comparison is made between the threat from Ireland and the threat from
Iran, the case for protecting Rushdie becomes all the more overwhelming.
Neither the Irish government nor any of the accepted religious bodies operating
on its territories have issued death sentences against British men, women and
children. When the murders do occur, they cooperate with our own police force
and law courts to bring the offenders to justice.

The status of the Iranian government in the campaign to murder Salman Rushdie is
different. It has backed the threat from the beginning, spent huge resources to
sustain it, and has taken the opportunity of the fourth anniversary of the fatwa
to insist that the whole apparatus of murder is still in good working order, and
that nothing will be altered until the sentence is executed. And, as the British
protection authorities are well aware, these threats are not idle.

Such a relentless threat is unique in the history of international relations.
If nation states, in our modern world - particularly those inspired by religious
allegiances - felt themselves entitled to issue such threats, the dangers of
international anarchy would be vastly multiplied.

Other features of present-day Iran make the peril worse. Iran has one of the
worst human rights records of any state on this planet. Men, women and children
among its own citizens - especially women - are denied elementary human rights
in the name of the same religious authorities that issued the fatwa against
Rushdie. The killing of innocent Iranians - or, rather, their guilt is the same
as Rushdie's - has continued on a vast scale. They have refused to accept
religious decrees which offend against every kind of human right: free speech,
the right to read, the right to choose their own religion or, more precisely a
particular branch of it which may offend the present rulers of Iran.

It is this regime, not one book, which has produced the crisis. If the book were
now to be sacrificed to the regime, every decent principle on which the European
Community was founded would have been sacrificed. "Mankind are not now to be
told they shall not think or they shall not read," wrote Thomas Paine 200 years
ago. Heath & Co would dam the whole current of European freedom.

Sir Edward should make his immediate apologies to Salman Rushdie, and everyone
else concerned. If he fails to do so he will have performed the strange feat of
out-Tebbiting Norman Tebbit, the previous worst offender among Conservative
appeasers of the Iranian dictatorship. And Mr Major, we may hope, will be
encouraged to speed up his meeting with the British citizen whose life is at
stake.

Michael Foot is a former leader of the Labour Party

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              58 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                            April 22, 1993, Thursday

Jailed IRA bombers apply to serve sentence in province

BYLINE: By Richard Ford, Home Correspondent

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 508 words


THE government is considering applications by Patrick Magee, the Brighton
bomber, and other leading IRA prisoners to be transferred to Northern Ireland to
serve their sentences nearer their families.

Fourteen prisoners, including ten serving long sentences in British prisons for
IRA and INLA bombings during the last two decades, are having their requests
considered by government officials in London and Belfast.

Since new rules were introduced five months ago which say that prisoners must
have families living in Northern Ireland, a total of 28, including people
convicted of non-terrorist offences, have applied for transfer.

Among the 14 who have applied to be sent to Maghaberry jail are Martina
Anderson, Ella O'Dwyer, Gerald McDonnel and Magee, who are serving life
sentences. They were convicted at the Central Criminal Court in 1985 of
conspiring to cause a series of explosions in 12 seaside resorts.

Magee, from Belfast, is serving eight life sentences for planting the bomb at
the Grand Hotel in Brighton during the Conservative party conference of 1984.
Five people died in the explosion, which was intended to kill Margaret Thatcher
and most of her senior cabinet colleagues. The judge at Magee's trial
recommended that he serve a minimum 35 years in prison.

The moves to Northern Ireland are intended to allow prisoners to serve sentences
as near to their families as possible, also to ensure that the IRA, and its
political wing, Sinn Fein, are given no grievance to exploit within the
nationalist community in the province.

Under the regulations, prisoners can be sent to the province on a long-term,
temporary transfer which can last several months; in private, sources admit that
the arrangement could quietly become permanent.

Officials insist that anyone transferring goes to Maghaberry rather than the
Maze with its paramilitary influence. The government can also stress that if
they are not well behaved the prisoners will be returned to a top security
prison in Britain. They will not benefit from the easier parole conditions that
operate in the province.

The Home Office is extremely sensitive about transfers, particularly as
Maghaberry has a reputation for having good facilities, including cells with
internal sanitation and a special unit in which each cell has a television.

Clergymen and campaigners for Irish prisoners have pressed for a long time for
permanent transfers because, they say, the families of the prisoners suffer
financial and emotional hardship by having their loved ones so far away. Father
Denis Faul, a priest from Dungannon, co. Tyrone, said last night: ''It is the
families who suffer most. Many of the families are not wealthy and find the cost
of going to England more then once or twice a year too much.'' He said
transferring prisoners to jails in the province would help to maintain family
relationships.

There are 32 men and women from the north and south of Ireland serving sentences
in British prisons after being convicted of terrorist offences.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1993 Times Newspapers Limited

                              59 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            April 24, 1993, Saturday

Mayhew rejects renewed calls for internment

BYLINE: COLIN BROWN, Political Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 2

LENGTH: 659 words


INTERNMENT for the ''Godfathers'' of terrorism has been ruled out for the
foreseeable future by Sir Patrick Mayhew, Secretary of State for Northern
Ireland, who yesterday set out his plans for a cross-party political settlement.

In spite of the renewed calls for internment in the wake of the Warrington IRA
bombing, he told Cabinet colleagues that imprisonment without trial would be a
public relations disaster for Britain in the fight against terrorism. He is
keeping open the option of internment, but said it would only be practical if
supported by the Irish government.

Sir Patrick has told colleagues internment would not stop a new generation of
terrorists replacing those imprisoned; it would leave unanswered the problem of
dealing with terrorists when released.

He is planning to visit Washington in 10 days in an attempt to sway American
opinion against the IRA. He will also urge administration officials not to go
ahead with President Bill Clinton's election promise to give a US entry visa to
Gerry Adams, the Sinn Fein leader.

But the Secretary of State raised the prospects for a political settlement
yesterday by setting out for the first time in years the British government's
preferred options for power sharing in Ulster, in which Sinn Fein could win
seats.

He also put on the table the possibility of a united Ireland. While reaffirming
there would be no change without the consent of the majority, he said: ''There
is no prospect of an agreement precluding a politically united Ireland if, at
some future date, the public's view should change.''

He is hoping the local elections on 6 May will clear the way for political talks
to be revived which could lead to power-sharing. A meeting of Irish and British
ministers will signal a gap in further meetings of the Anglo-Irish conference to
enable the cross-party talks to begin again.

Sir Patrick proposes: a power-sharing administration in Northern Ireland; a
Commons select committee for Northern Ireland; cross-border co-operation in
all-Ireland services such as tourism, health promotion, energy use and
transport; and a new Anglo-Irish agreement.

The proposals met with opposition from the Rev Ian Paisley, leader of the
Democratic Unionist Party, who said they constituted ''a framework for the
betrayal'' of the province.

Sir Patrick had shown his true colours in saying accommodation had to be at the
expense of Unionists and in favour of nationalists and the Dublin government, he
added.

However, James Molyneaux, leader of the Ulster Unionist Party, said he was
encouraged by the speech. It was well-balanced and the tone showed realism and
could pave the way for dialogue rather than ''high-wire circus acts''. The
Alliance Party leader Dr John Alderdice said the proposals displayed a sense of
realism.

An agreed outcome would not include local powers by simple majority rule, Sir
Patrick said. ''I believe that the outcome of the negotiations would involve a
political accommodation within Northern Ireland which returned to locally
elected politicians wide powers and responsibilities, for which they would be
accountable to the electorate.''

Better government might improve support for the police, security forces and the
administration of justice, he said. ''An outcome on these lines would involve a
substantial transfer of power to institutions within Northern Ireland and a
framework for mutually beneficial co-operation between the two parts of Ireland.

''The Westminster government would retain some significant powers and, as the
sovereign power for Northern Ireland, would have ultimate responsibility for its
government, peace and prosperity.''

Gerry Adams, though, said the speech looked like a holding statement which
attempted to ''wink and nod'' to all political opinions at one time. He said
Westminster needed to adopt a policy which would lead to a united Ireland in the
shortest practical time.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1993 Independent Print Ltd

                              60 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                            April 24, 1993, Saturday

TERRORISTS' FOUR-MONTH BOMBING CAMPAIGN

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 259 words


Police believe yesterday's explosion at the Esso terminal on Tyneside may be the
latest in a string of terrorist attacks on mainland Britain in 1993.  Other
blasts this year happened on:
    April 7, when a bomb went off outside a Conservative Club in King's Cross,
central London. There were no injuries.
    March 20, when two bombs exploded without warning in litter bins in
Warrington shopping centre, Cheshire, killing three year-old Johnathan Ball and
Timothy Parry, 12, and injuring 55 others.
    February 27, when 18 were injured, two seriously, by a blast in Camden High
Street, north London. Police said misleading telephone warnings led shoppers
into the path of the explosion.
    February 26, when three bombs exploded at a gasworks in Warrington,
Cheshire. Nobody was injured.
    February 10, a small bomb exploded outside a private house in Cadogan Place,
Belgravia. Police believed terrorists may have dumped it as it there was no
obvious target.
    February 3, a bomb exploded on the 9.05am London to Ramsgate passenger
train, the first bomb to have exploded on a train in service. A second blast
shook the underground station at South Kensington, London. No one was injured in
either incident.
    January 28, when a small bomb exploded in a litter bin outside Harrods,
Knightsbridge, slightly injuring four people, 30 mins after two coded telephone
warnings.
    January 6, four firebombs ignited in early hours in London stores in Oxford
Street and The Strand. No injuries.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1993 The Press Association Limited

                              61 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             April 25, 1993, Sunday

The Bishopsgate Bomb: Terrorists shrug off Warrington backlash

BYLINE: By TERRY KIRBY and DAVID MCKITTRICK

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 3

LENGTH: 961 words


EVER since the IRA welcomed John Major's election victory last April with the
Baltic Exchange bomb, which killed three people and injured 91, the terrorists
have striven for a repeat performance. On at least four occasions they were
thwarted; yesterday they achieved their aim with, in their terms, spectacular
success.

Speculation has been rife for some months that the IRA would attempt to stage a
repeat of the Baltic Exchange bomb, which the organisation regards as one of its
greatest recent successes.

Republican sources in Northern Ireland have made no secret of the fact that they
were both amazed and delighted at the extent of the Baltic Exchange damage and,
more particularly, by the extraordinary bill for repairs from that blast.

They were also clearly pleased with the dispute between the Government and
insurance companies over insuring for losses caused by terrorism, regarding the
dispute as a major victory.

The idea of placing large bombs in the City of London, where so many buildings
contain such sophisticated equipment in a tightly-packed area, appears to have
come late and largely by accident to the terrorists. Their current campaign in
Britain has been going on since 1988, but it was four years before they hit on
the idea of bombing the City.

The scale of the Baltic Exchange damage reopened a new avenue for the IRA - the
possibility of inflicting telling damage on the entire British economy. In the
1970s the IRA held the theory that its bombing campaign was hurting the
exchequer, but this idea was little heard for the better part of a decade as it
seemed the Government could absorb without great difficulty the various costs of
combating IRA violence.

The Baltic Exchange bomb, however, served to reawaken IRA ambitions to hit the
country's finances. The organisation will be hoping that such bombings will
force British politicians to put its demands on the political agenda.

The Bishopsgate bomb was another clear demonstration of the IRA's ability to
catch the police and security agencies wrong-footed, but it is also evidence
that following the public relations disaster of the Warrington deaths five weeks
ago, the IRA has not been deterred.

What will be particularly galling for the police and security forces is that the
IRA was able to seize its opportunity when the protective rings thrown around
the City of London since last autumn were clearly not at full strength. The
lesson is that the guard cannot be allowed to drop.

The Baltic Exchange bomb and the one at Staples Corner on 10 April last year
marked a new phase in the IRA's mainland campaign: Semtex was put aside in
favour of huge bombs made from fertiliser chemicals, strategically placed in
lorries or vans and carrying enormous destructive effect. A common tactic in
Ulster, they had never been deployed previously in England.

Encouraged by what it saw as a success, the IRA planned an equally devastating
repeat in August by planting five lorry bombs at strategic sites in the capital.
The anti-terrorist branch was tipped off but a surveillance operation went
wrong; the bombs were found, but the bombers escaped.

In November, a spot check on a lorry in Stoke Newington, north-east London,
revealed an estimated 2,000lb of fertiliser explosives - possibly targeted at
the Lord Mayor's Show.

Less than 48 hours later, security guards disturbed terrorists who had parked a
van with 1,000lb of explosives outside Canary Wharf in Docklands; the detonator
had worked but failed to ignite the explosives.

The IRA said in a statement that ''sheer ill luck'' had prevented the
explosions. Two weeks later a van containing fertiliser explosive was parked
close to the junction of Tottenham Court Road and Oxford Street, packed with
Christmas shoppers. Police got there just in time.

The response of the security forces to this raising of the stakes was equally
dramatic: a series of high-profile road-blocks by armed police around central
London, particularly on the approaches to the City.

At the same time, all medium-size lorries and vans around the capital faced
regular spot checks, particularly any that had changed hands or looked scruffy.
The deterrent appeared to work and the IRA returned to small Semtex bombs often
placed in high street litter bins.

Outside Harrods in January and at Camden Town in February, deaths were averted
only by luck; a month later a similar bomb at Warrington, Cheshire, ended in the
deaths of two young boys.

Simultaneously, another IRA tactic emerged which security sources say is now
causing concern not only to the police but to the managers of many industrial
depots.

In the first attack on Warrington, incendiary devices were ignited at a gasworks
and narrowly failed to explode a number of high-pressure gas tanks. On Friday,
two devices were discovered at an oil terminal in North Shields, Tyne and Wear.

These factors, together with a number of arrests, may have led the police to
relax their protection of central London. Certainly, senior Scotland Yard
officers felt that they had the situation contained for the time being.

This weekend the prospects for the police and security services appear grim:
they know the backlash of Warrington has not stopped the IRA; there are hundreds
of industrial depots, difficult to protect, which must now be classified as
potential targets and there is no sign yet that the new role of MI5 as lead
intelligence gathering agency has had any effect. And the lorry bombs are back
with a vengeance.

Most worrying of all, the Bishopsgate bomb demonstrates - despite arrests and
convictions in the courts - the IRA's capacity for the constant renewal of its
campaign of terrorism.

(Photographs omitted)


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1993 Independent Print Ltd

                              62 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                             April 25, 1993, Sunday

LATEST IN STRING OF TERROR ATTACKS

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 279 words


Yesterday's attack in the heart of the City of London is the latest in a string
of terrorist strikes on mainland Britain in 1993.  Other blasts this year
happened on:
    April 23, when a bomb damaged an oil tank at the riverside Esso terminal at
North Shields, Tyne and Wear. No one was hurt.
    April 7, when a bomb went off outside a Conservative Club in King's Cross,
central London. There were no injuries.
    March 20, when two bombs exploded without warning in litter bins in
Warrington shopping centre, Cheshire, killing three-year-old Johnathan Ball and
Timothy Parry, 12, and injuring 55 others.
    February 27, when 18 were injured, two seriously, by a blast in Camden High
Street, north London. Police said misleading telephone warnings led shoppers
into the path of the explosion.
    February 26, when three bombs exploded at a gasworks in Warrington,
Cheshire. Nobody was injured.
    February 10, a small bomb exploded outside a private house in Cadogan Place,
Belgravia. Police believed terrorists may have dumped it as there was no obvious
target.
    February 3, a bomb exploded on the 9.05am London to Ramsgate passenger
train, the first bomb to have exploded on a train in service. A second blast
shook the underground station at South Kensington, London. No one was injured in
either incident.
    January 28, when a small bomb exploded in a litter bin outside Harrods,
Knightsbridge, slightly injuring four people, 30 minutes after two coded
telephone warnings.
    January 6, four firebombs ignited in the early hours in London stores in
Oxford Street and The Strand. No injuries.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1993 The Press Association Limited

                              63 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                             April 25, 1993, Sunday

IRA ADMITS CITY BOMBING

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 242 words


The IRA today admitted responsibility for the massive bomb blast which killed
one man and devastated the City yesterday.  The terrorist group also warned of
further attacks in mainland Britain unless the Government took steps to bring
about peace. The statement, issued in Dublin, also admitted responsibility for
the blast which damaged an oil tank at the riverside Esso terminal at North
Shields, Tyne and Wear, on Friday.  But it made no mention of the hijacking of
two minicabs in London last night in which terrorists attempted to make the
drivers take bombs to Downing Street and New Scotland Yard.  The attacks were
foiled because the drivers ignored instructions and alerted police.  The
statement contained the usual IRA claim that "precise and adequate warnings"
were given.  "Responsibility for the injuries caused rests squarely with the
British authorities," said the statement, which was signed "P O' Neill, Irish
Republican Publicity Bureau, Dublin".  It went on: "British police were aware of
our coded warnings 70 minutes before the explosion occured and had positively
located the bomb a full 20 minutes before it detonated." In a chilling warning
that more terrorist attacks were to come, the statement said the "British
establishment" should take the steps needed to end its "futile and costly war in
Ireland" and added: "We again emphasise that they should pursue the path to
peace or resign themselves to the path of war."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1993 The Press Association Limited

                              64 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Daily Mail (London)

                             April 26, 1993, Monday

WHY DID WE DROP OUR GUARD?;
VITAL QUESTION AS CITY COUNTS COST OF GIANT BOMB

BYLINE: Peter Rose, Gordon Greig

SECTION: Pg. 1, 2

LENGTH: 1654 words


BRITAIN was facing a multi-billion-pound dilemma last night . . . how to protect
the heartbeat of its economy from the IRA.

Another audacious and spectacular blitz by the terrorists on the soft underbelly
of British commerce left the Government under pressure.

Coming after a similar outrage a year ago the question being asked was: Did
security chiefs do enough?

The 1,000lb bomb which ripped through the City of London on Saturday morning was
the second-biggest on mainland Britain and left the Government with a bill
estimated at anything up to £2.2billion.

One man died - Fleet Street photographer Edward Henty - and 51 were injured.

The political and psychological implications run deep for one of the three great
financial centres of the world. One senior City figure said last night: 'One
bomb was bad enough. Two is an absolute disaster.'

MI5 was under keen scrutiny last night. The intelligence organisation was
assigned to spearhead the fight against terrorism shortly after the last City
attack at the Baltic Exchange of April 10, last year.

Mr Major will see Home Secretary Kenneth Clarke this morning to discuss another
review of security.

An indication of the strength of feeling he will face came from his friend and
former colleague David Mellor. The former Home Office Minister delivered a
damning verdict on the performance of the authorities.

'Why were they able to drive in there?' he asked. 'Is it true that the
Metropolitan Police have stopped checking these vans? If so, how did the
terrorists know that?

'The truth of the matter is that when you look back down the years, for most of
the offences that have appalled most people there have not been arrests.

'If you look at the number of these things that are cleared up, it is a very
small proportion and it isn't good enough.

'There wasn't an arrest for the murder of Ian Gow (Tory MP for Eastbourne), nor
for the Deal bombing where all those bandsmen died, nor indeed for the murder of
those two small boys a few weeks ago.' He claimed that

that are cleared up, it is a very small proportion and it isn't good enough.'

He claimed that the terrorists were 'raising their game', adding: 'They are more
professional. They are more daring. They are more contemptuous of public
opinion. They are better organised than they have ever been. We must raise our
game too. It is not an optional extra for society to deal with terrorism.'

City of London police commissioner Owen Kelly called for extended powers.

'I want to be able to set up road checks wherever and whenever, without specific
reason for doing so,' he told a news conference.

At present, police wishing to set up a road check must state a reason, such as
having intelligence of a specific threat to the City.

Mr Kelly defended his officers, saying: 'If we were to guarantee that this could
not happen, it would mean stopping and searching every vehicle coming into the
City. Unless we have greater powers and more resources we can never guarantee
it, it's as simple as that.'

The first measures are expected to include an increase in pedestrianisation in
the Square Mile.

Parking areas around prestige targets could be removed and more no-parking cones
placed.

Businesses are likely to demand extra police. After the Baltic Exchange bomb the
City put up £1.5million to help fund a further 33 police officers and 200 out of
4,000 parking meters in the City were removed.

Traffic wardens could also play a vital part in the crackdown.

Michael Cassidy, chairman of the City of London Corporation's policy committee,
said: 'We could not take a third bombing. Something has to be done to tighten
sucurity.'

Terrorism expert Professor Paul Wilkinson suggested that, despite the new MI5
role, the IRA fight was still fragmented between MI5, the anti-terrorist squad
and Special Branch.

'We have got to go after the brains of the organisation, the godfathers of

the IRA who are operating from Dublin. They must be brought to trial and
convicted, but that will need the help of the Irish government and police.'
Video film from security cameras is being studied to see if it reveals the faces
of the bombers who left their devastating cargo in a tipper truck in
Bishopsgate.

At least two scan the spot where the vehicle was left and are understood to run
round the clock.

A police source said: 'The bombers should be on film. If they are not, there
will be a furious row.'

There was controversy earlier this year when detectives released video pictures
taken minutes before the Harrods litter bin bombing.

Scotland Yard had withheld them for a month fearing that the suspects would flee
if they were published. Yet after releasing them they had received a tip off and
arrested two men within hours.

The City bombing was followed on Saturday night by the hijacking of two taxis by
terrorists in North London. They planted bombs in the cars and ordered the
cabbies to drive to Scotland Yard and Downing Street. The two drivers dumped
their vehicles in safe locations and the bombs exploded without causing injury.

The Baltic Exchange attack last year was followed four hours later by an
explosion at the M1 interchange at Staples Corner in North London, one of the
busiest road junctions in the country.

The Queen expressed her deep shock at the damage and injury yesterday and sent a
message of condolence to Mr Henty's family.

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Blasted apart: St Ethelburga's Church before the bomb and after Beirut
in Bishopsgate: The shattered City and the bomb's 15ft crater

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1993 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              65 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 26, 1993

IRA SEES ATTACK ON CITY AS POLITICAL LEVER;
Owen Bowcott on the calculations behind the bombers' return to Square Mile

BYLINE: OWEN BOWCOTT

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 497 words


THE IRA sees causing as many million pounds worth of damage as possible to the
City and the Treasury as the most direct means of applying political pressure to
the Government.

The message intended is that the cost of continuing the union with Northern
Ireland will escalate out of control.

"So long as interference in Irish affairs continues then the consequences of
that conflict will spill over and be visited on the national territory of the
occupier," a masked IRA spokesman told the Guardian in Dublin earlier this year.

After the bomb which caused pounds 350 million of damage - and killed three
people - outside the Baltic Exchange on the day after the general election in
1992, the IRA had several times attempted to repeat the feat before Saturday's
blast.

Lorry bombs were intercepted by the police in north London and others failed to
go off near prestige office developments at Canary Wharf and near Tottenham
Court Road.

After the outcry over the IRA's bombing of Warrington, which killed two
children, the City blast was accompanied by "precise and adequate warnings",
according to an IRA statement yesterday.

Such attempts to minimise civilian casualties expose earlier IRA claims that
they did not intend to harm passers-by, when only general warnings of bombs
planted were given.

Despite a series of arrests of IRA suspects over the last five months, the
Provisionals appear therefore to be concentrating their main efforts on Britain,
against a background of increased security force successes in Northern Ireland.

Using ground nitrate fertiliser as the main explosive - a technique developed in
the province - ensures the bombers do not have to depend on smuggling large
quantities of Semtex plastic explosive into the country.

Whether the financial damage caused at Bishopsgate will have any effective
political impact is a different matter.

After IRA bombings in Northern Ireland in 1991-92 the Government suspended
several public spending projects because of the costs of underwriting bomb
damage insurance.

Subsequently a new insurance package was negotiated with the Treasury, switching
the open-ended insurance liability from the Northern Ireland Office to the
Exchequer.

A similar move was announced for the mainland last year after London insurance
companies threatened to end cover for terrorist attacks.

Suggestions that even the Northern Ireland Secretary, Sir Patrick Mayhew, had
recently expressed alarm at the costs of maintaining the union, were yesterday
played down by his department.

In an interview in the German magazine Die Zeit on April 16, Sir Patrick was
reported as saying that due to financial demands, Britain would release the
province from the UK "with pleasure".

He quickly withdrew the comment.

A Northern Ireland Office spokesman said that the Government's true position was
set out by the secretary of state in his most recent speech affirming the union.


LOAD-DATE: May 13, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              66 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 April 26, 1993

Credit where it isn't due

BYLINE: Geoffrey Parkhouse

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1039 words


THE moment the words were out of his mouth there was cause to ponder. "You will
soon run out of things to whinge about," said Mr Major to Mr Smith in
triumphalist tone in the Commons. Fortune is a bitch and she had just been
delivered a hostage.

The Prime Minister went on to launch a series of speeches, continuing today,
designed to startle us all into optimism. Mr Smith might well respond: "What is
a smile but a frown turned upside down?"

He has reason to whinge at the succession of prime ministerial cliches. We can
survive outside the EC, but we can thrive within it . . . You keep exporting and
we'll keep on supporting . . . The times, they are a'changing . . . We're
pressing down on public expenditure. And (in Manchester) United we can do it.
Geddit, Chelsea fans?

Added to this was the Major concept of a classless society at ease with itself.
He promises that Maastricht will not rob us of warm beer, the sound of leather
on willow, old maids on bicycles. Britain, indeed, is set for two years of solid
growth, "the fastest in the EC big league".

I must be perverse. Why do I think immediately of low-alcohol, over-chilled
beer, the multicoloured track suits our cricketers are going to use here this
summer, and mugged grannies -- bikes and savings nicked and too frightened to go
outdoors?

Why do I think about the IRA bombing at will and us apparently unable to prevent
it? Simultaneously, we are told that tougher sanctions will subdue the murdering
Serbs when usually we are informed that sanctions do not work.

The heart sinks over what seems inevitable when all the generals of all the
nations involved state that bombing the Serbs would be dangerous and
ineffective. By the time the Commons debates the issue on Thursday, President
Clinton may have moved to air strikes, and us with him.

Cynicism is not my master, rather incredulity. It is not just that one has heard
this so many times before, rather that one wearies of politicians who give out
that they are now, at last, after tough decisions and hard, unpopular times, in
control of events. They really should not do it; they never are.

Pessimism is not my master, rather realism. It is not just that one fears for
the worst, rather that one is irritated by the concept that yet another Prime
Minister believes that he need simply radiate confidence to infect us.

Many have found that this often means longer hours for lower pay, as Mr Frank
Dobson, Shadow Employment Secretary, pointed out to shop workers yesterday. He
believes that the Prime Minister intends us to compete not with Germany and
Japan, but with Third World countries. From Mr Major's speeches, Mr Dobson is
wrong -- we are to compete with absolutely everybody in every market.

Is such an ambition really feasible, when only now is the Government getting
round to producing a White Paper on science, having neglected skill training for
a decade? Can Mr Major assert with conviction that our education system will be
producing the generations of schoolchildren qualified to do this competing?

Today's gross domestic product figures for the first quarter are expected to
show an upturn in the measure of the nation's wealth. I suppose we can expect
more trumpeting from Mr Major and his colleagues, who have so far stopped short
of declaring the recession officially over.

We have had growth forecasts from him and his Chancellor. Yesterday Treasury
Chief Secretary Michael Portillo told BBC Radio: "Our expectations and those of
the commentators and the analysts independent of Government are that this will
be a modest recovery to start with and that the rates of growth will not be as
fast as they were in the 1980s."

Party Chairman Sir Norman Fowler declared on BBC TV: "What has happened in the
past couple of weeks is that the recovery has been taking place. We will look
back on them as being the turning point as far as the Government's fortunes are
concerned." This is the sentence that we should perhaps highlight.

Let us repeat it: "We will look back on them (the past couple of weeks) as being
the turning point as far as the Government's fortunes are concerned." Let us
note the last bit specially . . . "as far as the Government's fortunes are
concerned". So that's it; not necessarily a turning point as far as the nation's
fortunes are concerned, but the Government's fortunes.

So this is what has got the Prime Minister crowing at Commons Question Time,
springing from his corner bright-eyed and bushy-tailed. A turning point in the
Government's fortunes. Well, we must give him that after the beastly 12 months
he has endured.

It may have come too late to save the Newbury by-election on May 6. It may be
insufficiently obvious to attract the support of the 25 million entitled to vote
in the council elections in England and Wales on the same day. But there is
indeed a change.

Inflation, interest rates are low -- productivity, exports, retail sales are up.
The pound at a realistic rate is unassailed by the markets and growing stronger.
Even unemployment has fallen 50,000 in the past two months. These indicators are
all good for the nation and maybe for the Government too. One might have
expected Sir Norman to put it in that order of priority.

This is indeed a moment of opportunity. Mr Major forecast that it would come
about, and so it has albeit by means that he did not choose and actually
vilified right up to the "catastrophe" of what even he ought now to look on as
Golden, not Black, Wednesday. What can we make of a Chancellor who on the
Thursday sang "Oh what a beautiful morning" in his bath but changed his song
last Friday to "Je ne regret rien"?

Good came out of the ruination of his economic policy last September so I would
feel better about it if there was humility interlaced with the boasting. Mr
Major should know that batsmen have executed the most beautiful leg glances off
a ball so fast they didn't even see it delivered at them. The best confess it
afterwards in the pavilion over a beer, warm or otherwise.

With the committee stage of the Maastricht Treaty Ratification Bill over, the
Prime Minister is entitled to the belief that there is now an

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1993 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              67 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 April 26, 1993

City defies the IRA bombers. Major praises 'business as usual' stance to beat
terrorism

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 992 words


THE City of London pledged yesterday to defy the IRA, vowing to return to the
devastated Square Mile today for business as usual.

Its determination won praise from the Prime Minister, who also believes the best
way to frustrate the terrorists is to continue to work normally.

As forensic experts searched the rubble and businesses contemplated damage,
which one estimate put at more than £1000m, the IRA admitted it carried out
Saturday's bombing which killed a News of the World photographer and injured
more than 40 people.

The blast devastated the London headquarters of the Hong Kong and Shanghai Bank,
severely damaged the NatWest Tower, blew windows out of buildings half-a -mile
away and sent a mushroom cloud of smoke, dust and debris spiralling hundreds of
feet into the air.

A huge hunt was on for the bombers who planted the device in Bishopsgate and
later tried to mount mini-cab bomb attacks on Downing Street and New Scotland
Yard.

Terrorists hijacked two mini-cabs late on Saturday night and tried to make the
drivers take bombs to the two targets. Both attempts were foiled when the
drivers ignored instructions and alerted police. The bombs later exploded
harmlessly, one near King's Cross station, the other in Finsbury Park.

The Queen yesterday expressed her deep shock at the damage and injury, and sent
a message of sympathy to the family of photographer Edward Henty.

Mr Henty, 34, a father of two, was standing just yards from the dark blue tipper
truck in which the massive device was planted when it detonated.

The attack demonstrated that the IRA was determined to continue with its
mainland bombing campaign, but was once more targeting the financial sector
after suffering bad publicity following the killing of two children in the
Warrinton bombing.

Mr Major expressed his admiration for the City's "business as usual" stance in a
telephone call to the Lord Mayor of London, Sir Francis McWilliams.

"The Prime Minister and I agreed that the best way to frustrate the terrorists
is to have the City back at work tomorrow and we are working hard to ensure that
it is," said Sir Francis.

"He expressed his sympathy for the widow of the photographer who was killed and
for the others injured in the blast."

Sir Francis strongly denied suggestions that the blast would undermine London's
position as one of the world's leading financial centres, saying "terrorism is a
worldwide problem".

He added: "The one thing we can do is make sure that we are back in action very
quickly."

His optimism was underlined by Chancellor Norman Lamont, who said he was
confident the City would shrug off the effects of the outrage.

"London is the financial capital, not just of Britain, but of Europe, and indeed
the world," he said in a statement.

"I have every confidence that businesses will continue to locate here and work
successfully here. To do otherwise would be to succumb to terrorism, which is a
threat, not just in Britain, but internationally. The Government is playing its
part by acting as reinsurer of the last resort.

The £1000m estimates of the damage may prove "widely inaccurate", according to
insurance experts. The first estimates of last year's Baltic Exchange blast, of
similar figures, proved too high and the total damage later came to just above
£300m.

For some repairers after that bomb, it could also be "business as usual".
Workman Nick Ellis said: "It was our last day up there -- I'm sure it won't be
now." He had just finished replacing glass in the NatWest Tower that was damaged
in the Baltic Exchange blast.

As the clear-up of damage continued, a huge section of the City, stretching from
Finsbury Circus to Leadenhall Market, remained cordoned off.

Within hours of the explosion, however, emergency arrangements went into place
to help businesses get back into operation, aided by lessons learned in the
aftermath of the Baltic Exchange bombing.

By mid-afternoon on Saturday, Emergency Dealing Services was offering displaced
dealers desks and telephones in two offices at Butlers Wharf, Tower Bridge and
Chiswell Street, Shoreditch. The service was set up by stockbroker Terry Galgey
after a bomb last year.

Other companies have sprung up offering a similar service, helped by the
recession-struck City's spare office capacity. A property exchange was also in
operation, helping people with damaged premises to find other suitable offices.

An information centre was set up in Guildhall which could be contacted by
workers needing to find out whether their offices were affected.

At Guildhall yesterday, hundreds of people queued patiently for passes which
would allow them through roadblocks.

Behind the cordons, in the devastated heart of the City, the streets were quiet,
devoid of traffic or tourists. Destruction on the scale of a natural disaster
made the area look as if an earthquake or tornado had ripped through it.

At the centre of the blast, nothing was left standing. The bomb went off outside
St Ethelburga's Church, a small historic building sandwiched between offices,
which simply collapsed in a heap of rubble.

At Liverpool Street station, closed to the public, workmen crawled across the
massive roof, carefully knocking out the remains of shattered panes. Despite the
damage, the station will be open to passengers today.

At the Great Eastern hotel, 280 guests who were evacuated before the blast and
put up in various hotels around the capital were returning to pick up their
belongings.

General manager Bob Wilkinson the hotel's 300 windows had been blown out,
ceilings had collapsed and internal doors had been blasted off their hinges.

"But we are determined to get back to normal as soon as possible," he said.
"The British people are always at their best with their backs to the wall."

Mr Michael Cassidy, chairman of the City Corporation's policy

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Operation clean-up: workmen set about the task of removing the debris
in Bishopsgate in the aftermath of the IRA's latest attack.Picture:
REUTER.People flee the blast which killed one person and injured dozens

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1993 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              68 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             April 26, 1993, Monday

Leading Article: The cost of terrorism

SECTION: COMMENT PAGE; Page 17

LENGTH: 540 words


THE Bishopsgate bombing will be seen as a great success by the IRA. It killed no
children and only one adult, provoking less outrage than the Warrington bombing.
It inflicted heavy damage on the City of London, financial institutions and the
Government, all of which arouses less emotion than the loss of a single child.
In IRA terms it was well conceived and well executed.

The price for Britain will be heavy in three areas: the cost of repairs, the
purchase of better security and the further loss of freedom. The repair bill
will fall partly on the taxpayer, diverting resources from more useful purposes,
even if it creates jobs in the glazing business. It will also raise insurance
rates.

The cost of greater security will be high in terms of cash and the further
erosion of personal freedoms. It is hard to remember the days when cases left on
stations would be handed in to lost property, when vans could be parked
overnight near government buildings without arousing suspicion, when there were
no security checks at airports and no bags opened in public buildings.

The changes were not caused only by the IRA but also by Palestinians and other
international terrorists. All modern societies accept some safeguards against
terrorism as a fact of life if their governments are not to give in to
extremists and extortionists. Germany had its Baader-Meinhof group, Italy its
Red Brigades, Spain its Basque separatists, France its Corsican Nationalists.
The United States has had more trouble from deranged killers and individual
hijackers than from organised political movements, but its embassies abroad have
long been exposed and the recent bombing of the World Trade Center has jolted
its sense of domestic invulnerability.

The response to such threats is, in theory, a matter of public choice. We can
have high risk at low cost or low risk at high cost. If the will were there we
could rebuild the walls around the City of London. In reality we muddle along,
accepting slow changes in the way we live without fully counting the cost. If
the bombings continue we shall slowly become more willing, perhaps eager, to
have more phones tapped, more roadblocks, more random checks, more security
officers, more cameras, metal detectors, X-ray machines and body searches.

More worryingly, we shall perhaps become less critical when authorities bend the
law. If the Warrington or Bishopsgate bombers are gunned down by the SAS, like
the IRA suspects in Gibraltar, will there now be as much concern about their
legal rights? If suspects are arrested, how much rigour will we demand in the
scrutiny of evidence and the methods used to acquire it, if we are really angry?

Most disturbing of all, maybe the British people, despite their historic
courage, will start to ask whether our responsibilities in Northern Ireland are
quite so central to the national interest as to be worth the cost in lives,
resources and civil liberties. That is the distasteful question the IRA is
trying to make them ask. The electorate will require the Government to respond
robustly to this act of terrorism. The Government should also explain that what
is at stake is the rule of law and the preservation of democracy itself.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1993 Independent Print Ltd

                              69 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             April 26, 1993, Monday

The Bisopsgate Bomb: Increased security failing to combat terror campaign

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 3

LENGTH: 878 words


ARMED ROAD blocks and patrols have appeared on the streets of London and
Manchester; in Whitehall and other public places, television cameras scan the
crowds. Behind the scenes, unprecedented security surrounds politicians and MI5
controls intelligence gathering.

Despite these and many other responses to the IRA's campaign in Britain since
1988, the bomb in Bishopsgate showed that terrorists can still strike with
impunity and to horrendous effect in broad daylight in the heart of the City of
London.

The bomb raises the question of whether more can be done to combat the terrorist
campaign. MPs and terrorism experts were quick to re-open the debate about the
effectiveness of the police and MI5.

David Mellor, a former Home Office minister, said: ''There is no doubt that the
IRA have got more professional. The terrorists have raised their game, they are
more daring and more contemptuous of public opinion and they are better
organised . . . we must raise our game too. We are not striking back
effectively.''

Speaking on BBC Radio, he pointed out that there had been no arrests for many of
the major recent IRA atrocities: the 1990 murder of Ian Gow, the Tory MP for
Eastbourne, the 1989 Deal bombing, or the Warrington explosion.

Mr Mellor said it was important to examine how the terrorists had managed to
plant the Bishopsgate bomb, whether MI5's involvement in intelligence gathering
was working and whether there was sufficient funding for the anti-terrorism
effort. He also questioned whether the anti-terrorist branch contained police of
the highest calibre.

Calls for a national anti-terrorism organisation were repeated yesterday by Paul
Wilkinson, Professor of International Relations at St Andrew's University, Fife,
and a leading expert on terrorism. The present arrangement was ''a recipe for
fragmentation'', he said. ''They are simply unable to keep pace with the IRA.''

Often, in Northern Ireland, intelligence is not shared between the Army, the
security service and the Royal Ulster Constabulary, so that liaison with the
agencies in Britain is inevitably difficult.

In Britain, Scotland Yard's Anti- Terrorist Branch handles investigation and
evidence gathering. Although its last head, Commander George Churchill-Coleman,
was appointed national anti-terrorism co-ordinator to give him more say over
provincial investigations, the post has little power and the branch still has to
defer to local sensibilities.

The high profile he was given, by his superiors, led to the inaccurate
conclusion that he alone led the fight against terrorism. Similarly, when
responsibilty for co-ordinating intelligence was moved from Special Branch to
MI5, it was wrongly believed by some that the security service was taking charge
of the fight against the IRA. No such person or position exists, either in the
police, security service or the Whitehall machinery to which they answer.

However, the deliberately low-key approach of his successor, David Tucker, to
avoid the same problems, and the lack of any obvious impact from MI5, despite
the Government's rhetoric that it would assist the fight against the IRA, has
contributed to a sense of police powerlessness in the face of Warrington and
Bishopsgate.

Supporters of MI5 stress that improving the intelligence base is a long-term
process with results difficult to define or make public; opponents say they
never expected much anyway since the main effect of the new arrangements is for
MI5's teams of expert ''watchers'' to be deployed on surveillance of suspects.

Many police officers believe the limit on publicly acceptable security measures
which they can implement is close. Further increases, such as permanent security
screens around city centres and Whitehall, together with regular road blocks on
main roads would inevitably be seen as an IRA victory.

Professor Wilkinson argued that there were additional short-term measures
available, such as more security cameras and more resources for police in the
big cities. ''In the longer term we should be concentrating on the people at the
top, the godfathers directing the campaign rather than the operational units who
are simply replaced after arrest. Other countries manage to do this without
resorting to internment, so why cannot we?''

Security experts recognise there is a particular problem policing the City of
London, which has a large number of the type of Establishment symbols the IRA
prefers to attack.

Owen Kelly, the City of London Police commissioner, has called for extended
powers to tackle the terrorist threat. ''I want the power to set up road checks
wherever and whenever, without specific reason for doing so,'' he told a news
conference. At present, police wishing to set up a road check must state a
reason.

He defended his officers from any criticism, adding: ''If we were to guarantee
that this could not happen, it would mean stopping and searching every vehicle
coming into the City.''

The law would not allow it, the public may not stand for it and the force did
not have the money and manpower to do it, Mr Kelly said.

Role of police and MI5 in fight against IRA comes under new scrutiny -
Detectives hunt taxi gunmen

(Photograph omitted)


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1993 Independent Print Ltd

                              70 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             April 26, 1993, Monday

The Bishopsgate Bomb: Cost will exhaust pool of insurance money

BYLINE: PAUL DURMAN

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 2

LENGTH: 784 words


THE BISHOPSGATE bomb will exhaust the pool of money set aside by insurance
companies to pay for terrorist attacks and leave the Government to pick up the
full cost of any more bombings by the IRA in Britain this year.

The financial cost of Saturday's bomb was put at pounds 300m to pounds 400m
yesterday by the Association of British Insurers, which dismissed an earlier
estimate of pounds 1bn.

Nevertheless, claims on this scale will greatly exceed the pool of special
terrorism premiums collected under a deal last December between the Government
and insurance industry.

With many firms, particularly those outside London, choosing to do without
terrorist cover, it seems likely that the total of terrorism premiums collected
this year will be less than pounds 200m, compared to the expected pool of pounds
400m. Insurers have agreed to bear 10 per cent of the costs beyond the income
from premiums, but this could still leave the Government having to pay pounds
200m or more towards the cost of a single bomb attack.

In addition, since the pool of premiums will have been used up, the cost of
further IRA attacks this year on mainland Britain will fall almost entirely upon
the Government.

The Government's share of costs will be significantly greater than envisaged in
December, when businesses were to pay premiums to create a pool for terrorist
cover of around pounds 400m. This would have meant the Government would only
have to act as ''reinsurer of the last resort'' above a threshold twice as high
as the pounds 200m or so which now seems likely.

Commons business managers have yet to find the time to pass legislation to allow
the formal creation of Pool Re, the mutual insurance company set up by the
industry to collect premiums and provide cover for terrorism.

Tony Baker, an ABI spokesman, said the legislation had been held up by
Maastricht and other Bills, and added: ''It's got to have priority now.''

The Department of Trade and Industry confirmed yesterday that it would meet all
legitimate claims under the December deal and legislation will be backdated to
cover all claims since the start of the year.

Mr Baker said: ''We are urging the Government to make sure the necessary
legislation for Pool Re is introduced as a matter of extreme urgency to reassure
the insurance industry and its customers and to allow the mechanics of Pool Re
to be put into effect.

''We are relying on assurances from the Prime Minister and the Secretary of
State for Trade and Industry. But the insurance industry will sleep much easier
at night when that legislation has been passed.''

The ABI's estimate of the cost of Saturday's bomb was in line with that of last
year's City of London bombing which destroyed the Baltic Exchange and the
headquarters of Commercial Union. Mr Baker said companies would have learnt from
last year and would have contingency plans to keep business interruption losses
to a minimum. They will be helped by the surfeit of empty office space in
London.

Initial estimates of the cost of last year's bomb put it at pounds 1.8bn. By the
time the insurers were lobbying the Government for help at the end of last year
it had fallen to around pounds 750m. The eventual cost has turned out to be just
over pounds 300m. ''Loss adjusters are notoriously wrong,'' Mr Baker said.

Nicholas Balcombe, a leading loss assessor, was sticking by his figure of pounds
1bn yesterday. He said three or four buildings might have to be pulled down,
including the Hongkong and Shanghai Bank offices, which bore the brunt of the
blast. Mr Balcombe said that if the Government had not committed itself to
paying for the bomb damage ''it would have been a major victory for the IRA''.

One leading assurer said the take-up of cover against terrorism was about 25 per
cent less than the insurers had expected. However, it is believed most of the
businesses in the City hit by Saturday's bomb will have taken out the necessary
protection.

Insurers suggested yesterday that the industry will lose no more than about
pounds 20m on claims arising from the bomb, an insignificant amount in the
context of their total income.

Insurers may have a greater exposure if they have customers whose policies have
not come up for renewal this year and who, therefore, have not bought specialist
terrorism cover.

However, some of the companies in this position, including Royal Insurance and
Norwich Union, have purchased so-called run-off cover from Pool Re.

The ABI again urged companies to take out terrorist insurance. Bombings have now
taken place in 20 counties. Premiums may have to rise, especially in London.

(Photographs omitted)


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1993 Independent Print Ltd

                              71 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             April 26, 1993, Monday

The Bishopsgate Bomb: Security stepped up after City bombing

BYLINE: TERRY KIRBY, Crime Correspondent

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Page 1

LENGTH: 783 words


SECURITY IN the City of London will be substantially increased following
Saturday's devastating Bishopsgate bomb. A review will also examine whether the
attack could have been averted and the area cleared more speedily, police said
last night.

The bomb, five weeks after the Warrington blast, also reopened a wider debate
about the effectiveness of the police and the Security Service, which now has
responsibility for intelligence gathering.

David Mellor, a former Home Office minister, questioned whether the police were
adequately funded for the task. He said on BBC Radio: ''The terrorists have
raised their game . . . we must raise our game too.''

The cost of the one-ton bomb, made from fertiliser and inside a tipper truck,
which left one man dead and more than 40 injured, was put at pounds 300m to
pounds 400m yesterday by the Association of British Insurers, which dismissed an
earlier estimate of pounds 1bn.

But it will exhaust money put aside by insurance companies to pay for terrorist
attacks, leaving the Government to meet the full cost of any more mainland IRA
bombings this year.

City of London police disclosed yesterday that it was policy to allow lorries
used by workmen to park on double yellow lines at the weekend so maintainence
work could be conducted. The IRA may have spotted and exploited this loophole.

A force spokesman said last night: ''It is correct that an officer's attention
would not have been normally attracted by a truck with its hazard lights
flashing on a yellow line. However, this policy will be examined in the light of
Saturday's attack.''

Other expected measures are increased use of security cameras at strategic
sites, more foot patrols and promotion of public awareness. The 798- strong
force has already been increased by 50 officers following the Baltic Exchange
bomb last year and shifted resources to foot patrols.

The force will almost certainly increase the frequency of the random armed road
checks it has been staging since December; the last check was on Friday night in
the Bishopsgate area and it is possible the IRA may have chosen this target for
the additional embarrassment of the police.

A major question to be covered by the review will be whether the evacuation was
successful, given that the police had located the bomb nearly an hour before it
exploded. It is police policy to keep people inside buildings rather than leave
them in the open and exposed to flying glass.The force was unable to say whether
any attempt had been made to defuse the bomb or how long it had been there
before it was spotted.

In a series of interviews unlikely to be welcomed by former Cabinet colleagues,
Mr Mellor called for a ''total overhaul'' of anti-terrorist policies because
police were not getting results; those behind a number of high profile attacks
such as the murder of Ian Gow had not been caught.

Paul Wilkinson, Professor of International Relations at St Andrew's University
and a leading terrorism expert, welcomed Mr Mellor's intervention: ''I have been
saying for a long time that we need a national anti-terrorist organisation; the
IRA has become very subtle at switching methods and targets with great ease.''

He said there would have to be an inquiry into whether the City of London police
were adequately resourced: ''If they had better resources, would the bomb have
been spotted and defused earlier and all this damage avoided?''

Fourteen hours after the bomb, IRA terrorists also hijacked two mini- cabs in
north London and ordered the drivers to go to Downing Street and Scotland Yard;
both drivers abandoned their vehicles and the devices exploded without injury.

Security sources suggested that by switching tactics within hours of a major
bomb, the IRA was showing its determination to introduce Ulster- style
conditions into Britain, with a variety of methods randomly deployed. On Friday,
two incendiary devices were found at an oil depot in Tyneside.

John Major returned earlier than expected to Downing Street from his Huntingdon
constitutency to review measures against terrorism although it is unlikely any
formal Commons statement will be made.

In a statement issued in Dublin, the IRA claimed responsibility for the
Bishopsgate and Tyneside attacks. It contained the usual IRA claim that
''precise and adequate warnings'' were given and said responsibility for the
injuries caused rested with the British authorities. It said the police were
aware of the coded warnings 70 minutes before the explosion and had ''positively
located the bomb a full 20 minutes before it detonated.'' It warned of further
attacks.

(Photographs and map omitted)


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1993 Independent Print Ltd

                              72 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                             April 26, 1993, Monday

CITY INSTITUTIONS SHAKEN BUT NOT STIRRED

BYLINE:  Press Association City Staff

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 327 words


The City defiantly went back to work today determined that the IRA will not
threaten London's position at the financial heart of Europe after two
devastating bombs in a year.  "We've been blown out of two buildings but we are
not going to be blown out of the City," said one senior banker as he set up
makeshift operations away from the epicentre of the latest blast.  The City is
crucial to Britain, generating millions of pounds each day in "invisible
earnings" from sectors like banking, shipping, the stock market and insurance.
London hosts the world's leading market for foreign exchange dealing, its
International Stock Exchange is the busiest in Europe and Lloyd's of London
provides a cornerstone of the world's insurance market.  With the financial
globe divided into three distinct time zones, London sits alongside Tokyo and
New York as one of the key players in the 24-hour marketplace.  Any firm worth
its salt must be represented in each of the zones and the City's
long-established reputation as a financial hub has ensured its predominance in
Europe.  Other centres, like Paris and Frankfurt, are eager to seize the
European crown, taking the lucrative fees and commissions, plus the secondary
businesses generated by any large financial community.  But no country is immune
from terrorism - even New York's guard was seen to slip recently when its
prestige World Trade Centre was bombed.  The swift reaction of the Corporation
of London in masterminding the "business as usual" strategy impressed the
foreign money men as they picked their way to work through the damage today. It
set up a clearing house for information and compiled a plentiful supply of
temporary office accommodation essential to maintain seamless trading.  The
Government has also declared itself ready to underwrite a special insurance fund
to cover terrorist attacks, helping the City show it is well prepared to defend
its prime position in the financial world.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1993 The Press Association Limited

                              73 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                             April 26, 1993, Monday

Blast Damage

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 758 words


Constant vigilance includes political questions too

Another bomb; another death; another bill; another bracing for
business-as-usual, another bout of argument about what is to be done; thus this
week begins in the manner of many before it. Whenever the IRA mounts such an
assault as that at Bishopsgate on Saturday, national leaders say that Britain
will not be beaten by the bombers. Such statements are necessary but too easy.
They need support: first by resilience in the face of devastation and death,
secondly by resistance through greater security and, most of all, by a more
constant political vigilance.

In returning to business with determination and efficiency, Londoners are
famously at their best. Just over a year ago, after the bombing of the Baltic
Exchange and the Commercial Union building, both organisations were back in
business with barely any noticeable interruption. This weekend, thousands of
City workers have rolled up their sleeves for the even greater task of patching,
reconnecting and finding premises for the dispossessed.

The City will be open for business this morning. At the European Bank, which
along with ancient and holy places of worship has been hit for the second time,
the annual meeting, which brings together finance ministers from many countries
more used to living with such outrages, has gone ahead smoothly. Special
insurance arrangements, agreed with the government after commercial reinsurance
for City terrorist bomb damage became impossible, will go ahead as intended,
even though the law is not yet in place.

That is, of course, a mixed blessing. Taxpayers will directly bear much of the
cost of repair, rebuilding and disruption a result which will please all the
enemies of democracy in Northern Ireland who have found some brief satisfaction
in London's tight-packed tower-blocks full of silicon-chips and glass. There
will be terrorist pleasure too from speculation that their campaign might
undermine the international status of the City of London as a place to do
business.

Terrorists look most closely, however, at the overall impact upon British minds.
Official clues were few yesterday. The loudest message from the government party
came from its orator-in-exile, David Mellor, who called for a ''fundamental
policy review'' and more resources for police and MI5. At the same time there
was talk of how to make traffic access to the biggest financial targets more
difficult. More pedestrian precincts and fewer lorries are likely to be the
direct result; more police will probably be promised and other palliatives along
the lines suggested by Mr Mellor.

Such moves can achieve only so much. The City can be protected but other big
economic targets can be found. The balance of risk will eventually turn for the
IRA in the City, as it did in military installations; but the bomb-carriers of
the IRA, their minds still maddened to obsession like laboratory rats, will go
elsewhere.

Any more fundamental review seems far off. The new policy of bringing MI5 into
the battle has barely been tried. It is always nice rhetoric to call the
terrorists ''common criminals and murderers''. But it always risks cementing the
nonsense that politics plays no part in their actions. Counter-terrorism
requires the constant reweighing of difficult options. If, for example, the main
case against reintroducing internment-without-trial is bad publicity abroad,
then consider the publicity calculus of Bishopsgate. If the main argument is
that a new wave of IRA men will come to replace the interned, that much-touted
thesis has not been tested recently. If the argument lies in the failures of
internment 20 years ago, then consider whether the problem then was in the
practice not the principle. It would be reassuring to think that the British
government had a reasonably open mind to those questions. It seems rather to
have an unreasonably closed one.

What of the broader political response? Nothing is visible just yet.  Nothing
need yet become visible. Political decisions should not be made in direct
response to terrorist actions. But nor should political options be removed from
the agenda simply because the battle against terrorism seems to demand it. The
arguments against Northern Ireland's simple integration into the United Kingdom
have become well known by Whitehall's repetition. But how much are IRA recruits
sustained by the policy that London is in principle prepared to stop ruling
Belfast one day? We should quietly ask ourselves that question again.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1993 Times Newspapers Limited

                              74 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                             April 26, 1993, Monday

Shattered City defies the bombers

BYLINE: By Neil Bennett

SECTION: Business

LENGTH: 1101 words


DOZENS of banks and broking firms worked round the clock throughout the weekend
to ensure they would be open for business today after Sir Francis McWilliams,
Lord Mayor of London, vowed the City would ''carry on regardless'' of the IRA
bomb attack.

The Corporation of London helped banks to find office space after their premises
were destroyed in the blast. National Westminster Bank and the Hongkong &
Shanghai Bank arranged alternative locations for staff yesterday and pledged
that their service would not be disrupted.

British Rail cleared 200 tonnes of glass and rubble from the roof of Liverpool
Street station to ensure it could open at 5 o'clock this morning and enable tens
of thousands of City workers to reach their desks as normal.  British Telecom
worked with the corporation and firms affected by the bomb to divert telephone
lines and install equipment in temporary offices.

The Lord Mayor condemned the IRA for the attack. ''This is pointless
destruction,'' he said. ''People are being killed and disrupted for no good
reason. Our objective is to get people back to work as quickly as possible.''

Sir Francis pledged that the bomb would not damage the City's position as
Europe's premier financial centre. ''Terrorism is a worldwide fact of life,'' he
said. ''This is a temporary disruption and we can cope with it. London is still
the place to do business.''

Sir Andrew Hugh Smith, chairman of the Stock Exchange, said he held people who
resorted to terrorism in contempt. ''I am absolutely horrified at the injuries
suffered by innocent people. There will be some inconvenience suffered by the
City on Monday, but no loss of efficiency. We are determined there will be no
easy victory for terrorism.''

By chance, as many as half the offices caught in the blast were unoccupied,
owing to the slump in the property market. Both the former Hambros Bank building
and the former Standard Chartered building in Bishopsgate were largely empty.
Not a single stockbroker said its operations would be disrupted.

The blast also failed to damage three of the City's most important buildings,
the Bank of England, the Stock Exchange and Lloyd's of London.  They all said
they would be operating as normal today. The Baltic Exchange, which was
demolished in last year's blast and is still being rebuilt, said it would
operate as normal and has rehoused two large shipbroking firms, the offices of
which were wrecked.

The corporation and the City of London police worked to ensure that the area
cordoned off would be as small as possible, to enable people to reach their
offices. Despite this, much of Bishopsgate and Wormwood Street are likely to be
closed for weeks.

Hongkong Bank, the Bishopsgate offices of which took the full force of the bomb,
had, fortunately, moved many

of its staff out of the building only last week into new London headquarters by
the Thames. The Bishopsgate office has suffered heavy structural damage and is
likely to be demolished.

The bank quickly made arrangements to move the remaining 600 staff in the
building, who run the trade finance and corporate banking arms, into three other
sites around the City. Only half the staff are being asked to report for work
today, but the bank expects to be back at full strength within a week.

NatWest said its tower had suffered only superficial, not structural, damage and
could be repaired. Until then, the 1,777 staff affected are being moved to other
locations in the City. The tower houses the head office of the UK retail bank
and some international banking operations.

Derek Wanless, the chief executive, said: '''We are assessing the full extent of
the damage, which is substantially worse than last year. The clean-up process
has already begun.''

The tower lost more than 100 windows in the blast a year ago; this time, hardly
a window or a ceiling has remained intact. Staff have been asked to call the
bank on 0800 400490 for instructions.

NatWest quickly made alternative arrangements for its annual meeting, which was
to have been held in the tower tomorrow. The venue has been switched to the
Whitbread Brewery, Chiswell Street, half a mile away.

Several bank branches were badly damaged by the explosion, but the banks
insisted that no customer records had been lost, since they are all kept on
back-up computers outside the City. A Midland branch at the bottom of the
Hongkong Bank building was completely destroyed, while Barclays and Lloyds will
each have two branches shut this morning as they are cleared.

The corporation and the Bank of England also worked together to ensure that
dozens of overseas banks could find new accommodation. Barings was the only
leading merchant bank to be badly damaged. Others, such as SG Warburg and Morgan
Grenfell, said they had suffered only slightly and would be opening for business
as usual.

Japanese businesses were affected particularly badly; Tokai Bank, Mitsubishi
Corporation and Long Term Credit Bank of Japan all lost their offices. The
National Bank of Abu Dhabi and Saudi International Bank were also looking for
new premises.

One of the most unfortunate casualties of the blast was Close Brothers, the
merchant bank, which was also devastated last year. Like other firms, it had
made contingency plans and last night set up new offices in a cellar nicknamed
''The Bunker'', near London Bridge station.

Rod Kent, the managing director, pledged the bank could still deal with its
clients, but was forced to hire a horse box to bring a consignment of desks from
Newbury in Berkshire.

Specialist firms immediately offered the banks emergency facilities to cope with
the disruption. Emergency Dealing Services had two dealing rooms, in the City
and in Docklands, ready for use, with enough space for 60 traders.  Reuters and
Telerate also worked through the weekend providing equipment to ensure that
firms could deal in their new locations.

Norman Lamont, the Chancellor, said in statement: ''I have every confidence that
businesses will continue to locate here and work successfully here. To do
otherwise would be to succumb to terrorism, which is a threat, not just in
Britain, but internationally. The government is playing its part by acting as
reinsurer of the last resort.''

The prime minister expressed his admiration for the City's ''business as usual''
stance in a telephone call to the Lord Mayor. ''The Prime Minister and I agreed
that the best way to frustrate the terrorists is to have the City back at work
and we are working hard to ensure that it is,'' Sir Francis said.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1993 Times Newspapers Limited

                              75 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                             April 26, 1993, Monday

Tighter security to be drawn round City's prestige targets

BYLINE: By Richard Ford, Home Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 960 words


TOUGHER security measures including parking restrictions and road closures are
expected to be introduced throughout the City of London in an attempt to protect
prestige targets from terrorist attack.

Kenneth Clarke, the home secretary, is likely to be pressed to provide extra
central government funds to allow the City of London police force to recruit
more officers to be deployed on beat duties in the nation's financial heartland.

More prestige targets will be surrounded by no-parking cones, some parking
meters will be withdrawn and pedestrianisation is to be extended to more streets
as part of the City of London Corporation's effort to beat the bombers.

Michael Cassidy, chairman of the corporation's policy and resources committee,
said: ''We could not take a third one of these attacks.  Something has to be
done to tighten security.''

Mr Cassidy, who yesterday met Owen Kelly, commissioner of the 840-strong City of
London police, predicted that big ratepayers in the City would demand increased
policing.

After the IRA attack at the Baltic Exchange in 1992, the corporation provided an
additional Pounds 1.5 million for policing, although the Home Office eventually
picked up half the cost of funding an additional 33 officers.

Two hundred of the 4,000 parking meters in the City were removed and more would
go in the weeks ahead, he said. In an attempt to protect landmarks considered
prime targets for the IRA, parking restrictions have been placed in streets
around the Bank of England and the Old Bailey. A 24-hour police guard has been
placed on part of Threadneedle Street because the Stock Exchange is considered a
prime target.

Mr Cassidy said: ''I think our pedestrianisation scheme will be extended and we
will want more intensive policing on the streets. I hope we can make more side
streets pedestrian areas. There may be a case for greater police checks in the
Square Mile. We tightened up after the Baltic Exchange attack. We will do so
again.''

The IRA's success in outwitting counter-terrorist activity will also refuel
demands at Westminster and within sections of the police for the creation of a
national anti-terrorism unit. As frustration grows at Westminster at the IRA's
apparent ability to strike at will across the country, pressure is mounting on
the myriad of police forces, intelligence agencies and Whitehall committees
involved in fighting the terrorists to deliver more effective results.

One indication of the scale of anti-terrorist activity is the big increase in
the number of warrants issued to intercept telephone calls and mail. In 1992,
843 warrants to intercept telephones were issued and 123 for letters compared
with 539 and 32 respectively in 1990.

Yesterday, Sir John Wheeler, vice-chairman of the Conservative backbench home
affairs committee, said: ''There are questions that have to be addressed about
how effective are the present arrangements.''

Two key figures in the UK's struggle to combat terrorism have demanded the
creation of a national anti-terrorist unit, but Mr Clarke is understood to
believe that new arrangements giving MI5 overall responsibility for intelligence
operations against the IRA on the mainland should be given time to prove
themselves.

In mainland Britain, frustration at the authorities' failure to halt the IRA's
mainland campaign that has been running since 1988 forced a key change in
responsibilities last year. MI5 officers were given overall charge of
intelligence operations against the IRA. MI5, headed by Stella Rimington, passes
the information to the police and other agencies.

Mrs Rimington was the first woman to be appointed head of a major Western
intelligence agency and within a year had shown her mettle by wresting
responsibility for intelligence operations against the IRA in mainland Britain
from Scotland Yard's special branch.

Mrs Rimington, who had spent 22 years in counter-intelligence, once headed F2,
part of F Branch, which handles domestic subversion.

Up to a dozen officers from Scotland Yard work with MI5 in central London and
MI5 officers are attached to the Yard. All intelligence is supposed to be shared
between the organisations.

There is a national co-ordinator of police counter-terrorism investigations and
a committee of chief constables which co-ordinates police work taking place in
forces throughout the country. A former senior police officer is the linkman
between the chief constable and the security services.

The Yard's anti-terrorist branch, SO13, headed by Commander David Tucker, is
responsible for investigating terrorist attacks, arresting suspects and
producing evidence that will stand up in court. An RUC officer is based at the
unit, which works closely with the Garda in the Irish Republic. Another 2,000
Special Branch officers round the country work with the Yard.

The Yard acts for other police forces within Whitehall, where police sit on
committees attached to the joint intelligence committee, which draws up
long-term strategy for the country. The JIC includes MI5, but not police.

Despite all this activity, counter-terrorist experts acknowledge that the battle
to beat an IRA force of about 500 hardline activists is at its keenest within
the republican heartlands of Northern Ireland and among sympathisers south of
the border. For all the demands in the wake of such atrocities as Warrington,
the police have cautioned against instant solutions. Shortly before he became
Metropolitan police commissioner, Paul Condon warned the public that there was
no ''quick fix'' to combating the IRA. On taking over he also said the
terrorists would attempt to repeat their attack at the Baltic Exchange. On
Saturday his prophecy was fulfilled.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1993 Times Newspapers Limited

                              76 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 27, 1993

LEADING ARTICLE: BEHIND THE BOMB SCENES

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGE; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 535 words


HOW GOOD are our intelligence services? Are they at fault in failing to prevent
some of the recent terrorist bombings? Alas: the only people who know are not
saying. Indeed, since primary responsibility for intelligence gathering on the
IRA was passed from Special Branch to MI5 six months ago, it could be a criminal
offence to disclose any incompetence - or brilliance - on the part of the lead
agency. Under the 1989 Official Secrets Act, disclosure of information which
could damage the work or security of the intelligence service can bring a heavy
knock on the door.  And Bishopsgate is not the only place with a gaping hole in
it. No one - except David Mellor - has stepped forward in the first two days to
provide the public with any explanations.

A service which does not need to explain anything to the public does not have to
listen to the public. But it is Joe Public who is most at risk. The
accountability - and fragmentation - of our anti IRA terrorist services now
needs review.

There are enough "howlers" in MI5's history to remain sceptical of the service's
record: remember its inappropriate surveillance of legitimate dissenters in
Cathy Massiter's day right through to the oppressive detention of law-abiding
Middle East residents in Britain during the Gulf War. So why was responsibility
for intelligence gathering passed from Special Branch to MI5? It had more to do
with Whitehall wars than rational policy-making. With the end of the cold war,
MI5 needed a new role. Like a company seeing a market disappear, it sought a new
field.  Certainly it was experienced in sophisticated surveillance gathering.
Certainly a leaked Scotland Yard memo (by MI5?) confessed that the police knew
little or nothing about the Provisional IRA activity on the mainland. But
consider the disadvantages that the MI5 faces compared to Special Branch.

Like Special Branch, MI5 needs to integrate itself into a police service that
retains operational responsibility for arresting terrorists. Special Branch
raised provincial hackles, yet it had over 100 years of experience behind it,
plus a unit in every regional force. MI5 is now expected to call the tune and
co-ordinate the mainland effort as an outsider. And look at the plethora of
agencies involved: MI5, Special Branch (which continues with other intelligence
gathering), Scotland Yard's Anti Terrorist Branch, which carries out the
arrests, plus the National Criminal Intelligence Service set up to collect
non-terrorist intelligence, but which sometimes has relevance as well.  Is it
any wonder bombers slip through?

Opposition parties are loathe to raise awkward questions for fear of being
thought disloyal. Yet this fragmentation coupled with lack of accountability
raises genuine issues. Special Branch was unaccountable too, but compared to MI5
it was a model of democratic control. Just as the Audit Commission's scrutiny of
the police exposed widespread ineffiencies so, one presumes, would a scrutiny of
MI5. Ministers consistently refused to address accountability during the passage
of the 1989 Security Services Act. They thought a new complaints system was
sufficient. It was not. Time to lift the veil.


LOAD-DATE: May 13, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              77 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            April 27, 1993, Tuesday

Hard men and hard choices

BYLINE: PAUL WILKINSON

SECTION: COMMENT PAGE; Page 20

LENGTH: 1091 words


THE weekend bomb in the City of London demonstrates that the IRA's hard men have
not been deflected from their tactics of bombing public places, despite the
enormous public outrage over Warrington. It also shows that, in spite of recent
police successes in intercepting massive truck bombs at Stoke Newington and
Canary Wharf in London, the terrorists have abundant supplies of explosives and
manpower. The day before the City explosion they bombed an oil tank at a North
Shields terminal, and only hours after the City bomb, they hijacked two London
mini-cabs.

No potential target can afford to relax its vigilance or security. There are no
safe areas on the British mainland.

The IRA is one of the most experienced, sophisticated and well-armed terrorist
groups in the world, but its presence on the mainland is very small. There may
be only between 30 and 40 Active Service Unit members and helpers here. One of
the chief reasons why it can do so much damage is the nature of its enemy: an
easy-going, open society that presents a cornucopia of lucrative targets.

The appalling laxity of security measures to combat terrorism was demonstrated
in the Baltic Exchange bombing on 10 April last year. Then, as now, the business
community showed great determination to get back to business as usual. Yet
although the IRA crowed about its success in causing such destruction, no
significant measures have been taken since the Baltic Exchange bomb to improve
protection against terrorist attack in the City.

At weekends, it appears, the City of London police do not have the resources to
enforce parking restrictions in the key streets surrounding the financial
centre. The City of London police commissioner has made it clear that the police
only have the power to set up road blocks to stop and search vehicles when they
have intelligence of imminent attack. There are continuing difficulties about
the demarcation of responsibility between the City of London Police and the
Metropolitan Police in dealing with bomb threats in the City.

On Saturday morning there was an unusually early telephone warning - more than
an hour - given to the police by the IRA. Why did it take so long to identify
the tipper truck, with its hazard lights on? Why was it not possible to defuse
the device? These are some of the basic questions that must be addressed.

But a post-mortem is not going to be enough. The business leaders and the City's
powerful political lobby will demand urgent and effective major improvements in
security. The Government should listen to what they say and adopt measures that
have the full support and co-operation of the business community.

The Prime Minister, Home Secretary, Attorney General and the commissioners of
police will also need to consider further security measures. But they must avoid
draconian overreaction. Putting a ring of steel around London would give the
terrorists a moral victory and gravely damage the viability of the City as a
major business centre.

There is no short-term solution to the vulnerability of the City. But there are
practical and effective new measures that can be adopted without damaging
democracy and the rule of law, and that will cause only minimum inconvenience to
the public and the business community. All street parking should be totally
prohibited in certain areas and this must be enforced 24 hours a day, every day
of the year, by increasing police resources and manpower. The police should be
empowered to stop and search vehicles wherever and whenever. Much greater use
must be made of security video cameras, which proved their value in the Harrods
bombing. Equipped specialist bomb disposal squads should be located in the heart
of the City, ready for immediate response.

The additional cost should be borne by a direct subvention from the Home Office.
The annual cost would be chicken feed compared to the huge sum the Government
will have to find to compensate for the damage to the City.

In addition, the Government should urgently consider the introduction of
forgery-proof identity cards and tenant registration rules compelling the owners
of hotels, lodging houses and rented accommodation to report to the police the
movement of tenants in and out of their accommodation. Such measures have been
used effectively for decades in other European countries without the population
feeling that they are living in a police state. It is a small price to pay for
an enormous increase in the ability of police to apprehend and convict
terrorists.

These short-term security measures will not be sufficient by themselves,
however, if the strategy is inadequate. I have long argued that the authorities
in the Republic of Ireland and in Britain should use the criminal justice system
to bring the godfathers who direct the terrorist organisation to justice. Other
European Community countries have achieved this without using the crude and
counterproductive method of internment without trial. Why can't we?

It is time we used the high-quality intelligence the security services claim
they have on the IRA's leaders to bring them to trial. If the judicial
procedures, including witness protection, are inadequate, then why not
strengthen them by using closed-circuit television and video testimony to
protect witnesses? As other democracies have discovered, you cannot defeat a
terrorist group unless you capture the brains of the organisation responsible
for planning its attacks.

Last, but by no means least, we urgently need a dedicated national agency to
combat terrorism, to direct and co-ordinate the strategy. The present mixture of
52 regional police forces, together with the Special Branch, the anti-terrorist
squad, MI5, MI6 and military intelligence, is simply a recipe for unacceptable
delay, confusion and miscommunication.

Even if there is goodwill between these services, as there is most of the time,
the structure is simply too fragmented to work effectively. A dedicated national
agency of this kind, recommended by Sir Hugh Annesley in a recent lecture, would
bring together the best specialists in intelligence, policing, explosives, and
combating terrorist racketeering and fraud under a single supremo.

We will not win this long, drawn-out war against the IRA unless we have an
effective long-term strategy and a structure for combating terriorism that is
capable of doing the job.

The author is Professor of International Relations at the University of St
Andrews.

(Photograph omitted)


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1993 Independent Print Ltd

                              78 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            April 27, 1993, Tuesday

Alert was given before City bomb

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Page 1

LENGTH: 106 words


A warning that a major IRA attack was imminent was sent to police forces
throughout Britain the day before a massive bomb devastated the City of London
on Saturday. However Special Branch did not know where or when the attack would
take place.

Despite extra checkpoints and the rerouting of VIPs in London the terrorists
managed to drive the tipper truck containing the one-ton bomb into Bishopsgate.

Last night a Scotland Yard spokesman said: ''An information message was
circulated on Friday. It called for increased vigilance from police officers
given a heightened threat.'' He refused to give further details.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1993 Independent Print Ltd

                              79 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                            April 27, 1993, Tuesday

State to fix bomb premiums

BYLINE: By Sarah Bagnall, Insurance Correspondent

SECTION: Business

LENGTH: 508 words


INCREASES in terrorism insurance premiums that will hit businesses in mainland
Britain in the wake of Saturday's City of London bomb will be largely dictated
by the government, claims Pool Re, the mutual fund that is the only significant
provider of terrorism cover.

The government's influence on premium rates stems from its decision last year to
take responsibility as ''insurer of last resort'' for terrorism-related claims.
As for any class of insurance, the reinsurer, in this case the government,
dictates the level of premiums it requires to take on risk from direct insurers.
This, in turn, will prompt insurance companies to raise the premiums paid by
businesses.

Insurers say it is too early to know how much insurance premiums will rise as a
result of Saturday's bomb, but estimates range between 30 and 50 per cent.
Furthermore, businesses may face a compulsory levy, according to Airmic, the
association of risk managers.

It is estimated that damage caused by the Bishopsgate bomb will cost between
Pounds 300 million and Pounds 400 million, and the government is expected to
pick up the bulk of the bill.

The government also faces the prospect of shouldering the costs of any future
terrorist attacks, according to the Association of British Insurers.  This is
because the Bishopsgate bomb is thought likely to exhaust the money available in
Pool Re and the government has committed itself to covering any shortfall. The
insurance industry thinks the government will require a rise in premiums to
reflect this perceived risk. A Royal Insurance spokesman said premiums might
also rise because, when Pool Re was set up in January, it was difficult for
terrorism risks to be priced, so rates were only ''guesstimates''.

Eric Coward, who heads Pool Re, said it was ''quite certain that the government
will dictate to a large degree what the rise in rates will be''.  This would
have to be decided over the next few weeks, if not days, so discussions on Pool
Re between the ABI, the insurance industry and the Department of Trade and
Industry had become ''more intense'', he added.

These discussions are expected to cover a range of issues, including the
possibility of a compulsory levy on companies, an idea put forward by Airmic.  A
compulsory levy is needed because, if premiums are increased too much, the
burden on industry may trigger more companies to opt for self-insurance rather
than obtain cover through Pool Re. At a recent conference, Airmic found that
many of the UK's top 500 companies were undecided on whether to insure against
terrorism because of the cost; any further increases may exacerbate the
situation.

Mr Coward said Pool Re and the government would also consider whether premium
increases could be varied according to a business's location and whether
premiums could be discounted for companies with contingency plans in place.

Currently, there are two classes of premiums. Businesses located in inner London
and eight other city centres pay more than their rural counterparts.

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1993 Times Newspapers Limited

                              80 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                            April 27, 1993, Tuesday

Police resist demands for City 'ring of steel'

BYLINE: By Richard Ford, Home Correspondent

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 767 words


THE government and senior police officers will resist demands for sweeping
security restrictions to protect the City of London against further attacks by
the IRA.

Ministers believe that setting up permanent vehicle checkpoints or building a
''ring of steel'' around the Square Mile would hand the terrorists a propaganda
victory and be unacceptable to most workers and employers.

The police believe that they are already operating at the margins of the law by
carrying out random stop-and-search checks in central London as a deterrent to
the bombers and they expect to be challenged in the courts.  They believe that
in the present climate they could win a test case but pressure is growing on the
government to bring in legislation to extend police powers to stop and search
vehicles.

Leading ratepayers in the City, including National Westminster bank, are to meet
corporation officials on Thursday for discussions on security. Yesterday the
City corporation made clear that it would be reluctant to introduce draconian
security measures for fear of presenting the wrong image to the rest of the
world.

Michael Cassidy, chairman of the corporation's policy and resources committee,
said: ''The more imposition that one has to bring to City businesses, then the
more you are giving victory to the IRA.'' He added that the setting up of
permanent police vehicle checkpoints was alarming some ratepayers and that
creating a ''ring of steel'' around the Square Mile was impractical as it would
seriously inconvenience businesses and their staff.

Owen Kelly, commissioner of the City of London police, said permanent vehicle
checkpoints might become necessary. This would require legislation because the
present law allows police to set up roadblocks only if they have reasonable
grounds for believing a serious arrestable offence is being or is about to be
committed, or if they are looking for someone who intends to commit an offence.

Civil liberties groups said that tightening the law could lead to harassment,
particularly of the Irish community in Britain. John Wadham, legal officer with
Liberty, said: ''We believe the balance as it now stands is about right. We
understand why the police want the extra power but do not think their powers
should be increased.''

Senior police officers know that much tougher security throughout the City would
simply force the terrorists to change their target. The increased security
around military bases in England and Wales has already caused the IRA to change
its tactics and to attack softer targets such as shopping centres, railway
stations and chemical and petrol installations.

If the terrorists are stopped from attacking prestige targets in the City, they
could divert their attention to the corporate headquarters of large companies
that are based outside the capital.

In its present mainland campaign the IRA's attacks have ranged from the mortar
bombing of 10 Downing Street to planting of firebombs in provincial stores and
bombing of central London and mainline railway stations.

Outlining the tactics more than a year ago, an IRA member said: ''You change
your tactics to keep them guessing. If you stick to one tactic, you can become
predictable and be tracked down. They can find out when you work to a pattern.''

In Northern Ireland, closed-circuit television, control zones banning stopping
or leaving a car unattended in particular areas, the closure of roads, and
restricted access to Belfast city centre have been introduced to combat
terrorism. Court houses surrounded by wire and police stations hidden behind
brick walls are common features of the landscape.

Prevented from planting bombs in the shopping centre of Belfast, the IRA bombed
the commercial area outside it. The Royal Courts of Justice were damaged so
often by bombs that the road outside was first closed by a barrier, then by a
brick wall.

Even in Northern Ireland, a province of 1.5 million people, it has proved
impossible to provide total protection for prestige targets. After a series of
attacks in Belfast, the security forces mounted checkpoints on every key road
into the city. The cost was enormous. Commuters soon became angry at the lengthy
delays. The IRA was deterred from attacking Belfast but switched their bombings
to provincial towns.

No government would want to give the IRA the propaganda value of introducing
such drastic security measures in the rest of the United Kingdom. Nor would it
be possible, given the size of the country and the cost of protecting the great
number of potential targets.

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1993 Times Newspapers Limited

                              81 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              May 2, 1993, Sunday

Seles attack prompts Wimbledon review

BYLINE: Christine Toomey and Greg Hadfield

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 653 words


THE man who stabbed Monica Seles, the world's top woman tennis player, had been
stalking her for months, German police revealed yesterday. The disclosure
prompted a review of security to protect international stars at this year's
Wimbledon championships.

Police said the attacker identified only as Guenter P, 38, a turner from
Thuringen, eastern Germany, who was described by them as mentally disturbed and
was last night charged with attempted murder had attended all five days of the
tournament in Hamburg waiting for his moment to strike. He intended to injure
Seles to help Steffi Graf, her closest rival, regain the world title.

Yesterday Graf, who has been troubled in the past by another obsessive fan who
followed her wherever she played, visited 19-year-old Seles in hospital before
returning to the tournament.

Seles, from former Yugoslavia, who lost to the German in last year's Wimbledon
final, was said to be still ''very distressed''. The knife was plunged into her
back, narrowly missing her spinal cord and a lung.

Gerard Smith, chief executive officer of the Women's Tennis Association, said
Friday's attack was unprecedented: ''In the past we have had threats on players
bomb threats at Wimbledon and Davis Cup matches but the fact that nothing has
ever happened made it seem remote. No longer is it just a threat.''

At Wimbledon, where the championship begins in seven weeks, Chris Gorringe,
chief executive of the All England club, said: ''Obviously we have to review the
situation in the light of what's happened in Hamburg. We continually review
security, cranking it up each year.'' He opposed adopting football-style
security measures. ''I don't think people or players would want that.''

Annabel Croft, one of Britain's leading players until her retirement in 1988,
said tennis stars were particularly vulnerable to stalkers and potential
assailants. ''When I was playing there were always cases of weirdos who would
turn up at every single venue, all round the world. It is obsessional. Monica is
very tough mentally and hopefully she will be able to recover from something
like this. But I don't know how anyone could. You would be constantly looking
over your shoulder.''

Croft said it would be difficult to introduce stringent security measures,
particularly at Wimbledon. ''Centre Court would be quite difficult to run on to.
But if you are on an outside court, it would be very easy for someone to do that
because they are literally standing around the outside of the court.''

Security was stepped up in Hamburg yesterday. Tournament directors announced
that the first row of spectators' seats would be reserved only for players'
relatives and journalists. Every player is to be allocated two plainclothes
police bodyguards to protect them.

Seles, who was stabbed as she was sitting at courtside during a changeover in
her quarter-final match against Magdalena Maleeva, of Bulgaria, had already been
assigned two security guards.

Seles was detained in hospital for a second night, but medical experts were
hoping she would be allowed to leave today. She may not return to tennis for up
to four months and is likely to miss two Grand Slam events: the French Open
later this month and Wimbledon, which she has never won.

Psychologists fear the mental trauma may be more damaging than the physical
injuries even though Seles, who was playing her first tournament since being
sidelined for more than two months with a viral infection, is renowned for her
disciplined approach to the game.

Jens-Peter Hecht, a German Tennis Federation spokesman, said neither tournament
officials nor police had received threats against Seles. However, security
officials expressed fears that ''terrorist attacks'' by nationals of former
Yugoslavia might be carried out. Germany has taken 122,666 asylum-seekers from
the war-torn former Yugoslavia over the past year.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1993 Times Newspapers Limited

                              82 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              May 2, 1993, Sunday

The Carnage We Cannot Control

BYLINE: Andrew Alderson, James Adams and Liam Clark

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 2589 words


The ''paddy factor'' is dead. The sneering phrase used by British detectives to
belittle the often inept IRA tactics of the 1970s was buried once and for all
last weekend beneath the carpet of glass and rubble which covered the City of
London.

The anxious look on Commander David Tucker's face at the end of a devastating
Saturday told its own story. The quietly spoken West Countryman, just six months
into his job as head of Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist squad, had emerged from
the wreckage of Bishopsgate to face the media. He looked tense and barely able
to control his anger.

Tucker had long ago known that he was up against a ruthless, cunning group of
armed killers. Now he had received a painfully practical lesson in the new
professionalism of Europe's most sophisticated terrorists.

Scotland Yard and the City of London police had been warned that a
''spectacular'' the IRA's term for a prestige strike guaranteeing worldwide
publicity could be imminent. Twelve hours before the City bombing, an alert was
circulated to every police station in London.

Throughout Saturday morning VIPs were re-routed, checkpoints were stepped up and
every officer in London was asked to display maximum vigilance. But against the
IRA of the 1990s, it was not enough.

This time there were to be no IRA ''own goals'' and no bungles. A devious scheme
was executed with military precision.

The preparation had been frighteningly thorough. A tipper lorry was stolen from
a builder's yard in Newcastle under Lyme, Staffordshire, on March 20.  Two days
before the explosion the IRA had broken into a compound in Manchester and set
fire to an Iveco truck nearly identical to the one seized in Staffordshire. The
stolen lorry was then painted the same blue colour as the destroyed truck and
given its number plates. Any routine police computer check on the lorry placed
in Bishopsgate would show the vehicle as ''genuine'' and the fact that the other
lorry had been destroyed prevented the freak chance of them being spotted on the
road on the same day.

At 10.27am last Saturday a bomb of up to two tonnes, placed in the stolen truck
the biggest device ever detonated on the mainland exploded killing one man,
injuring 46 others and causing damage of up to Pounds 500m.

The tough words of condemnation for the IRA from police chiefs and politicians
were predictable enough, but they had a hollow sound.

''They fail to attract wide support, they fail the rules of civilised life, they
fail to undermine democracy,'' said John Major, after visiting the scene of the
devastation on Monday. ''On Saturday they tried to maim the commerce of the City
of London. They failed again.''

It was left to David Mellor, one of the prime minster's closest friends and
former cabinet colleague, to take a critical look at the nation's record against
the IRA. ''The terrorists have raised their game. We must raise ours,'' he said.

THE EXTENT to which the nation needs to raise its game against the IRA is
revealed by statistics on IRA strikes in mainland Britain during the past 10
years.

The 20 worst terrorist outrages of the past decade began with the bombing of
Harrods in December 1983, which left six dead and 9l injured, and ended with the
second City of London bombing last week, which left one man dead and 46 others
injured.

The death and injury toll and the level of destruction from the atrocities
provide grim reading: 35 people killed, 544 injured, hundreds of millions of
pounds worth of damage to property and two attempts to murder incumbent prime
ministers (the Brighton bombing of 1984 and the mortar attack on Downing Street
in 1991).

Yet the hunt for those responsible has led to just three convictions for the 20
outrages. Patrick Magee was jailed for life for his part in the Brighton bomb of
1984, while Paul Magee was jailed for life for shooting dead Glenn Goodman, a
special constable, and Michael O'Brien was jailed for 18 years for the attempted
murder of two of Goodman's colleagues in June last year.

David Mellor says: ''My fear is that if something is not done now public opinion
will turn exceptionally angry. It will only need one more major incident for
there to be a tidal wave of public anger.''

Britain lacks a national strategy for combating the mainland activities of the
IRA. For too long the nation has relied on a network of overlapping and
sometimes competing agencies. Three government departments Home Office, Ministry
of Defence and Foreign Office control a labyrinth of committees, liaison groups
and advisory bodies. Their effectiveness is hampered by petty jealousies,
divided loyalties and different working practices.

''The IRA are committed to a war,'' said one intelligence source. ''On the whole
they conduct their campaign well and are quite ruthless. On our side, there is
no single team of dedicated professionals. Instead each group is looking for its
own brownie points and is stabbing each other in the back.''

Responsibility for convicting IRA terrorists is shared by MI5, Special Branch,
Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist squad, the Joint Intelligence Committee, the
Association of Chief Police Officers, the Royal Ulster Constabulary and military
intelligence. Added to this are 51 mainland forces each with their own special
branches.

Tensions between the various agencies and occasionally sheer incompetence have
damaged their effectiveness. In December 1988 the police raided an IRA safe
house in Clapham after two terrorists had been disturbed by a man who tried to
steal their car. The police searched their flat, but failed to find a false
passport hidden under a carpet. A second search failed to reveal a death list
and maps hidden in a central heating vent.

Last year critical mistakes in planning and execution of surveillance operations
against the IRA allowed members of an IRA gang, thought to be behind the London
bombing campaign, to escape. The terrorists were accidentally forewarned and an
operation involving 200 officers and costing millions of pounds came to nothing.

Last year, in an attempt to co-ordinate anti-terrorism measures, MI5 was given
overall control of intelligence gathering against the terrorists on the
mainland. Special Branch, which had led the fight against terrorism in Britain
since its formation on St Patrick's Day 1883, was understandably hurt.

Stella Rimington, director-general of MI5, greeted the change with the statement
that she ''looked forward to strengthening still further our already close
co-operation with the police service''.

The reality was somewhat different. Rimington's comments were greeted with
derision by seasoned MI5 officers and Special Branch members, who had been at
daggers drawn for years.

Past rivalries could not be ended overnight. ''I have been amazed at how much
bitterness there is,'' said one senior police source. ''Even quite well-educated
people in the branch seem to really hate people in Box (MI5).''

Initially a small group within Special Branch seemed determined to conduct a
guerrilla campaign aimed at discrediting MI5's work and persuading ministers to
restore the branch's former reponsibilities. Special Branch sources were
suspected of leaking stories damaging to MI5.

Today relations between MI5 and Special Branch have improved, but tensions
remain. ''The Luddites have been removed,'' said one intelligence source.
''Things are now much more professional and will continue to improve.''

The key to greater success against the IRA lies in improved intelligence,
particularly from the republic and Northern Ireland. The garda and the RUC are
meant to report the suspicious disappearances of known ''players'', the label
given to terrorists, but too often the system fails.

Neither the Garda nor the RUC fully trusts the Metropolitan Police, whom they
regard as empire builders and hoarders of intelligence. A former senior RUC
officer said: ''When we were sending intelligence to Great Britain on republican
terrorism, it was quite unsafe to send it to the Metropolitan Police because
when they disseminated it to the other forces they didn't send the precise
information which we gave them. They put their own spin on it and condensed it
as they saw fit.''

But it is in the republic, given the political will from Dublin, that there is
greatest potential for success against the IRA. Sean O'Callaghan, convicted
terrorist turned police informer, says: ''England is where the Provos score the
goals, it is the South where the training, coaching, tactics and strategy are
decided. You identify the problem, isolate it correctly and deal with it rather
as a surgeon does. Not as simple as that, of course, but with the proper will,
not a damn sight more difficult.'' DAY after day, night after night, undercover
police teams kept watch on the surburban bungalow in west London. Operation
Catnip represented the best combination of police intelligence and surveillance
work.

Their target was Jimmy Canning, 37, the heavy drinking suspected IRA bomber
codenamed Snowstorm, who had set up home with his lover, 27 years his senior.
He was a ''lilywhite'', the label given to the new kind of undercover operator
with no criminal record or obvious terrorist links.

When the police finally moved in and arrested Canning, their find surpassed
expectations: an armoury of destruction was hidden around his house and in his
garden. Canning was jailed for 30 years at the Old Bailey in February after
being convicted of conspiring to cause explosions and possessing 88lbs of
Semtex, a loaded revolver and six Kalashnikov assault rifles.

By any reckoning it was a coup, and Scotland Yard is defensive over its recent
record against the IRA. Officers emphasise that the statistics can never reflect
the numerous times they have prevented an atrocity and insist that the ultimate
success is to arrest and convict a terrorist before he or she had committed a
crime.

A senior anti-terrorist source said convicted IRA men were often suspected of
other crimes, but could not be prosecuted because of lack of evidence.  ''It's
like a burglar who has been caught: he is not likely to admit his other 200
offences and we cannot always link him with evidence to other crimes. Overall I
think we have had a very significant success story.''

Canning, for example, was found with the weapon used to shoot Sir Peter Terry,
the former governor of Gibraltar, in September 1990 and was thought to be the
ordnance master for a group of five terrorists responsible for several attacks
in 1990. Significantly, at the time of Patrick Magee's conviction for the
Brighton bomb, four other terrorists were jailed for planning a campaign of
seaside resort bombings.

Since the latest bombing campaign began in 1988, 25 people have been charged
with terrorist-related offences, including 16 in the past 12 months.  There have
been eight convictions. Since 1988 police have made 24 separate finds leading to
the recovery of more than 15 tonnes of home-made explosives, over 80 kilos of
high explosives, more than 40 guns, and over 3,000 rounds of ammunition. Bombs
totalling five tonnes have been defused.

Scotland Yard is hopeful of further imminent successes. Eleven suspects
(including four alleged INLA members) are currently awaiting trial in Britain
for alleged terrorist offences, though none relate directly to the 20 worst
atrocities on the mainland since 1983.

Brian Johnson, chief constable of Lancashire and chairman of the Association of
Chief Police Officers' committee on terrorism, said: ''Of course we are
disappointed when we don't come to grips with these people, but a tremendous
amount of terrorism is prevented.''

He said that alternatives to the present strategy against the IRA had been
examined and rejected. ''We think that there has never been a time of such
excellent co-ordination and co-operation within the police service and with
other agencies.''

GENERAL Carlo Alberto Dalla Chiesa is hardly a name that resonates with the
security forces in London, Belfast or Dublin. But recent European history
provides a valuable parallel for those in search of an alternative to Britain's
current anti-terrorist strategy.

By 1978 Italians had suffered a decade of terrrorism at the hands of the Red
Brigades, revolutionary communist guerrillas who had carried out hundreds of
murders. The group was most spectacularly responsible for the kidnap and murder
of Aldo Moro, five times prime minister. Five different agencies were
responsible for tackling the terrorists, but still the killings went on.

The Italians, in their wisdom, decided a single agency was needed to beat the
terrorists and Dalla Chiesa, a handsome and charismatic officer, was put in
charge of a 230-strong united force. Within four years, his ''carrot and stick''
tactics meant the Red Brigades were a spent force.

Today anincreasing number of politicians and academics in Britain believe the
professionalism and sophistication of the modern IRA demand such a single
anti-terrorist agency, possibly run along the lines of America's Federal Bureau
of Investigation (FBI).

It was a suggestion made in a lecture last year by Sir Hugh Annesley, chief
constable of the Royal Ulster Constabulary, who said it would promote ''a
cohesive and common approach to all terrorist activity. It would provide a
single police and intelligence focal point for liaison with the RUC, the garda
and the police and intelligence forces of Europe and North America.''

Annesley believes that such an agency would need four major divisions dealing
with the cultivation of informants; gathering and analysing intelligence; an
operational element to respond to intelligence; and a training, legal and
support services wing.

Last April a National Criminal Intelligence Service (NCIS), equipped with a
''supercomputer'', began work to counter criminals in Britain.  However, it does
not cover terrorism.

Professor Paul Wilkinson, an expert in terrorism at St Andrew's University, said
a single agency of 300 to 400 men should replace the existing diverse groups.
''The idea that different agencies and regional forces are the best solution to
fighting a highly ruthless and devious terrorist group waging a secret war
against Britain is ludicrous.

''We need a proper co-ordination of strategy, and control over the
implementation of the strategy. At present that is missing because of all the
fragmentation. Our political masters need to streamline the framework.''

Support for the establishment of a single agency comes from David Capitanchik,
senior lecturer in politics at Aberdeen University. He said the record of the
security services against the IRA on the mainland was unimpressive over the past
decade. ''I think it's the most successsful terrorist campaign I can think of
anywhere in the world. It's remarkably successful in the number of incidents
they have managed to carry out and the small size of the losses.''

He said in the past the relatively small death toll and destruction from
terrorism in Britain made it possible for the government to argue that manpower
and money should not be switched from other needy areas to combat terrorism.
''Now, with the government and ultimately the taxpayer picking up billion pound
tabs for damage, any government could put its hand on its heart and say: 'This
is a purpose for which we have to allocate greater resources'.''

Additional reporting: David Leppard and Simon Reeve

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  IRA; Focus

                    Copyright 1993 Times Newspapers Limited

                              83 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 3, 1993

LETTER: DIVIDE AND RULE ACROSS THE BORDER

BYLINE: LIAM MAC UAID

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGE; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 271 words


THERE are many reasons to criticise Gerry Adams's meetings with John Hume in
search of the chimera of "nationalist unity".  However, the least valid is that
cited by Simon Partridge (Guardian, April 29) who argues that the demand for a
nation's self determination is the first step on the road to another Yugoslavia.

It simply does not follow that when Britain eventually disengages from Ireland
the section of the population which considers itself British at the moment will
be driven from the island. Both the constitutional and the republican strands of
Irish nationalism have the equality of all the citizens on the island as central
pillars. With rare exceptions even the most violent Republicans have avoided
indiscriminate attacks on Protestant civilians. Contrast this with the random
and increasingly effective attacks of loyalist terrorists on Catholic civilians.

Given the active and well documented support that these gunmen have received
from the British authorities claims of British impartiality look very shabby.

Every British government in this century has been an accomplice to the
sectarianism and murder which were an integral feature of the Orange State they
created and financed. I will wait for some evidence of disinterested
humanitarianism from John Major's administration in any area of policy before I
accept that its attitude to Ireland is in some way different. In the meantime I
hope that the Northern Protestants begin to see that their future lies in an
Ireland free from British rule which is the cause of sectarianism and violence.

Liam Mac Uaid.

London E13.


LOAD-DATE: May 13, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              84 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                             May 5, 1993, Wednesday

Province hoping for infusion of energy from privatising power

BYLINE: Ross Tieman

SECTION: Business

LENGTH: 1234 words


Ross Tieman says the disposal of assets marks an attempt by the state to
disengage from its role of economic nanny to Northern Ireland

There have been privatisations in Northern Ireland before, but none like this.
Harland & Wolff, the shipbuilder, was sold to a trade bidder, as was Short
Brothers, the aircraft and missile maker. A flotation will be a novelty.

The government should not have any trouble selling shares in Northern Ireland
Electricity, unless it asks too high a price. Already, more than 400,000 have
registered for the offer with the option of electricity bill vouchers or bonus
shares as an incentive. But there is more to the privatisation of NIE than just
the sale of another state power company.  Little by little, the disposal of
state assets in Northern Ireland represents an attempt by the state to disengage
from its role of economic nanny to the economy of the province. Some hope that
the introduction of private sector pressures will cause wages to fall, enabling
Northern Ireland's industry to compete better for custom internationally, and so
revitalise the province's under-productive economy.

Northern Ireland's economy certainly needs an infusion of energy. Gross domestic
product per head is only three-quarters of the national average. Yet the Pounds
7 billion plus of annual spending by Westminster has resulted in an
over-inflated public sector. Wage rates based on national agreements combine
with the lowest private sector house prices in Britain to provide a comfortable
standard of living for public sector workers, creating an impression of
prosperity that belies the relative poverty of many in the population.

But the number of jobless adults, in a population of 1.5 million, is 107,200.
The unemployment rate in Northern Ireland, at 14.7 per cent, is the highest in
the United Kingdom, despite the financial incentives available from the
government to inward investors. In an under-developed economy, high energy
prices are part of the problem. Throughout the 1980s, NIE has charged prices
which, even though pegged to the highest tariffs on the mainland, were
inadequate to ensure the timely renewal of its cable network.

Supplying power in Northern Ireland costs more than on the mainland for three
reasons. First, the closed system. Repeated terrorist attacks long ago caused
efforts to maintain an interconnector with the Irish Republic to be abandoned.
Northern Ireland's generating capacity has to be adequate to meet the heaviest
demand imaginable, even when part of the equipment is shut down for repair. That
is why the province has a total capacity of 2,400 megawatts, although peak
demand in 1991-2 was only 1,425 megawatts.

Second, Northern Ireland relies heavily on oil for power. Even though oil prices
are at present weak, mainland generators find it more cost effective to burn
over-priced British coal than heavy fuel oil. Third, Belfast and Londonderry
aside, Northern Ireland has a dispersed rural population that obliges NIE to
maintain an extended network of low-voltage power lines.

In the run-up to flotation of NIE, the government took several steps designed,
on the face of it, to bring downward pressure on generation costs.  Ministers
stripped out the company's four power stations and sold them to three trade
buyers, raising Pounds 350 million. In themselves, competitive contract
negotiations will do little to cut generation costs. Under its regulatory
regime, NIE can pass through 90 per cent of its energy purchase costs.

The biggest downward pressure on generation prices will come from the
construction of a 250-megawatt subsea interconnector with Scottish Power's
distribution grid on the mainland, likely to be completed in the autumn of 1997.
This with plans for an interconnector between Wales and the Irish Republic, and
the eventual likelihood of renewed links with the south, should level power
purchase costs throughout the British Isles before the end of the century.

The sale of one of NIE's generating plants, Ballylumford, to British Gas should
assist this levelling process. Ministers hope that the company will find it
economic to build a pipeline to bring gas to the province. Since terrorism fears
closed the old town gas works, electricity has controlled 19 per cent of
Northern Ireland's energy market, rivalled by coal and fuel oil for domestic
heating. Competition, it is hoped, will enhance competitiveness.  There is no
doubting the need. In the past, cut-price power appears to have been used as an
instrument of industrial policy to encourage industry in the province.

As on the mainland, in the privatisation run-up government was forced to
introduce transitional relief. More than 3,800 companies will share more than
Pounds 15 million of assistance in the first year of privatisation. But the 9
per cent rise in domestic bills this year, and the prospect of more to come,
will focus attention on the scope within NIE for cost cutting.

Admittedly, NIE has an extended distribution network, but does it really need
3,750 employees, six for every 1,000 customers, when its peers on the mainland
average only 4.5 per thousand? Clearly not, as directors privately acknowledge.
The breakdown of national pay bargaining in the power industry gives NIE the
opportunity to quickly reduce demarcation and improve labour efficiency and
gradually to bring pay rates into line with the local employment market.

The drive for savings will come against a background of rising investment costs.
A European Community grant will cover Pounds 61 million of the Pounds 170
million cost of building the interconnector to Scotland. But NIE will have to
find most of the rest. Spending on renewal of the distribution network is set to
double to about Pounds 60 million a year for the rest of the decade as wires
installed in the 1950s fall due for renewal. So gearing, low at the outset, will
probaly approach 60 per cent by the mid-1990s. All this has been taken into
account by the government in its preparations for the flotation. All the signs
are that, like the mainland electricity industry, NIE will start life in the
private sector as a near-monopoly with a slack regulatory regime and
over-generous scope for profit growth. Protection has even been obtained against
the risk of a fuel price surge through currency hedging.

The unregulated appliance sales business, with annual sales exceeding Pounds 25
million, will put the cream on profits. In all probability the flotation, likely
to be worth about Pounds 350 million, will be readily subscribed. But towards
the end of the century, competitive pressures will start to impact the company,
bringing investor returns towards a level appropriate to a regulated monopoly
power distribution business.

The real winners, thereafter, should be threefold. The taxpayer will be spared
the cost of modernising NIE's wires and integrating its distribution system with
the mainland power grid. Customers should begin to benefit from cost-savings.
And the semi-detached status of Northern Ireland's economy should begin to
erode, raising the hope that it will begin to catch up with the modernisation of
the mainland economy. It would be a mistake to vest too much hope in a mere
flotation. But any measure that helps reduce Northern Ireland's isolation should
achieve more than a new lining for the pockets of shareholders.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1993 Times Newspapers Limited

                              85 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                             May 5, 1993, Wednesday

Growth secures a bright future

BYLINE: Derek Harris

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 841 words


After the recent IRA outrage in the City of London, Derek Harris introduces a
special report on protection of life and property.

Increasing violence in society leading to demands for greater protective
measures is not the only reason why Britain's security industry, now worth more
than Pounds 2 billion a year in sales, is growing strongly.

Private sector businesses are turning to the professionals to take care of their
security needs, from guarding buildings and minimising fraud to keeping computer
records secure and stopping thefts from vehicle fleets.

Government policy is to encourage the public sector to hire outside specialists
to handle peripheral activities. Government departments in Whitehall and local
authorities are increasingly calling on security companies to shoulder the work.

Trade assessments suggest that the present British market is likely to grow by
21 per cent in three years, from Pounds 2.17 billion last year to Pounds 2.63
billion in 1995.

The security business in Britain accounts for about a fifth of the overall
European market, which is expected to see comparable growth rates up to 1995,
when sales of security products and services are expected to have expanded to
more than Pounds 12.43 billion. The British market is second in size only to
that

of Germany's.

The 200 members of the British Security Industry Association (BSIA), which
accounts for more than two thirds of those in the security business in the UK,
regularly report their turnover performance to the BSIA and analysis shows that
1991 sales rose by 18 per cent compared with 1990s. This tide continued to run
strongly last year when sales moved up another 4 per cent.

Services such as guarding premises account for nearly a third of industry
turnover. The BSIA rates this sector as worth Pounds 303 million in sales in
1990, which rose sharply to Pounds 429.3 million in 1991 and estimates for 1992
show another increase to Pounds 482.9 million.

Growth in security systems was steadier among BSIA companies. These systems
include intruder alarms, a big growth area in both the commercial and domestic
markets, and closed circuit television monitoring, which is attracting great
interest in the wake of its effective role in identifying suspects after the
IRA's recent bombing of Harrods and the Liverpool child killing. Turnover of
security systems stood at Pounds 265 million in 1990, rose to Pounds 293 million
in 1991 and in 1992 is estimated to have reached Pounds 315 million.

As a result, the number of jobs in the security industry is increasing again. In
1988, BSIA members employed 58,000 staff, which rose to a peak of 70,000

in 1990.

During the recession, numbers eased back, for example, to 61,000 in 1991, but
estimates suggest that staff levels probably rose last year to 62,500.

Jim Harrower, the BSIA chairman, says: ''Many of our member companies have
manufacturing-based operations but have still managed to hold their own in this
difficult economic climate.''

The leading companies in the industry include Group 4 Security, an international
operator whose main market strengths are in Europe, especially Britain. There is
also Reliance Security, an independent specialist whose most recent move was
into electronic surveillance.

Securicor, which is the biggest operator in the cash-in-transit sector, has a
vehicle tracking system which allows the police to pinpoint quickly a hijacked
lorry.

BET's Shorrock is another main operator, providing both guards and systems, and
another security guard specialist is the UK arm of Pinkerton, the American
company with a long surveillance history as a private detective agency.
Associated Security Holdings is a big systems operator, its main subsidiary
being Modern Alarms, the key business in the alarms sector, which recently
bought BT's security subsidiary.

Chubb Security, split off from Racal last autumn as a separate business, is most
associated with physical security systems such as safes and locks, but it has
also penetrated the alarms systems sector, including products for use in nuclear
power stations.

The government drive towards out-sourcing has produced its own problems.  Group
4 took on a prisoner escort service contract for the Home Office in March, eight
prisoners went missing and the criticisms fell thick and fast.  Group 4 argued
that the incidents were mostly not its fault two, for instance, were said to
have involved faulty prison vans but, clearly, there are lessons to be learnt.

David Fletcher, the BSIA's chief executive, says: ''It does not invalidate the
concept. That was sound.'' He underlines the drive by BSIA to ensure quality
performance by its members. The first step has been to push for all to qualify
for the mark of consistent quality, BS5750.

Already, Mr Fletcher says, about half the members, including experts such as
Securiplan, have attained this, another 25 per cent should qualify by 1994 and
all should have secured the imprimatur by the end of next year.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1993 Times Newspapers Limited

                              86 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Daily Mail (London)

                             May 6, 1993, Thursday

A TRUSTING FRIEND WHO COULD LOSE EVERYTHING

BYLINE: Peter Rose

SECTION: Pg. 21, 20

LENGTH: 1294 words


THE man who stands to lose the most if Asil Nadir does not return is his old
friend Ramadan Guney.

The Cypriot-born businessman, who owns Britain's biggest cemetery, put up
£1million of the tycoon's £3.5million bail.

Mr Guney, who runs the the 400-acre Victorian graveyard at Brookwood, Surrey,
said last night: 'I am trying to find out exactly what has happened.

'I have known Mr Nadir since he was a child. My father is a distant relation and
we had a social life in England with his family.

'I feel very disappointed. It is possible I could face bankruptcy, but when I
was born I had nothing. If I am to have nothing again it doesn't matter.'

'I will start all over again. Whatever has happened has happened. What else can
I say?'

The Turkish newspaper Hurriyet had earlier quoted Mr Guney as saying: 'If he has
fled, then this will finish me. I am searching for him but I cannot find him.'


He told Hurriyet he last saw Nadir on Monday, but did not say where.

Mr Guney served with the British Army in Cyprus, then as an auxillary police
sergeant.

In 1955 he helped found an armed anti-Greek group called Volkan to protect
Turkish Cypriots and their properties from attack by the Greek extremist Eoka
terrorist group.

Mr Guney came to Britain in 1958 and set up a music publishing group.

He says most of his income comes from selling cassette recordings of ethnic
music to Britain's 120,000-strong Turkish community.

He was once chairman of the United Kingdom Turkish Islamic Trust, a religious
foundation based in East London.

His links with Nadir hit the headlines in 1991 over the 17th century Palladian
mansion, Burley-on-the Hill, set in 750 acres in Leicestershire.

The former Polly Peck tycoon had bought the property for an estimated £7million
the previous year, intending to develop it, but it was repossessed by Barclays
bank.

In October 1991 it was revealed that the bank had exchanged contracts to sell
the property to a newly-formed company called Moidore - of which Mr Guney was
the sole director.

Moidore also wanted to develop Burley, into a hotel with golf courses and full
leisure facilities at a cost of more than £30million.

Mr Guney could be called to account over his bail pledge next month, when Nadir
is due in court for a pre-trial review.

Nadir, who had spent two days in custody, put up £2million towards his own bail
at the hearing in December 1990.

Mr Guney and Nadir's ex-wife Ayesha, who put up £500,000, both appeared in
person before Bow Street Magistrates to offer themselves as sureties.

At the next hearing, Nadir's name will be called throughout the court building.
If he fails to appear, a bench warrant will be issued for his arrest.

Mr Guney and Ayesha Nadir should then be brought before the court and asked to
give reasons for his disappearance and why they should not hand over the bail
money.

When any defendant disappears, the court considers whether the people who stood
bail kept in contact with him and whether they knew he was going to flee.

They are given the opportunity to argue for paying only part of the bail, or
none at all.

At the time a security is accepted, the court satisfies itself that those
putting up the money could get to it quite quickly - that it is in cash, stocks
or shares rather than property.

People who do not pay sureties are liable to be jailed in the same way as people
who do not pay fines.

For an amount between £250,000 and £1million the maximum sentence is five years.

Attack

Shares

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: (1) Burley on the Hill: Bought to be turned into a £30m hotel and
leisure centre. Below: Nadir's first-floor flat in Eaton Square (2) THE missing
tycoon's sons share his fondness for a life of wealth and privilege. The
youngest, Sirhan, pictured left at a party with his football heroes, Gary
Lineker and Paul Gascoigne, will be 18 next month. He is at Eton, studying for
three A-levels. The picture was taken while his father was in prison awaiting
bail. Right: Nadir's other son, cigar smoking Birol, 31, in expansive mood with
two companions. A former City stockbroker, he is now working in Istanbul

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1993 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              87 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                             May 6, 1993, Thursday

TERROR REINSURANCE BILL INTRODUCED IN COMMONS

BYLINE:  Chris Moncrieff, Press Association Political Editor

SECTION: PARLIMENTARY NEWS

LENGTH: 139 words


The Bill which gives legal backing to the Government as a "reinsurer of last
resort" in cases of terrorist attacks against industrial and commercial property
in Great Britain, received a formal first reading in the Commons today.  Since
the Baltic Exchange bombing in the City of London in April last year, the
Government has pledged to pay the difference in cases where the insurance
company cannot meet a legitimate claim in full. The second huge City explosion
at Bishopsgate last month prompted the Government to speed the Bill through
Parliament. It has been delayed because of the time devoted to the Maastricht
legislation.  This measure is expected to have all-party support and to be
rushed through all its Commons stages next Thursday. The measure, the
Reinsurance (Acts of Terrorism) Bill will be published tomorrow.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1993 The Press Association Limited

                              88 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 7, 1993

POLICE FEAR THIRD CITY BOMB AS CRITICS BITE;
Calls for anti-terrorist agency 'are damaging morale'

BYLINE: DUNCAN CAMPBELL CRIME CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 583 words


MORE than 10 attempts to plant bombs in London have been stopped by the police
in the past 18 months, according to senior Scotland Yard sources. But it is
feared that another "spectacular" is planned and the City is said to be
vulnerable.

The police have been dismayed by criticisms of the anti-terrorist operation
after last month's IRA bombing of Bishopsgate, which killed a photographer and
caused damage costing an estimated pounds 500 million. They say suggestions that
a national anti-terrorist agency should be formed are unhelpful and that such a
structure would make no difference to the police's ability to find the bombers.

The sources also suggested that parallels being drawn with the Germans' ability
to defeat the Baader-Meinhof terrorist group and the Italians' success against
the Red Brigades were naive.

"These were ephemeral, sixties organisations, not linked to hundreds of years of
history and the politics of Ireland," said one source.

There was also "disappointment" over the "predictable" critical reaction to the
Bishopsgate bombing. "First of all it's 'Gor Blimey, it's the blitz, Britain
goes on. ' Then we would be into heavy recriminations and then into . . . 'let's
have a national agency'. " Morale was badly damaged by such speculation, it was
suggested.

Bomb attacks "in double figures" had been averted by police activity over the
past 18 months to two years, it was said. But it was felt that the IRA might see
the benefit of another "big one".

In the City, Owen Kelly, chief constable of the 800-strong force that polices
the square mile, said that he and his officers were aware that they were still
vulnerable to bombs. "We can't control the political situation that gives rise
to this. "

He had asked the Government for more officers and his request was being heard
sympathetically, Mr Kelly told a press conference to launch his force's 1992
annual report. City officers had had to be diverted from fraud investigations to
fight terrorism.

"I defy you to find any force in this country that has done more," said Mr
Kelly.

He also said that insurance industry suggestions about the cost of the Baltic
Exchange bombing last year had been "distinctly unhelpful".

It had been made public that the bomb had caused damage of pounds 800 million in
one day, compared with pounds 657 million of damage in 20 years of activity in
Northern Ireland. This could well have encouraged the IRA to carry out a second
major City bombing, when it was clear how much disruption and economic damage
could be caused, he suggested.

Armed road blocks are still operating in the City every day, said Mr Kelly. It
was not clear how many bombs might have been diverted because of the stop and
search procedures.

There would also be increased video surveillance in the area by the police and
businesses.

The presence of additional officers on the streets last year, in the wake of the
Baltic Exchange bombing, had led to a decrease in crime of 10. 6 per cent, one
of the highest drops in the country, he said.

It is clear that the police have been badly stung by the criticism of the
anti-terrorist operation since the Bishopsgate bomb. They are now pressing
Kenneth Clarke, the Home Secretary, for changes in the law which, they believe,
will clarify their powers to stop and search.

The Home Office has indicated it will examine any suggestions, but there appears
to be no immediate plan for legislative changes.


LOAD-DATE: May 13, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              89 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                  May 7, 1993

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 93 words


THE Bill which gives legal backing to the Government as a "reinsurer of last
resort" in cases of terrorist attacks against industrial and commercial property
in Great Britain, received a formal first reading in the Commons yesterday.
Since the Baltic Exchange bombing in the City of London in April last year, the
Government has pledged to pay the difference in cases where the insurance
company cannot meet a legitimate claim in full. The second huge City explosion
at Bishopsgate last month prompted the Government to speed the Bill through
Parliament.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1993 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              90 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                              May 7, 1993, Friday

Parliamentary Questions - Written Replies

SECTION: POLITICS & POLICY PAGE; Page 6 ?

LENGTH: 77 words


CHILD VICTIMS: Up to the end of March, 42 children aged under 14 had been killed
by terrorists in Northern Ireland - 26 of them in what were believed to have
been Republican terrorist attacks - Michael Mates, Minister of State, told Peter
Robinson (DUP, Belfast E).

Mr Mates said a comprehensive list of all those who had been killed in Ulster,
Britain, and mainland Europe since 1969, ''as a result of the security
situation'', was being compiled.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1993 Independent Print Ltd

                              91 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              May 9, 1993, Sunday

Easy Come, Easy Go

BYLINE: Maurice Chittenden and Jonathan Margolis

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 2761 words


Through the moonlit sky the passenger aboard the Cessna Citation jet could see
the outstretched hands of the Five Finger Mountains extending their silent
greeting as he descended to land on an airfield carved from barren scrubland in
Turkish Cyprus.

The flight had cost him Pounds 15,000. So secret was the mission that David
Maes, the American pilot, had filed his flight plan to the airport by radio
minutes earlier while he was over the Mediterranean. Thus at 10.23pm on Tuesday
did Asil Nadir step down on the tarmac at Ercan, a former RAF airfield, as a
fugitive from British justice.

His sister, Bilge, the editor of his newspaper and a local MP who claims he was
there by chance were the only people to greet him. A black Mercedes was waiting
outside to spirit him away. It was raining.

We know that Nadir presided over the most sensational share price rise in
history; we know that he is now, with a neat if inevitable symmetry, Britain's
biggest ever bankrupt and the holder of the record for the largest ever bail
figure. We even know, thanks to the helpful intervention last week of his burly
bodyguard, Sandy Grant, that Nadir was capable of keeping a harem of eight
women. When the five-times-a-night sexploits of the Burton chairman Ralph
Halpern came to light, Nadir said sniffily to his chauffeur: ''If you do it
right, once is enough.''

But Nadir's real identity is probably best betrayed by the photograph,
reproduced almost every day since the beleaguered tycoon skipped bail and fled
to Northern Cyprus, of Nadir at his father's gown factory in the East End in the
early days. Mr Self Assurance, he grins all teeth from under an early Kevin
Keegan haircut, one arm insouciantly resting on a machine, fingers hanging
loose, the other arm, its hand formed into a fist, resting belligerently on a
hip. The shirt has loud stripes and one of those big flapping collars popular at
the time; the tie is dark, broad and a shade adrift at the neck. The belt, which
helps gather the untidy ends of shirt, is a complicated elaborately buckled
affair.

In he background of this unintentionally revealing portrait are the ranks of
dress machinists under low-slung fluorescent strip lights. The girls' heads are
bent low; you can almost hear the overlocking machines, button holers and
cutters, buzzing and yammering away at building Nadir's first small fortune, the
one that would later prove the foundation for him to build a large, but also
largely illusory, one.

The ring of slightly raw confidence was already encircling the young Turkish
Cypriot when the photo was taken, yet Nadir had himself been one of the
machinists a few years earlier, when he came from Famagusta to work in his
father's dress factory. Nadir was a presser, the job usually reserved in the
gown business (as the nether region of the rag trade grandly calls itself) for
men, because of the strength required to iron hundreds of garments a day, and
handle the hissing monsters that were steam pressing machines.

NEEDLESS to say, Nadir was no ordinary East End presser. The point isn't that
his father owned the factory there are plenty of filial disappointments in East
End immigrant dress factories, who started out nominally pressing for Dad and
years later are still doing so. But Nadir was an extraordinarily driven young
man. The gaudy reality he built around himself until his downfall the profusion
of biliously clashing antiques, the scarlet Bentley and Ferrari, the strings of
glossy women, the habit of wearing Pounds 400 silk shirts once only probably
lies effectively dormant in the majority of the smart young Bangladeshis who run
the East End schmutter business today.  Few, however, will get further than the
standard Jag and detached house in Chigwell.

The standard biographical notes on Nadir include the intriguing fact that in
those early East End days he lived in an Essex council flat. That is not quite
the case; he and his wife Ayesha, an Istanbul beauty queen, lived at Malford
Court. It is a smart 1930s block in a pretty part of South Woodford, a plausible
Essex version of Dolphin Square and not bad at all for a presser but still some
way from the kind of place you have when you are named by The Sunday Times as
the 36th wealthiest person in Britain, between Tiny Rowland and Lord Forte.

Another faulty preconception is that he started out as a Famagusta newspaper
seller. Well, he sort of did, but he was only six at the time, although even
then he was something of a super salesman. ''In Cyprus,'' he says
contemptuously, ''we do not stand around on street corners, we run about.
Attitudes like that incite you to think how to do better in life. If you're not
selling enough, you go further and publicise that you're around.''

As reporters last Wednesday pressed around Ramadan Guney, Nadir's friend (now
possibly former friend) who stood surety for Pounds 1m for him, Guney said
something that equally speaks volumes about the immigrant's attitude to success
in a new country.

''I feel very disappointed,'' the owner of a 400-acre graveyard in Surrey
explained. ''It is possible I may face bankruptcy, but when I was born I had
nothing. If I am to have nothing again, it doesn't matter.''

It is a fatalistic view, with a discernible eastern flavour, but may well
express what Nadir himself feels deep inside, the antimatter version of drive
and ambition. Easy come, easy go may be overstating it, but it will always be
infinitely easier for an Asil Nadir to fall on hard times than for a (let us
say) Duke of Westminster. ''I am not interested in the high living,'' he said a
while ago. ''Do you know what I enjoy most? Freshly baked bread, some olives and
a tomato.''

When Turkish troops parachuted into Northern Cyprus in 1974 they sequestered the
most scenic part of Cyprus, but have never quite managed to create the kind of
tourist paradise you might expect. The country they established under Rauf
Denktash, that cheeky former London barrister who reappeared last week shrugging
off the Nadir business, turned into the new Costa del Scarper, but even then
failed to attract any top-of-the-range fugitives. Lord Lucan is occasionally
rumoured to be in the Turkish republic somewhere, but, frustratingly for the
underused hotels which have made a mint from the Nadir-hunting journalists, has
always failed to show up.

But thinking of that nostalgic reference to bread and olives, could it be that
his flight back to his roots in Northern Cyprus is what Nadir has had
subliminally in mind all along? Everyone playing away from home does so with the
back home audience in mind. Although Nadir was at times during the peak of his
career in Britain regarded in Cyprus as a bit too British, his diligent
buttering up of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, still an
internationally unloved entity, has proved a magnificent investment. His
deification in the former colony there were demonstrations when The Sunday Times
first reported three years ago that the Inland Revenue and the Serious Fraud
Squad were investigating him is still unassailable.

It did not matter to his fellow Turkish Cypriots that his public appearance this
week was stage managed by his staff. A team of sound engineers had spent hours
testing the public address system; so much so that the press conference started
six hours late. The ram had come from a farm near his home villa at Lapta; the
hotel chef was ready to cut its throat until a reporter from The Sun produced
his wallet and offered to buy it in the name of British animal lovers. Other
journalists, ignoring the sex of the beast, christened it Donna (or rather
Doner, as in kebab). In the melee Nadir missed the ram, which had been
blindfolded with a red hankerchief; it was taken away unharmed.

Dressed in a designer suit with a matching blue and white polka dot tie and
hankerchief, Nadir entered the hotel restaurant like a champion prizefighter to
launch a tirade against the ''scandal'' of British justice, of being repeatedly
arrested and of being taken to courtrooms ''the size of a broom cupboard''.

As he spoke, the reporters wondered if the demonstrators' placards were the ones
used in a similar ''spontaneous'' protest three years ago when he was first
arrested. It came as no surprise that the protesters were housekeepers and
kitchen staff at the Jasmine Court Hotel (prop: A Nadir).

Nadir mounted a podium decked with 10 man-size bouquets of carnations wrapped in
silver foil and garlanded with pink ribbons, each representing one of his
companies in Northern Cyprus. Of course, there was no mention of the 10
financial institutions left behind in the City of London with debts totalling
Pounds 85m.

That was the least of his complaints. Nadir accused virtually every part of the
British Establishment of colluding against him. Seated in a black leather chair
which would not have been out of place in a Polly Peck boardroom, he produced a
red plastic folder (a lapse in style this: it looked like a student essay) full
of grievances.

He claimed the Trade and Industry Department had demanded Pounds 1m before it
would investigate alleged delays by the Stock Exchange and Polly Peck's brokers
in suspending shares when he requested it. He accused the Foreign Office of
demanding Pounds 100m in 42 hours from Northern Cyprus to save Polly Peck. He
alleged the Serious Fraud Office had opened his private mail and colluded
unlawfully with the company's administrators and trustees in bankruptcy, who
were dealing with the civil action against him.

The adulation in Cyprus for Nadir is more than sentimental. Nadir is in enormous
part responsible for the Turkish republic's survival as a state of sorts. His
reinvention of the cardboard box as a way of inducing primitive-minde letting it
be sold on roadside stalls is just one of the activities that have made him
deeply loved.

The name that Nadir bought in 1980 with a small, ailing East End clothing
company Polly Peck by Sybil Zelker, its designer label bleated lamely has
bizarrely become a major part of a nation's heritage. Would the course of
Cypriot history have run differently had Nadir looked a little further for a
ready-made garment company and hit upon the similarly alliterative Snappy Styles
of Pentonville Road, N1? We shall never know.

Even when the Polly Peck share price was the talk of the business pages, the
company's name was better known in the orchards of Turkish Cyprus than in
Britain. Although Nadir, as the scenes in Cyprus last week showed, adores
publicity, he did not start to be truly famous until the skids were under Polly
Peck.

The fact that Pounds 1,000 invested in Polly Peck shares in 1980 was worth
Pounds 1.2m by the time Nadir's own stockbroker lodged a bankruptcy petition for
Pounds 3.6m only came into the full glare of publicity after the shares had
ceased to have any value at all.

Then the extent of Nadir's profligacy became known. A 2,000-acre Leicestershire
farm with a prize herd (even though Nadir is a vegetarian), a house in Wilton
Crescent, Belgravia, sumptuous homes in Turkey and Cyprus.  The Polly Peck
office at 42 Berkeley Square was (almost literally) an Aladdin's cave, packed
with antiques regardless of period. When Phillips auctioned the office contents
to raise Pounds 3m to pay a fraction of Polly Peck's debts the saleroom
correspondents sniggered at the tastelessness of much of it.

Particular note was made of the model turtles that infested his own office
turtles are a symbol of long life. To summon staff, Nadir would press the head
of a wind-up turtle, which would make a bell ring.

At another auction, the cars were sold. Their odometers told a different story
of a man who clearly did not have the time to play with his rich boys' toys. The
Ferrari Testarossa, AN 11, had done just 4,400 miles in five years; the
convertible Bentley Continental, AN 6, 10,000 miles.

How did he do it? Then how did he undo it, this quietly spoken, hardworking man
who for a decade or more vainly understated his age by two years, dined with
Princess Margaret, required his son to phone from Eton to make appointments to
see him, got a letter of thanks from Margaret Thatcher for financially helping
the Conservative party and convinced banks to pour millions into his
extravagancies on the strength of collateral that was mostly a trick of the
light?

Perhaps it was by keeping in mind at all times the very eastern saying that his
father, Irfan, a Mr Fixit character with too many trades to list, kept on the
wall: ''Life is business and business is life.'' Irfan started from scratch in
the East End after his shop in Famagusta was attacked by terrorists. He came
over here as an outworker, the bottom of the heap in the rag trade. Asil
meanwhile went to university in Istanbul, losing his provincial Cypriot accent
and financing his studies by singing with a pop group, modestly named The Asils.

He came to London in 1963, to find the family living in one room. Even in these
conditions he would spend a month's wages on a wedding dress for his sister. He
married Ayesha for the first time; they later divorced, then married again, then
divorced again and are still close friends. She is one of the unfortunates who
stood surety for Nadir.

His first business was a cash and carry clothing mart in Commercial Road, east
London. By the early 1970s it was making a profit of Pounds 1m a year and Nadir
was becoming fascinated by the stock market.

When the business, Wearwell, almost foundered in 1975, Nadir cleverly spotted
the potential of countries such as Libya and Iraq, used his Islamic credentials
to the full, and started selling them clothing in bulk. Girls' school uniforms
for Libya were a particularly quick mover.

By 1980 he had a Queen's Award for Exports and was becoming extremely famous in
Turkish Cyprus. The profits from Polly Peck rose from nothing to Pounds 9m in
two years what Sybil Zelker, whoever she was, would have made of this we can
only imagine. Polly Peck's share price rose from 75p to Pounds 36. Greek
politicians pointed out that his success in Northern Cyprus was largely based on
appropriation of Greek property, but, give or take the odd dip in the company's
fortunes, it motored on through the 1980s. By 1989, Polly Peck was worth Pounds
2 billion, with pre-tax profits of

Pounds 161m.

1990 was the crunch year. Reports in The Sunday Times of investigations into
some of the more exotic share dealing in which Nadir was involved shot away
confidence in Polly Peck. He rashly offered to buy up all the shares that were
not already his; within a week he withdrew the offer and was flayed by the Stock
Exchange. The Inland Revenue was now looking minutely at share dealings
involving Swiss companies. A 1990 police raid on a Polly Peck subsidiary was the
last straw.

Even in bad times, Asil Nadir kept up appearances. The landlords, the Duke of
Westminster's Grosvenor Estate, were moving in on his Eaton Square flat, but
weeks before he vanished he was still regally ordering tropical flowers and
orchids for the balcony. His enormous sex drive was, according to his bodyguard,
stronger than ever. Always the pseudo-English gentleman, Nadir made sure the
newspaper bill was settled before he went a very Mediterranean touch, to ensure
that no small trader was damaged even if he was ripping off bigger fish.

There was a touch of the Robert Maxwells in the way Nadir appeared at his
triumphant press conference in the Cypriot port of Kyrenia on Friday afternoon,
but by making himself faultless in the eyes of one country at least, Nadir was
cleverer. He may have been almost as much of a rogue, but his hero status is
apparently beyond being diminished.

Outside the now-famous house in Lapta, we heard him laughing and joking in the
family villa, the hero returned, strained, but still the master of his own
destiny, if only just. Then on TV we saw the grumpy men from the Serious Fraud
Office back in London, pale and ferrety, outfoxed. No one can deny that Asil
Nadir had been a naughty former garment presser, possibly a very naughty one. We
know that the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus's claim to statehood is
neither entirely clear nor fair.

But, on the assumption that there are no Maxwell-style dispossessed pensioners
yet to emerge, is there not a wild bit in every one of us that is still envious
of Asil Nadir how he got away with it, kept eight women happy, and finally got
back to his bread, olives and a tomato?

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Asil Nadir

                    Copyright 1993 Times Newspapers Limited

                              92 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            May 12, 1993, Wednesday

Television news item inspired death edict

BYLINE: STEVE BOGGAN

SECTION: POLITICS & POLICY PAGE; Page 6

LENGTH: 759 words


IT WAS 14 February 1989 when Ayatollah Ruholla Khomeini, the 88-year-old
religious leader of Iran, decided to condemn Salman Rushdie to death.

As was his habit, the ayatollah was watching the evening news at his villa near
the Alborz mountains when his attention was drawn to an item about the deaths of
five people during riots in Pakistan and another rioter in Kashmir. The rioters
had been protesting against the publication of a book by a British author about
whom Khomeini knew nothing. The book, The Satanic Verses, was, according to its
detractors, blasphemous.

Despite reports of his ignorance on the matters of the book and its Muslim
author, the ayatollah is understood to have called for a secretary to take down
the following: ''I inform the proud Muslim people of the world that the author
of The Satanic Verses book, which is against Islam, the Prophet and the Koran,
and all those involved in its publication who were aware of its content, have
been sentenced to death.'' The sentence, or fatwa, was broadcast by the Iranians
and picked up by monitoring stations all over the world, and the exile of Salman
Rushdie had begun. Since that date, Mr Rushdie has been under Special Branch
protection, much of which he has paid for himself, ironically from the profits
of his book.

He has lived in more than 50 different locations. His wife, Marianne Wiggins,
left him after experiencing several months of the difficult lifestyle, and the
couple were quietly divorced in March this year. His son is now 14 but most of
their communication is by telephone. And, because of Mr Rushdie's peripatetic
lifestyle as a fugitive from assassination, he has lost the right to vote.

The immediate political fallout after the imposition of the fatwa was enormous.
British Muslims burnt copies of The Satanic Verses on the streets of Bradford
and Leicester; Pakistan called for the book to be banned in the UK and the
United States and for all published copies to be destroyed; the British Embassy
in Tehran was besieged by 5,000 rioters who smashed windows; demonstrations were
staged at other embassies around the globe by the World Association of Muslim
Youth; bomb threats were made and rumours flourished of terrorist attacks on
British interests abroad, including a British Airways jet in Bombay. Most
frighteningly of all for Mr Rushdie was the announcement by the June Fifth
Foundation, an Islamic charity, of a reward of $ 1m for his assassination.

The political response did little to ameliorate the feelings of hundreds of
thousands of Muslims in Britain who had already been angered by an earlier
refusal by Sir Patrick Mayhew, the Attorney General, to prosecute Mr Rushdie
under public order and race relations legislation. The situation was inflamed
further by a ruling that the law of blasphemy applied only to Christianity. Many
Muslims, including Sayed Abdul Quddus, secretary of the Council of Mosques,
supported the fatwa.

Diplomatically, ministers decided to adopt a low-key policy to safeguard the
British hostages still being held in Beirut and because, as one diplomat told
the Independent, there was a genuine belief in Whitehall that the fatwa would
''wither on the vine''. But by the middle of last year, Douglas Hurd, the
Foreign Secretary, was having his doubts. His Iranian counterparts were advising
that progress could be made if Mr Rushdie stuck to his lower profile; but the
author was refusing to lie down. ''For three years we had run a low-profile
campaign in the interests of the British hostages, but once they were released,
we moved up a gear,'' Carmel Bedford, of Article 19, the human rights
organisation fighting for Mr Rushdie, said. ''The real breakthrough came when
Salman visited Germany and was met by the leaders of all the political parties.
They condemned the fatwa in a way the British government never had.''

Visits to 10 other countries - each of them apparently prepared to offer Mr
Rushdie more support than the British government had - resulted in Douglas Hogg,
a Foreign Office minister, inviting the author to a meeting in February, with an
agreement for yesterday's meeting with John Major coming soon afterwards.

In an interview in the Independent on 11 February, Mr Rushdie said he was
confident the new approach would work. ''If there is enough international
pressure against them, they'll change anything,'' he said. Four days later, the
Ayatollah Ali Khamenei reiterated the fatwa and the June Fifth Foundation
increased the bounty on the author to $ 2m.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1993 Independent Print Ltd

                              93 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                              May 14, 1993, Friday

TERROR INSURANCE SCHEME SPEEDS THROUGH COMMONS

BYLINE:  Press Association Parliamentary Staff

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 263 words


A measure to help businesses at risk of terrorist attack by making the
Government the "reinsurer of last resort" has cleared the Commons.  The
Reinsurance (Acts of Terrorism) Bill last night completed its stages in just
over three hours and was given an unopposed third reading, just weeks after the
IRA's Bishopsgate blast devastated part of the City of London. The measure now
goes to the Lords.  Corporate Affairs Minister Neil Hamilton told MPs: "We have
put together a scheme which will be effective and which will forever deny
terrorists of all kinds the fruits of their satanic endeavours to bring the
country and its commerce to a standstill through explosions." He said the
Government was stepping in after the insurance industry announced last year it
would not provide new cover in cases of terrorist attack.  He added that over
its lifetime the measure was expected to cost the taxpayer nothing. Ultimately
the scheme would be funded out of premiums paid by those who insured their
industrial or commercial property.  Insurers wishing to offer terrorism cover
would become members of a mutual reinsurance firm, the Pool Reinsurance Company.
It would reinsure all terrorist risks in Great Britain covered by its members
and the Government would reinsure the company.  Stuart Bell, for Labour, said
the Bill would "show the determination of us all that it will indeed be, for the
City of London as elsewhere, business as usual".  Mr Hamilton said later that
unity shown between parties was "a further demonstration to the IRA that their
cause will never win".

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1993 The Press Association Limited

                              94 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Standard (London)

                              May 17, 1993, Monday

General in terror threat is rapped by Bosnia leader

BYLINE: David Shaw

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1147 words


A BOSNIAN Serb general who threatened to bomb London was put firmly in his place
today by his country's leader.

General Ratko Mladic, head of the Bosnian Serb army, had promised to wreak
revenge if the West resorted to air strikes to force the Serbs to back the
Vance-Owen peace plan.

He said: 'If they bomb me, I'll bomb London.' Any troops involved in trying to
enforce the peace plan would 'leave their bones in Bosnia.'

But today the general, regarded by many as a bully-boy, was told by Bosnian Serb
leader Radovan Karadjic that if he stepped out of line again with such an
'idiotic outburst' he would face disciplinary action.

With London and Washington vowing to ignore the threat of Bosnian terrorism, Dr
Karadjic issued a statement saying: 'Mladic's outburst was idiotic and
irresponsible and I have spoken to the general in the strongest terms this
morning.

'I wish to make it perfectly clear that there is no question of the Bosnian
Serbs supporting any kind of disruption in Western capitals.

'General Mladic has been reminded that the civilian authorities make policy on
behalf of the Bosnian Serbs and that army commanders have no authority to speak
out in such a way.

'Future statements of a similar nature will be the subject of disciplinary
action.'

General Mladic had said yesterday that the Allies could get into his country:
'But they would not know how to get out.

'They don't have a plane or a weapon that can destroy 50,000 Serbs in one go.
One furious Serb can do a lot of damage with just one match.

'There are Serbs in London, there are Serbs in Washington. Whoever intervenes
here is going to get paid back.'

As EC and UN envoys Lord Owen and Thorvald Stoltenberg prepare to fly to the
region for talks tomorrow, and the West ignored a 'bogus' referendum on the
Owen-Vance peace plan, the threat of some kind of military intervention drew
closer.

Lord Owen said among new measures to bring about peace would be a hard look at
redressing the 'balance of forces on the ground', a comment seen as support for
a toughening of the Allied response in the face of continuing intransigence.

And Defence Secretary Malcolm Rifkind today again refused to rule out some form
of military action, although Britain would not back moves to lift the arms
embargo and arm the Moslems.

Mr Rifkind said: 'The international community must look at all options to end
the suffering in Bosnia.'

Britain had not excluded military intervention of some form in Bosnia, but he
said: 'What is important is to get Slobodan Milosevic to continue to pressure
Serbs into ending the bloodshed.'

The Serbian president has endorsed the Owen-Vance peace plan, widely believed to
have been rejected in a referendum at the weekend by Bosnian Serbs. However, the
poll has been dismissed by the international community as an illegitimate sham.

A spokeswoman for Lord Owen said he and Mr Stoltenberg, the UN's replacement for
Cyrus Vance, had been invited by Croatian President Franjo Tudjman to attend
talks. Bosnia's Moslem president, Alija Izetbegovic, would also attend, she
added.

Meanwhile, Bosnian Serb forces have opened fire on Moslems trying to collect
air-dropped relief supplies inside a UN-declared 'safe area' in eastern Bosnia,
a UN official said today.

The attacks appear to violate warnings from the United States not to interfere
with air dropped humanitarian aid, and with the UN's commitment to protect
people inside 'safe areas'.

'In Srebrenica air-dropped relief bundles have been landing near the line of
confrontation and Serb forces have fired upon some residents as they tried to
retrieve them,' Commander Barry Frewer, spokesman for the United Nations
Protection Force said.

Leader comment: Page 9

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1993 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              95 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                             May 20, 1993, Thursday

ANTI-TERROR INSURANCE MOVE SET TO CLEAR PARLIAMENT

BYLINE:  Press Association Parliamentary Staff

SECTION: PARLIMENTARY NEWS

LENGTH: 159 words


A measure to help businesses at risk of terrorist attack by making the
Government "reinsurer of last resort" after such explosions in Great Britain is
set to complete its parliamentary passage next week.  The Reinsurance (Acts of
Terrorism) Bill is down to clear all its Lords stages next Thursday just weeks
after the Bishopsgate blast in the City of London. It was rushed through the
Commons last week with all party support.  Corporate Affairs Minister Neil
Hamilton told the House then: "We have put together a scheme which will be
effective and which will forever deny terrorists of all kinds the fruits of
their Satanic endeavours to bring the country and its commerce to a standstill
through explosions." Insurers wishing to offer terrorism cover would become
members of a mutual Pool Reinsurance Company, which would be reinsured by the
Government.  Mr Hamilton said the measure was expected to cost the taxpayer
nothing over its lifetime.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1993 The Press Association Limited

                              96 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 22, 1993

HOW A BOMB CAN BLOW YOUR COVER

BYLINE: IAN WYLIE

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN CITY PAGE; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 420 words


A COMPREHENSIVE motor insurance policy should be just that - but claims can
become shrouded with uncertainty when bombers strike.

The Baltic Exchange bomb last year triggered a revamp of commercial insurance
cover. By the time the Bishopsgate attack shook the City again last month,
insurance cover relating to residential property should have been clear.

Only commercial policies now have any terrorism exclusion clauses, and normal
household and motor policies are unaffected. To confirm the position of motor
cover, the AA recently supported one of its members who made a claim in the
aftermath of last year's explosion in the City of London.

The bomb ruined his 1986 Volvo 760 estate which engineers confirmed was beyond
economical repair. More than parts were needed to rebuild it and labour costs
alone would have amounted to pounds 1,600.

Relieved that he had taken out a comprehensive insurance policy he lodged a
claim - only to be told by his broker that he could not. Under an exclusion
clause within his policy the insurance company was washing its hands of the
damage, saying it was the Government's responsibility to pay out compensation in
such an event.  Wrong, says Mike Warburton, head of the AA's claims recovery
service.  "The insurers had misinterpreted the 1977 legislation, which set up a
Government-sponsored compensation fund for terrorist damage in Northern
Ireland," he says. "They wrongly believed it applies to the whole of Britain.

"The debate between the government and insurers over who pays for terrorist
damage to commercial buildings is not an issue for motor policy-holders. Their
vehicles are still covered if damaged by a bomb."

So while the small print in the car owner's policy protected his insurer from
having to pay out for the consequences of war, invasion, civil war, revolution,
insurrection or military coup, it was stumped by terrorist bomb damage. A
settlement was agreed on the basis of total loss and the car owner received a
cheque to replace his Volvo.

A spokesman for the Association of British Insurers, Clive Longhurst, says the
case is an isolated one. "It's usually a straightforward matter if the car has
been comprehensively insured. In this case the insurer has made the mistake of
assuming the government was extending its provisions for buildings to cars as
well."

Spare a thought for motorists in Northern Ireland to whom a bomb-damaged car is
less of a novelty. The average response time to claims is 48 weeks.


LOAD-DATE: May 21, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              97 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                  May 26, 1993

Tea for two at palace breaks an old barrier

BYLINE: John Cooney

SECTION: Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1028 words


The Queen's tea for two at Buckingham Palace tomorrow with Irish President Mary
Robinson, is a landmark in British-Irish relations, John Cooney reports from
Dublin.

PRESIDENT Mary Robinson's courtesy call on the Queen tomorrow, the first by an
Irish head of state since the country won its independence from Britain 72 years
ago, has been widely welcomed in the republic, much to the surprise of the
political establishments in Dublin and London.

This positive response reflects the dramatic decline in the anti-British
monarchy sentiment which prevailed in the early decades of the independent Irish
state.

So favourable has the reaction been to the news of the visit that over the
weekend Prime Minister Albert Reynolds boasted of how he met the Queen at dinner
on board the royal yacht Britannia which was berthed at Leith during December's
EC summit in Edinburgh.

This neighbourly mood is in sharp contrast with even the early 1960s when a
visit by Princess Margaret to Ireland was accompanied by riots and was followed
by a gun attack against a British torpedo ship off the Waterford coast.

In recent years Irish public opinion has become accustomed to a flurry of
private visits by the royals. Some have been low profile, but others, like the
luncheon engagement of the Princess Royal, Princess Anne, with former Irish
Prime Minister Charles Haughey at Punchestown races in 1991, and Prince Edward
attending a rugby match at Lansdowne Road that same year, have been given
celebrity treatment by the media.

Since Ireland joined the European Community in 1973, British Prime Ministers and
Government Ministers have become regular visitors to Ireland for discussions on
a wide range of economic issues.

But it was not until Mrs Robinson was elected President in November 1990 that
speculation has grown of an Irish head of state developing close personal links
with the British monarch.

As journalist Michael O'Sullivan, who is writing a biography of Mrs Robinson,
points out, her own family, the Bourkes of Ballina, Co. Mayo, have had close
links with the royal household. For example, her uncle, Sir Paget Bourke, was
knighted by Queen Elizabeth in 1957.

A year ago Mrs Robinson signalled her public support for a visit to Ireland by
Princess Anne. Asked on Irish radio for her reaction to the declared wish of the
Princess to make an official visit to the republic, Mrs Robinson said she knew
there were many people in the republic who would welcome that kind of contact.

In an interview only a few weeks ago with Alan Fisher on the GMTV breakfast
show, Mrs Robinson spoke of her ambition to consolidate Ireland's relationships
with other EC countries including Britain.

Last July Mrs Robinson became the first Irish head of state to visit Scotland
and only a few weeks ago she met Prince Philip when she attended a memorial
service for the victims of the IRA bombing in Warrington.

None of her predecessors has enjoyed such high esteem in the Queen's eyes, and
Mrs Robinson is also popular with Ulster Unionists, who recall her opposition in
1985 to the UK-Irish Agreement.

According to government sources in Dublin, Mrs Robinson who today will receive
an honorary degree from Oxford University, is pursuing her own agenda.
Apparently she had let it be known in British diplomatic circles that she would
like to have the opportunity to meet the Queen. She was pushing an open door at
the palace.

THE good rapport between Prime Minister John Major and his Irish counterpart
Albert Reynolds has ensured the first courtesy call to Buckingham Palace by an
Irish head of state has received no objections from Downing Street or Merrion
Street.

This more relaxed and tolerant attitude towards British royalty is in marked
contrast to earlier decades when virulent anti-monarchism was a badge of Irish
republicanism.

High-profile royal visits to Ireland took place in the pre-partition days of
1903 and 1911, the first by King Edward VII and the second by King George V and
Queen Mary. On both occasions the royals visited the capital of Irish
catholicism, St Patrick's College, Maynooth, in Co. Kildare. On the second
occasion their host was the president of Maynooth, Monsignor Daniel Mannix,
later to become a rabid champion of Irish republicanism as Archbishop of
Melbourne.

The place of the British monarch was at the centre of the Irish national
question. According to historian David Harkness, a speech by King George V at
the official opening of the first parliament for Northern Ireland in Belfast
City Hall on June 22, 1921, proved to be a turning point in bringing about
negotiations between the Government of Lloyd George and "the illegal Dail
ministry" headed by Eamon De Valera.

The subsequent treaty gave the 26-county Irish State the same status as the then
British dominion of Canada. De Valera's opposition to this treaty led to his
break with Michael Collins. Civil war followed soon afterwards.

In 1927 De Valera brought his followers into parliamentary politics when they
signed their names in the Dail book while publicly claiming that they had made
mental reservations about signing the oath of loyalty to the crown.

But De Valera, the politician who removed the British monarch from a role in
Irish domestic affairs in the 1937 constitution, carefully avoided cutting the
last link with Britain through Ireland's membership of the Commonwealth.

It was during a visit to Canada in 1948 that the then Prime Minister, John A.
Costello, announced that Ireland was leaving the Commonwealth and formally
declaring itself a republic. Such events are literally history for many of
Ireland's population now under 40.

The visit of Mrs Robinson to Buckingham Palace will earn her a place in the
history of British-Irish diplomatic relations. But a government spokesman in
Dublin was at pains to emphasise that the visit does not signal reciprocal state
visits by the Queen to Ireland and Mrs Robinson to Britain.

Given the continuing IRA campaign, security reasons will ensure that such
disclaimers from official sources will continue until any state

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Irish President Mary Robinson: her landmark visit to Buckingham Palace
will earn her a place in the history of British-Irish diplomatic relations.

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1993 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              98 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                             May 27, 1993, Thursday

TERROR INSURANCE MOVE SET FOR ROYAL ASSENT

BYLINE:  Press Association Lords Staff

SECTION: PARLIMENTARY NEWS

LENGTH: 220 words


A measure to help businesses at the risk of terrorist attack in Great Britain,
by making the Government the "reinsurer of the last resort" after such
explosions was rushed through its Lords passage in minutes today.  The
Reinsurance (Acts of Terrorism) Bill now goes for Royal Assent only weeks after
the Bishopsgate blast devastated part of the City of London. Details of the
scheme were spelt out in the Commons this month by Corporate Affairs Minister
Neil Hamilton, who said the measure was expected to cost taxpayers nothing over
its lifetime.  Insurers wishing to offer terrorism cover would become members of
a mutual Pool Reinsurance Company which itself would be reinsured by the
Government.

Viscount St Davids, for the Government, told the House during the brief debate
on the Bill: "The message to terrorists is that business and Government together
will not permit mindless criminal damage to interfere with normal life for a
moment longer than is necessary." He made clear that the measure could apply in
some cases to churches and retrospectively to the Bishopsgate bomb.  But Tory
Lord Boyd-Carpenter complained that it was "undesirable" to deal with such
legislation so quickly.  "I think it is a dangerous tendency of those who manage
our business to cut down debate on Bills to one day."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1993 The Press Association Limited

                              99 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              May 30, 1993, Sunday

Guns blaze at Savoy in Moscow mafia wars

BYLINE: Matthew Campbell, Moscow

SECTION: Overseas news

LENGTH: 1195 words


SPORTING an impressive handlebar moustache, Vitaly Bogov, a former Red Army
sergeant who manages Moscow's Savoy hotel, affects a British stiff upper lip
when asked about the grim events last week on his threshold.

''Of course it is not very agreeable for guests to find bodies on the
doorstep,'' he conceded. ''But the same thing could happen anywhere, even in
London.''

Although the two hotels are unconnected, Bogov says he once trained at the
London Savoy and has tried hard to establish the same standards in its Russian
namesake. The Moscow Savoy takes pride in its elegant image. But rats in the
lobby would have been more welcome than what happened on Wednesday just outside.

The murders at the Savoy looked like a contract killing. Two dark-suited
Caucasians were sipping orange juice in the sunshine at the hotel's pavement
cafe when gunfire rang out. The two men were clinically eliminated. One was shot
neatly between the eyes; the other was felled with a bullet in the back of the
head as he bolted through the hotel's revolving doors.

By the time the mess had been cleaned up, the damage was done. ''Have you seen
what's going on out there?'' an arriving American businessman asked Bogov as the
bodies still lay outside. ''It's as bad as the Bronx!''

Since the break-up of the Soviet Union in late 1991, police have been grappling
with an epidemic of murder, robbery and mayhem, most of it blamed on the
''mafia'', a term used by Russians as a catch-all description for ny organised
criminals, from the petty hoodlums terrorising shopkeepers, to the corrupt
shopkeepers themselves.

Increasingly Russian criminals are aping the methods of the most familiar brand
of mafia gangsters. ''We are getting just like Italy,'' said a waiter at the
Savoy, as the murder rate for the past year topped 1,500. Others have compared
the city to Chicago in the 1920s, an impression reinforced by some of the Moscow
mobsters' preference for haircream and white shoes. Scarcely a day goes by
without some broad daylight shoot-out or gangland killing in the Moscow
equivalent of the Cotton Club.

It is a common occurrence for expensive Moscow restaurants to be taken over for
the evening by ''private parties'' of gangsters who arrive in long convoys of
BMWs and Mercedes. Police are occasionally seen halting other traffic to let the
cavalcade sweep past, just as they would for the Communist party bosses of old.

The Russian godfathers rival their legendary American forebears in their taste
for excess. On the same day as the Savoy killings, Russia's crime bosses
assembled to pay their respects at the graveside of ''the Captain's Mate'', king
of the Siberian godfathers. Mourners ''persuaded'' markets in the city of Chita
to hand over their entire stock of flowers to build a giant tribute to their
boss, who had been gunned down in an ambush the day before.  The funeral
procession included 400 foreign-made cars and other mourners hired 150 taxis to
get there.

The wealth being accumulated is extraordinary, with organised crime stretching
its tentacles into every sphere of commerce. So acute is the problem that
President Boris Yeltsin has warned that Russia is turning into a ''world mafia
power''. Valentin Stepankov, the attorney general, calls it ''lawlessness
without limits''.

This lawlessness is now spilling beyond Russia's borders. Last week, even as the
Savoy massacre was being plotted, Deputy Assistant Commissioner David Veness,
Scotland Yard's leading investigator of organised crime, warned a British police
conference that they endangered Britain. The gangs are already expanding into
much of continental Europe.

Yet how is it that what remains of one of the world's most efficient police
state seems powerless to bring criminals to justice? Part of the problem is
Russia's post-communist legal jungle. ''The harshness of Russian laws is
compensated for by the fact that nobody need obey them,'' ran a 19th-century
witticism just as applicable to Russia in 1993.

Russian laws inherited from the Soviet Union still ban much of the economic
activity of modern Russians, such as buying and selling foreign currency or
trading goods on the street. These laws seem so irrelevant to post-Soviet life
that even the police ignore them. Criminals are free to exploit the resulting
chaos.

Their audacity has left even long-suffering Russian law enforcement officials
gaping. In the past, said Major-General Alexei Semko of the interior ministry,
''We didn't have the legal nihilism in society that flourishes today. If a
citizen saw a police uniform he would react positively, in a satisfactory way,
when challenged. What we have today is anarchy.''

Last year mobsters fired an anti-tank grenade at a private clinic two doors down
from the Moscow office of The Sunday Times. Police said the clinic was probably
targeted for resisting extortion.

Earlier this month, another anti-tank rocket was fired at the Mercedes of a
Russian company director. The mafia has also picked up a few tips from political
terrorists: police report 40 bomb attacks against offices, flats and cars since
the beginning of the year.

''Five years ago we regarded a murder committed with a shotgun as a real
emergency,'' said Colonel Dmitry Medvedev of the interior ministry. ''Today they
use mines, bazookas and all sorts of weapons. In one single raid recently we
confiscated nearly 8,000 rifles.''

The Italian concept of omerta, the mafia code of silence, appears to have taken
root in Russia too. Blood curdling tales abound about the penalty for disloyalty
among the Russian criminal gangs. One medieval tactic is to cut off a victim's
head and leave it publicly displayed.

This happened when hit men caught a courier who had decided to flee with the
money to Stockholm. His body and head came home in separate plastic bags in the
meat safe of a Russian cruise liner. The same macabre fate befell a St
Petersburg policeman who crossed the gangs.

Some gangs have already graduated from street-level gore to white-collar crime.
A powerful group based in the autonomous Chechen republic was thwarted in an
attempt to swindle about $1.2 billion from the Russian state bank through a
system of bribes and false credit notes last year. If the scam had worked,
police said, Russia's monetary system could have collapsed.

The problem for Yeltsin is that people are starting to associate freedom and
democracy with crime. ''A whole class of people have appeared who understand
democracy as being able to do whatever they wanted,'' said Aslambek Aslakhanov,
chairman of the Russian parliamentary commission on crime. The result is
bespredel, or the complete absence of rules, a term of lament used ever more
frequently by Russians to describe the situation.

The police have almost no resources to pit against the villains. In some cases,
poorly armed police track suspects on public transport because of a lack of
police vehicles. ''These gangs have submachineguns and BMWs,'' said Nikolai, an
off-duty policeman relaxing in the bath house. ''We have one pistol between five
of us and a clapped-out Lada with no petrol.''

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1993 Times Newspapers Limited

                              100 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 3, 1993, Thursday

Gangland war linked to murder of fugitive; Shooting victim suspected of
involvement in contract killing

BYLINE: TERRY KIRBY, Crime Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 3

LENGTH: 593 words


A NOTORIOUS gangland figure sought since escaping from Brixton prison with an
IRA bomber in 1980, was murdered in a suspected contract killing in an east
London pub, police said yesterday.

James Moody, a former member of the notorious Richardson torture gang, was
drinking in the Royal Hotel public house in Hackney on Tuesday night when a man
pulled out a handgun and shot him at least four times in the head and chest at
close range.

Detectives said the murder had all the hallmarks of an underworld revenge
killing, of which there have been a large number in London in the past few
years. It was disclosed last night that Moody himself was suspected of
involvement in the contract killing in August 1991 of two men in a south London
public house, which at that time was believed to be part of a war between rival
gangs of former armed robbers, largely for control of the drugs trade.

Detective Superintendent Harry Wilkins, who is leading the investigation into
the Moody murder, is today expected to liaise with detectives in south London
who investigated the murders of David Brindle, 23, and Stanley Silk, 47.

Mr Brindle, who was the target, was suspected of involvement in a series of
armed robberies. The killings were believed to have been ordered by the Arif
gangland clan, several of whose members are in prison for drugs trafficking and
armed robberies.

Mr Wilkins said last night that he would be making detailed inquiries into
Moody's recent activities. Detectives have not yet been able to establish an
address for Moody, although he was believed to be living close to the public
house.

The man who shot Moody was described last night as white, 6ft tall, aged about
40 and with black greying hair and a slight tan. He wore black clothes and a
black leather jacket. Eyewitnesses have told police that he walked into the bar,
ordered a pint of lager but did not drink it and then walked across to where
Moody was standing and shot him. He escaped in a white Ford Fiesta car - stolen
from Chessington, Surrey, on Monday - later found abandoned nearby.

Moody first came to the attention of police in the mid-1960s, then in his early
20s and a scrap metal dealer, when he was a member of the notorious torture gang
led by Charles Richardson, which controlled large parts of south London.

He was cleared of violent offences in 1966 but jailed for seven years for
manslaughter in 1968. In the late 1970s, Moody was a member of the Chainsaw Gang
which attacked security vans, cutting away the side of the vehicles to get at
the cash and valuables.

Moody was awaiting trial on three robbery charges involving more than pounds
900,000 when he escaped from Brixton prison in 1980 alongside the IRA man Gerard
Tuite and another man, Stanley Thompson, who later gave himself up to police. At
the time, Moody and Tuite were among the most wanted and dangerous criminals in
Britain and the escape caused a furore.

The three men escaped by using tools smuggled into the prison to tunnel through
the walls separating their adjacent cells and then burrowing through the outside
wall of Tuite's cell. They then escaped across the prison roof. It was never
clear which man was the driving force.

Tuite led a mainland IRA bombing gang which planted 16 bombs in London, Bristol,
Southampton, Coventry and Manchester, leaving a pounds 3.5m trail of damage,
between April 1978 and February 1979.

He was later recaptured in the Republic of Ireland, in July 1982 and jailed for
10 years under an Anglo-Irish agreement.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1993 Independent Print Ltd

                              101 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            June 12, 1993, Saturday

From causeway to the cause; Fred Mawer finds two sides in Northern Irleand:
beauty and the bomb

BYLINE: FRED MAWER

SECTION: WEEKEND TRAVEL PAGE; Page 50

LENGTH: 1562 words


HOW DOES the marketing director of the Northern Ireland tourist board persuade
people to holiday in a place associated with soldiers and blown-up buildings?
Presumably with some difficulty - although numbers of visitors to the province
have been steadily increasing, from an all-time low at the start of the Troubles
in the early Seventies, to more than 250,000 in 1991. If that seems a lot,
visitors to the British Museum top five million every year.

While the board was recently accused of trying to make money out of people's
misery with the mere suggestion that visitors' curiosity about in the Troubles
should not be overlooked, the tourist brochures avoid the subject altogether. At
present, they talk only of ''forest parks . . . windswept moors . . . white
Atlantic sands''. And there is truth in this - if you go to the right parts. But
I also went on to the wrong parts, to get some idea of what a tourist might
learn in West Belfast.

Poor weather - forecasters make a habit of predicting a 100 per cent chance of
rain - and the threat of bombs must make Northern Ireland's north coast one of
the UK's most unspoilt. Here I came across no checkpoints or soldiers; usually,
the only evidence of conflict is each town's RUC station, heavily fortified with
lookout post and high fencing. That said, last November a 500lb IRA bomb
destroyed Coleraine's town centre.

If you are prepared to brave both the elements of nature and the undesirable
elements, you will have a magical place all to yourself. Driving beside the long
sandy beaches, or exploring the beauty spots, I had just a few locals for
company. Even on Magilligan Strand, Ireland's longest beach, there were only a
few people strolling along. At its eastern end, Mussenden Temple - a bizarrely
isolated neoclassical library on the cliff edge - was deserted. At Murlough Bay,
in the north-east corner of the coast, there were only sheep, playing King of
the Castle on rocky outcrops, and a lonesome cottage next to a lapping grey sea.

The only place that stays relatively busy all year is the Giant's Causeway, the
promontory of thousands of hexagonal lava-made basalt columns protruding into
the sea. It makes you wonder, as with a honeycomb, how something that looks so
precise can be naturally derived.

Even here it is easy to find solitude. On the five-mile circular walk beyond the
causeway, the grey basalt columns seem superimposed on the ochre cliffsides,
some with names such as the Chimney Tops or the Organ. Below, waves throw spume
over volcanic black boulders.

But visitors are constantly aware that this beauty is only one aspect of
Northern Ireland. I wanted to explore West Belfast, the city's sectarian
heartland, known as the most dangerous place in the UK.

Would I be able to tell this just from wandering around? Would a visit be seen
as voyeuristic? The advice from the city tourist office went no further than
''you'll be safe walking along the Falls Road in daylight''. Its map stops at
West Belfast's peripheries. Different places, different perceptions: in Britain,
the whole of Northern Ireland is seen as dangerous; on the north coast, the city
of Belfast is regarded with alarm; in Belfast centre, it is West Belfast the
citizens regard as a virtual no-go area.

An hour-long tour of West Belfast in a taxi costs about a tenner. On the western
edge of the city centre, a couple of hundred yards apart, are two taxi ranks,
signs in Gaelic distinguishing the Catholic from the Protestant. Taxis go only
to their own community - to the Catholic Falls or Protestant Shankill, for
example. The taxis act like a flexible community bus service, dropping off and
picking up passengers for 50p along set routes.

One advantage of a taxi tour is the chance to talk in private to a local. The
driver may even be a loyalist or republican ex-prisoner. ''The fellas coming out
of jail have done their time. They deserve a job,'' said my Protestant driver.

My Catholic driver was a Sinn Fein supporter but, to my surprise, neither he nor
any other republican I met, in West Belfast or anywhere in Northern Ireland,
showed any animosity towards me.

I asked the driver when he had last crossed the few hundred yards into
Protestant Shankill. More than a year ago, he replied - to buy a toy for a
child. ''They'd know I was Catholic as I'd be looking over my shoulder the whole
time.'' My Protestant driver talked lyrically of drinking in Catholic pubs on
the Falls Road before the Troubles.

Having got my bearings in the taxis, I felt confident to explore on foot.

Divis Tower acts as a solitary beacon guarding the entrance to the Falls. At the
top of the flats is an army surveillance post - supplies are brought in by
helicopter. At the city centre end of the Falls Road is the Sinn Fein office,
which I braved to ask for a visitors' map of the area.

It gives the rough location of many political murals, as well as Sinn Fein
centres and army barracks. The Sinn Fein shop next door, as well as promulgating
Gerry Adams's words of wisdom and other political tracts, is West Belfast's
tourist shop. You can buy ''I Love West Belfast'' mugs, T-shirts featuring
hooded gunmen, even your very own republican flag.

West Belfast has reputedly the worst housing, health and unemployment in
Northern Ireland, and certainly the poverty on the Falls Road struck me as much
as the declarations of nationalism. Among tattered republican flags, lampposts
and kerbstones painted white, yellow and green, kids jump on to the outside of
moving buses, dogs hold up traffic and drunks slump in doorways.

North of the Falls Road is the ''Peace Line'' - metal fencing in places,
elsewhere a proper wall. It slinks jaggedly between the Falls and Shankill,
sometimes splitting residential streets in two. It is supposed to make policing
easier and reduce vigilante attacks. Every night at 6pm the few crossing points
are closed off. People fear being spotted driving down a dead-end street, their
desire to be in the other community all too clear.

Murals are dotted all over West Belfast, many adorning the gable ends of
terraces. Their strong colours and painstaking artwork seem at odds with their
messages of hate and images of masked gunmen.

Republican murals often portray the Easter Rising of 1916, and Bloody Sunday in
Derry in 1972, when soldiers killed 13 civil rights demonstrators. Sometimes the
dates alone are left to speak for themselves.

There is less to see in Protestant Shankill - a result of the loyalist identity
problem, my taxi driver said. At the end of his tour he had called over fellow
drivers to demonstrate his point. On being asked their nationality, the first
had said ''British'', the second ''Irish''. But as I wandered up the Shankill
Road, it occurred to me how certain ordinary sights - people wearing poppies for
Remembrance Sunday, an RUC constable helping a shopkeeper put up a ladder - were
unthinkable on the Falls Road a few hundred yards away. Here the kerbstones are
red, white and blue, and a few Union Jacks fly.

The loyalist murals in Percy Street, off the south of the Shankill Road, use the
simple symbolism of flags, crowns, coats of arms and initials of paramilitary
groups. Northern Ireland is depicted in isolation. Some of the most colourful
murals show William of Orange riding victorious over Catholic James II: the most
significant Protestant date is 1690 - the Battle of the Boyne.

Is it morbid to visit West Belfast, like hanging around the scene of a gory
accident? Nobody I spoke to thought so. Once, I came across two German tourists
snapping away at murals. A resident who was parking his car moved it away from
one of the murals so that the photographers could get a better view.

FACTFILE

Getting there: British Airways (081-897 4000) from Heathrow to Belfast's
Aldergrove Airport (19 miles from the city), from pounds 75. Britannia (0582
424155) from Luton to Aldergrove, pounds 78. Ferry: Scotland to Larne, 20 miles
north of Belfast, takes about 2 1/4 hours. P & O (0304 203388) from Cairnryan,
Sealink Stena (0233 647047) from Stranraer. From pounds 26 for foot passengers,
pounds 150 for car and up to five passengers.

Accommodation: A double room in a north coast B & B costs about pounds 22;
pounds 58 for a double room at the Bushmills Inn (02657 32339), the north
coast's best hotel.

Most Belfast B & Bs are in the south of the city. Ash-Rowan (0232 661758), one
of the best, has doubles from pounds 56.

Food and drink: Ramore (0265 824313), Portrush, is affordable and one of the
best restaurants on the north coast. The Roscoff, Shaftesbury Square (0232
331532), almost merits a trip to Belfast in itself.

Belfast's so-called Golden Mile has a vast array of restaurants and pubs. At the
city centre end is the Crown Liquor Saloon, with elaborate carvings, panelled
snugs and Strangford oysters. The Strand restaurant (0232 682266), to the south
of the Golden Mile, is excellent value.

Books: Despatches from Belfast by David McKittrick - the Independent's Ireland
correspondent - is good on West Belfast (Blackstaff Press, pounds 8.95). The
best travel literature on Northern Ireland is A Place Apart by Dervla Murphy
(Penguin, pounds 5.95).

Further information: The Northern Ireland Tourist Board (0232 246609).

(Photograph omitted)


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1993 Independent Print Ltd

                              102 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 June 14, 1993

KIOSK;
PORTUGAL fights Aids FRANCE fears a takeover DENMARK gives us Euroman SPAIN
refuses to be gagged

BYLINE: PAT LEON, JOHN GLOVER, ALEX DUVAL SMITH, ROSA ANGUITA

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN EURO PAGE; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 978 words


THE EDITOR of Publico, Guardian Europe's partner paper in Portugal, has added
his voice to a national publicity campaign to use condoms. Pictured with the
said item, unused, between his fingers, Vicente Jorge Silva will be embellishing
advertising hoardings throughout Lisbon until October as part of a publicity
campaign promoted by an Aids victims' support group and magazine Cosmo. He is
one of 60 public figures photographed by Antonio Moutinho; all are doing various
things in various positions with variously coloured condoms. And all with a
smile on their faces. "We wanted them to say, with humour, that using a condom
is essential to avoid Aids," said Paula Ribeira, Cosmo editor.  "Now everyone
wants to be photographed, they're even telephoning us to ask," she says. We
wonder when one of Britain's illustrious editors will gaze down from the
hoardings, condom in hand? PAT LEON

Contacts book blunder

SINCE the tangenti corruption scandal first broke in Italy, journalists there
have been congratulating themselves on the role the press has played in the
investigations and in gathering public support for a huge clean-up.

For more than 12 months, the media have been digging away to expose huge illegal
payments many of Italy's key companies made to politicians. But now it is the
corporate press officers who are rubbing their hands at the prospect of their
journalistic tormentors being landed in the muck.

Last week, officials of the Milanese court investigating the scandals left a
sealed envelope with the Ordine dei Giornalisti, the governing body of Italian
journalists. It will be opened this evening after a meeting of the Ordine
council.

The envelope contains the names of four leading business journalists who are
believed to have been clients of Lombardfin, a securities firm which collapsed
in 1990. Italian hacks are forbidden from holding such accounts and inside
information may have enabled the four to bail out of the firm before it
collapsed.

The tribunal has asked the Ordine to consider disciplinary proceedings. The
names of another twenty reporters have been sent to the public attorney's office
for further investigation. The wife of the editor of a leading financial daily
is reported to be on the list for investigation.

A member of parliament belonging to the left wing La Rete party has tabled a
question asking if there was any dealing between Lombardfin and Treasury
minister Piero Barruci. JOHN GLOVER

Euroman and his money

EUROMAN hasn't much time for Euro woman. The monthly Danish glossy does,
however, give over two pages to breasts (such as those pictured below) and
informs its upwardly mobile readers that women, when having conversations with
each other, do not look at each other's chests.

This must come as a surprise to Mr Euroman who, apart from thinking about sex,
is most concerned with success, travel, designer furniture and clothes, and
sport - or so the contents of the latest issue indicate.

Describing itself as Denmark's only magazine for men, Euroman certainly seems
hell-bent on filling the supposed gap in the market. Sandwiched between glossy
ads for aftershave, credit cards and cars, are Danish success stories, such as
Jarl Friis-Mikkelsen's. Jarlen, as he is known, has done what appears to be the
ultimate for a Euroman - to leave Europe and go to Hollywood. The television
showbiz reporter is Denmark's hotline to the stars through his Hollywood gossip
show.

Making a mint is definitely the Euroman's aim in life. A survey of 500 readers
found the typical Euroman to be in his late 20s, earning between pounds 25,000
and pounds 30,000. He doesn't hide his light under a bushel, isn't worried about
Aids and considers himself ambitious. On the other hand, 86 per cent wouldn't
object to a girlfriend paying the restaurant bill on a date and 59 per cent, if
they have a woman secretary, do not expect her to make coffee. Seventy three per
cent think of sex between one and 20 times every day and 89 per cent find
themselves good-looking. ALEX DUVAL SMITH

Dirty tricks

HERRI Batasuna (HB), the nationalist political party in the Spanish Basque
country, issued what sounded like a veiled death threat to three journalists
during Spain's recent general election campaign.  The journalists - Jose Maria
Calleja, David Barbero and Juan Luis Bikuna - all work in the news department of
the autonomous Euskal Telebista television channel.

HB, the political wing of terrorist group ETA, which is fighting for an
independent Basque country, used the journalists' faces on a poster for Jarrai,
the party's youth section. The poster was displayed in different cities around
the region for the duration of the campaign. The caption read: "Killers. We are
going to get you out of the Basque country".

In one of HB's campaign videos, the party also featured one of the three,
accusing him of disinformation, a new tactic in HB's traditional strategy of
pressurising journalists who come out against terrorist violence.

However, several regional and national media organisations demonstrated their
support for the three journalists in what was denounced as an attack on the
freedom of expression which has been so cherished in Spain since the end of
General Franco's dictatorship in 1975.

A Jarrai official responded with charges that Euskal Telebista and other
regional media organisations were persistently manipulating information in their
reports.

It also drew criticism from Carlos Carnicero, editor of Spanish news weekly
Panorama, who used some of his pages to denounce HB's latest tactics.

"I don't remember anything in the recent history of Spain that violates the
freedom of expression as shamelessly as this. It is nothing more than a cowardly
attack by those who have loaded their terrorist guns with slander."


LOAD-DATE: June 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              103 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 June 14, 1993

Law and order in Northern Ireland

SECTION: Pg. 10

LENGTH: 283 words


June 7.

Call me naive and old-fashioned, even pooh-pooh me for being too simplistic, but
with reference to your poll on Northern Ireland should we not view the situation
in the province as a law-and-order problem rather than give the terrorists and
their supporters credibility by allowing them to make it a political or
religious issue (June 4)?

Where else in Britain can people maim and kill with such impunity? It seems the
key to exemption from diligent pursuit and capture is to glorify yourself as a
"paramilitary" rather than just a plain criminal.

Discussions, debates, and forums on the constitutional issues are all very nice
and trendy.

However, the fact remains that terrorists in active service of an unlawful cause
are fugitives from natural and legal justice.

Until they are accorded the same status as other violent criminals they will
bewitch us with their politicising and escape the attention that other murderers
get from the police.

In order for law and order to be restored in Northern Ireland, organised crime
in the form of terrorist activity must be wiped out.

Only then can the underlying causes of the Troubles be addressed.

No British Government has yet had the will or the stomach to do this.

Consequently we have let the people of Northern Ireland down. We have betrayed
them, ignored them, and cheapened their sufferings by interjecting them into our
own insidious tribalism.

Why the vast majority of people in Ulster desire to remain British is a wonder.

The truth is, we do not deserve them. They are too good for us and too British
for us.

William McMurdo,

Elmwood House,

9 Park Quadrant,

Glasgow.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1993 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              104 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 14, 1993, Monday

Peter Pringle's America: One step wrong and you're gone

BYLINE: PETER PRINGLE

SECTION: COMMENT PAGE; Page 19

LENGTH: 969 words


AS WITH any treacherous terrain, the American city should not be explored
without a seasoned guide. A wrong step, a wrong turn or an approach for
directions from the wrong person and the visitor is doomed.

The lesson in the latest death of a visitor to the United States - the
72-year-old British tourist Noel Fitzpatrick, who, it appears, mistakenly took
the subway to one of Washington, DC's hell-holes and was shot to death - is that
touring America's big, mean cities warrants special advice.

The horror of Mr Fitzpatrick's death in a darkened alleyway a few blocks from
the White House follows the death of a German tourist in Miami. She hired a car,
took a wrong turn off a highway and was bumped from behind by a car carrying two
men. When she got out to examine the damage, she was beaten up and run over. Her
sons, aged two and six, watched her die.

It is not only in the devastated and drug-ridden areas of America's cities that
the hazards of America are encountered by the unschooled visitor. In the leafy
suburbs of Baton Rouge, Louisiana, a 17-year-old Japanese exchange student was
searching for a Halloween party and knocked at the door of the wrong house. The
owner, surprised and fearing that the youth was a burglar, took up a .357 magnum
pistol and shot him dead.

The Japanese government is now issuing booklets containing a basic survival
vocabulary that includes the Japanese equivalents for ''freeze'', ''duck'' and
''back off''. Had the Japanese exchange student known these words, which the
resident claimed he shouted, the boy might still be alive.

The British Foreign Office issues safety warnings to tourists travelling to
Florida, but assumes that travellers appreciate the violence of American city
life in general.

It is time for the British government to adapt a US State Department idea: For
years it has issued ''travel advisories'' to American citizens going abroad.
These official documents are issued after an IRA bomb explosion in London, a
kidnapping in Paris or a Mafia shootout in Milan. Watchful bureaucrats in the
State Department's headquarters are trigger-happy with warnings - an especially
bad bar brawl in Brixton is the kind of thing that can raise the alarm.

Warnings to British tourists should be posted by law in all British travel
agencies and airports. A survival guide to American cities should be given to
anyone buying tickets to New York, Washington, Miami, Detroit, Chicago and Los
Angeles. It should be based on the street code well known to anyone who lives in
these cities.

There are certain areas into which the average American does not stray. The area
of Washington where Mr Fitzpatrick was killed is well known for prostitution and
drugs, even though it is two blocks from one of the finest arterial avenues in
the city. This leads through the District of Columbia, directly south to
President Clinton's front door. The guide should shade dangerous areas. It is no
good relying on glossy guidebooks to do this; it can only come from local
knowledge.

In New York, Harlem is a tourist attraction. So is Columbia University. Both are
in areas that are fine if you keep to the main streets, but the subway stops at
135th Street and 116th Street should not be used by out-of-towners toting
cameras, money pouches and new sneakers. These items blink like a neon sign at a
mugger. Dress like a bank clerk down on his luck.

If you ride the subway, adopt your ''subway look''. New Yorkers do, even
schoolchildren. Whatever the weather, they look like a black cloud about to
burst. Learn to walk like a killer. An ambling gait is like the smell of blood
to an American street shark. The tourist who idly gazes at the top of a
building, enjoying the architecture, has the look of a victim.

Beware the car-rental company that advertises itself with stickers in the car
window. The German tourist in Miami was identified as a holidaymaker by the
number plate on her car which had a tell-tale ''Z'', indicating rental. With one
eye on the victim and another on Florida's $ 28bn tourist industry, the state's
governor immediately banned new ''Z'' cars and asked car- rental companies to
remove the 659,000 ''Z'' plates already attached to these bright, new cars. The
governor did not order the removal of promotional material from licence plates
and bumper stickers, however.

Always drive with the car doors locked and avoid stopping at traffic lights.
Sound crazy? Los Angeles residents try to cruise at exactly the right speed to
get all the green lights in bad areas.

Included in the guide should be the latest crime statistics. Actually murders
are slightly down this year, but the number of handguns siezed by police is up -
12,497 last year. They were found all over the place - in a baby's pram, a
hospital examination room and a portable lavatory.

A safe distance should be kept from unidentified packages in public places: a
way of life for Britons facing the IRA threat.

Finally, the guide should give a picture of what the future could look like.
Cities are emptying of shops, and residents are spilling out into the
for-the-moment safer suburbs at an increasing rate. They call it the ''Edge City
Phenomenon''. Gun laws are tightening in some states, breaking traditional
barriers in the relationship between the demand for public safety and the right
to bear arms. New Jersey and Connecticut followed California's lead in banning
assault weapons, a defeat for the gun lobby led by the National Rifle
Association. But the NRA's membership is now a record 3.2 million and growing.

These are facts and figures, not opinions. The Foreign Office should be able to
publish them without upsetting the special relationship between Britain and
America. It would be irresponsible not to do so.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1993 Independent Print Ltd

                              105 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 22, 1993, Tuesday

A bombshell for London's drivers; The City may soon be a car-free zone. But it
took the IRA to prompt new thinking, says Christian Wolmar

BYLINE: CHRISTIAN WOLMAR

SECTION: COMMENT PAGE; Page 21

LENGTH: 1449 words


THE IRA has presented the City of London with a historic opportunity to
transform the environment of the Square Mile. Next month the City corporation
will put forward a radical proposal for restricting cars and lorries in the City
and deterring through traffic.

The ostensible reason is the two IRA bombs that have wreaked havoc there in the
past 15 months, but underlying the proposal is the realisation that the car is
wreaking its own form of havoc daily, clogging streets and creating an
atmosphere that does nothing to enhance the status of London as a world
financial capital.

The plan involves a large part of the City being closed to all but buses, taxis
and vehicles with permits. The enclosed area - the boundaries of which have not
yet been exactly determined - would be divided into five zones, with access to
each through one point only, guarded by security staff. There would be several
exits along one-way streets.

Buses and taxis would be allowed through without stopping, as would service
vehicles for part of the day. Other vehicles would be turned back unless they
had a legitimate reason to enter. This would undoubtedly deter the IRA, even if
not all vehicles were stopped, but motoring organisations are already beginning
to lobby against the idea.

To be fair to the Corporation of London, the recognition of how ludicrous it is
to allow unrestricted traffic into the narrow streets of Britain's financial
capital is not just the result of the IRA bombings. Two years ago the City
commissioned research into local transport needs and discovered that road
transport was largely irrelevant. Only 4 per cent of commuters used cars to get
to work and a further 4 per cent used buses. The rest travelled to work either
by tube or British Rail. Although the City's planners and councillors had
expected rail to be dominant, they had not realised just how dominant.

Despite these surprising findings, there is a permanent traffic jam around the
heart of the City for much of the working day, while the pavements are so full
of people that they often spill out on to the roads, risking life and limb. Yet
only 9 per cent of motorists driving into the central area have any business
there; what is clogging up the City is traffic passing through.

Given that walking is the main form of transport in the City, the Corporation
has an appalling record of catering for the pedestrian. It need not have been
so. After the war, a plan to reconstruct the City put forward by William (later
Lord) Holford and Charles Holden suggested that the pedestrian should be at the
centre of the area's transport policy. They wanted many of the medieval alleys
and squares closed to traffic, which would have created a busy and lively
atmosphere like found in many European cities.

However, the plan was hijacked by Modernists, whose planning ideas were in the
ascendancy at the London County Council, and pedestrians' needs were ignored.
Throughout the Sixties, planners preferred to do away with pedestrians
altogether at street level. Michael Hebbert, director of the town planning
programme at the London School of Economics, explains: ''The City wanted to
build a 32-mile network of walkways at first-floor level, leaving the streets to
cars and lorries. Historically, the City engineer has been a very powerful
character and has tended to be very pro-roads.''

Developers were forced to incorporate walkways into their plans. The remnants of
that programme can be seen at the Barbican and in Lower and Upper Thames
Streets, but as the architects of similar ''walkways in the sky'' on council
estates quickly discovered, nobody ever uses them. Worse, to complete the
walkway scheme would have involved the destruction of much of the existing
historic street plan. Every byway and alley remained open to cars, used mainly
by canny cab drivers as short cuts.

In the Seventies, developers began to balk at the high price of constructing
walkways and conservationists finally managed to kill the schemes towards the
end of the decade, when many buildings were listed. A street- based design
philosophy became fashionable. Belatedly, the City began to look at car use -
for example allowing only one car-parking space for every 12,000 sq ft of new
offices - and at ways of restricting traffic, but came up against great
difficulty in convincing retailers that their businesses would be boosted by
pedestrianisation.

Michael Cassidy, chairman of the Corporation's policy and resources committee -
in effect, the City's top politician - says it took years to close off one small
street, Bow Lane, because of objections. ''Retailers have the right to object if
the road being blocked off is their only access and then there has to be a
public inquiry.''

Already the City has begun a covert war against through motorists. It is
restructuring its traffic light system so that they face more red lights, in an
effort to deter them from using the area as a short cut.

There are, however, a number of problems with the City's limited-access scheme
which, as Mr Cassidy stresses, is only a plan that will initially be put out for
public consultation. The major one is its effect on neighbouring boroughs. Not
only will traffic gravitate to them - so will the IRA. Westminster, Southwark,
Islington and Tower Hamlets will all put up strong resistance.

As will motoring organisations. Edmund King, the RAC's campaigns manager, says:
''The City isn't an independent state. It is part of London and there are 32
other boroughs. It can't just unilaterally ban cars, because they will just go
elsewhere.''

This was demonstrated by the recent completion of the Limehouse Link in
Docklands, which has encouraged cars to use Upper and Lower Thames Streets.
Blocking off the City would put further pressure on those same streets.

The other major obstacle is the need for legislation. The City of London Police
have already admitted that they are at the limit of their powers in imposing the
existing system of armed road blocks that they hope will deter the IRA from
making another attack. It may not be an insuperable barrier. Mr Cassidy says he
has talked to John Major, and to Kenneth Clarke, when he was Home Secretary,
about restricting access to the City and they were prepared to consider allowing
legislation.

Nevertheless, the need for legislation means that in the interim, the
Corporation will have to use other methods to deter terrorists. The current
system of rolling road blocks will be stepped up with the help of an extra 100
City of London police officers who have been recruited since the first bomb in
April 1992.

The increasingly heavy use of road blocks will, in effect, be the first stage of
restricting traffic in the City. People will get used to the idea of avoiding
the Square Mile because they will not want the hassle of being stopped and so
may be less resistant to Mr Cassidy's grand plan.

Mr Cassidy is an astute politician, pushing the City Corporation to the
forefront, in the absence, since the abolition of the Greater London Council in
1986, as a voice for London as a whole. There is a strong element of
self-interest in the plan. The City cannot hope to fill all its office space by
letting to companies providing financial services, as this is a declining
sector. It will have to attract other firms and, to do so, the environment must
be improved. Some transport commentators suggest that eventually cars, buses and
taxis could disappear completely, leaving the way open for trams and even auto
rickshaws for short journeys around the City.

Nevertheless, if the City scheme gets the go-ahead, even in a truncated form, it
could be the start of a reappraisal throughout Britain of the way that cars are
allowed to dominate urban centres.

Martin Bradshaw, president of the Royal Town Planning Institute, says: ''The
City is a prime candidate for this sort of scheme. Pedestrianisation would help
to break it up, getting away from the single dominant culture of the financial
world. A few restaurant tables on the streets would do wonders. But the scheme
would have to be done very well.''

As John Whitelegg, head of geography at Lancaster University put it: ''The City
is so small that it is the best place in Britain to create a really favourable
environment for pedestrians and public transport.''

He thinks it could be the first stage in creating a car-free zone, as is
happening in several European cities such as Aachen, Lubeck, Bologna and
Amsterdam. It is a sad commentary on British transport policy that it took the
IRA to start the debate on these issues.

(Photographs and map omitted)


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1993 Independent Print Ltd

                              106 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            June 26, 1993, Saturday

Muslim rivals find no time for big issue

BYLINE: MARCUS TANNER in Belgrade

SECTION: EUROPEAN NEWS PAGE; Page 8

LENGTH: 618 words


THE tug-of-war between rival Muslim leaders in Bosnia yesterday prevented the
leaders from hammering out a response to plans to partition the republic into
three states.

One part of Bosnia's seven-member presidency led by Fikret Abdic gathered for
the session in the Bosnian embassy in Zagreb, while Bosnia's President, Alija
Izetbegovic, stayed put in Sarajevo and insisted the session take place there
instead.

In Sarajevo, Ejup Ganic, a member of the presidency and a close ally of Mr
Izetbegovic, issued a dire prediction that the war in Bosnia would last another
15 years, and would be accompanied by terrorist attacks if the world helped to
''finish off'' Bosnia.

''I do not want to be responsible for terrorism, but it will happen in Europe,''
he predicted. Mr Ganic added that there were at least a million Bosnians roaming
around Europe as refugees or Gastarbeiter. ''If the European Community try to
sell Bosnia these people will behave like robots and there will be a disaster,''
he said.

Ruling out the plan to partition Bosnia as tantamount to an endorsement of
ethnic cleansing, Mr Ganic promised the military struggle for a united Bosnia
would carry on to the end. ''We will have heavy casualties but we will continue
to resist and I can tell you we cannot be destroyed,'' he said. He went on to
blast Britain for what he claimed was strong anti- Muslim prejudice. ''The
French people support Bosnia but the government do not, while the British are
even worse,'' he said. ''Bosnia is paying the price for the hostility to Islam
of the British government.''

Mr Abdic, 47, threw down a gauntlet to Mr Izetbegovic last week when he pleaded
for Bosnia's presidency at least to consider the plan to split Bosnia into three
ethnic-based states. He savaged Mr Izetbegovic as a man of war and claimed most
Muslims no longer supported him. As a more flexible negotiator than Mr
Izetbegovic, Mr Abdic is reported to have won backing from Lord Owen in his bid
for the Bosnian Muslim leadership.

The Serbian President, Slobodan Milosevic, and President Franjo Tudjman of
Croatia presented a joint plan for a three-way division of Bosnia at talks in
Geneva with the international mediators, Thorvald Stoltenberg and Lord Owen.

The poorly mapped plans have raised a host of problems. In particular a
suggested Muslim corridor to the sea treads on everyone's toes. There is only
one route for that corridor, down the River Neretva to the Croatian port of
Ploce and the sea. It runs through Jablanica and Mostar.

Both are strategically vital to the Muslims and to the Croats - and not just the
Bosnian Croats of Herzeg- Bosnia but Croatia proper. North of Jablanica lies a
complex of hydro-electric power stations which supply Herzeg-Bosnia and some of
Croatia with electricity. There was heavy fighting between Muslims and Croats in
this sector yesterday. If the Muslims control this complex they could demand
access to the sea or interfere with supplies.

Yesterday, all three parties continued their scramble for territory, if only to
use it as a bargaining counter. Fierce fighting continued in the Posavina
corridor around Brcko in the far north linking the two lobes of the
Serb-controlled territory in Bosnia, where Muslims and Croats fight together
against the Serbs. At its narrowest point the Posavina corridor, linking the
Serb heartland with the Serb-controlled north-west, is just 1,500 metres wide.

In spite of their great superiority in firepower the Serbs seem to be losing at
the moment. Last week they attacked in the Banovici area south-west of Tuzla and
towards Turbe, west of where the British are based, but in both cases were
driven back.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1993 Independent Print Ltd

                              107 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             June 27, 1993, Sunday

Gadaffi in new Lockerbie offer

BYLINE: By James Adams, Washington

SECTION: Overseas news

LENGTH: 522 words


COLONEL GADAFFI has offered to hand over the two men suspected of the Lockerbie
bombing to Jesse Jackson, the American politician, on condition that he does not
take them to America or Britain.

After months spent lobbying any country or prominent politician who will listen,
the Libyan leader has now turned to Jackson. During an interview held in his
Tripoli tent and broadcast on CNN last night, he made his offer with a customary
flourish.

''All the world trusts you,'' Gadaffi told Jackson. ''The two people can go with
you to anywhere other than America or Britain. They are afraid of America and
England.''

Jackson, whose critics say he has an ego almost as big as Gadaffi's, was
impressed by the offer and believes he might sell the idea to Washington.  Such
a deal, however, is fiercely opposed by America and Britain, which insist they
will not relax sanctions unless the men are sent to either country to face
murder and conspiracy charges.

There is nothing new in the offer: in the past year Gadaffi has offered to hand
over the two men to Egypt, Malta, the Arab League and The Hague. He has tried
pitching all kinds of compromises, including the setting-up of a special
international court, but none of his initiatives has been accepted.

Gadaffi attempted to apologise for the bombing, telling Jackson he was ''very,
very sorry about this tragic accident'', which killed 270 people when PanAm 103
exploded over Lockerbie five years ago. The outside world, however, views the
''accident'' as a carefully planned terrorist attack organised by Libyan
intelligence in revenge for the 1986 American bombing of Tripoli, itself a
punishment for Gadaffi's support for international terrorism.

Since sanctions started in April last year, Gadaffi has been increasingly
isolated on the world stage. His economy is struggling and there have been no
grand trips to foreign capitals and no world leaders have come to pay court.
Gadaffi has begun an ambitious campaign to convince the world that he is a
reformed character.

In the Jackson interview Gadaffi offered olive branches to both John Major and
Bill Clinton. He described the British prime minister as ''a good man who has
bad luck'', while the American president was ''like a star out of the darkness
in the western hemisphere''. It is unlikely that either man will welcome such
endorsements.

In meetings with the Foreign Office, Gadaffi's diplomats have handed over
extensive details of Libyan funding, training and arming of the IRA, including
the names of terrorists who have been to Libya.

But an isolated Libya has become irrelevant to the international political scene
and there is no reason for Britain or America to cut any deal. As far as
Washington and London are concerned, Gadaffi can twist in the wind until he
either dies or falls in a coup. Alternatively, he can hand over his two agents
for trial.

Gadaffi has consistently refused to send them abroad to face interrogation and
trial because he is worried that they will reveal details of other Libyan
intelligence operations or even say he ordered the Lockerbie attack.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Colonel Gadaffi

                    Copyright 1993 Times Newspapers Limited

                              108 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Standard (London)

                             June 28, 1993, Monday

WHY WE BACKED US MISSILE RAID ON IRAQ

BYLINE: David Shaw

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1227 words


BRITAIN'S support for the American weekend military strike on Baghdad was
spelled out this evening by Foreign Secretary Douglas Hurd.

It was, he told the Commons, a justified and proportionate measure and a
'necessary warning to Iraq that state terrorism cannot and will not be
tolerated'.

Summoned to explain Britain's readiness to back the attack he said: 'The attempt
to kill ex-President Bush is a reminder that the Iraqi state is still a sponsor
of terrorism. Only through firmness can Iraq be persuaded to conform to the
standards of behaviour required of it by the international community.'

Mr Hurd accepted that there were risks of splitting the Gulf war coalition, but
he told MPs that Iraq's assassination plot could not go unpunished.

'This act of terrorism by the Iraqi regime has to be seen in the context of a
pattern of attempted defiance and obstruction by Iraq on the UN.'

The Americans had held off until they had the proof that the Iraqis were behind
the plot to kill former President Bush.

With Labour and the Liberal Democrats attacking the legality of the raid, the
Iraqis said hopes of an early release of three British prisoners had been
dashed.

And a senior Tory warned that the attack had played into the hands of the
extremists and could lose the West vital support among many Arab nations whose
help would be needed to contain Iraq in the near future.

Former Prime Minister Sir Edward Heath was said to share the disquiet.

Cyril Townsend, chairman of the Conservative Middle East Council, deplored the
attempted assassination of former President Bush, the justification for the
launch of 23 cruise missiles against

Saddam Hussein's intelligence HQ.

But he expressed doubts about the legality of the missile attack, adding: 'In
the next decade we are going to have to contain Iraq and possibly Iran and we
will need the support of at least some of the 21 Arab countries.

'I do not think that action over the weekend is going to make that any easier.'
Islamic extremists would be delighted at the repercussions.

But he said: 'If I were a statesman in the Arab world or a senior politician in
favour of Western values and ideals, trying to introduce an element of democracy
into the Middle East, I would be very frightened this afternoon.'

Ray Seitz, the US ambassador in London, was adamant that America had been right
in attacking 'in self defence . . . not retaliation' and the intention had been
to stop Saddam using terrorism to further his aims.

He challenged Mr Townsend's view on relations with the Arabs, saying: 'I am
pretty certain that there are a number of leaders in the region who are quite
pleased to see that vigorous action was taken when an assassination attempt was
so obvious.'

Iraq's EC ambassador, Zaid Heidar, said a trip to Baghdad by London Euro MP Alf
Lomas and Dr Barry Seal, from Yorkshire West, would have to be cancelled and the
chances of freedom for the jailed Britons - Londoner Paul Ride, Michael
Wainwright and Simon Dunn, had been hit.

'After all this, how can we explain to people who have lost relatives in the
bombing why we are freeing these Englishmen?'

While Iraq would not seek revenge by terrorist action against US embassies and
property in Europe he said: 'This has stirred up hatred and I don't know what
other terrorist groups may do.'

It emerged today that John Major was told by the White House in advance of the
strike. He was contacted by mobile phone while on a walkabout of a shopping
centre in Larne, Northern Ireland, on Saturday lunchtime after the White House
had called 10 Downing Street.

More information was forthcoming in a private message sent to him in Ulster at
around 2.30pm via No 10.

In response, the Prime Minister warned Mr Clinton that he must be sure the
strike was 'limited and proportionate' and to take account of Saddam's British
prisoners.

Mr Major also urged him to direct the attack specifically at those believed to
be responsible for the assassination attempt on former president George Bush.

Leader comment: Page 9

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1993 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              109 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 June 29, 1993

CLINTON SPARKS ANGER ABROAD;
Britain given early signal of raid plans

BYLINE: MARTIN WALKER IN WASHINGTON AND MICHAEL WHITE

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 999 words


PRESIDENT Bill Clinton said yesterday that the United States' missile attack on
Baghdad had crippled Iraq's intelligence operations, as his soaring opinion poll
ratings at home were offset by growing international concern.

"It was the right thing to do for the United States, and I feel quite
comfortable with it," Mr Clinton said.

Republican, and most Democratic, politicians hastened to endorse the cruise
missile strikes that killed eight Iraqi civilians and were favoured by 66 per
cent in US opinion polls, with 23 per cent against. But Mr Clinton's
international support wavered yesterday, with strong criticisms coming
particularly from the Arab world.

The British government's unconditional support for the US attack was qualified
only by concern that it should be a "limited proportional response, directed at
those specifically implicated," Downing Street officials said last night.

British ministers and officials had been in touch with US plans for up to six
weeks, it emerged, and realised immediately what was happening when John Major
received a call from the White House during his lunchtime walkabout through
Larne High Street in Northern Ireland on Saturday.

"We thought the Americans would go down this route. We did not know what the
action would entail," said one senior adviser, who confirmed that Foreign Office
lawyers had studied - and endorsed - the use of Article 51 of the United Nations
Charter as legal justification.

But the tactic was denounced by MPs as failing to distinguish between instant
self-defence by a nation under attack, and a calculated act of delayed reprisal
for the alleged plot to kill former US President George Bush during his visit to
Kuwait.

Mr Major and Mr Clinton were unable to speak directly in Larne on security
grounds and communicated through officials before British support was given -
with the stated reservation and a plea to take into account Britain's three
prisoners in Iraq.  London was not told the precise military target.

Iraq alleged yesterday that days before the raid, a US U-2 spy plane had flown
over Baghdad, purportedly on a mission for UN arms inspectors.

"This constitutes irrefutable evidence that the American U-2 spy plane was used
for espionage operations in preparation for the American attack on Iraq," the
Iraqi foreign minister, Mohammed Said al-Sahaf, told the UN Security Council.

Mr al-Sahaf said the UN's silence in the face of US "crimes" against Iraq had
encouraged Washington to "seek to secure world hegemony by means of armed force,
state terrorism and blackmail".

During uncomfortable Commons exchanges yesterday, the Foreign Secretary, Douglas
Hurd, defended Mr Clinton's actions as necessary proof of the West's resolve to
face down the Iraqi regime.

"This act of terrorism by the Iraqi regime has to be seen in the context of a
pattern of attempted defiance and obstruction by Iraq of the United Nations," Mr
Hurd said.

He was met with opposition incredulity, which united both wings of the Labour
Party with Liberal Democrats and sceptical Tory MPs who warned that the air
strike had strengthened Islamic fundamentalists.

The former cabinet minister Tony Benn revealed that Kais al-Kaisy, an Iraqi-born
Swindon businessman, whose brother and baby nephew - held in his father's arms -
had been killed in the raid, was watching the exchanges from the public gallery.

Mr al-Kaisy was, Mr Benn said, waiting "to hear the first apology we have had
that innocent people should be killed by this murderous attack on Baghdad".

The Kuwaiti government was alone in the Arab world in openly applauding the US
raid. But even in Kuwait, where fear of President Saddam Hussein is strong, one
newspaper warned that in doing nothing comparable against Serbian "crimes", the
US was undermining its own purposes in the region.

The London-based al-Hayat newspaper, which is close to Saudi thinking, expressed
concern that the raid could create an anti-US backlash which would bolster
Saddam Hussein's standing.

Iraq's main Muslim Shi'ite opposition group also criticised the strike, saying
it would only increase the suffering of the Iraqi people.

In the US, even some of Mr Clinton's supporters - like the Democratic
Congressman, Ron Dellums, who chairs the House armed services committee -
questioned the unexpected strike, which occurred without any consultation with
Congress.

Mr Clinton said yesterday he "had no idea" what the strike had done for his
lagging opinion poll ratings. But 20 per cent of Americans who had been critical
said they now felt better about him, in a CNN-USA Today poll yesterday.

Two-thirds of respondents favoured the raid, even though 54 per cent believed
the US was now more likely to be a terrorist target. A majority also favoured
Saddam Hussein's assassination.

It emerged yesterday that one of the military options Mr Clinton had rejected
was to target the Iraqi president's personal command post and military
headquarters, which was rebuilt after being destroyed in the Gulf war.

As questions about the legality of the raid continued yesterday, there was
criticism that the US had not waited until the conclusion of the trial in Kuwait
of the 11 Iraqis and three Kuwaitis charged with the attempt to assassinate Mr
Bush. This disregard for the trial's outcome has further undermined the Kuwaiti
judicial process.

The main US criticism of Mr Clinton has so far come from the right, where the
columnist William Safire, a former aide in the Nixon administration, has accused
the White House of being "phoney-tough".

But the Clinton administration, including Vice-President Al Gore and the UN
ambassador, Madeleine Albright, dominated television reports yesterday with
their insistence that a firm message had been sent against terrorism.

"Terrorism is always a potential problem, but we are going to be very aggressive
in dealing with it," Mr Clinton said.


LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              110 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 June 29, 1993

PARLIAMENT: LABOUR LISTS CATALOGUE OF OBJECTIONS TO 'DUBIOUS' RAID

BYLINE: NIKKI KNEWSTUB

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FOREIGN PAGE; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 376 words


THE American missile strike on Baghdad should not have taken place and should
not have been supported by the British government, Labour claimed in the Commons
yesterday.

But the Foreign Secretary, Douglas Hurd, defended the action because not to do
so was an argument for paralysis in the face of state terrorism.

George Robertson, Labour's foreign affairs spokesman, said the action should not
have taken place. It was "dubious in legality, questionable in morality,
haphazard in its military impact, and potentially devastating in diplomacy".

Mr Robertson questioned how the cruise missile attack could be justified under
Article 51 of the United Nations charter when the foiled assassination attempt
against the former president, George Bush, had taken place three months ago, and
the trial of those accused had not yet concluded.

Mr Hurd, who made a statement at the request of Labour, said the Government had
known since the middle of May that the Americans were contemplating a response
to the plot to kill the former president on a visit to Kuwait and had been kept
fully informed.

He told the House: "This operation was a justified and proportionate exercise of
the right of self-defence and a necessary warning to Iraq that state terrorism
cannot and will not be tolerated.

"This act of terrorism by the Iraqi regime has to be seen in the context of a
pattern of attempted defiance and obstruction by Iraq of the United Nations."

He said Britain was continuing to do everything it could to free the three
Britons who had been given "grotesque" prison sentences, along with other
nationals, by the Iraqi regime.

Angry opposition MPs denounced the attack. Tam Dalyell, Labour MP for
Linlithgow, said many people would be "simply nauseated by the alacrity with
which the Prime Minister endorsed the actions of President Clinton".

Tony Benn, the former Labour minister, who strongly opposed the Gulf war, said
those killed included a child aged 18 months, in its father's arms. The real
motive for the raid had been to bolster President Clinton at home.

Sir David Steel, the Liberal Democrats' foreign affairs spokesman, said Mr
Clinton should be told the new world order was not "might is right".


LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              111 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 June 29, 1993

US cruise missiles wreck hopes of jailed Britons

BYLINE: Stephen Mcgregor, Parliamentary Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 562 words


THE cruise missile attack on Baghdad has dashed hopes of an early release for
three British prisoners in Iraq.

An Iraqi diplomat gave an assurance that the safety of the prisoners was
guaranteed. However, he said that the procedures which could have led to their
early freedom had now been stopped.

A senior Foreign Office official visited them in jail and said they appeared
well.

Mr Paul Ride, Mr Michael Wainwright, and Mr Simon Dunn, along with three Swedes,
a German, an American, and several Asians, are being held in a prison on the
outskirts of Baghdad for illegally entering Iraq. They are serving from seven to
10 years.

The missile attack, in revenge for an alleged plot backed by Iraqi intelligence
to kill former President George Bush, also provoked angry scenes in the Commons.

Foreign Secretary Douglas Hurd was called upon to answer an emergency question
on the attack, and it was obvious that the cross-party consensus which existed
throughout the Gulf war had totally broken down, despite the fact which emerged
that Britain had tried to ensure the strike was "limited and proportionate".

Mr Hurd stuck to the line that the strike was justified, but faced criticism
from both sides of the House.

He repeated that Britain had known for some time that the Americans had planned
retaliation for the attempt on Mr Bush's life, and told MPs that that act of
terrorism by the Iraqi regime had to be seen in the context of a pattern of
attempted defiance and obstruction by Iraq of the United Nations.

Labour's Front Bench foreign affairs spokesman, Mr George Robertson, said the
American action should not have taken place in the way it did and should not
have been supported by Britain without all the facts first being put to the UN.

He told the House: "The American action was dubious in legality, questionable in
morality, haphazard in its military impact and potentially devastating in
diplomacy."

For the Liberal Democrats, foreign affairs spokesman Sir David Steel said that
UN Charter 51, the legal basis on which the Americans had acted, was not
intended to be used for "retaliation against an abortive attack two months ago
when the Security Council has not considered the matter".

With the Government under fire even from some MPs on its own side, Downing
Street officials went out of their way to point out that Mr Major had been kept
informed of Washington's thinking ever since the failed attempt when Mr Bush
visited Kuwait in April.

When Mr Clinton contacted Mr Major to tell him he planned to carry out an
attack, he did not detail the precise targets. A Downing Street source said of
Mr Major's reply: "We emphasised the proportionate nature of the response. We
wanted it to be a limited, proportionate response, directed at those
specifically implicated. We referred to the British prisoners there, to make
sure they were taken into account."

Mr Clinton said the attack had crippled Iraq's intelligence capacity. At the
same time Vice-President Al Gore warned Saddam and any country contemplating
terrorism against the US. "They know one thing: This President, President
Clinton, will respond."

Polls found the majority of Americans questioned approved of the attack though
most believed it would make terrorism in the US more likely, and that Mr
Clinton's popularity had risen.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1993 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              112 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Standard (London)

                              July 2, 1993, Friday

Don't be afraid of American dream holiday

BYLINE: Peter Gruner

SECTION: Pg. 22

LENGTH: 774 words


AMERICAN tourist chiefs today warned there could be revenge advertising in the
States over an Underground poster which suggests holidays there can be a
'nightmare' of muggings.

They say the poster is 'alarmist' and could result in a retaliatory campaign in
the US about the risks of visiting London.

The poster, from Columbus travel insurance, says: 'We won't let the American
Dream turn into a nightmare', and urges travellers to contact them if they feel
their US holiday could 'turn into a nightmare of medical bills and muggings'.

It comes in the wake of an increase of attacks on British tourists in the US.

Surrey man David Cornwell survived after being shot at point-blank range outside
his family's holiday home at Florida's Disneyland last month. In Orlando, Essex
postman Keith Thompson was shot dead in front of his fiancee in his hotel's car
park last October.

But a leading American tourist firm warned that US insurance companies could
adopt the same tactics as Columbus by 'frightening' US holidaymakers about being
mugged in London or blown up by an IRA bomb.

The American Insurance Association in Washington called the advert 'horrible'.

The trade association for 18 of Britain's leading tour operators, the Tour
Operators Study Group, which is responsible for a high percentage of holidays to
the US, also reacted angrily.

Spokesman Ray Hankin said the organisation was considering complaining to the
Advertising Standards Authority. 'It is misleading and we take grave exception
to it,' he said.

Alan Reed, director of American Dream Holidays, said: 'Obviously it is a
damaging poster but we don't hold the copyright to the term 'American Dream'. It
is a silly campaign because all the poster does is frighten people off from
going to the States.'

The Canadian Tourist Board, concerned that the poster could damage its holiday
industry, ''''warned that it may also complain to the ASA.

Spokeswoman Jill White said: 'It is totally irrelevant to Canada. ''You can walk
in Toronto at 2 or 3 in the morning without any problem at all. We have a
private health care system which is modelled after the UK system.'

But Clare-Frances McMenemy, deputy marketing manager for Columbus, said the copy
was fair and reflected public concern.

She added: 'We are just out to protect our clients '- mugging is a real fear
these days.' '''

London Underground said the poster had been vetted by lawyers and did not
infringe any legal or moral criteria.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1993 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              113 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                  July 2, 1993

Borderline between success and failure

BYLINE: Christopher Dobson

SECTION: Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1037 words


How Spain is winning the battle against Basque terrorist organisation ETA while
Britain is failing to curb the IRA

THE two car bombs which killed seven people in the heart of Madrid recently
demonstrate that the Basque separatist group ETA is not yet finished despite a
long run of success by the Spanish security services.

Just like the IRA, the Basque terrorists are at their most dangerous when
wounded. Following the Madrid explosions, Interior Minister Jose Louis Corcera
was forced to admit that ETA could still murder "where and when they want".

This is just one of the many ways in which ETA resembles the IRA. Their names,
the Irish Republican Army and Basque Homeland and Liberty, have the same
patriotic ring. They are both "national" terrorist organisations, fighting for
territory with all the force of nationhood, religion, and language to sustain
them.

Consequently they can withstand the force of state power far more effectively
than the radical terrorist groups who have nothing to sustain them except half
-baked, ephemeral political ideas.

The Baader-Meinhof Gang, the Red Brigades, Action Directe, Britain's own long
-forgotten Angry Brigade have all disappeared, their members dead, in prison or
retired, but ETA and IRA soldier on.

They have histories going back hundreds of years and combine a sense of
martyrdom, and of being occupied by a colonial power, with ruthless terrorist
expertise. They both have efficient "legal" political fronts, Sinn Fein and
Herri Batusuna, to contest elections and make propaganda.

They think in much the same way, holding the belief that if they keep up their
campaigns of assassinations and bombings they will eventually wear down the
"occupying forces". Their tactics are similar. They strike at "economic"
targets, murder lowly policemen and carry out prestige assassinations. ETA blew
up Spain's Prime Minister Louis Carrero Blanco and the IRA blew up Earl
Mountbatten.

The affinities of the two groups are not only historical and political but also
practical. Over the past 20 years they have exchanged weapons and explosives --
some of the IRA's early bombs were made with dynamite stolen from Basque mines
-- and they have trained together in Middle East terrorist camps.

Why then, if the two groups are so similar is ETA evidently in decline --
despite the Madrid bombs -- and the IRA apparently still riding high, able not
only to murder "where and when they want" but to carry out a measure of "ethnic
cleansing" along the Irish border?

The answer to that question lies precisely along that border.

The Basques have a similar border dividing their villages in Spain from their
villages in France where the same language is spoken and the same customs
observed. For years ETA members could slip across to France where they would be
safe from pursuing Spanish police, just as IRA members IRA slip over the border
to safety in Dundalk and the hundreds of little villages indistinguishable from
those in the north.

In their French havens the ETA activists set up arms factories, plotted
operations, trained hit teams and rested after operations knowing the
authorities would not touch them.

The French let them be for two reasons: they had no wish to stir up their own
Basques and they were bitterly opposed to the Franco regime. The change came
with Franco's death, the election of a socialist government in Madrid and the
realisation that in a united Europe they could not allow its territory to be
used by terrorists to attack a fellow European state.

In 1986 the French security forces marked the visit of the then French Prime
Minister Jacques Chirac to Madrid with a swoop on a key ETA base in Hendaye, the
Basque equivalent of Dundalk. Since then ETA has been harried throughout the
border region by French and Spanish police working together. Spanish anti
-terrorist specialists work in France and conduct joint operations with the
French on both sides of the border. In the old days the Spanish Government would
apply for ETA members to be extradited, but they had little success. Now, under
a process known as "urgence absolue", suspects are simply handed over to the
Spanish police at the border.

According to Le Monde, the French security forces frequently set out on
operations with blank expulsion orders, already signed, and fill in the names as
suspects are picked up.

Other, more important, detainees are flown to Paris to appear before a
magistrate who specialises in these cases and, after a brief hearing, are flown
back and put across the border.

This tough policy and unprecedented co-operation has paid great dividends. Last
year Francisco Mugica Garmendia, ETA's head, was one of those arrested in a
massive crackdown after ETA threatened to disrupt the Olympic Games.

The Spanish were particularly anxious to get their hands on him because of his
involvement in the murder of Carrero Blanco. The Games and Expo 92 went off
without incident, Spain celebrated its "Year of Wonders" and ETA's prestige
slumped.

In February the man who had become Spain's most-wanted terrorist, Rafael Caride
Simon, was arrested in a Toulouse cafe. French police picked him up at the end
of a week which saw the arrest of six other ETA leaders in the Basque region and
in Paris.

Caride Simon planned the car bomb attack which killed 21 shoppers in a Barcelona
supermarket in 1987. This is regarded as one of the turning points in ETA's
fortunes. The cold-blooded murder of women and children revolted many Basques
who until then had sympathised with the group's aims.

That may be so but it is the cross-border operations which have done major
damage to ETA. There is no hiding place now.

It is, of course, a situation which is regarded with envy by the Royal Ulster
Constabulary and the British Army in Northern Ireland, to say nothing of Mrs
Rimington and MI5.

Imagine the Garda, accompanied by RUC anti-terrorist officers making a raid on
an IRA hideout in Dundalk and then handing their prisoners over at the border
without any extradition proceedings. What uproar there would be!

There can be little doubt that if the Irish police harried the IRA in

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1993 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              114 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  July 3, 1993

TOMAHAWK BILL'S FOLLY SIGNALS A SHOOTING GALLERY FREE-FOR-ALL;
Commentary

BYLINE: EDWARD PEARCE

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGE; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1106 words


I RECOLLECT writing a piece about the not-yet-elected Bill Clinton suggesting
not that he was a stumbling ass (the burden of later comment), but a cold-eyed
chancer, a cynical careerist accommodating to personal advancement all principle
and every notion of right and wrong.

Well now, there was that famous observation of Willie Whitelaw about gloating
being inexcusable but that he was gloating like hell. But as an early detector
of Mr Clinton's scoundrel essence, I am not gloating. Eight dead in the latest
piece of "leadership", as a Conservative MP, Julian Brazier, called it, is what
people in power call "an acceptable level of casualties" (they go a lot higher
than that in their acceptance). But then I'm not in power and I don't accept it,
and I feel barred from gloating when Clinton confirms himself as an ignominious
rogue.

The man who timed for maximum credit the execution in Little Rock of a
brain-damaged black criminal, so as to pre-empt the taint of liberalism suffered
by Michael Dukakis, will have had no problems with the incidental overheads of
death incurred in Baghdad. And no more did Douglas Hurd, genuinely a man of
different stamp, have any trouble, behind the light armour of the word
"firmness", in defending the entire operation and its cost in mere incidental
people standing in the path of the American way of death. Executive power, or in
Britain's case, executive spectatorship, has its sensibilities drugged by
self-importance. As for the Conservative backbenches, they look ever more like a
hiring fair for footmen.

So it was a cleansing and refreshing delight to hear George Robertson, Labour's
deputy foreign affairs spokesman, dissociate his party from the attack in the
sort of sharp-edged but balanced language one longs to hear from the sleeping
Opposition.  "It was," said Robertson, "dubious in legality, questionable in
morality, haphazard in its military impact and potentially devastating in
diplomacy. It should therefore never have been supported by the British
Government." Exactly so, and his words have the more weight coming from the
right wing of the Labour Party, albeit the principled right wing.

Opposition to the flight of US Tomahawks rests upon two pillars, one of
morality, one of properly judged self-interest. I have never understood, and
wait to be enlightened about, what distinction lies between a bomb placed by
hand and a bomb delivered by sophisticated electronics. Not every IRA bomb is
specifically aimed at killing people. Some have had inert targets and merely
killed incidentally, "regrettable and unfortunate casualties", as the Sinn Fein
equivalent of Douglas Hurd would put it. But to the organ voice of British
Government, causing such deaths is cowardly and despicable. So it is - and so is
the Tomahawk onslaught.

But bombing by missile or aircraft is something which governments and their
loyal newspapers section away from filthy Irish outrages. They can even
conjugate the verb: "I engage in a surgical strike against selected targets; You
lash out wildly; They are cowardly terrorists."

To his friends in Britain and his new admirers in the States, Clinton made a
"firm response": the exquisite Hurd reading.  But a flurry of missiles is
terror, the inducing of fear among ordinary citizens. It is also a statement by
the US to the world: "Feel our strength and fear us." It is an extension of the
national character-flaw which gives that country its millions of privately-owned
small arms and its grotesque murder rate.

Rarely do State Department officials, still less publicity advisers such as
David Gergen, read the classics, but they would find there comforting evidence
of a similar ferocity in ancient Rome and the short way it had with troublesome
neighbours.  And there is an unacknowledged market among the baser sort for
Carthago delenda est.

After one has listened to the Conservative response in the Commons - "Don't
bother with legal niceties": Julian Brazier - the jubilation of the sawn-off
press here and the leap in Clinton's poll ratings at home, it is clear that if
he had promiscuously manslaughtered thousands rather than a handful, he would
have been even more popular. We don't call the new and fashionable foreign
excursions "killing wogs", but that is what the heart yearns for.

What governments do is the pale understated reflection of saloon bar and country
club desires. Call it "zapping the Cong" or "Gotcha", it is a small tribute to
the most feral desires of man. And so, like that execution in Little Rock and
for the same swivel-eyed, despicable purpose, it is quite splendid politics.
Clinton is giving the free world leadership as Brazier understands it.

As strategy of course, it is entirely disastrous; as true self-interest, it is
seriously crazy. For the truth is that we are now far more likely to suffer a
nuclear explosion in a Western city than in the days when Gog and Magog leaned
drunkenly but securely together in the cold war clinch. Two men are on trial in
Germany for trying to trade a stray Soviet warhead in Frankfurt. Properly
primed, it could make a number of city-annihilating "dirty bombs".

Please couple with this the names Lockerbie, Bishopsgate and the New York World
Trade Center. One of those blasts came from the IRA, the others from hazily
identified Arabs with an inexplicable grudge against Western Christian
civilisation. All used conventional explosive - lots of it. The Bishopsgate bomb
did a billion pound's worth of damage and terrified outside custom.  Two more
like it and the City of London is finished.

But suppose that nuclear material were to be picked up by not just hostile
governments in the Middle East, but by any of the committees and knots of
political rage and religious zeal; by a less moderate faction of the Party of
God perhaps, then who shall say what would happen and how many zappers of the
Cong would not themselves be zapped?

Let us put it like this: if a Middle Eastern faction did get its hands on a
bundle of goodies and detonated it in Cheapside, it would destroy parliament as
surely as it would burn Hampstead. Julian Brazier would be a regrettable
casualty.

The illegal reprisal against Baghdad, undertaken to raise the president's
standing with the brute generality, was an odious act. But at a time when stolen
nuclear materials are bobbing about the car boot sales of eastern Europe, it was
also an act of sheer folly. The idea of poking a rough beast with a sharp stick
through uncertain bars never was a good one.  "Potentially devastating in
diplomacy" hardly does it justice.


LOAD-DATE: July 5, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              115 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                             July 3, 1993, Saturday

City works on outside ring of steel

BYLINE: By Jon Ashworth

SECTION: Business

LENGTH: 448 words


ON THE stroke of midnight, the City of London was sealed off by police in a
determined push to deter terrorist bombers. Ten years ago, the ''ring of steel''
would have encircled one of the greatest concentrations of financial expertise
to be found anywhere in the world. Then, Big Bang meant the electronic
revolution in share dealing. More recent events have changed the City's outlook.

In 1993, more than six years after the electronic revolution, banks, trading
floors and stockbroking firms have decamped from the City proper en masse. The
London Stock Exchange has been turned into offices, and the police, as they stop
and search traffic at one of the eight entry points, are guarding more a
collection of traditional City symbols than actual City workers.

Much has changed since the days when to have a nameplate more than a casual
stroll from Bank or Finsbury Circus was considered unthinkable. Today, two of
Britain's main clearing banks are based outside the new security zone. For the
past three years, the major high street banks have been shifting large chunks of
their retail operations to regional towns in an attempt to escape London
overheads. Thousands of workers have been made redundant or relocated.  Computer
centres are dotted around the country.

One of the greatest shake-ups has come on the trading floors. Two exchanges, one
accommodating 1,200 dealers, lie beyond the security checks of the City police.
Stockbrokers have departed in droves.

A Japanese securities house moved from cramped offices near the Monument to an
elegant building once filled with mail sacks. A former jobbing firm set up shop
nearby.

The St Mary Axe bombing of April 1992 accelerated the process. One UK
stockbroker departed its leafy premises on Bevis Marks for a riverside location
on the edge of the ''ring of steel''. Canary Wharf, home to several financial
houses, tightened security a matter of days after the Bishopsgate bombing. All
vehicles entering the vicinity pass through a checkpoint manned by private
security guards.

Accountants, building societies, law firms, regulators and employers'
organisations all make their homes elsewhere in London. The majority of
Britain's top 100 companies are headquartered outside the Square Mile.

Reaction from those firms lying beyond the cordon has been guarded.  Security,
first tightened during the Gulf war, is constantly under review. As a spokesman
for a 3,000-strong accountancy firm put it: ''It's important to bring these
large numbers of people into the City each day. All their contacts are there and
we have a duty to look after them.'' The City may be emptier, but has some spark
in it yet.

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1993 Times Newspapers Limited

                              116 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                              July 4, 1993, Sunday

Inside story: A tale of two plots ; Nick Cohen, John Willcock and Hugh Pope on
secret manoeuvrings behind the prosecution of the Cypriot tycoon

BYLINE: By NICK COHEN, JOHN WILLCOCK and HUGH POPE

SECTION: FEATURE PAGE; Page 17

LENGTH: 2981 words


THE rumours, accusations and conspiracy theories that led to Michael Mates's
resignation, forced the Attorney General to defend in public the integrity of
the prosecution service and generally baffled the nation, are at bottom the
result of a clash between two creatures of the 1980s: Nadir and the SFO. Both
were powerful and both were in trouble.

The elite office that investigates the biggest thieves in Britain was
established in 1987 amid fears that large-scale fraudsters were running rings
around the system. The SFO was given the unprecedented power to demand that
defendants and witnesses answer its questions and hand over documents. The right
to silence and the right of a defendant to refuse to help incriminate himself
were set aside. But despite its Star Chamber powers and procedure, the SFO ran
into difficulty.

Two significant trials involving Guinness defendants collapsed within a week in
February 1992. In a third fraud trial last year, charges against advisers
involved in a new stock issue for the Blue Arrow employment agency were severely
pruned by the judge. When the public spotlight was on it, the SFO seemed unable
to win cases.

At the time the SFO was being set up, Polly Peck was a star of the stock market,
apparently going to ever headier heights as investors poured their money into
what looked like a sure bet. The problem and the strength of Polly Peck was
always Nadir, a charismatic man who took a clapped-out clothes company and made
it one of the fastest-growing multinationals in the world.

The businessman from the self-styled Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus ran the
outfit like a personal fiefdom and told the shareholders who invested in his
company as little as possible. As a result, suspicions dogged the company years
before the Inland Revenue or the SFO started looking at his affairs.

On 7 June 1990 Polly Peck's shares reached their zenith at 457p, valuing the
company at more than pounds 2bn. Then, on 11 August, Nadir set in train a
sequence of events that were to lead to his downfall. He called a board meeting
and announced that he wanted to bid for the three-quarters of the company he did
not already have, and make it privately owned.

His surprised fellow directors and City advisers hurried to prepare for the bid
as investors piled into the shares, expecting that Nadir would be forced to
offer them a good price.

Then - inexplicably - five days later he dropped his bid. The shares slumped to
250p. The Stock Exchange issued a stinging public rebuke to Nadir and forwarded
its report on the events to the DTI and the SFO.

The SFO already had before it the results of a long-term investigation by the
Stock Exchange into apparent insider dealing in Polly Peck shares.

For a decade there had been a curious pattern of big share trades by anonymous
investors acting though Swiss banks. The Stock Exchange report on the abandoned
bid produced new allegations that insider trading in Polly Peck shares had taken
place during that week. It was enough to persuade the SFO to launch a full
inquiry into Polly Peck.

A raid on South Audley Management, a fund management company connected to Nadir
with offices in Mayfair, London, followed on 19 September. Wild rumours swept
the stock market, and Polly Peck's shares tumbled and were suspended. Nadir
desperately tried to raise new money.

As he came under further scrutiny, the SFO's interest grew, and it was no longer
confined to insider dealing. Nadir's habit of treating Polly Peck as his own
private company, and particularly his attitude to British accounting practices,
now formed the basis of the SFO inquiry.

It was alleged last week that the information that led to the SFO action came
from Michael Allcock, an Inland Revenue investigator, who broke Revenue rules on
confidentiality and handed over information about Polly Peck. Allcock, who has
been suspended over allegations made in an unconnected case, is at the centre of
much of the intrigue around the Nadir affair.

He faxed to the Daily Mail the private letter between Michael Mates and the the
Attorney General that led to Mates's resignation. Mates said last week that
Allcock could only have got the letter from an SFO officer.

But given the far longer history of wildly shifting and suspicious share
movements, these charges are interesting, but insignificant as far as the Polly
Peck inquiry is concerned. Nadir would have been investigated anyway, whoever
provided the spark.

On 17 December 1990, Nadir, the business success story of the Thatcher years,
was arrested by police working with the SFO on his return to Heathrow from a
trip to Cyprus.

A statement on behalf of Nadir as long ago as 1991 shows that even then he
regarded his arrest and the press coverage of the case as part of a conspiracy.
Enemies in Greece, the Greek section of Cyprus, and the West had launched a
''politically-inspired'' campaign against Nadir. ''The British and American
governments, both of which have significant security interests in the Eastern
Mediterranean'' had used ''covert pressure''. As well as his desire to fight
back against this international conspiracy, Nadir had a more prosaic motive: he
did not want to go to jail.

The SFO was equally anxious. It needed a win, but at the pre- trial hearings in
Birmingham, with Mr Justice Tucker's decision to throw out many of the charges,
it suffered a heavy blow. In this tense atmosphere, it was now clear that the
Nadir trial was going to be hard fought. But no one could have predicted just
how hard.

BEFORE looking at the development of the case, we should pause to assess one of
the more sensational allegations that has been made about the prosecution: that
it was part of an international political conspiracy involving British and
American intelligence.

This claim has been put forward privately by Mates, who believes that MI6 wanted
to destroy the tycoon because his business success in northern Cyprus was
blocking an international settlement that would unite the Greek and Cypriot
halves of the island. It is very hard to see how such a charge could be true.

Even Nadir, no mean conspiracy theorist himself, does not usually include MI6 in
his long list of enemies, which is dominated by Greece and the Greek Cypriots
but has a supporting cast that even includes Reuters news agency (for reporting
- in his view unnecessarily - an allegation that he had been assassinated).

It is true, of course, that Nadir was the man who did most to kick-start the
sleepy economy of north Cyprus, often exploiting assets such as hotels and
citrus groves left behind by the Greeks when Turkey invaded and divided the
island in 1974.

International sanctions imposed in response to Turkey's military action, and the
financial weakness of Turkey itself, had kept the economy stagnant, the only
small consolation being that north Cyprus has remained one of the
Mediterranean's least spoiled holiday destinations.

But the only covert diplomatic angle to his story that Nadir has made public is
an alleged offer by Nelson Ledsky, the former US co- ordinator for Cyprus. Nadir
has frequently claimed that Ledsky approached him with a view to deposing Rauf
Denktash, the Turkish Cypriot leader and president of the self-declared Turkish
Republic of Northern Cyprus.

The script of this plot was that the Cyprus peace talks were going nowhere under
the hardline Denktash and that Nadir would be somehow better placed to deal, as
one businessman to another, with the then Greek Cypriot leader, George
Vassiliou, who was also a millionaire. Nadir has maintained that he rejected
Ledsky's approach outright and promptly informed Denktash.

Mates's plot theory is completely different. A departmental note of a meeting
between Mates and the former Attorney General, Sir Patrick Mayhew, shows that
Mates believed there might be strong political pressure for Nadir to be
convicted in order to provide a solution to the problem of northern Cyprus. He
further thought the US and British intelligence services might be involved.

Whereas in Nadir's plot scenario the West was allegedly trying to promote him as
an agent for the solution of the island's problems, in the Mates version the
West is trying to remove him because he is allegedly an obstacle to peace. One
thing that both alleged plots have in common is that they assume there is a
strong will in the West for a ''solution'' to the Cyprus problem. This is
scarcely the case.

Given the public emotions aroused by the Cyprus question, we might be forgiven
for failing to notice that the situation on the island is actually stable. Greek
Cypriots now have one of the world's highest standards of living and Turkish
Cypriots feel safe. Western countries may pay lip service to the need for a
''solution'' in Cyprus, and there is no shortage of pressure on them from the
various regional lobbies, but they are less than active in its pursuit.

Britain, for one, is not exactly putting the squeeze on north Cyprus to
negotiate. In fact, this is one of the countries that does most to help northern
Cyprus, allowing Turkish Cypriots to visit on their own passports and turning a
blind eye to tourist flights to northern Cyprus and the import of north Cypriot
fruit.

It is also virtually certain that a strong faction at least of the British
intelligence services and military establishment has a tendency to be
pro-Turkish. After all, in the 1950s it was ethnic Greek EOKA terrorists, and
not Turks, who attacked British troops on Cyprus. Turkey, moreover, has shown a
firmer commitment than Greece to the Nato alliance and is a bigger military
ally.

If there is a plot, in which Britain is involved, to undermine the
Turkish-Cypriot economy and force the statelet to make concessions in talks with
the Greek Cypriots, it is a devious one indeed.

LET US return to the prosecution of Nadir. On 6 November 1992, five months after
the Birmingham setback, lawyers for the Crown gave the first hint that they were
prepared to make an accusation unprecedented in modern legal history. First in
the autumn and then again in March they said they wanted Mr Justice Tucker to
stand down because they had come across evidence of a conspiracy to pervert the
course of justice involving Nadir, the judge, Scrivener and Assistant
Commissioner Wyn Jones, then of the Metropolitan Police.

Neither Sir Nicholas Lyell, the Attorney General, nor the police will discuss
what happened and the pre-trial hearings in which the issue was discussed were
closed. But Mates, in his resignation statement, gave dates and details, while
legal sources can fill in most of the gaps.

The accusation was based on a document found in a raid on Nadir's flat, which
had been authorised by a search warrant issued to an SFO officer. It dealt with
a pounds 3.5m fund in Switzerland. Nadir's name was not mentioned on the
document but the name of his wife was. Its contents - which have never been
disclosed - prompted suspicion of a conspiracy to pervert the course of justice
and, since this was beyond the remit of the SFO, the investigation was passed to
the Metropolitan Police.

There is not the slightest suggestion that the judge was actually bribed, or
even approached or influenced by Nadir. Indeed, after eight months of murky
allegations there has not even been a hint that either Mr Justice Tucker or
Scrivener or Wyn Jones behaved in any way improperly - let alone illegally.

The Attorney General has said as much in the Commons and in a letter to
Scrivener released last week. But in that letter Sir Nicholas also said: ''There
is however still an ongoing police inquiry into the alleged conspiracy and you
will understand that the way in which that inquiry is handled must be a matter
for the police.''

Not only has no ''credible evidence'' - to use Sir Nicholas's words - been
found, but the police have not even found the grounds to justify going to see
and question the judge, defence counsel or Jones.

Despite this paucity of evidence, a sustained campaign began to remove the judge
from the Nadir case. In November, Mates said, the Crown suggested the judge
should go because he might be interviewed by the police at some time in the
following two months. However in December, again according to Mates, the chief
superintendent investigating the alleged attempt at bribery told a further
closed hearing he had ''never had evidence which would justify interviewing the
judge, nor had the police ever declared their intention of doing so''.

Legal sources added that the defence had vigorously opposed the attempt to get
the judge to discharge himself. It was a matter of principle that British judges
should not be forced off a case as a result of unsubstantiated, unsourced
accusations. Otherwise, the door would be open to conspirators to remove any
judge they did not like by the simple expedient of planting false allegations.

The real explosion came in the spring of this year. Mates said in the Commons,
and legal sources confirmed, that in March Alun Jones, counsel for the Director
of Public Prosecutions, told another closed hearing on the case that the parties
to the alleged conspiracy that the police were investigating included the High
Court judge and Scrivener, who is a former chairman of the bar.

Again there was no sign of any credible evidence, as the Attorney General
admitted last week. Apparently the DPP's office thought the judge could be
placed in a difficult position if the defence wanted to reveal details of the
alleged conspiracy in open court. The defence might wish to do this in order to
show that attempts were being made to undermine Nadir's credibility. The judge
would have to decide beforehand whether he could let the jury hear evidence on a
conspiracy in which his own name cropped up.

By all accounts, Mr Justice Tucker's tolerance for these convoluted intrigues
finally broke and he became genuinely angry for the first time. His reaction has
been described as outraged and incredulous.

What to make of all this? Supporters of Nadir claim that the weird series of
events constituted a deliberate campaign designed to remove Mr Justice Tucker,
because he had thrown out so many charges against Nadir, and also to get rid of
Scrivener, who is one of the best defence barristers in the country.
Alternatively, they say, the aim was to put pressure on the judge to be tough on
Nadir.

It is too much to believe that the DPP, Attorney General and Metropolitan Police
- who all investigated the issue - were somehow colluding in some kind of smear.
The authorities have to treat any evidence of conspiracy to pervert the course
of justice, no matter how slender, with immense seriousness. We simply do not
know why the police pursued and continued to pursue the accusation and what
evidence they had. We do not know whether Nadir or an enemy of Nadir was trying
to sabotage the case.

What can be said is that earlier this year Scrivener decided that the
accusations had all gone too far. In a reversal of his previous position, he too
asked the divisional court to remove the judge. He put forward the argument that
however unfounded the allegations were, the judge might be led to suspect that
there had been a conspiracy to bribe him and in those circumstances Nadir could
not be guaranteed a fair trial. The court threw the application out.

Now that Nadir has jumped bail, the only real victim of all of this is Mr
Justice Tucker, a judge with an impeccable record who has been implicated by the
drip, drip, drip of stories in the press and statements in the Commons.

The secrecy that surrounds this case means that a judge with no credible
evidence against him cannot refute the allegations in public. Scrivener, in a
letter to the Attorney General, said he had ''not lost much sleep over the
matter but it was obvious to us all that the judge was understandably concerned
about the allegation. Neither of us have been asked a single question . . . I am
sure that doubts of this kind must be dispelled quickly if people are to have
faith in our judicial system.''

On Friday, Scrivener called for an inquiry into who was trying to get the judge
and defence removed from the case. This remains a good question.

THE JUDGE AND THE BARRISTER

ON 8 JUNE 1992, at Birmingham Crown Court, occurred one of the pivotal events in
the case of Asil Nadir. Mr Justice Tucker threw out 46 charges of theft,
involving pounds 119.5m, brought against the Cypriot tycoon by the Serious Fraud
Office (SFO).

Nadir and his defence team were jubilant. ''This is one of the best Monday
mornings we have had for a long time,'' proclaimed Peter Lakin, Nadir's
solicitor. True, Nadir still faced other theft and false accounting charges
totalling pounds 30m, but Anthony Scrivener QC, Nadir's counsel, was now
confident that when the case finally got before a jury he could clear his
client.

The staff of the SFO, who by then had already been investigating the affairs of
Nadir's company, Polly Peck, for almost two years, were devastated by the
judge's ruling. One of its officers burst into tears.

The importance of that day in Birmingham, when the judge slashed the charge
sheet against Nadir, was brought home last week, as a baffling tangle of
conspiracies and allegations about the Nadir prosecution found their way into
the public domain.

In an atmosphere of the greatest tension, Mr Justice Tucker had given both sides
in the case grounds to pursue their causes with exceptional vigour, the defence
because it saw the chance of victory and the SFO because it had suffered a
grievous humiliation. The judge himself, who would certainly have expected to
remain above the impending fray, was to find himself caught in the middle.

(Photograph omitted)


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1993 Independent Print Ltd

                              117 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  July 5, 1993

MATES BACKS SDLP TALKS WITH SINN FEIN;
After a weekend of rioting by Protestants, the former Ulster security minister
says he would applaud any attempt to stop killings

BYLINE: OWEN BOWCOTT IN BELFAST

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 403 words


Michael Mates, the former Northern Ireland security minister who resigned 10
days ago over the Asil Nadir affair, has supported controversial talks between
the Social Democratic and Labour Party and Sinn Fein.

In a surprise announcement at the weekend, Mr Mates said that he was in favour
of continuing the discussions begun by John Hume, leader of the nationalist
SDLP, and Gerry Adams, the Sinn Fein president.

The talks have been fiercely criticised by Unionists. Ian Paisley MP, leader of
the Democratic Unionists, has warned that his party will not join any resumed
inter-party talks with the SDLP while they were meeting the political wing of
the IRA.

Speaking on BBC Radio Ulster, Mr Mates was characteristically forthright in his
observations. "If John [Hume], as I hope he is, is doing all he can to persuade
Adams that the best thing he [Adams] can do is to stop the killing then of
course I wouldn't disapprove of that. In fact I would welcome it, I would
applaud it.

"John Hume is a man who is totally opposed to violence and if he is brave enough
and thinks it is the right thing to do . .  . who are we to argue? The only
downside is it makes it easier for the Unionists to stay away from any talks."

The Northern Ireland Office has refrained from criticising the exchanges between
Mr Hume and Mr Adams, although Conservative politicians have opposed any moves
that would lend respectability to Sinn Fein.

Calls for the Government to open informal channels of communication with Sinn
Fein in an attempt to bring an end to violence were supported by an opinion poll
released yesterday.

The survey, organised by the independent Opsahl Commission into the
constitutional future of Northern Ireland, found that 71 per cent of respondents
in the Irish Republic and 51 per cent in Britain backed such a proposal. In
Northern Ireland, however, the figure was 39 per cent.

The idea that Sinn Fein, once it had renounced support for IRA violence, should
be involved in talks curiously evoked less support. Only 43 per cent supported
the idea in Britain, 40 per cent in Northern Ireland and 67 per cent in the
Republic.

Disillusion with the Stormont talks process appears to be setting in, the survey
revealed. In Northern Ireland 63 per cent of voters thought the chances of the
talks being successful were less than 50: 50. In Britain the figure was 67 per
cent.


LOAD-DATE: July 5, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              118 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                              July 5, 1993, Monday

Ulster: Segregated ghettos provide breeding ground for violence; After 20 years
of direct rule from London, there is still a wide socio-economic gap between the
communities - Paramilitary activity flourishes in Ulster's most deprived areas

BYLINE: DAVID McKITTRICK

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 4

LENGTH: 540 words


THE ASSOCIATION between high unemployment, divided communities and violence is
plain. The New Lodge district of north Belfast, for example, has 56 per cent
male unemployment, almost complete Catholic-Protestant segregation, and the
highest level of killings in Northern Ireland. It also has a high Sinn Fein
vote.

The same may be seen in the Falls Road and adjoining districts in the west of
the city, in the Bogside and Creggan areas of Londonderry, and in Crossmaglen,
south Armagh. Studies show that cities and towns with large Catholic ghetto
populations have the highest rates of violence.

The pattern also holds good on the Protestant side, where the Shankill and
Crumlin areas of Belfast are the heartlands of both Protestant unemployment and
loyalist paramilitarism.

All this suggests that attempts to deal with loyalist and more particularly
republican violence are unlikely to succeed unless they take account of economic
conditions as well as political and purely security factors.

One striking feature of republican activity is that Sinn Fein does not as a rule
lose votes when the IRA carries out bombings which destroy jobs. This is partly
because the major bombings take place outside the republican ghettos where few
Sinn Fein sympathisers are employed.

Sinn Fein is frequently accused of hypocrisy in that its representatives support
and indeed sometimes launch job creation initiatives within their own areas. Its
supporters, however, clearly see no conflict in this approach, viewing their
districts as being discriminated against and deliberately starved of jobs.

IRA bombing clearly reduces the chances of outside investment in such areas, but
the terrorists escape local censure. A recent survey in west Belfast showed that
Sinn Fein support is concentrated among the unemployed and those living at
subsistence level.

One member of the constitutional nationalist Social Democratic and Labour Party
said: ''The employed working class tends to vote for us, but Sinn Fein have a
near monopoly of the inner-city poverty vote. They have managed to politicise
those people, presenting a vote for Sinn Fein as a way of striking back.''

A Sinn Fein leader said simply: ''Our people understand.''

Eamon Hanna, chief executive of Phoenix Trust, a voluntary economic development
organisation in west Belfast, said the majority of the unemployed had no
sympathy for violence, but it formed a background against which violence could
flourish.

He said: ''Some families are now going into their fourth generation of
unemployment. They have a large sense of despair and a belief that they are
never going to get any meaningful employment at all. Jobs would make a
tremendous contribution to bringing a sense of stability. People would have a
stake in the community.''

More than 80 per cent of people in the UK and Ireland want inter-party
negotiations on the future of Northern Ireland to begin again - but few are
optimistic about their prospects, according to an opinion poll by Gallup and
Ulster and Irish Marketing Surveys. Sixty-six per cent of people in Britain
rated the chances of success as low, with 54 per cent expressing similar views
in the Republic and 60 per cent in Ulster.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1993 Independent Print Ltd

                              119 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Daily Mail (London)

                            July 7, 1993, Wednesday

Irishman barred after he is cleared of proxy bombing

SECTION: Pg. 15

LENGTH: 880 words


AN Irishman was banned from mainland Britain last night after being cleared of
an attempt to bomb Downing Street.

An exclusion order signed by Home Secretary Michael Howard after a court ordered
22-year-old John Matthews to be freed will be served on him today.

Tory MP Peter Bottomley, who has campaigned for Mr Matthews since he was
arrested and accused of ordering a taxi driver to take a bomb to Downing Street
shortly after April's City bombing, said earlier yesterday: 'John Matthews is as
innocent of IRA offences as I am.

'It would have been a travesty of justice if the case had gone to trial.'

But the decision by the Attorney General, Sir Nicholas Lyell, to drop the
charges against Mr Matthews angered detectives from Scotland Yard's
anti-terrorist branch.

They claimed it was the latest example of the Government 'going soft'. A senior
officer said: 'Feelings are running very high. The overwhelming view is that the
decision on whether the case stood up or not should have been made by a jury.'

Mr Matthews was held after a mini-cab driver was hijacked in Seven Sisters Road,
North London, and told to go to Downing Street. But the cab was abandoned in
Judd Street, St Pancras, where it blew up.

Earlier, the City bomb blast had killed one man and injured more than 40.

Mr Matthews, whose family lives in Londonderry, was arrested at Heathrow Airport
on his way back to Northern Ireland to do a post-graduate degree.

An honours geography graduate, he had a holiday job as a porter at Chase Farm
Hospital, Enfield, North London, and had been living with an aunt in Salisbury
Road, Wood Green, North London.

He insisted he was in bed at the time of the proxy bombing.

After the Attorney General's decision to offer no evidence against him, Thames
magistrates' court ordered Mr Matthews to be released.

Magistrate David Fingleton said the prosecution had opposed bail two weeks ago
by saying the case against Mr Matthews included an identity parade and forensic
evidence.

He told Crown Prosecution Service lawyers: 'Now you are telling me there is no
evidence on which you can reasonably rely.'

Mr Matthews and his family were jubilant. But Mr Matthews was then taken to top
security Paddington Green police station in London while police applied to the
Home Secretary for an exclusion order.

Mr Bottomley, husband of Health Secretary Virginia Bottomley, left the court
with members of the Matthews family and drove them to the Home Office to discuss
the matter.

He said he had telephoned Downing Street, saying there had been a mistake, and
he added: 'It would be a mistake and improper to hold him any longer.'

Mr Matthews's father Joe, 50, of Beechwood Avenue, Londonderry, said: 'My son
was born in Liverpool, so he cannot be excluded.'

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1993 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              120 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  July 7, 1993

FREED BOMB CHARGE MAN EXCLUDED

BYLINE: DAVID SHARROCK

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 433 words


A LIVERPOOL-born Irish resident was banned from mainland Britain last night,
hours after being cleared of causing an IRA explosion in London.

The Home Secretary, Michael Howard, signed the exclusion order on 22-year-old
John Matthews, who lives in Londonderry and had been charged with causing the
explosion in April.

The move came after Mr Matthews was freed by Thames magistrates' court, east
London, when the prosecution offered no evidence.

On leaving court, he was rearrested under section 14 of the Prevention of
Terrorism Act and taken in a police convoy to Paddington Green maximum security
police station.

Mr Matthews's father, Joe, and other relatives were driven to the Home Office by
Peter Bottomley, Conservative MP for Eltham, and Roger Stott, Labour MP for
Wigan, to protest at the action.

Mr Bottomley, a former Northern Ireland minister, said he had telephoned No 10
about the case. "John Matthews is a fine man without a stain on his character.
More than that, I think he deserves an apology."

Last night a Home Office spokeswoman said the exclusion order would be served on
Mr Matthews formally today.

She said Mr Matthews could make representations to an independent adviser
appointed by the Home Secretary, either leaving the country and making them
within 14 days from outside Britain, or making them in Britain before being
removed, and he would not be removed before the representations had been
considered.

Home Office sources pointed out that Mr Howard would have had before him
information not available to the prosecuting authorities or the courts.

Mr Matthews was arrested at Heathrow three days after the IRA bomb at
Bishopsgate on April 24.

He was charged on May 4 with causing an explosion of a nature likely to endanger
life. His arrest followed the hijacking of a mini-cab in Seven Sisters Road,
north London.

The driver was ordered to drive to Downing Street, but he abandoned the car in
Holborn, where it blew up.

It was the second of two mini-cab bombings that night and came 14 hours after a
one-tonne bomb in a lorry in Bishopsgate killed one man and injured more than
40.

Mr Matthews is a graduate of Queen's University, Belfast. He had been working as
a porter at Chase Farm Hospital, Enfield, before planning to return to Northern
Ireland to pursue postgraduate studies.

Crown solicitor Michael Bibby told the brief court hearing that having reviewed
the evidence, he had concluded that "it would not form a realistic prospect
conviction. In the circumstances I am offering no evidence."


LOAD-DATE: July 7, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              121 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  July 7, 1993

LEADING ARTICLE: WHEN THE TIDE TURNS

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGE; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 568 words


RARELY can the onset of the Northern Ireland "marching" season have found
Unionists in more bitter mood than today. Their abiding paranoia about the
Anglo-Irish Agreement has been provoked once again by renewed pressure from
Dublin for talks this autumn irrespective of opposition from the Unionists.
Their despair has been heightened by opinion polls showing majorities north,
south and in Britain for a new inter-governmental initiative. Their suspicious
antennae twitch for the least sign of influence from Washington, where the
Clinton administration has not yet made up its mind over Irish affairs but has
sent a Kennedy as ambassador to Dublin.

Domestically, they are no more reassured. Sinn Fein comes slowly but surely in
from the political cold - talks with John Hume, endorsement for talks from
Michael Mates, a handshake with Mary Robinson - all signs that the unthinkable
is now being thought. At Westminster the Labour Party breaks with the long
tradition of consensus, floats the notion of joint rule over the north with
Dublin and stands its ground when attacked by the Northern Ireland Secretary and
the Prime Minister. The armed forces minister suggests that the army presence in
Northern Ireland may have to be scaled down. So when yesterday the IRA set off a
bomb in the centre of the relatively peaceful town of Newtonards Unionists felt
even more abandoned, beleaguered and angry than ever - and told the visiting Sir
Patrick Mayhew so with some force.

That hardening of mood goes some way to explain the most important recent event
in the north, the coordinated weekend loyalist rioting against the security
forces in Belfast and several other predominantly Protestant towns. But the
riots mark a significant deterioration in the political situation in their own
right. Such scenes have long been familiar, though not for some time, in
Catholic areas. Until now they have been rare in Protestant ones. The weekend
roll call of 35 shootings, 11 bomb attacks and 63 hijackings will feed rather
than assuage the mood of defiance. Only the alleged willingness of the security
forces to negotiate in the Shankill district with representatives of banned
organisations - something they would never have done with the IRA - marks the
confrontations out from those which have occurred in Catholic areas. There is no
mistaking that an important shift has occurred on the security and public order
front. It is unlikely to get better before it gets worse - and it could get a
lot worse very soon.

It is striking that the most forceful declaration of unionism by a British prime
minister in recent times last Thursday made absolutely no difference whatsoever.
British ministers seem in general to have little feel for the present fluidity
of Irish events. Sir Patrick Mayhew aims to please but pleases no one. The
Dublin coalition, though far from radical itself on Anglo-Irish matters, feels
he is too cautious. Nationalists think he does not have a strategy any more.
Unionists believe he has abandoned them. So while others push the agenda
forwards, the British government falls back on assertions of an ancestral
unionist faith which stirs no enthusiasm at home, cuts no ice in Northern
Ireland and melts no hearts in the south. Mr Major and Sir Patrick seem to have
lost their political touch just at a moment when real creativity over Irish
affairs is most called for.


LOAD-DATE: July 7, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              122 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            July 7, 1993, Wednesday

Man cleared of bomb attack is rearrested; Police granted exclusion order after
court praises 'honest citizen'. Steve Boggan reports

BYLINE: STEVE BOGGAN

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 3

LENGTH: 477 words


A MAN who was freed from a bombing charge after the prosecution offered no
evidence against him was re- arrested yesterday by anti-terrorist police. The
Home Secretary later signed an exclusion order banning him from mainland
Britain.

John Matthews, 22, had been given references ''of the utmost distinction'',
according to the magistrate who discharged him, and was described as ''an
entirely innocent and honest citizen'' by Peter Bottomley, the MP who campaigned
for him.

He was taken back into custody and driven to Paddington Green top-security
police station minutes after his relatives had begun celebrating his release at
Thames Magistrates' Court in east London. He had been held at Belmarsh Prison,
south London, for 10 weeks.

Mr Matthews, whose address is Londonderry but he was born in Liverpool, was
accused of hijacking a taxi in north London on 24 April - the day of the
Bishopsgate bombing - and ordering the driver to take a bomb to Downing Street.
The car was eventually abandoned in Judd Street, Holborn, where it exploded
without causing injury.

Mr Matthews was arrested at Heathrow Airport on 27 April and charged on 4 May
with causing an explosion with high performance explosives of a nature likely to
endanger life. He has always maintained his innocence, according to his father
Joe, who said yesterday that his son had no involvement in terrorist activity.

''He was originally arrested for the Bishopsgate bomb but he was able to prove
he was in the porter's lodge at Chase Farm Hospital Enfield, north London ,
where he works,'' he said.

''He has been in custody for 10 weeks because the police said there was forensic
evidence that he had handled high explosives. But now I understand the forensic
report is complete and says that it cannot be proved that he had been near any
explosives.

''They tried to get him for the taxi bomb, but he was in bed at his aunt's in
Wood Green at the time and she gave evidence to that effect. I believe he was
arrested just because the police were looking for young Irish lads going home
after the big bombing.''

In court yesterday, Mike Bibby, for the Crown Prosecution Service, said that he
had reviewed the available evidence and had concluded that it ''would not offer
a realistic prospect of conviction''.

He offered no evidence against Mr Matthews, despite telling the court at an
earlier hearing that there was evidence of identity and forensic science
evidence.

David Fingleton, the stipendiary magistrate, said that Mr Matthews had received
references of the utmost distinction and he would leave court a free man.

Mr Bottomley said that he would continue campaigning for his freedom. ''His
arrest and detention was due to a series of injustices and he should have been
able to walk out of the court without a slur on his character,'' he said.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1993 Independent Print Ltd

                              123 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Standard (London)

                             July 8, 1993, Thursday

What kind of union?

SECTION: Pg. 9

LENGTH: 880 words


WHICHEVER way you look at it, the exclusion order banning John Matthews from
mainland Britain under the Prevention of Terrorism Act is a disgrace and the
provisions allowing the Home Secretary to make such an order cannot be scrapped
too soon. We are told Mr Michael Howard is 'satisfied' Mr Matthews had been
concerned in the commission, perpetration or instigation of acts of terrorism,
though we are not to be privy to this information because it wouldn't be
admissible in court. This being the case, what does the Home Secretary do? He
confines him to Northern Ireland, a part of the United Kingdom where he
presumably considers terrorists to be on home ground. Can Mr Howard not see the
logic of his argument? If this English-born man is a terrorist, why should he be
confined to Northern Ireland? Is it that Irish lives matter less than British
ones? The Prevention of Terrorism Act is supposedly designed to demonstrate the
Government's profound commitment to the Union: it's an odd sort of commitment
that imposes a species of internal exile within the United Kingdom for those
considered too dangerous for the British public, but not the citizens of
Belfast?

And on the elementary grounds of natural justice, what sort of law is it that
can condemn a man to the real risk of death and the guarantee of perpetual
unemployment without any hearing of any kind in a court of law?  It's not good
enough for the Home Secretary, a cautious barrister, to say that he is
personally convinced Mr Matthews is a risk. We have got to know what the
information is that allows him to say so. John Matthews is now branded as a
terrorist in a society where there are numbers of paramilitaries from the other
side who are both able and willing to murder him for it. One man previously
excluded has already been killed by Loyalist terrorists. Do we need another? We
could not treat an ordinary, commonplace mass-murderer in the way Mr Howard is
treating Mr Matthews. This act must be changed and this order must be reversed.

Rejoice

WE congratulate the Transport Minister, Mr John MacGregor, on his decision to
save Oxleas Wood. It is a great victory for London. Specifically: it is a
victory for the ordinary people who have long campaigned against the vandalistic
plans to despoil the 8,000-year-old Greenwich woodland with an East London
motorway link - an environmental campaign with which this newspaper has been
proud to be associated. The road lobby has traditionally wielded a good deal of
power, but however obvious the benefit to the economy of road building and
maintenance, we are now waking up to the fact that the glories of the British
countryside cannot simply be yielded up to this rapacious lobby without a good
deal of concern: witness the continuing outrage over the destruction of Twyford
Down in Hampshire.

It is to be hoped that the Oxleas Wood decision is part of something of a
sea-change with regard to transport in London. Our energies have to be
channelled more into constructing a properly-funded, and environmentally
efficient public transport system. This is why we must support projects such as
CrossRail, for which the Government hopes to raise 30 per cent of funding from
the private sector - possibly from a business levy exacted by a new London
transport trust. The time has come for more political - and environmental -
emphasis on rail, rather than road. And the time has thankfully arrived for us
to rejoice at the saving of Oxleas Wood.

Judges wanted

THE Lord Chancellor, Lord Mackay, says he'll advertise for judges in future.
Draft of ad: Opportunity for middle-aged barristers of dyspeptic disposition who
aren't clever or devious enough to be QCs; ideal candidates will have formulated
their views about humanity in saloon bars and be skilled at simulating an
ignorance of all modern cultural trends; successful applicants will also have
shown they can conceal their distrust of women and children.  Fondness for
wearing unusual clothes an advantage.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1993 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              124 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  July 8, 1993

EXCLUDED IRISHMAN HAD TERROR LINKS,CLAIMS HOWARD

BYLINE: OWEN BOWCOTT IN BELFAST AND DAVID PALLISTER

SECTION: HOME; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 424 words


THE Home Office took the unprecedented step last night of claiming that an
Irishman who was acquitted of bombing charges and then excluded from Britain to
Northern Ireland yesterday, was involved in terrorism.

The statement followed 24 hours of furious debate after John Matthews, aged 22,
was cleared of an attempted taxi bomb attack on Downing Street in April, then
re-arrested and put on a plane to Belfast.

The Home Office said that the Home Secretary, Michael Howard, made the order
after he was satisfied that Mr Matthews had been concerned in the commission,
perpetration or instigation of acts of terrorism connected with Northern
Ireland.

"The Home Secretary carefully reviewed all the information before him, including
material which would not be admissable as evidence in court proceedings."

Mr Howard's unusual intervention in the case is certain to be raised today at
meetings in London between British minsters and the Irish foreign minister, Dick
Spring.

It is understood that the Home Office statement was based on information from
MI5 which suggested that Mr Matthews had visited a house in north London with
tentative IRA connections.

But the reason for issuing it was primarily a political gesture as Mr Matthews'
case had been taken up by Peter Bottomley, the Conservative MP and former
Northern Ireland minister, and Roger Stott, Labour's deputy Northern Ireland
spokesman.

Mr Matthews, whose family live in Londonderry, had been rearrested under the
Prevention of Terrorism Act on Tuesday after being freed at Thames magistrates
court, in east London, when the prosecution offered no evidence on a charge of
causing an explosion in London in April.

Yesterday, he was put on a flight to Belfast.  After being driven to his
parents' home in Londonderry, he said of his 10 weeks in prison: "I was
confident that I would get the charges dismissed for the simple fact that they
had no evidence.

"All they wanted was an Irishman in jail so that they could write off another
crime. If it hadn't been for the efforts of Peter Bottomley and the Bloody
Sunday Initiative [in Londonderry] I would still be inside. The only reason they
dropped the charges was because the public uproar was so strong." He said he
plans to appeal against the exclusion order.

Mr Bottomley said last night: "I do not think that an exclusion order should
have been signed in this case and I would expect it to be overturned on appeal."
He remained convinced that Mr Matthews had no IRA connections.


LOAD-DATE: July 8, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              125 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                  July 8, 1993

Howard explains ban on Matthews

SECTION: Pg. 9

LENGTH: 275 words


JOHN Matthews, cleared of an attempted taxi bomb attack on Downing Street, was
banned from the British mainland because the Home Secretary was satisfied he was
involved in terrorism, it was announced last night.

The news came in a statement shortly after 22-year-old Mr Matthews arrived in
Belfast on a flight from Heathrow, accompanied by two Home Office officials.

It said Home Secretary Michael Howard had signed the exclusion order after
considering material which would not be admissable as evidence in court.

But after his arrival home tonight, Mr Matthews attacked the British judicial
system, saying: "If they had had their way, they would have kept me in for
decades."

He was freed by a London magistrates court on Tuesday when the prosecution
offered no evidence on a charge that he ordered a taxi driver to take a bomb to
Downing Street, but he was immediately re-arrested.

The exclusion order came despite a campaign on Mr Matthews' behalf by Tory MP
and former Northern Ireland Office Minister Peter Bottomley, who said he
deserved an apology, not an exclusion order.

His expulsion from mainland Britain is certain to be raised at today's session
of the Anglo-Irish conference in London, when Irish delegates will seek an
explanation.

Mr Matthews, a Liverpool-born Belfast University graduate whose family now lives
in Londonderry, spent 10 weeks in police custody.

The Home Office statement said that, for Mr Howard to make an order, he had to
be satisfied, that Mr Matthews had been concerned in the commission,
perpetration or instigation of acts of terrorism connected with Northern
Ireland.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1993 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              126 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                             July 8, 1993, Thursday

Home secretary says expelled man was linked to terrorism

BYLINE: By Edward Gorman and Jill Sherman

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 509 words


THE home secretary said last night he was satisfied that a man who was expelled
from Britain after being cleared of terrorist offences was concerned in
terrorism.

Michael Howard issued a statement saying he had considered material that would
not be admissible as evidence in court but which satisfied him that John
Matthews, 22, was associated with terrorism.

The statement followed 24 hours of angry debate after Mr Matthews was cleared of
an attempted taxi bomb attack on Downing Street but was immediately rearrested.

Mr Howard faced cross-party criticism after signing an exclusion order on Mr
Matthews under the Prevention of Terrorism Act. Mr Matthews was flown to Belfast
on Tuesday. The statement said that for Mr Howard to make an order he must be
satisfied, in accordance with the criteria laid down by Parliament, that Mr
Matthews has been concerned in the commission or instigation of acts of
terrorism connected with Northern Ireland.

Exclusion was not used as a response to the dropping of criminal charges, the
statement continued. ''The home secretary's only concern is for the safety of
the public from the very real threat of terrorism.''

When Mr Matthews appeared at Thames Magistrates' Court, east London, on Tuesday
after being held in custody for ten weeks, on charges in connection with an
explosion in north London in April, the Crown admitted the evidence did not
offer a realistic prospect of conviction and the charges were withdrawn.

Mr Matthews, born in Liverpool, was told by the magistrate that he could leave
the court without a blemish on his character. He was then rearrested pending the
signing of the order by Mr Howard.

The Labour party said the order was ''nothing less than an abuse of the legal
system'' and in Northern Ireland the Social Democratic and Labour Party called
the expulsion an ''absolute outrage''.

Last night, Mr Matthews said: ''If they had their way, they would have kept me
in for decades.'' He returned to his home and family in Londonderry yesterday.
Mr Matthews is to appeal against the exclusion order. He said: ''I was innocent
when I was charged. I was innocent when I was questioned and I was innocent when
I was a Category A high-risk prisoner. I was confident I would get the charges
dropped because they had no evidence ... All they wanted was an Irishman in jail
so they could write off another crime. They were not interested in justice.''

Mr Matthews said that had it not been for support from MPs, particularly Peter
Bottomley, the Conservative member for Eltham, and pressure groups in Belfast
and Londonderry, he might never have been released.

The issue is expected to be raised by Irish ministers at a meeting of the
Anglo-Irish Conference in London today.

Mr Matthews' father, Joseph, said: ''The court found him innocent that's good
enough for me.''

Two prison officers at The Maze top-security jail outside Belfast were seized by
Loyalist inmates on Tuesday, stripped, and had their heads shaved, the
government disclosed yesterday.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1993 Times Newspapers Limited

                              127 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                              July 9, 1993, Friday

Leading Article: Internal exile does the UK a disservice

SECTION: COMMENT PAGE; Page 21

LENGTH: 514 words


INTERNAL exile is a sentence normally associated with the Soviet Union, not with
a liberal democracy. Yet the case this week of John Matthews demonstrates how a
system that was abolished in Russia survives in the United Kingdom. Mr Matthews,
though born in Liverpool, has been banished to Northern Ireland on evidence that
was kept secret from him and was judged inadmissible in court.

Michael Howard, the Home Secretary, has presided over this Kafkaesque episode.
Mr Howard is a barrister. One would expect him to hold dear the principle that
an accused person is innocent until proven guilty in a court of law. But he
seems to have suspended such legal principles in branding Mr Matthews a
terrorist and excluding him from a part of the UK. Mr Howard imposed internal
exile on Mr Matthews on the day he was released by a magistrate who said he had
references of ''the utmost distinction''. Peter Bottomley MP said that Mr
Matthews was ''an entirely innocent and honest citizen''.

If Mr Howard knows otherwise he should make the evidence public so its truth can
be tested. He evidently has an inordinate faith in the police and intelligence
services. The history of internment and highly publicised miscarriages of
justice shows how wrong they can be.

The Matthews case typifies dozens of examples of second-class justice in which
people with Irish connections have been excluded from Britain. The use of
exclusion orders under the Prevention and Suppression of Terrorism Act, first
enacted in 1974, has been condemned by Lord Colville, the Government's own
adviser on the legislation. The Labour Party, wary of appearing soft on
terrorism, has called for the abolition of such orders. But the Government
preserves powers for itself that tarnish the UK's reputation for justice and
insult the people of Northern Ireland by dumping alleged terrorists on them. The
legislation makes a nonsense of the Union.

Time will not even give Mr Matthews a real chance to clear his name. Appeals may
be lodged with the Home Secretary and are reviewed by a specially appointed
adviser, whose identity is frequently kept a secret. However, the excluded
person is still not informed of the evidence and is in effect blind to the
accusations in preparing a defence.

By abusing principles of fairness, Mr Howard has handed a propaganda victory to
the IRA, which contends there is no such thing as British justice. He has also
given another name to those who construct terrorist hit lists. Mr Matthews has
arrived in Londonderry labelled a terrorist at a time when loyalists are only
too willing to kill those they think are associated with republican
paramilitaries. Kenneth Clarke, Mr Howard's predecessor, was left with no choice
but to revoke an exclusion order on Terence Harkin when the Royal Ulster
Constabulary revealed that Mr Harkin was on an assassination list.

Mr Howard should do the same for Mr Matthews if he can offer no proof of his
allegations. He should then dispense with legislation that does the UK as much
disservice as it did the Soviet Communists.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1993 Independent Print Ltd

                              128 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             July 11, 1993, Sunday

Leading Article: A victory for terror

SECTION: COMMENT PAGE; Page 22

LENGTH: 756 words


MINISTERS are right to remind us, as they frequently do, that terrorists are no
better than common criminals. Political objectives, no matter how ancient, no
matter how often celebrated in poetry, do not justify the use of lethal weapons.
Bombs planted in the cause of Irish unity are no better than bombs planted by
the Mafia in Italy or the drug barons in Colombia. The aim is similar: to
intimidate the state and to defy the rule of law. This is what distinguishes
terrorism from other forms of criminal activity. The intention is not to kill or
maim particular people; it is not to achieve material gain or sexual
gratification or the resolution of some personal animus. It is to put the
terrorist group above the law and above the normal political process. The
targets are, therefore, indiscriminate and the threat is to society as a whole.

Terrorism is thus a special class of crime that is peculiarly difficult to
prevent and detect because nobody can hope to predict where the bomber will
strike next. So there is nothing inherently wrong in Parliament approving laws
that give the authorities specific powers, such as longer periods of detention
for questioning, to deal with terrorist offences, just as they have specific
powers to deal with fraud. But such laws should be effective enough to justify
the inevitable diminution of civil liberties and there should be adequate
safeguards against abuse.

The case of John Matthews creates doubt on both counts. Last week, Mr Matthews,
a 22-year-old graduate of Queen's University, Belfast, was cleared of the
attempted taxi bomb attack on Downing Street in April. The prosecution offered
no evidence in court. The stipendiary magistrate said that he had received
references of ''the utmost distinction''. Yet Michael Howard, the Home
Secretary, using powers under the Prevention of Terrorism Act, immediately
excluded him from mainland Britain to Northern Ireland, sending him into the
kind of ''internal exile'' that was once familiar in the Soviet Union and in
South Africa under apartheid.

Mr Howard was not obliged to give reasons but said - in response to Peter
Bottomley, the Tory MP and former Northern Ireland minister who took up the case
- that he was satisfied that Mr Matthews was involved in terrorism. He refuses
to publish the evidence but acknowledges that it includes ''material which would
not be admissible as evidence in court proceedings''. This presumably means that
MI5 or Special Branch have told him that Mr Matthews has associated with people
thought to have IRA connections. Such sources do not inspire confidence. During
the Gulf war, the same people told one of Mr Howard's predecessors, Kenneth
Baker, to detain some 80 Iraqis. Later, they all turned out to be innocent. Yet
Mr Matthews has no right to see the evidence against him and no right of appeal
except to the Home Secretary.

Even if the evidence is good, it is hard to understand what Mr Howard and his
advisers think they are up to. If Mr Matthews is a danger in London why is he
not an equal danger in Ulster where he can travel freely? The answer, no doubt,
is that a bomb in London has several times the propaganda value of one in
Belfast or Londonderry. But ministers should understand that they are fighting a
propaganda battle on several fronts. When the police or security services act to
make it more difficult for the bombers - by increasing motoring restrictions,
for example - much nonsense is talked about ''a victory for the IRA''.

The use of exclusion powers, however, is truly a victory for the terrorists. It
suggests that ministers already regard Northern Ireland as a foreign country
whose citizens can be left, as the saloon bar wisdom would have it, ''to fight
it out among themselves''. It tells the IRA that, psychologically, the British
Government is prepared for disengagement. It tells the Ulster Catholics, who
account for most of the 400-plus people excluded since 1974, that they are
United Kingdom citizens only on sufferance. It tells the Unionists that the
Republic's latest proposals - that Dublin and London should agree a political
settlement over the heads of the people of Ulster - are not so fanciful. The
Standing Advisory Commission on Human Rights, the Government's watchdog on
anti-terrorist legislation, has repeatedly called for the abolition of exclusion
powers. It is time that ministers paid attention. The answer to terrorism is
better policing and better intelligence, not illiberal and counter-productive
laws.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1993 Independent Print Ltd

                              129 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Standard (London)

                             July 12, 1993, Monday

HOW I WOULD BEAT THE TERRORISTS;
Former Prime Minister SIR EDWARD HEATH MP, himself the target of a bomb 1975,
calls for immediate and drastic action to protect London from IRA terrorism

BYLINE: Sir Edward Heath

SECTION: Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1880 words


WE SHALL soon be approaching the 25th year of continuous terrorism by the IRA in
the UK. Its intensity has fluctuated. Concentrating on Northern Ireland, with
outbursts on the mainland, and especially at Christmas, it is apparent that the
IRA is now determined to wreak havoc over here to the greatest possible extent.
Our cities are the first to suffer what Belfast has endured for nearly 25 years.

Drastic action must be quickly taken. It will require many changes in attitudes
and methods. It needs the best brains in the country to be brought together, as
they were in the Second World War, to devise new means of identifying and
pre-empting terrorist activities. It will cost money. But we must not carry on
with terrorism as a permanent feature of our national life.

For these reasons I fully support the introduction of a checkpoint cordon around
London's Square Mile. If successful, the cordon will reassure those who work in
the City, as well as the international community which invests in it, that the
Square Mile is safer than it has been in the past.

Such measures, however, are long overdue, and should have been introduced
immediately after the Baltic Exchange bombing in April last year. Had this been
the case, the Bishopsgate attack, which caused the death of a photographer and
more than £300 million of damage, might have been prevented.

The fact that the increase in the Square Mile security is a City, and not a
Government, initiative is indicative of the failure of the central authorities
to show adequate foresight and resolution in their fight against the IRA. Too
many lives have been lost and too much damage has been caused for this situation
to be allowed to continue.

In the light of last week's warning by the IRA to foreign banks based in the
City that further attacks in the area were 'inevitable', additional measures -
measures which will require parliamentary approval - must also be considered.

There are many possibilities. For example, at present, police wishing to set up
a road check must have reasonable grounds for believing a serious arrestable
offence is being, or is about to be, committed. This system is not flexible
enough. To rectify this situation, the Police and Criminal Evidence Act of 1984
should be amended to empower the police to set up static checkpoints and carry
out random searches. In this way the police will be given the flexibility to act
effectively.

The Government could introduce tax incentives for companies and private banks to
invest in video security cameras, the like of which proved invaluable in
apprehending the Harrods bombers. Parking regulations could be tightened
further, to allow only registered vehicles to park in strictly limited areas of
the City, and fully equipped specialist bomb disposal teams could be located in
the heart of the City, ready for immediate deployment.

The measures introduced the weekend before last have not produced the 'traffic
chaos' which some groups predicted. Moreover, the few dozen demonstrators who
turned up last Monday, protesting that the new measures were an infringement of
civil liberties, came mostly from the journal Living Marxism. I don't suppose
there are too many Living Marxists working in the banks and investment houses of
the Square Mile.

Recent events have shown the failure of successive governments to deal with
terrorism in a proper and effective way. It is now up to the Prime Minister and
his Cabinet to tackle the IRA with the intelligence and determination that are
so desperately required.

Essentially, the Government has to become more clever than the terrorists and
outwit them. This, clearly, we have not done. We can learn much from our
European neighbours. The fact that the Red Brigade in Italy, the Red Army
faction in Germany and Action Directe in France have been virtually defeated is
a testament to the success of these nations in combating terrorism. A major
factor in their success is that all these countries have established a national,
centralised anti-terrorist agency. This is precisely what must be set up in
Britain.

Last year's decision to give MI5 the leading role in intelligence gathering was
a step forward and, in light of the arrests of five suspects charged with the
Tyneside bombings in June, it may already be paying dividends. However, the task
of combating terrorism is still far too fragmented.

The present mixture of regional police forces, the Special Branch, MI5, MI6 and
so on does not provide the coherent opposition to the IRA which we need.

The fragmented structure has led to delay, confusion and poor communication
between the various security forces. A centralised, unified agency would greatly
improve the over-complex and unnecessarily bureaucratic system which has
operated until now.

The agency should be headed by a senior minister, appointed by the Prime
Minister and with a seat in the Cabinet, with the sole responsibility of leading
the campaign against the paramilitary forces. The creation of this body would
not only lead to a more efficient, effective and co-ordinated anti-terrorist
force, but would also ensure that the anti-terrorist campaign carried the
political clout of the Prime Minister and the Cabinet with it.

The whole process by which terrorists are tried is also in need of a radical
overhaul and I welcome many of the changes recommended by the Royal Commission
on Criminal Justice. The creation of a national bank for the storage of
information on DNA fingerprinting will be of particular use in the campaign
against the IRA. However, there are other problems which need to be addressed.

For example, the authorities must be allowed to use the evidence that has been
compiled against alleged members of the IRA more effectively. In light of the
appallingly low rate of conviction for terrorist offences over the past decade,
this clearly has not been happening.

This weakness in our judicial procedure was brought home to us last week when
John Matthews was expelled from the country. This came after charges against him
for his alleged part in a taxi bomb attack on Downing Street were dropped.

In an unprecedented statement the Home Secretary explained that he had expelled
Mr Matthews because he was satisfied the 22-year-old had been associated with
terrorism but that the material which substantiated his opinion would not be
admissible as evidence in court. This is a highly undesirable situation. If John
Matthews was a terrorist, he should have been tried and convicted. The current
procedure has obviously failed the people of Britain.

The authorities should also improve the degree of anonymity available to key
witnesses before, during and after they give evidence. This can be done in part
by introducing closed-circuit cameras and video-recorded testimony which would
make it easier for witnesses to come forward to testify against key members of
the IRA.

I have outlined only some of the actions which must be taken if we are to win
our battle against the IRA. The people of London, like those of Northern
Ireland, have shown themselves to be strong and resilient in the face of
terrorism. It is now time for the Government to show more positive qualities in
this fight.

But beware. If the situation appears to improve, let no one, high or low, ease
off. The IRA will be waiting for us to lower our guard so it can once again hurl
blows at us. Remember - the IRA never forgets. Only when it is eliminated shall
we have peace on both sides of the Irish Sea.

Armed police at the Barbican check vehicles as part of the City security cordon

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: ARMED POLICE AT THE BARBICAN CHECK VEHICLES AS PART OF THE CITY
SECURITY CORDON

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1993 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              130 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             July 13, 1993, Tuesday

Olympic Games: Britain's bid is on right track

BYLINE: MIKE ROWBOTTOM

SECTION: SPORT PAGE; Page 34

LENGTH: 471 words


MANCHESTER professed itself officially ''delighted'' at the technical report
published yesterday on the six cities bidding for the 2000 Olympic Games,
although the document clearly favoured Sydney as the potential site.

The International Olympic Committee's Evaluation Commission, which has sent
delegates to Manchester, Sydney, Peking, Berlin, Istanbul and Brasilia, was
complimentary about most aspects of the British city's bid, including its
accessible venues, its transport, its telecommunications, and, given the
Government's vow to provide sufficient private and public funding, its finances.

Sydney, however, comes away with a report that is, according to one IOC member,
''bloody nearly perfect. It's so far ahead of the others, it's quite
breathtaking''.

While Sydney is said to offer ''conditions over and above what is required by
the IOC'', the 67-page report - a guideline for the 91 IOC members who will vote
in Monte Carlo on 23 September to select the 2000 Games hosts - places a number
of question marks against the present suitability of Peking, the other leading
candidate. The Chinese capital is criticised for its vulnerability to terrorist
attacks, its unsuitable high-rise accommodation for the athletes and its
potential language problems.

The report is scathing about the rank outsider, Brasilia, where general
standards are ''currently below what is expected of an Olympic bid''.

John Holt, director of international relations for the Manchester 2000 bid, said
the report was good news for Britain, although he emphasised that it was only
one element in a complex procedure that is resolved through politics and sheer
gut feeling as much as technical suitability.

''The last six months are important; the last six weeks are crucial, and the
last six days are absolutely incredibly vital,'' he said.

''I have seen stories that we have been placed second behind Sydney in this
report, but I can't see that there is any order of priority. Let's put it this
way. If the report is not good it can cause a lot of damage because, frankly
speaking, a lot of IOC members are probably aware of cities' good qualities.

''They are just looking for something bad to help them make up their mind. And
while the report notes unfavourable things about other bids, there is nothing
unfavourable said about Manchester. It isn't going to halt our progress, and it
isn't going to push it forward.''

Today, Manchester seeks to accentuate the positive as it shows the IOC
president, Juan Antonio Samaranch, around the city. Starting at Sandilands
Infant School, in Sale, where he will view Olympic-inspired artwork and T-shirts
by the pupils, he will take in all aspects of the city's preparations before
travelling to London tomorrow to meet the Prime Minister at Downing Street.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1993 Independent Print Ltd

                              131 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                            July 14, 1993, Wednesday

POLICE POUNCE ON IRA BOMB SUSPECT

BYLINE:  David Mason, Grania Langdon-Down, Tim Moynihan and Roger Williams,
Press

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 1326 words


Association A suspected IRA terrorist was being questioned in London tonight
after he was arrested carrying a bomb following a major surveillance operation
by police and MI5 agents.  In a co-ordinated operation Scottish police, liaising
with anti-terrorist and security service officers, arrested seven people in the
Stirling area under the Prevention of Terrorism Act.  Police in central Scotland
refused to give any details except to confirm the seven were being held under
the Act, which allows suspects to be kept in custody for up to seven days before
being charged or released.  Scotland Yard, which also refused to discuss the
Scottish arrests, said firearms and anti-terrorist squad officers held the man
in London after a joint operation involving MI5, the Yard's anti-terrorist squad
and other police forces.  Witnesses described how up to 30 officers surrounded a
middle-aged man near a bus stop in Crest Road, Cricklewood, north-west London,
not far from Staples Corner where a 100lb IRA van bomb severely damaged a major
road flyover 15 months ago.  Officers searched the man at gunpoint as he lay
spreadeagled on the ground and in a holdall they found a bomb ready to be
primed. Forensic experts were examining it tonight.

Plain clothes police were tailing the man and moved in after he parked a car.
They believe he may have intended to continue his journey by bus.  Buses calling
at the stop include the No 16, which cross Oxford Street and pass the rear of
Buckingham Palace on their way to Victoria station.  Other buses go to the Brent
Cross shopping centre, where four firebombs were found in December 1991, and
Sudbury, where traces of explosives were found in two IRA safe houses in
November 1990.  Police spent several hours examining a blue Ford Escort parked
in nearby Coles Green Road before taking it away.  Eyewitness Leroy Boyles said
armed police in a taxi had blocked Crest Road before the arrest. They leaped out
and shouted at a man at a bus stop "Get down, get down", he said.  "They told
him to keep his eyes on one of the officers and put his hands out by his side,"
said Mr Boyles, a social worker.  He said the man was white, quite portly, aged
45-55, and carrying a satchel over his shoulder.  Officers ordered passers-by
and workers in nearby shops to get indoors or leave the area, he told BBC One
O'Clock News.  A worker in a shop opposite the bus stop said the man was
surrounded by about 20 to 30 police officers who appeared from various
directions.  They shouted a warning not to move or they would shoot, then held
him face down on the ground and searched him, said the worker, who asked not to
be named.  Today's arrests came three days after a suspected top IRA figure in
Co Tyrone was captured when a bomb exploded prematurely.  In Ulster today,
Defence Secretary Malcolm Rifkind pledged Britain would never yield to the
terrorists.  Mr Rifkind, in the province for talks with the new GOC, Lieutenant
General Sir Roger Wheeler, acknowledged: "We have not yet concluded the battle
against terrorism and it may be a long time before we do." Police and MI5, which
took over the lead intelligence role in the fight against the IRA, have been
under pressure after criticism following the City of London bombing in April
that they were failing to counter the terrorist campaign.  According to senior
police sources, they have foiled more than 10 IRA bombing attempts over the past
18 months, but had to keep details secret or risk revealing their hand to the
terrorists.  The IRA has been threatening renewed attacks in London.  Last week
the terrorists sent letters to foreign financial houses in the City warning them
to expect more explosions.  Two weeks ago, in an attempt to prevent further IRA
vehicle bombs, police blocked off all but eight routes into the financial
district, forcing all traffic to pass police checkpoints and security cameras.
But City Police Commissioner Owen Kelly said at the time that it would be
impossible to prevent small bombs being carried into the City on foot.

The raids in Scotland - in which at least two women were detained - were
concentrated on addresses in the town of Sauchie and neighbouring areas, it
emerged tonight.  A woman and one other person were seized in Sauchie, another
woman was arrested in Tillicoultry, and police were tonight standing guard
outside a turkey farm near Fishcross.  Some of those detained were believed to
have worked at the farm, but it was not known if they were detained there.

Police sources were describing the arrest in London as a significant success.
Scotland Yard's statement, disclosing his arrest was part of a joint operation
involving the security service, was the first public acknowledgement of MI5's
role in a major terrorist operation.

Scotland Yard tonight refused to comment on a report that the London suspect had
been "tailed every step of the way" on a 750-mile journey from Northern Ireland.
According to The Sun, MI5 agents and police had tracked him from Larne to
Douglas, Isle of Man, and then Stranraer on Scotland's west coast, from where he
went to "an IRA safe house outside Stirling, Central Scotland".  He loaded his
bomb into a light blue Ford Escort for an eight-hour trip via the M80, A74, M6
and M1, parking the car a short distance from the end of the motorway at Staples
Corner in North London, the paper says.  Within minutes he was surrounded by
police as he waited for a bus.  A Scotland Yard spokesman said: "We have no
comment. We are not discussing anything about the surveillance."

cotland Yard said only one person had been arrested at the scene.  The bomb,
which it was understood was ready to be primed, was being examined by forensic
experts.  Police were checking details of a car at the arrest scene. Initials
reports suggested the man had arrived in the car and may have intended
travelling on by public transport.  Buses on one route using the stop, the No
16, pass the rear of Buckingham Palace on the way to Victoria.  The other bus
route using the stop is the 245, from Golders Green to Alperton.  Shopkeeper
Kypros Orphanides, 39, whose general store is near the bus stop, said: "I heard
the police shout to someone to get face down on the floor. Then another
policeman came in and said: 'Get out to the back of the shop, because there's a
bomb outside'.  "We ran out - you don't know what's going to happen, how big the
bomb is. A policeman said to me that if it had gone off, it would have wrecked
the whole block.  "The man, who was face down on the ground, was very roughly
dressed. I couldn't see his face.  "It was four hours before we were allowed
back in the shop ... I noticed that they used baskets from the supermarket to
cover over the bomb."

A Scotland Yard spokesman said it was possible that the man had intended to get
on a bus.  He added that the man was on foot when he was arrested near the bus
stop and, contrary to some reports, was not dragged from a car.  The man was
being held under the Prevention of Terrorism Act.  The spokesman could not say
why a blue Ford Escort was examined at the scene for several hours and then
taken away.  He said the arrest followed an operation between the Metropolitan
police, other police forces, and "the security service", which he could not
identify further.

uses from Crest Road serve areas which have been hit by IRA attacks over the
years.  The No 16 goes to Victoria station, where a litter bin blast on February
18 1991 killed one person and injured 38.  It passes near Paddington station,
hit by another bomb earlier that day, and crosses Oxford Street, the scene of
bomb attacks since the earliest days of the IRA's mainland campaign.  The 182
service goes to Brent Cross shopping centre, where four firebombs were found on
December 14 1991.  In the other direction, the 182 and 245 both serve Sudbury,
where traces of explosives were found in two IRA safe houses in November 1990.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1993 The Press Association Limited

                              132 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 July 15, 1993

BOMB-IN-BAG SUSPECT HELD IN STREET

BYLINE: EDWARD PILKINGTON

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 488 words


A SUSPECTED IRA terrorist was being questioned under the Prevention of Terrorism
Act last night after being arrested in north-west London carrying a bag holding
a bomb.

Armed police and anti-terrorist officers moved in on the man and ordered him to
lie on the ground after a surveillance operation involving MI5, Scotland Yard
and other police forces. It is thought the man, who is being held at the
top-security Paddington Green police station in west London, arrived there by
car and may have intended to travel on by bus.

The arrest was made at 9am close to a bus stop in Cricklewood, 250 yards from
Staples Corner flyover, which was badly damaged in April last year - four hours
after the Baltic Exchange blast in the City - by a 100lb IRA bomb in a van under
the MI intersection.

In a separate incident, seven people were arrested under the PTA in Scotland
after raids by Central Scotland Police, based in Stirling.

The force refused to say if the operation was linked to events in London.

In Cricklewood, eyewitnesses said up to 30 police officers were involved in the
arrest. They described the suspect as a tall middle-aged man, well-built and
scruffily dressed.

Leroy Boles, a social worker, saw armed police in a taxi block the road.

They leapt out and shouted "Get down! Get down!" at a man at the bus stop.
"They told him to keep his eyes on one of the officers and put his hands out by
his side." Kypros Orphanides, who owns a shop near the bus stop in Crest Road,
said an officer ordered the evacuation of the shop, saying if the bomb had gone
off "it would have wrecked the whole block".

Scotland Yard last night refused to comment on a report that the London suspect
had been "tailed every step of the way" on a 750-mile journey from Northern
Ireland.

The arrest is likely to raise morale among the security services, dismayed by
recent criticism of their anti-terrorist operation. Pressure has been mounting
on police and MI5 - which has taken over responsibility for the battle against
the IRA - since the City blast in Bishopsgate in April which killed a
photographer and caused an estimated pounds 500 million damage.

Scotland Yard claims to have foiled at least 10 attempts to plant bombs in
London in the past 18 months, but fears remain that the City is vulnerable to
another IRA "spectacular". Last week terrorists sent letters to foreign
financial houses warning of further bombings, despite police road blocks around
the City.

Owen Kelly, commissioner of the 800-strong City of London Police, has cautioned
that it would be impossible to prevent small devices being carried into the
financial district on foot.

Malcolm Rifkind, the Defence Secretary, said in Northern Ireland last night that
Britain would never yield to terrorists. He added: "We have not yet concluded
the battle against terrorism and it may be a long time before we do."


LOAD-DATE: July 15, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              133 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 July 17, 1993

'NIGHTMARE' OF LIFE UNDER BANNING ORDER;
David Sharrock meets a Derry man whose experience bodes ill for John Matthews,
who was barred from the mainland last week

BYLINE: DAVID SHARROCK

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 917 words


DANNY McBrearty wants to ask a question: "Would all the politicians who are
fighting to get John Matthews's exclusion order lifted please help me as well?"

Mr McBrearty is a nervous wreck. He fears the same fate awaits Mr Matthews, the
22-year-old Queen's University graduate who was flown back to Northern Ireland
from England in handcuffs last week after 2 1/2 months in prison.

Although charges against Mr Matthews were dropped, the Home Secretary, Michael
Howard, signed an exclusion order against him, in effect exiling him to his
native Derry, because he said he had information which implicated him in
terrorism.

This week, Mr Matthews met 40-year-old Mr McBrearty on their home patch, the
nationalist Creggan estate. The meeting must have done nothing to alleviate his
fears over what may lie ahead.

Mr McBrearty was made the subject of an exclusion order banning him from Great
Britain in circumstances which closely resemble the Matthews case. It is not
difficult to believe him when he says he lives in fear; it is etched into his
face. "I fear for my life every time I cross the river."

A severe stammer, conquered in youth, has returned. He is unemployed, although
that is not an unusual position for a Catholic from the Creggan. He no longer
lives with his wife and four children. "My wife is petrified and I have had to
split from her and live elsewhere as a safety precaution."

In October 1989, while working on a London building site, he was arrested and
held for seven days under the Prevention of Terrorism Act, at the end of which
he was charged with possessing explosives.  Three months later, after numerous
remand hearings at which magistrates were told there was compelling forensic
evidence against him, the charge was dropped.

Mr McBrearty was about to leave Lambeth magistrates' court a free man in January
1990 when he was rearrested, taken to Paddington Green police station and held
overnight while awaiting the exclusion order.

This January he watched the post anxiously. Days before the three-year order was
due to expire another one arrived, for another three years. He has now issued
writs against the Metropolitan Police, the Director of Public Prosecutions and
RARDE, the Government forensic science laboratory. The hearing is expected this
autumn.

As in Mr Matthews's case, there had recently been an IRA atrocity. Three weeks
before his arrest 11 Royal Marines bandsmen were killed in an explosion at Deal
barracks in Kent. Nobody has been convicted of their murders.

"It was a sweep, seven or eight were arrested, but I was the only one charged.
I'd only been in London six weeks, although with hindsight I think I was being
watched because I was stopped and questioned on my arrival at Heathrow."

The reason the police showed an interest was that Mr McBrearty had a record. In
1974 he was found guilty of possessing documents likely to be of use to
terrorists. "I was a very young man in Derry at the time and I was asked by
somebody to hold a sealed envelope. I didn't know what was in it and I still
don't know.  I've never been in the IRA." He served two years in prison.

The months passed slowly after the 1989 arrest. "I was up in court every week.
They said they had forensic on me and that I'd been handling RDX, which was a
constituent of Semtex. But at no time did they let our forensic scientist see
their so-called evidence."

He is convinced that had it not been for the Guildford Four - who were released
on appeal a week after he was charged - he would now be serving a lengthy
sentence. "That opened a whole can of worms: the British authorities then began
to realise that they weren't going to get away with it. So they dropped the
charges but then to vindicate holding me for so long they excluded me."

To make matters worse for Mr McBrearty and his family, the Royal Ulster
Constabulary visited his home while he was being held in Brixton jail. "They
informed my family that my security file that had been in their possession was
in the hands of loyalist paramilitaries. They didn't offer any explanation."

The same month Mr McBrearty's face made its way on to newspaper front pages
after 150 security files were leaked to the press during the Stevens inquiry
into collusion between security forces and loyalist paramilitaries.

"There's no end to this nightmare if they can just keep excluding me like this
every three years. I'm very, very nervous.  Okay, I'm living in a nationalist
area but I feel totally confined to this one area - I literally cannot move."

Besides Mr McBrearty and Mr Matthews, one other Derry man is covered by an
exclusion order: Martin McGuinness, the prominent Sinn Fein politician. In
total, 81 exclusion orders were in force at the end of last year, fewer than in
any year since 1982.

Mr McBrearty's life revolves around the Portakabin office of a Creggan taxi
company, where he answers the telephone unpaid to ease the boredom.

His local MP, John Hume, of the Social Democratic and Labour Party, and some
Labour MPs took up his case in the early days but the support gradually
dissolved. He feels abandoned and wonders if the same might happen to John
Matthews.

"I bumped into him and congratulated him on the way he and his family fought the
case and that I was glad to see him home.  Hopefully, he'll have more luck than
I've had because I would dearly love to walk the streets of London again and say
that I was also innocent."


LOAD-DATE: July 21, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              134 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             July 18, 1993, Sunday

City fighting to keep its crown; London's status as Europe's pre-eminent
financial centre looks solid, but the ambitions of Frankfurt and Paris leave no
room for complacency in the Square Mile

BYLINE: JOHN EISENHAMMER in Frankfurt, GAIL COUNSELL in London, MICHAEL MARRAY
in New York and DAVID HEL

SECTION: BUSINESS ON SUNDAY NEWS PAGE; Page 4

LENGTH: 3312 words


THE temptation to be complacent about London's position as Europe's leading
financial centre was tested on two fronts last week, both from Frankfurt.

Early in the week, the Frankfurt authorities announced plans to criminalise
insider trading, bringing its regulatory standards on share dealing up to
international standards. A couple of days later, it emerged that the same city
is likely to be the host for the forthcoming European Central Bank.

Frankfurt, in particular, likes to think of itself as an increasingly serious
rival to London. But the recent controversy surrounding the share speculation by
the disgraced trade union leader, Franz Steinkuhler, highlighted yet again its
lax regulatory approach - insider trading is, for now, still legal.

This seems to be why the Finance Ministry in Bonn has produced its final
discussion document on a proposed law that would introduce prison sentences for
insider trading of up to five years, and set up a Federal Supervisory Office for
Securities Trading.

However, it would be wrong to suggest that the Germans are moving at lightning
speed.

The financial establishment's deep-seated conservatism and lengthy German
bureaucratic procedures are combining to make for slow progress.

For instance, the law proposing a Federal office has to be squared with the
regional states, which jealously guard the privileges of their own, smaller
stock exchanges.

So it is not expected to get through parliament before early next year, or to
come into force before the summer of 1994, two years after the deadline set for
implementing the relevant EC financial regulation directives.

Attempts to turn Frankfurt into a truly open, international trading centre are
progressing, if anything, even more slowly. The Bundesbank is convinced that
financial deregulation a la London's Big Bang is a grave mistake. The explosion
of short- term financial instruments undermines a culture of longer- term
saving, and so weakens the most important bulwark against inflation, it argues.

The result of such thinking is a determination, shared to varying degrees by
Frankfurt's big banks, to encourage only a measured, highly controlled process
of deregulation.

The central question of whether Frankfurt is prepared to transform itself into a
truly international marketplace for Europe is far from answered.

But Frankfurt is not the only centre that would like to tilt at the City's
windmill. For years the burghers of Paris have looked longingly across the
Channel at the superior size and influence of London; a few months ago they
finally did something about it.

A committee of the great and the good of the French financial and industrial
establishment has been set up with the express aim of boosting Paris as a
financial centre.

Named ''Paris Europlace'', and instantly redubbed ''Paris Europlatz'' by wags
who took a sceptical view of the German dominance of French economic life, it
has so far had a modest impact - it has produced the inevitable glossy brochure
and logo, commissioned research and started organising conferences.

The idea is to have at least three such promotional exercises each year. The
first took place earlier in the month in Paris, another is to follow at the end
of the year in New York.

But the threat is greater than it looks. Part of the sub-text of this initiative
is explained by the Fr350bn ( pounds 40bn) five-year privatisation programme
planned by the French government.

At the moment, Paris's equity market is small and relatively illiquid. Although
it is the world's fourth largest after New York, Tokyo and London, it is barely
40 per cent of the size of its nearest rival, the London Stock Exchange.

But the current mass privatisation programme should improve liquidity - it comes
to about 18 per cent of the current market capitalisation of the Bourse. There
are hopes that the extra business it generates will help Paris to achieve a
critical mass.

Paris still faces the problem that the Bourse lacks a solid domestic base of
institutional investors. This is because private pension funds are rare - most
pension provision is the state's responsibility.

However, most observers expect that to change - the state can no longer afford
to carry the burden, and banks and insurance companies are already discussing
ways to extend the private sector.

One area where Paris has made particular efforts to compete with London is
derivatives. Set up in 1986, the Matif initially gave the London International
Financial Futures and Options Exchange (Liffe) a few sleepless nights.
Respective volumes of contracts traded by the two were running neck and neck for
a while.

But more recently, the French have lost ground to the British who have
successfully and aggressively launched and marketed international products.

The relatively weak positions of Frankfurt and Paris - whatever their
aspirations - is something clearly recognised on the other side of the pond. Few
American bankers seriously imagine that another city will replace London as the
biggest financial centre in Europe. Clearly, they like the ease of speaking the
same language in London, but they also rate the regulatory environment as an
important advantage.

''You couldn't contemplate moving out of London and going to Frankfurt or Paris
or Brussels,'' commented Richard Roddey, who heads up the European operations of
NationsBank, currently the fifth largest bank in the United States. ''If you are
in Europe you have to be in London first.''

NationsBank does have an office with 10 staff in Frankfurt, but has expanded its
presence in London aggressively in recent years, to its present level of 450
staff. During this expansion Roddey said that ''it didn't cross anyone's mind to
be headquartered anywhere but London''.

In foreign exchange dealing,

London is viewed as comfortably ahead in its time zone - and number one in the
world.

According to the 1992 central banks' survey of foreign exchange dealing, around
$ 303bn ( pounds 206bn) is traded daily in London, $ 192bn in New York and $
108bn in Tokyo, which leaves Frankfurt and Hong Kong fighting it out for fourth
place at $ 60bn each, and Paris trailing at $ 35bn.

In fact, most Americans see London both as complementary to their operations in
the US, and as a competitor. They see the question as being whether business
will leave London for the United States, rather than whether it will migrate
elsewhere in Europe.

New York is certainly working hard at encouraging it to do so. For example, the
New York Mercantile Exchange is now offering after-hours trading on its crude
oil, heating oil and gasoline contracts between 5pm and 8am New York time, in an
effort to reinforce its dominance over London's International Petroleum
Exchange.

New York has also been taking equity trading business away from London, with the
help of its American Depositary Receipts. Depositary banks such as Citibank, JP
Morgan and Bank of New York hold the underlying shares, while the US investor
buys and sells the dollar- denominated ADRs.

The widespread use of ADRs has moved volume - and the broking commissions that
go with it - away from the London Stock Exchange. Last year Glaxo Holdings was
the most actively traded of any stock listed in the United States measured by
number of shares changing hands, with $ 15.7bn worth of shares traded during the
year.

Ten of the top 20 ADRs by volume traded last year were UK companies, including
Hanson, British Petroleum, Wellcome, SmithKline Beecham, Reuters, British Steel
and Grand Metropolitan.

In London, the reaction to heightened competition has been muted. True, the
boastful trappings of the boom years of the 1980s - the City champagne bars and
the weekend country retreats, for instance - are less in evidence these days.

But there is still an inner confidence among those who operate within the Square
Mile that it can withstand an apparently growing threat to its dominance.

At the London Stock Exchange, they point to their recent Quality of Markets
statistics, showing that in 1992 there were 93 new share issues in London
compared with a paltry five in Germany and six in Paris.

''Ninety-three to five, that's all you need to remember,'' said one stock
exchange insider rather triumphantly.

Moreover, London handled 93.5 per cent of the overseas equity turnover in Europe
in 1992, compared with 2.3 per cent on the German exchanges and 1 per cent in
Paris.

Among the reasons for London's diversified activity is its favourable time zone
position between the Far East and North America. Around 66 per cent of US
business is transacted between 8am and noon local time. By midday in New York
most European markets are closed.

London has other advantages, too. It is the world's leading centre for bond
trading, handling more than 50 per cent of total trades, according to best
estimates. And recent Bank of England data show London as the leading centre for
cross-border bank lending, with 16.5 per cent of external lending being based in
London, ahead of 14.2 per cent in Japan. In 1992, lending from the UK increased
by $ 88bn, whereas lending from Japan fell by $ 59m.

A spokeswoman for one foreign bank, which has a large presence in London but is
not headquartered there, said the large pool of skilled labour for the
securities business in London and New York made them especially attractive
centres to be based in, with London's less strict labour laws (compared with
Frankfurt and Paris) also a big pulling factor.

The point has been driven home by the City Research Project, a three-year London
Business School study of the current and prospective future competitive position
of London as a leading financial centre.

Its interim report has looked at the impact of labour and property costs,
technology, regulation and communications on London's attractiveness as a
financial centre.

The team, headed by Professor Richard Brealey, points out that London benefits
from the fact that Britain is now a relatively low-wage economy and that
employees in the financial sector are paid less than they bring in, in terms of
profitability.

The report also notes the way property prices have come down substantially in
the area, thanks to the increase in the supply of office space, shifting total
costs in London's favour by around 5 per cent.

Another plus point is the favourable legal framework in England - it has become,
with New York law, the basis for many international financial contracts.

Some would have it, however, that London, in spite of its head start, is giving
its competitors all the help it can to make inroads into its market-place.

In particular, London's reputation has suffered from a number of self-inflicted
problems - the troubles at the Lloyd's insurance market, the collapse of BCCI,
Asil Nadir's flight from justice, the fiasco over the Maxwell pension funds and
the scrapping of Taurus, the City's paperless share settlement project, to name
just a few.

Undoubtedly, the failure of Taurus was a particularly serious blow. One senior
City figure says that making quick progress on settlement is one of the most
urgent tasks facing the City and is exceptionally important for maintaining
London's position.

A phased approach is being undertaken, with the first objective being a move to
settle share trades within 10 days.

The problems at Lloyd's have not only affected London's reputation, they have
also hit the UK's balance of trade. As the problems mounted during the 1980s,
Lloyd's went from being a net contributor to the balance of trade of pounds
1.3bn in 1986/87 to being a drain on the trade balance to the tune of pounds
100m five years later.

Yet while most of the scandals and mistakes have been of the City's own making,
the threat of IRA terrorist attacks is outside its control and especially
worrying.

Earlier this month, it led to the imposition of armed cordons within the Square
Mile. One smallish bank says that the threat has increased its insurance and
security costs by about pounds 250,000 a year.

Although London enjoys an unparalleled position, many City figures insist that
complacency is not a big problem. ''Yes, there is increasing competition from
other European centres, but London is getting better at improving the situation
here,'' said one. ''It is simply not sitting still while others leap ahead, but
making strenuous efforts to improve things where necessary.''

That this should continue to be so is vital for the British economy, according
to John Wells, the Cambridge University economist at who has for years studied
the decline in the UK's manufacturing base.

''The City contributes enormously to the UK's balance of payments and one could
not contemplate what the economy would be like without it.'' London is viewed as
comfortably ahead in its time zone - and number one in the world.

According to the 1992 central banks' survey of foreign exchange dealing, around
$ 303bn ( pounds 206bn) is traded daily in London, $ 192bn in New York and $
108bn in Tokyo, which leaves Frankfurt and Hong Kong fighting it out for fourth
place at $ 60bn each, and Paris trailing at $ 35bn.

In fact, most Americans see London both as complementary to their operations in
the US, and as a competitor. They see the question as being whether business
will leave London for the United States, rather than whether it will migrate
elsewhere in Europe.

New York is certainly working hard at encouraging it to do so. For example, the
New York Mercantile Exchange is now offering after-hours trading on its crude
oil, heating oil and gasoline contracts between 5pm and 8am New York time, in an
effort to reinforce its dominance over London's International Petroleum
Exchange.

New York has also been taking equity trading business away from London, with the
help of its American Depositary Receipts. Depositary banks such as Citibank, JP
Morgan and Bank of New York hold the underlying shares, while the US investor
buys and sells the dollar- denominated ADRs.

The widespread use of ADRs has moved volume - and the broking commissions that
go with it - away from the London Stock Exchange. Last year Glaxo Holdings was
the most actively traded of any stock listed in the United States measured by
number of shares changing hands, with $ 15.7bn worth of shares traded during the
year.

Ten of the top 20 ADRs by volume traded last year were UK companies, including
Hanson, British Petroleum, Wellcome, SmithKline Beecham, Reuters, British Steel
and Grand Metropolitan.

In London, the reaction to heightened competition has been muted. True, the
boastful trappings of the boom years of the 1980s - the City champagne bars and
the weekend country retreats, for instance - are less in evidence these days.

But there is still an inner confidence among those who operate within the Square
Mile that it can withstand an apparently growing threat to its dominance. At the
London Stock Exchange, they point to their recent Quality of Markets statistics,
showing that in 1992 there were 93 new share issues in London compared with a
paltry five in Germany and six in Paris.

''Ninety-three to five, that's all you need to remember,'' said one stock
exchange insider rather triumphantly.

Moreover, London handled 93.5 per cent of the overseas equity turnover in Europe
in 1992, compared with 2.3 per cent on the German exchanges and 1 per cent in
Paris.

Among the reasons for London's diversified activity is its favourable time zone
position between the Far East and North America, able to trade relatively long
hours with both.

London has other advantages, too. It is the world's leading centre for bond
trading, handling more than 50 per cent of total trades, according to best
estimates.

And recent Bank of England data show London as the leading centre for
cross-border bank lending, with 16.5 per cent of external lending being based in
London, ahead of 14.2 per cent in Japan. In 1992, lending from the UK increased
by $ 88bn, whereas lending from Japan fell by $ 59m.

A spokeswoman for one foreign bank, which has a large presence in London but is
not headquartered there, said the large pool of skilled labour for the
securities business in London and New York made them especially attractive
centres to be based in, with London's less strict labour laws (compared with
Frankfurt and Paris) also a big pulling factor.

The point has been driven home by the City Research Project, a three-year London
Business School study of the current and prospective future competitive Its
interim report has looked at the impact of labour and property costs,
technology, regulation and communications on London's attractiveness as a
financial centre.

The team, headed by Professor Richard Brealey, points out that London benefits
from the fact that Britain is now a relatively low-wage economy and that
employees in the financial sector are paid less than they bring in, in terms of
profitability.

The report also notes the way property prices have come down substantially in
the area, thanks to the increase in the supply of office space, shifting total
costs in London's favour by around 5 per cent.

Another plus point is the favourable legal framework in England - it has become,
with New York law, the basis for many international financial contracts.

Some would have it, however, that London, in spite of its head start, is giving
its competitors all the help it can to make inroads into its market-place.

In particular, London's reputation has suffered from a number of self-inflicted
problems - the troubles at the Lloyd's insurance market, the collapse of BCCI,
Asil Nadir's flight from justice, the fiasco over the Maxwell pension funds and
the scrapping of Taurus, the City's paperless share settlement project, to name
just a few.

Undoubtedly, the failure of Taurus was a particularly serious blow. It hit
foreign firms where it hurts - on the bottom line.

One senior City figure says that making quick progress on settlement is one of
the most urgent tasks facing the City and is exceptionally important for
maintaining London's position.

A phased approach is being undertaken, with the first objective being a move to
settle share trades within 10 days.

The problems at Lloyd's have not only affected London's reputation, they have
also hit the UK's balance of trade. As the problems mounted during the 1980s,
Lloyd's went from being a net contributor to the balance of trade of pounds
1.3bn in 1986/87 to being a drain on the trade balance to the tune of pounds
100m five years later.

Yet while most of the scandals and mistakes have been of the City's own making,
the threat of IRA terrorist attacks is outside its control and especially
worrying.

Earlier this month, it led to the imposition of armed cordons within the Square
Mile. One smallish bank says that the threat has increased its insurance and
security costs by about pounds 250,000 a year.

Although London enjoys an unparalleled position, many City figures insist that
complacency is not a big problem. ''Yes, there is increasing competition from
other European centres, but London is getting better at improving the situation
here,'' said one. ''It is simply not sitting still while others leap ahead, but
making strenuous efforts to improve things where necessary.''

That this should continue to be so is vital for the British economy, according
to John Wells, the Cambridge University economist at who has for years studied
the decline in the UK's manufacturing base.

''The City contributes enormously to the UK's balance of payments and one could
not contemplate what the economy would be like without it.''

(Photograph omitted)


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1993 Independent Print Ltd

                              135 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 July 21, 1993

Loyalists threaten politicians

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 535 words


SENIOR nationalist politicians in Northern Ireland last night faced new threats
to their lives from loyalist terrorists.

The outlawed Protestant UFF, who left bombs outside and close to the homes of
three members of the Catholic SDLP, one of them West Belfast MP Dr Joe Hendron,
warned there would be further attacks.

Angered by IRA bombings which have devastated streets in Belfast and major
provincial towns, they warned: "These incidents are only a start."

Devices exploded under a car owned by Dr Hendron and close to the home of a city
councillor, Mrs Mary Muldoon, in south Belfast. Nobody was hurt.

A third bomb was spotted and then defused under Dr Brian Feeney's car in north
Belfast. He is a former city councillor and had just returned from a holiday in
Spain.

It was the second attack on him inside three months and the ninth by the UFF
against SDLP members in Belfast, Banbridge, County Down, and Ballymena, County
Antrim.

Police say the bombs -- metal pipes filled with gunpowder and fitted with a
detonator and timer unit -- are amateurish but can kill if they explode close
enough to the terrorists' targets. An Army bomb disposal officer lost his hand
trying to defuse one in Antrim town earlier this year.

Security chiefs fear that if loyalists acquire more potent explosives there
could be wholesale bloodshed. All SDLP politicians have been told to review
their personal protection.

The UFF claim the SDLP are part of a so-called pan-nationalist front, involving
the IRA and the Republican government, whom they allege are combining to put
pressure on Britain to pull out of Northern Ireland.

Dr Hendron, 60, regarded as a moderate, ousted Sinn Fein president Gerry Adams
in the April 1992 General Election. He was at home with his wife Sally and sons
Michael, 13, and Joseph, 10, when the device exploded underneath the family's
Renault car outside their home at Bristow Park in the Malone area of Belfast.
No-one was hurt and the damage was limited.

Dr Hendron, who believes the device was planted before he left the car in the
driveway for the night, said: "If I had been behind the wheel with the engine
running, goodness knows what could have happened."

The bomb meant for mother-of-two Mrs Muldoon exploded in vacant property close
to her house on the Lisburn Road, about half a mile from Dr Hendron's home.

Last night, Northern Ireland Secretary Sir Patrick Mayhew said he was disgusted:
"This is an overt attack upon democracy. When people have the courage to take
part in democratic politics in the front line and are attacked for that very
reason, then we see the really dangerous and evil nature of the people
responsible."

A number of men arrested in the predominantly Protestant town of Comber, County
Down, were being questioned last night about serious terrorist crime, but it is
not thought that the investigation is linked to the UFF bomb attacks.

Meanwhile, a Catholic man shot five times at home in Areema Drive, Dunmurry,
Belfast, by a republican splinter group, the Irish National Liberation Army, is
thought to have been the victim of mistaken identity. His condition was said to
be stable last night.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Dr Joe Hendron: at home whenbomb exploded under his car.

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1993 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              136 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 July 21, 1993

Dublin protests over Tebbit 'bomb' remark

SECTION: Pg. 9

LENGTH: 428 words


THE Irish Government is to raise with Britain remarks made by Lord Tebbit about
bombs in Dublin.

The former Conservative Party chairman angered the Irish during a Sky TV
programme on Monday night which also featured Labour's Northern Ireland
spokesman Kevin McNamara.

In a discussion on Ireland's constitutional territorial claim on Northern
Ireland, Lord Tebbit said: "I suspect that the only thing that will take that
out of the Irish constitution is when the bombs begin to blow in Dublin in the
way that they have been in Belfast and in London."

Last night, Irish Prime Minister Albert Reynolds called the comments
"deplorable" -- and made it clear his views were being relayed to London.

"It was an outrageous remark, tantamount to causing racial problems, and every
right-thinking person will deplore it," he said.

The issue is likely to be raised through the UK-Irish intergovernmental Northern
Ireland Conference.

However, Lord Tebbit last night responded to the criticism after being accused
in the Commons by SDLP Leader John Hume of "encouraging terrorism".

Lord Tebbit -- who was injured in the 1984 IRA bomb attack on the Grand Hotel,
Brighton, during the Conservative conference -- said that in the TV interview Mr
McNamara had "justified his proposal for the further intrusion of the Government
of the Republic into the affairs of Northern Ireland on the grounds that we
could not continue to allow the appalling tragedy of human suffering and
economic cost brought about by the terrorism of the IRA."

He added: "My warning was to the people of the Republic that they should not
encourage terrorism in the way that I believed Mr McNamara's well-intentioned
but fatally flawed proposals would do.

"My fear is that if bombs in Belfast and London are seen to advance the cause of
republicanism and the claims of Dublin over Northern Ireland, then there will be
those who see bombs in Dublin as the way of upholding the cause of Unionism."

Earlier, the Prime Minister strongly defended Lord Tebbit in Question Time
exchanges which following bombings by loyalist paramilitaries in Belfast at the
homes of members of the SDLP, including West Belfast SDLP MP Joe Hendron.

Mr Hume told MPs "clear evidence" had emerged that Lord Tebbit "publicly
encourages terrrorism".

There were loud cheers when Mr Major responded: "I think the whole House knows
Lord Tebbit very well. He has suffered himself violently from the acts of
terrorists. All his political life he has been a vigorous opponent of
terrorism."

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1993 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              137 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 July 28, 1993

NatWest tower to remain

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 76 words


THE 40-storey National Westminster tower, the City of London landmark badly
damaged in the Bishopsgate IRA bomb blast in April, is structurally sound and
will not have to be demolished, it was announced yesterday. But there may be a
rethink on the look of the building during restoration, the bank said. The 600ft
hexagonal tower, built in the early 1970s, is the City's tallest building and
the second highest in Britain, runner-up to Canary Wharf.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1993 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              138 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            July 29, 1993, Thursday

Leading Article: The dark side of Italy's revolution

SECTION: COMMENT PAGE; Page 27

LENGTH: 496 words


IMAGINE a Britain in which Lord Hanson has just committed suicide in prison by
putting a plastic bag over his head and Lord King has blown his brains out - and
that they are just the latest of a dozen leading businessmen and politicians who
preferred death to a ruthless investigation of their business affairs. Imagine,
too, that the Serious Fraud Office, along with the CID, is rampaging through the
Establishment, making arrests on grounds of corruption, using the legal system
to have suspects detained in Wormwood Scrubs for three months or more, and
issuing judicial warnings of investigation that blacken the names of hundreds
more.

In this somewhat Kafkaesque, if not McCarthyite Britain, terrorist car bombs
periodically explode outside sites such as Westminster Abbey and the National
Gallery. No one is sure whether they have been planted by leftist anarchists; by
a sinister conspiracy of the far right, bringing together malcontents in MI5 and
Freemasons from Special Branch; or by a criminal grouping that has cornered the
drug trade, deeply penetrated the Conservative Party and long perverted the
course of justice.

For Italians, such a country needs no imagining: it is their everyday reality.
Seen from these shores, the revolution through which Italy is more or less
peacefully passing seems belated and necessary: at last the legal system,
undeterred by Mafia assassinations and the Establishment's objections, is
nailing both the corruption and the professional crime that have long undermined
Italian political life. This, in turn, is being forced by the voters' disgust to
metamorphose itself. Many Italians see the situation similarly. Others, however,
are wondering whether the judiciary has acquired too much power, and whether
magistrates' use of preventive detention conflicts with basic human rights.

When Gabriele Cagliari, former chairman of the state energy concern ENI, killed
himself in Milan's packed San Vittore jail, he had been held for 133 days,
essentially to make him talk. Full co-operation would have meant implicating
colleagues and friends as well as business partners. Raul Gardini, former
chairman of the huge Ferruzzi conglomerate, and among industrialists second only
in renown to Fiat's Gianni Agnelli, could not face such an ordeal. He reached
for his pistol when his arrest looked imminent.

Most of the public figures involved in bribes, contributions to political party
funds and kickbacks on contracts believe they were merely operating the system,
primarily in the interests of their companies. Their punishment is a necessary
part of the cleansing process. Recent elections have shown widespread approval
of this national purging. But concern is growing not just at the heavy- handed
methods of the magistrates, but also at the uncertain nature of the new order.
Italians will not be alone in grieving if the baby of Italy's complex genius is
thrown out with the dirty bathwater of corruption.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1993 Independent Print Ltd

                              139 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 August 3, 1993

THE SCARED MILE;
A report out today hopes to make the City of London safe from terrorism. But not
all the big financiers are reassured. Any more bombs, they say, and we find a
new home.John Mullin and Frank Kane investigate

BYLINE: JOHN MULLIN AND FRANK KANE

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2264 words


HE STROLLED on to the mainland early yesterday. He sauntered past two lethargic
Metropolitan police officers, there to check all flights from Ireland. They were
too intent on rubbing the sleep from their eyes to notice him. Anyway, he was a
lilywhite, a term the IRA uses to describe its operatives who have no police
record. Nothing would have shown up had the police ran a computer check.

He had risen at dawn to drive to Dublin and caught the 0800 hours Aer Lingus
flight. He picked up a car at Heathrow and drove into central London. Just
before midday, he swapped it for a Mercedes Benz van. It was large enough to
carry a 2,000lb bomb. T hat would be the biggest IRA bomb on the British
mainland.

He took the wheel of the green Mercedes Benz 208D SWB, bearing the registration
number K235 RLD. Now it was time to test out the City of London's month-old
traffic cordon, designed to thwart the terrorist. The sceptics, who see the plan
as little more than a collection of traffic cones, had dubbed it the Ring of
Rubber.

There are seven ways into the City for such a van. There are unarmed officers on
duty at each, backed up by three patrol cars carrying armed officers. Yesterday,
they looked wholly uninterested.

He passed three officers on Cheapside at St Paul's. One barely glanced in his
direction before waving him through at 12.02.  He was inside the police cordon,
within the financial capital of the British imperialist system, worth more than
pounds 100 billion to the balance of payments last year. It had been devastated
by two IRA van bombs in a year, at the Baltic Exchange in St Mary Axe and
outside the Hongkong and Shanghai Bank in Bishopsgate.

But he decided to see whether his van would be stopped elsewhere. At Eldon
Street, the youthful officer never even looked at him. He passed through at
12.12. It was the same story at Bishopsgate, at 12.22, at Dukes Place at 12.27,
at Leadenhall at 12.30, and over London Bridge at 12.39. Throughout the City,
vans and cars stood abandoned for several minutes at a time, their hazard lights
flashing. No one raised an eyebrow.

It was only at Cannon Street he came across the first signs of alertness. He
passed through at 12.43 without trouble. But the driver of a large lorry,
registration number LBK 134Y, was pulled into the side. He unstrapped his
awnings and the policewoman who had asked him to stop was satisfied.

The Guardian reporter, having left his hotel in County Dublin seven hours ealier
to perform this scam, then returned to his office. An unfair exercise? Maybe. A
scientifically flawed stunt? Probably.

After all, good intelligence is the key to stopping the terrorists. And the City
of London concedes its cordon around the financial heartlands can never stop the
bombers. There are, indeed, more than 5,000 vehicles passing through the cordon
every hour. Even with more officers on the streets, the police are simply unable
to stop everyone.

Michael Cassidy, Corporation of London planning chairman, admits as much. He
launches a consultation document today, proposing to make the Square Mile safer
with permament traffic restrictions, video cameras, and a bleep system among
City workers. "There are very few measures you can take that will guarantee
another bomb cannot go off, but at least what we are doing means we have a
chance to prevent another large one."

But the Guardian's exercise demonstrates how anyone, particularly the
"lilywhite", can arrive from Ireland, steal, buy or, in this case, hire a van
and get into the City of London. They can leave it sitting outside a preferred
target for as much time as bombers need to get away.

But more than simply demonstrating the holes in the cordon, there is a more
important question: is such a system counter-productive?

Paul Wilkinson, terrorism expert, says: "It could be seen as throwing down the
gauntlet. There is evidence in Belfast suggesting the IRA has seen it as a
challenge. The organisation is experienced enough and skillful enough to find
its way around these measures. And it has also meant other towns being targeted
instead, so you move the problem." The City's approach is low-key, sometimes
with only one unarmed constable glancing at cars. In contrast, all Belfast's
radial routes have vehicle checkpoints, manned by four soldiers or policemen
armed with rifles, as well as random patrols. All vans and lorries are checked.
Most drivers are asked for identification. The IRA has been able to beat that.

The IRA has already warned foreign banks in the City it views the cordon as a
challenge: one to be breached. Paul Condon, the Metropolitan Commissioner, has
privately expressed his doubts, worrying the terrorists might simply switch
targets. The Home Office believes the IRA has been handed a propaganda coup.

On the traffic side, the Department of Transport is rumoured to be unhappy. The
traffic director for London similarly so.  London Transport is miffed. And the
five neighbouring councils, bearing the brunt of increased traffic, are furious.

But the Corporation of London has been able to push ahead without requiring the
say-so from any of the above. Owen Kelly, commissioner of the City of London
police, is an avid supporter. Together they hit upon the plan of using road
traffic legislation. It might have outraged civil rights campaigners but it
allowed them to introduce the scheme on a six-month basis. That can be extended
for a further six months, though they then have to apply for it to be made
permanent.

The City authorities went out on a limb after an ultimatum from the institutions
which make London Europe's financial capital: the international banks and
investment houses. Foreign financiers at first reacted with sympathy to the
Bishopsgate bomb. The Japanese Tokai bank, housed in the Hong Kong and Shanghai
building that took the brunt of the blast, said: "London is an international
finance centre and doing business here is necessary." But the public display of
stiff upper lips masked the fears of foreign financiers. Some 27 were affected
by Bishopsgate and suffered an estimated pounds 200 million of damage to
foreign-owned property in the Square Mile. Patience was wearing thin.

The Japanese were the first to express their worries. On April 26, the Japanese
Chamber of Commerce and Industry wrote confidentially to the then Home Secretary
Kenneth Clarke, in tones that belied their measured official statements. It
spoke of "the serious daily danger to life, assets and business posed by the
threat of IRA terrorism" and concluded with their own none-too-veiled threat:
"There is a real possibility that Japanese companies will have to look for a
safer alternative, another financial center within the EC, if security measures
are not improved." The message was clear: The City was being given notice of the
foreign financiers' intention to quit if another bomb went off.

There is an element of bluff in the foreign stance. Their banks and financial
organisations are obliged to maintain a presence of some kind in London, which
is the premier financial market in the European time zone. The international
financial markets encircle the globe from sunrise to sunset via the three major
financial blocs in the Far East, Europe and North America, ensuring that the
markets never close.

London's rivals - Frankfurt, Paris and (to a lesser extent) Amsterdam - do only
a fraction of the business in share and foreign exchange trading that goes on in
the City. There are more people employed in banking and finance in London
(800,000) than the whole population of Frankfurt (600,000), and the Paris Bourse
uses the London Stock Market for most of its international transactions. The
current ERM crisis has seen heavy selling of the franc across Europe, yet around
90 per cent of that business was channelled through the City. There is also the
question of whether foreign banks would feel safer in their own backyards. Paris
has been hit by terrorists on many occasions, while German financiers were
terrified by the assassinations of the chairman of Deutschebank Alfred
Herrhausen in 1989 and senior civil servant Detlev Rohwedder in 1991.

But the IRA threat to London is on a different scale. It is specifically
anti-British, yet at the same time unpredictable.  After the Bishopsgate bomb,
the terrorists pressed home their propaganda coup by writing to 50 of the top
foreign financial organisations in the City, telling them that their continued
presence in London would make them vulnerable. Amid the ranting condemnation of
British imperialism was the warning to foreigners: "You will get caught in the
blast by reason of your location."

There were no American banks on the IRA warning list, leading to the conclusion
that they did not want to alienate US support.

Commissioner Kelly argues that the IRA letter was another propaganda stunt. "We
have already given them two propaganda coups with the big bombs. It has been
argued that we are throwing down the gauntlet with the extra security,but all
the indications are that they would be attacking us anyway, regardless of what
measures we took.

"We have never claimed we could prevent another bomb getting through. The aim is
to reduce the risk of it happening, and to increase the risk to them of getting
caught. The City is a vulnerable key point in the economy. If you damage that,
you damage the City's place in the international markets, and the country's
position worldwide."

Those sentiments are echoed by Michael Cassidy. The traffic restrictions that
have been in place for the past month will become permanent if the Corporation
has its way, and the "ring of rubber" will be replaced by more permanent
obstacles. The perimeter will be extended in several places to take in banks and
investment houses excluded from the original measures because they fell outside
the formal City boundary. Extra surveillance measures like closed-circuit TV
cameras and powerful lighting will be set up at the checkpoints. "Every vehicle
entering through one of the points will be photographed," says Cassidy.

The Corporation has already begun getting rid of its litter bins, and promises
extra collections so that black bags do not pile up on City streets. Cassidy has
also won the argument for extra manpower with 57 more officers seconded to the
City's foot-patrols, several being re-assigned from the Fraud Squad. But he is
reluctant to say whether more of them will be armed.

Security sources say that even before the bombings there were three police
patrol cars on the streets of the City at any one time. Of these, one car
carries two officers trained in the use of firearms and carrying weapons, but
these cannot be drawn without the authorisation of an officer at headquarters of
superintendent rank. Since the security measures were introduced, two vans have
been on the move in the City carrying members of the Tactical Firearms Unit
armed with semi-automatic rifles.  These men have authority to carry and fire
the weapons, but whenever the unit stops to set up a roadblock it needs
authority from the superintendent on that beat.

The Corporation supports the police strategy. "The IRA does not want its men
arrested, so they may well decide it's too risky to have another go," says
Cassidy.

Possibly. But it is equally likely that they will regard it as a challenge to
get through the "ring of rubber" and explode another huge bomb. If that happens,
London's foreign banks may lose their patience.

"We are totally sympathetic to the problems of foreign banks," says Cassidy.
"You have to keep the momentum of a financial centre going." At a security
conference with the City's foreign bankers last week, he says he was given a
sympathetic hearing, and his proposals were approved.

But in private, many are worried that the Corporation is not doing enough. One
American banker sums up their approach: "We realise that they have a difficult
job to perform, making the City safe without making it an armed camp. But our
own security people just cannot see how the measures we have now will stop
another big bomb. We will have to spend a lot more money on our own building's
security to try to make it bomb-proof, as well as the cost of setting up
alternative dealing centres."

There is a real possibility, in the technologically sophisticated world of
electronic finance, that these will not have to be in the Square Mile. "A number
of our compatriots are making contingency plans to establish alternative sites
in the event that their facilities will not be usable after another bomb. I
guess the danger is that these become permanent, and the City loses out."

The increased terrorism risk will also play a part in future plans to expand in
London. One German bank, which is in the process of expanding its London
share-dealing business, says that those plans are proceeding smoothly - for now.
"Another bomb would not be a great help. Our people in London are trying to
persuade Frankfurt to meet the cost of the investment.  Their case would not be
advanced if there was another bomb."

The real danger the City faces is that, rather than a wholescale exodus, foreign
institutions would simply forego future expansion in the City. The effect would
be the same - the IRA would have achieved its aim of damaging the City's earning
power and Britain's financial reputation in the world. And as one intelligence
source said: "The problem with a ring of rubber is that it can rebound on you."


LOAD-DATE: August 3, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              140 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 August 5, 1993

KURDISH BOMBS FAIL TO KEEP IMPERTURBABLE BRITISH AT BAY;
Jonathan Rugman in the Turkish resort of Bodrum finds a mixed response among
tourists to the threat of terrorist attacks

BYLINE: JONATHAN RUGMAN

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FOREIGN PAGE; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 703 words


AT MARMARIS, where Antony and Cleopatra once cavorted on a beach of sand shipped
from Africa for the purpose, a honeymooning pair from West Byfleet were
reflecting on their two weeks in the sun.

"Friends at home were ribbing us about being blown up or kidnapped in Turkey,"
said David Johnson, aged 28. "But it never crossed our minds to cancel."

Up the coast at Bodrum, where Herodotus walked his first steps, a British
holidaymaker in one of the town's packed bars had trouble just staying upright.

"We heard there was some shit going on with the Kurds and stuff," said Mike
Worsley from Sunderland, shortly after he had fallen off the counter of the
Sensi bar in a Bacchanalian frenzy. "But that's happening a long way from here
and we're just having a good time."

About 500,000 British tourists are expected to visit Turkey this year. Along the
Mediterranean coast they appear undiminished in their enthusiasm for the beaches
and bars, despite a series of Kurdish bomb attacks which have threatened to
throw the holiday industry into chaos.

Last Friday six tourists in the crowded port of Kusadasi were amongst the
injured when a bomb went off in a rubbish bin. A week earlier three tourists
were hurt when a similar device exploded in Istanbul.

Attacks in Antalya have left one person dead, while two British cyclists are
still missing inland, compulsory guests of the Kurdish rebels.

A spokeswoman for the tour operator Thomsons said there were just two
cancellations after the Kusadasi attack.

"We've had a couple of calls from concerned relatives but that's about it," Neil
Goodburn of Owners Abroad said in Bodrum, where more than 5,000 British are
currently on holiday.

The police have put more patrol cars on the approach roads to Bodrum and
Marmaris, and a new law lets hotels set up their own armed security teams. With
thousands cramming the cafes and night spots, there is little more the police
can do.

The Germans take the Kurdish threat far more seriously than the British: 60,000
cancelled bookings in the first half of the year, a figure which has probably
passed 100,000 by now.

"The Germans aren't used to this kind of thing," said Dogan Tugay, Britain's
honorary consul in Marmaris, claiming that the German media had painted an
exaggerated picture of the Turkish-Kurdish conflict.

Turkey still draws more Germans than any other foreigners - nearly 150,000 last
month alone - but a heightened sense of the Kurdish conflict is not the only new
deterrent: the death of five Turks at the hands of German neo-Nazis in Solingen
has increased the potential for friction.

The commander of the Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK) promised to make this the
"bloodiest summer ever" - bad news for a holiday industry just recovering from
the crippling effect of the Gulf war.

Tourists earned Turkey about pounds 2.7 billion last year, and government
officials are keen to emphasise a continuing curve of growth.

In Turkey's favour is the Greek decision to increase its levy on foreign
visitors from under pounds 5 to pounds 16. But while the beer in Bodrum is a
refreshing 50 pence a pint, Turkey is not as competitive as it was: recession in
Europe has forced other Mediterranean destinations to lower their prices to
comparable levels.

A conference of Turkish tour operators recently concluded that sand and sea were
not enough: Turkey needed to be promoted as a secular, modern democracy, not a
land of mustachioed men in fezzes riding camels.

But to the ranks of bare breasted Brits on the beach at Gumbet running out of
sun tan lotion is far more important than the image or politics of the Turkish
Republic.

"We spend 50 weeks of the year earning money," says Keith Betton of the
Association of British Travel Agents. "We're not going to let terrorists spoil
our two weeks in the sun."

- PKK guerillas intercepted four minibuses travelling near Bitlis in
south-eastern Turkey, killing 25 civilians and wounding 50 others, officials
said yesterday.

Earlier officials reported than rebel Kurds had killed eight soldiers and two
village guards in a raid on a military post in Hakkari province, near the
Iranian border.


LOAD-DATE: August 5, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              141 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Investors Chronicle

                                 August 6, 1993

BUSINESS: A Week In The Markets: The Franc Fort Is A Busted Flush

BYLINE: By BERNARD GRAY, Financial Times

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 904 words


WITH the unceremonious sacking of the ERM, this column can claim its first big
scalp. It was early May when I first pointed to the smart money lining up
against the franc, though the public pressure did not emerge for quite some
weeks. Still, it does not do to rest on laurels, so now that the ERM has been
busted in all but name, where are the markets heading next?

To some extent the speculators are playing wait and see with EC governments. The
French, probably still in a state of shell-shock, clearly did not have any more
of a fall-back plan for ERM exit than dear old Norman Lamont. They will thus
probably react slowly to their new-found freedom, anxious in part not to alarm
the markets into thinking they have become spendthrift devaluers, all too ready
to cut interest rates and stoke up inflation. Uncertain, also, of the right way
forward.


Yet, in the industrialised world at least, inflation is not currently a problem.
The French, and other ex-ERM members, have latitude to cut rates and stimulate
their economies. That should provide both better export markets for the UK and
an opportunity for lower interest rates in Britain, albeit at the expense of a
higher pound. Exporting companies face swings and roundabouts, but firms selling
within the UK can expect better times.

Lower interest rates, low inflation, stronger growth and a firm gilt market
should also support share prices, as the decisive move up from the 2800-2900
trading range for the FT-SE 100 index suggests. Some measure of caution is,
however, justified. The UK equity market has already travelled a long way in the
hope of economic recovery. When it arrives in the interim reporting season this
September, it may prove an anticlimax.

THE bank reporting season is with us once more. Perhaps it is unfair, but the
way in which they line up to spit out their figures one after the other hardly
helps dispel the impression of a cosy cartel. And while the economic recovery
shows up clearly in government economic statistics, there is precious little
sign of it in the banks' results. True, provisions for bad debts have fallen,
but given the torrent of red ink in the last three years it is hard to believe
that there are many more loans which can go horribly wrong. Demand for new
loans, the real driver of bank profits, remains depressingly weak.

However, the banks have been indulging in a little self help. Fee income is
rising - which is a euphemism for the fact that the banks have found new and
interesting ways of sticking their customers with higher charges.

ON the subject of banks, Barclays' results are not due until after the magazine
has gone to press. Nevertheless the usual channels seem to be hinting that
Andrew Buxton, Barclays' chairman and scion of the founding families, will
unfortunately still be unable to unveil his shiny new chief executive alongside
his figures. A lantern-jawed hero was promised to counterbalance Mr Buxton when
the spat over his appointment to be both chairman and chief executive originally
blew up. Why it has taken so long to fill one of the most prestigious jobs in
British banking remains a mystery.

Equally baffling is the idea that poor and downtrodden companies should go to
the time and expense of implementing Sir Adrian Cadbury's reforms to the
structure of boards, when mighty Barclays tried to treat the rules in such a
cavalier way in the first place. Indeed, Mr Buxton's original appointment looks
a little rum. He was, after all, part of the management structure which
squandered the proceeds of the 1988 rights issue. The bank has apparently
engaged a public relations firm at the astonishing fee of pounds 20,000 a week
to explain to poor bemused journalists that everything is now hunky dory. Yet if
Barclays is having such trouble finding a good chief executive who can carve out
a large enough role beneath Mr Buxton as executive chairman, it is perhaps time
for the board to ask him to stand aside.

PROFESSOR Stephen Littlechild, Pthe electricity regulator, has been rattling his
sabre over the rise in wholesale electricity prices. In the instant 'spot'
market - also known as the electricity pool - the electricity generators
National Power and PowerGen have been pushing up prices for some time. Professor
Littlechild has investigated the trend four times, and is sounding tetchy. He
has also advanced the date when he will decide whether to refer the generators
to the Monopolies Commission from 1995 to later this year.

So have the generators made a dreadful blunder in exploiting their market power?
Probably not. The government still has a 40 per cent stake in the companies to
sell next year - which would contribute pounds 3bn to funding the PSBR. Any
reference would scupper that, so the professor may be pressed to decide against
a reference. Indeed, the generators may have picked the killing field for a
decision while the government has a pretty big incentive to see things their
way.

MANY of the roads into the City were recently closed to deter terrorist attacks,
leaving the others - most notably the Embankment - permanently blocked. Some
cross-City journeys have become almost impossible except on foot. Good, the
green lobby may proclaim. But the City is all about speed of execution - as
10,000 hopeful investors whose BT3 forms were too late because the lorry was
stuck in a jam will be the first to agree.

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                Copyright 1993 Financial Times Business Limited

                              142 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                August 10, 1993

THE LAST RESORT;
Bombing and kidnapping is changing the face of the package holiday industry.
Robert Leedham investigates the terrorists who use tourists as political pawns

BYLINE: ROBERT LEEDHAM

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1886 words


YOU WOULD assume that places where bombs go off have few tourists. Far from it.
Terrorist activity in London is currently at its highest level since 1974, but
the holidaymakers keep on coming. The number of overseas visitors in the capital
is currently up by 20 per cent on last year. "Bombs don't deter tourists," says
a London Tourist Board spokeswoman haughtily.  Why not? Are Tower Bridge and
Cats that good? Haven't the tourists heard? "The Americans are very parochial,"
explains the spokeswoman, "and people have very short memories."

Not only that; some visitors are actually attracted by a bit of danger. The
Northern Ireland Tourist Board drew some criticism for pointing this out in a
recent report, but many of the 250,000 tourists who visited the province last
year - making tourism one of its five biggest industries - were partly enticed
by images of sectarian strife.

Neither side in the conflict has a policy of attacking tourists. This may be
because tourism has created 10,000 badly needed jobs in Northern Ireland. "The
terrorists can attack economic targets," reasons Tourist Board spokeswoman Anne
Moore, "but they risk alienating their own people. It's a balance they have to
strike."

In fact, the economics of tourism is serving to unite the two sides. The
majority of Northern Ireland's visitors are Irish, so North and South have
joined forces to promote themselves as a single package, exhibiting in joint
booths at tourism fairs around the world.

"Obviously "Image is our worst problem," admits Moore. "We just have to be
honest about it. We say: Yes, there is a problem here."

The British, it seems, have become fairly immune to bombs. "How shall I put it?"
wonders a spokesman for the Italian Tourist Board, asked if bookings will
decline in the wake of the bombing of tourist sites in Florence, Milan and Rome.
"Perhaps British people are a little used to this problem."

Of course, he would say that. But the analysis is borne out by interviews
conducted at Heathrow last week.

Donna Fitzgibbon, 31, a teacher flying to Egypt with friends, was unperturbed by
threats of violence. "We thought about the troubles," she said, "but we were not
put off at all. We knew some people who were hurt on a bus in Egypt, but we
still wanted to go. We'll still use public transport in these places. We're
aware of the risks, but the chances are that there's something going on
everywhere."

And legal secretary Sandra Knell, 31, flying to Istanbul before travelling
around, was equally phlegmatic about the potential dangers of Turkey: "I can't
be bothered to think about it. There are bombs that go off here in London, and I
find that much more of a problem. I want to go to Turkey - that's it."

But the problem is that terrorists in these countries are beginning to single
out tourists, not just tourist sites, for attack. This is not Sri Lanka, nor
Peru; it is the very doorstep of Europe's package holidaymakers. The map of
modern tourism is being redrawn.

Take Turkey, for example. Page 175 of the Horizon brochure makes it look like
the perfect holiday destination: blue sky, hot sun, long beaches. "Take a trip
towards the East next summer," the text cajoles, "and discover this warm,
welcoming land full of surprises."

Stockport's David Rowbottom wouldn't disagree, if you could find him to ask him.
Getting kidnapped - that's quite a surprise.

"Wherever you go, you'll find the mystical air of the Orient. And, on top of all
that, there's Turkey's ace card - its easy going and overwhelmingly kind and
courteous people for whom friendliness and hospitality are a way of life."

David and his Australian cousin, Tania Miller, are currently enjoying the
hospitality of the Kurdish Workers' Party (PKK), which wants to attract
attention to its battle for an independent Kurdistan.  The couple, along with
four French tourists, it says, are being held for their own good; it's not safe
to wander around eastern Turkey. "There's a lot of bombing," explains a
spokesman.

But the bombs are not just confined to the east. In June, days after the party's
leader Abdullah Ocalan warned that tourists could become targets during a "very
bloody summer", a bomb exploded in a hotel in Antalya on the Mediterranean
coast, injuring 10 holidaymakers. Three more were hurt last week when a bomb
went off outside the Haghia Sophia cathedral in the centre of Istanbul. Last
Friday, a bomb planted in a rubbish bin in Kusadasi - an Aegean resort popular
with British and German visitors - injured 18 people, six of them tourists.

It is too early to tell what effect this cluster of incidents will have on
tourism in Turkey, but it is unlikely to recommend the country to the
uncommitted father-of-four, dithering over his travel brochures.

Indeed, the travel industry is so worried by the terrorism threat that an
emergency debate has been grafted on to the Institute of Travel & Tourism's
annual conference in Baltimore next month.  "Everyone's a potential victim of
crime, at home or abroad," says spokeswoman Elaine Ellis. "But people on holiday
like to think they're getting away from all that, rather than facing a different
type of it. And violence on holiday is particularly frightening and stressful
because the visitor doesn't know the system, doesn't know where to go or who to
speak to."

But how is the conference going to persuade terrorists not to attack tourists?
"We're going to discuss what we can do to help the industry to help its
customers, rather than right the wrongs of the world."

According to new figures from Lunn Poly, Britain's biggest travel agency, Turkey
has just emerged as the destination growing fastest in popularity with British
holidaymakers. It now accounts for 6 per cent of British bookings, more than
either Tenerife or Ibiza, and within hailing distance of Florida's 8 per cent.
Last year 7 million tourists visited the country, spending almost $ 4 billion.

With tourism the new cornerstone of the Turkish economy, the PKK's strategy is a
shrewd one. The Turkish government may prefer to appease the rebels than to
suffer the consequences of an escalation of the violence.

Walter Enders and Todd Sandler of Iowa State University have been researching
the impact of terrorism on tourism. In a recent study, they say: "Terrorists
have increasingly victimized private citizens." As high-profile examples, they
cite the 1985 hijacking of the Achille Lauro cruise ship and the attacks on
Vienna and Rome airports. But their analysis centres on the bombing of Spanish
tourist hotels by ETA - 13 incidents in 1986 alone.

If two holidays offer identical benefits, tourists will pick the cheaper one -
cheaper not only in financial terms, but also in the amount of risk involved,
they say. "Consumers appear to overreact to low-probability events with high
costs.  Terrorist events are such instances."

Enders and Sandler estimate that a "typical transnational terrorist incident" in
Spain cuts the number of foreign visits by 140,847 people. By way of a
comparison, 35 million tourists visited Spain last year.

They have calculated that terrorism against tourists cost continental Europe
about pounds 15 billion (at today's rates) between 1974 and 1988 - to be added
to cost in lost lives and damage to property.

They also discovered a time-lag: "Tourism does not begin to respond to a
terrorist incident until a full six to nine months after the incident has
elapsed . . . it generally takes time for tourists to revise their plans; many
reservations on airlines and cruise ships cannot be altered without paying a
sizeable premium."

Terrorism against tourists clearly works. "It's becoming a very effective tool,"
admits Jafar Jafari, Professor of Tourism at the University of Wisconsin-Stout,
"and it's easy to implement. All you have to do is kill a couple of innocent
tourists in a back alley or on a lonely beach, and the others will stay away."

Egypt is now feeling the effects of recent terrorism. It's problems were ushered
in with the bombing of the Karnak temple in Luxor 14 months ago. Since then,
despite a swift and vicious crackdown by Egyptian security forces, the Muslim
fundamentalist group al-Gama'a al-Islamiya has managed to intensify its crusade
against tourists - including a machine gun attack on a cruise boat carrying 140
German tourists. The first British casualty was Sharon Hill, a nurse from
Gloucester shot dead near Dairut in October. Gunmen simply opened fire on the
coach she was travelling in. Two other British holidaymakers were injured in the
ambush. And in June, five British tourists were among 15 people injured - one
fatally - in Cairo when a man threw a bom b at a tour bus on its way to the
Pyramids. One Briton had to have a nail removed from his chest.

Unsurprisingly, given the ferocity of the campaign against them, the number of
visitors to Egypt has plummeted to catastrophic levels. Tourism used to be the
country's biggest source of hard currency, but Egypt has already lost between $
700 million and $ 1 billion in tourist revenues. The national airline, Egyptair,
says business is down by 40 per cent, and has postponed the purchase of three
A340 Airbus jets accordingly. "We do not kill tourists and innocent people,"
claim the fundamentalists, somewhat inaccurately. "But we have to strike at
tourism and Egypt's economy to get to the government." They want to overthrow
President Mubarak, and reason that wrecking the nation's economy is the quickest
way to achieve that goal. They may be right. The government's panic - thousands
of arrests, show trials, and executions - is a fair indication of how desperate
Egypt is to reverse its early defeats in the propaganda war.

The American thriller writer Carl Hiaasen sums up Egypt's problems in his novel
Tourist Season, about a cabal of terrorists aiming to rid Miami of the curse of
tourism. The group kills tourists because dead tourists are newsworthy. Their
leader, Skip Wiley, explains: "Publicity, old pal. Bad publicity. It's my
speciality, remember? We're going to take all the postcard puffery and jam it in
reverse . . . When I say bad publicity, search the extreme limits of your
imagination. Think back to some of the planet's great disasters - the bubonic
plague, Pompeii, Hiroshima.  Imagine being tourism director for the city of
Hiroshima in 1946!"

Or for the city of Cairo in 1993.

Egypt has become so desperate that it has enlisted the advertising expertise of
Saatchi & Saatchi to brighten its tarnished image around the world, and hired
the world's biggest public relations firm, Burson-Marsteller, to organise
damage-limitation and to wheedle stories promoting the positive side of the
country into the world's media. Privatisation, archaeology, that sort of thing.

"It's interesting," says Burson-Marsteller's Ken Banta eagerly, "I wouldn't say
it's an upsurge exactly, but there's been an . . . uptick, perhaps, in the
number of tourists visiting Cairo recently.  It's partly a sense, I think, that
travel to any destination is not entirely safe nowadays. I think people are
coming round to the view that they are safer in Egypt than in southern bits of
America, say. Or London."

Additional research by Randeep Ramesh.


LOAD-DATE: August 10, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              143 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            August 15, 1993, Sunday

IRA makes resorts a 'priority target'

BYLINE: Andrew Alderson and Cyril Dixon

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 380 words


THE IRA warned yesterday that it would continue bombing seaside resorts in
Britain, describing them as ''priority targets'' because of their importance to
the economy. A statement from Dublin by the terrorists claimed responsibility
for the attacks in Bournemouth on Friday and said only ''a technical
difficulty'' had prevented the destruction of the town's pier.

The announcement will intensify fears from the security and intelligence
services of a summer bombing campaign in tourist centres similar to the one the
IRA planned in 1985, which was foiled by the arrest of a terrorist cell in
Glasgow.

A statement, signed PO'Neill and issued yesterday by the Irish Republican
Publicity Bureau, said: ''The IRA wishes to make clear that it is not intent on
targeting those who choose to holiday in British resorts. However, the
importance of these resorts to the British economy means that they will remain
priority targets.''

Alan Rose, assistant chief constable of Dorset, said it was a ludicrous claim.
The IRA's explosive devices were notoriously unpredictable and it was obviously
prepared to gamble with the lives of innocent holidaymakers and children, he
said.

Holidaymakers yesterday defied the terrorists. They were out in force in the
sunshine at Bournemouth, Brighton and Torquay, which were all subjected to bomb
attacks or warnings on Friday.

Bournemouth pier reopened yesterday after repairs. Visitors were greeted by a
blackboard notice, put up by a local trader, saying: ''Don't let the bastards
win. Support British tourism.''

A newly married couple were due to hold their reception on the pier last night
in defiance of the terrorists and the Pier Theatre was set to reopen.

Six firebombs exploded in Bournemouth on Friday, damaging four shops. A bomb
blew a 3ft-wide hole in the pier. A second, larger device was found under the
pier.

Police believe the two bombs were placed together in a black bin-liner on a
walkway on the pier. They are convinced that the force of the first bomb's blast
knocked the second bomb over the pier, on to girders below. It was safely
defused.

Dorset police are to study hundreds of hours of videos from security cameras on
Bournemouth's pier that were originally installed to combat vandalism.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1993 Times Newspapers Limited

                              144 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                           August 18, 1993, Wednesday

Look ahead and reduce the risks of a calamity

BYLINE: Derek Harris

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 725 words


What do you do in the worst scenario, when natural or man-made disaster strikes?
Derek Harris reports

Disasters occur with remarkable regularity and can cost companies dear, says
Alan Kell, a director of DEGW ETL, a leading consultant in the area of workplace
management.

Mr Kell has particularly developed the consultancy's capabilities in organising
disaster planning. The recent terrorist bombings in London may have turned this
sort of planning into a high-profile subject, he says, but many other
developments can pose extreme problems.

In Britain in recent years, Mr Kell points out, there have been the great storms
of 1987 and 1989 and the 1990 Chester area earthquake. It was mainly because of
the two storms that reinsurers put the United Kingdom among the five
international regions most exposed to catastrophic weather risk.

The insurance industry expects property owners in coastal areas to find it less
easy in future to obtain cover, following the spectacular descent into the North
Sea of the Holbeck Hall Hotel on the cliffs above Scarborough. The hotel was
substantially insured for no extra premium because the property had been 300
yards or more from the cliffs and had not been regarded as a serious risk.

Mr Kell draws a distinction between contingency planning and disaster recovery
planning. Contingency planning deals with the day-to-day risks that might upset
the smooth running of a business. Disaster recovery, on the other hand, means
thinking the unthinkable: if abandoning ship is the only answer, what is in
place to provide another ship?

Barry Varcoe, a partner in charge of the facilities management division at BWA
(Bernard Williams Associates), has also found that, until the IRA's bombs
focused minds on the problem of maintaining premises housing information
technology networks, vulnerable equipment and key personnel had seldom been
addressed.

Research by IBM showed that 80 per cent of companies falling foul of computer
disaster and without having made contingency plans went bankrupt within 18
months. Another 10 per cent went the same way within five years.

However, a recent survey conducted by Loughborough University for IBM suggested
that 90 per cent of companies leave disaster planning to their IT department.
The survey raised a question mark over how many plans were actually workable,
while even among those with formal disaster plans more than half the schemes
were a year old and nearly a third more than two years old. Yet, with the pace
of technological change, it was questionable how far such plans were meeting
needs after a mere six months.

There is the much-told tale of an American telecommunications company in the
early days of IT protection. The company felt secure in having as a last resort,
if all electricity supplies failed, a battery bank that would save its records
for hours. But when the electricity supply did fail, and the batteries duly
bridged the gap, there was no alert mechanism to give a warning of the mains
supply failure. Of course, the battery power, extensive as it was, eventually
petered out.

Industry learning curves have overtaken that kind of problem. In the wake of the
recent IRA bomb blast in Bishopsgate the National Westminster Bank's
communications were quickly restored because America's AT&T was able to switch
systems readily to another location.

The big companies have placed disaster planning nearer to the top of main board
priorities. What worries Mr Varcoe is that many medium-sized and smaller
businesses could still be at risk. ''Customers would find another source for
their goods or services and the small company could well lose its trade for
good,'' he says.

Some lessons that sprang from a water problem as hundreds of gallons poured from
a roof into Norwich City Hall are identified by John Turner, the assistant
director of administration. A chain of unlikely events made it difficult to
reach the building surveyor who had relevant drawings of the building. So a
foolproof system of 24-hour contact has now been established with up-to-date and
accurate drawings readily available.

''The only other important lesson relates to the need to review disaster plan
arrangements regularly and frequently,'' Mr Turner says. ''Many problems could
have been overcome by better advance preparation.''

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1993 Times Newspapers Limited

                              145 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            August 22, 1993, Sunday

Un faces up to harsh reality of policing a divided city

BYLINE: Jonathan Eyal

SECTION: Overseas news

LENGTH: 926 words


BY DEALING with the problem of Sarajevo first, the peace mediators in Geneva are
clearly hoping to defuse a highly emotive issue: the city has become a symbol of
Muslim resistance, as well as a constant reminder of the West's failure.
According to the current proposals, Sarajevo and its surroundings would be
placed under a UN administrator for two years.

On paper, the plan looks good: not only would Muslims, Croats and Serbs be able
to live in one, united city, but the creation of a ''neutral'' capital could
spur future cooperation between the three communities in other parts of the
republic.

Unfortunately, realities are more complicated and the result of this agreement
may well end up with a de facto division of Sarajevo, precisely what the
mediators are seeking to avoid.

Ensuring peace in built-up areas is the most difficult job any army is ever
likely to contemplate. It entails large numbers of troops, vast logistical
resources and a great deal of patience. Troops on the ground would be expected
to handle difficult disputes, from the bands of Serbian women who are already
blocking some humanitarian convoys, to the odd sniper or terrorist attack.

As the example of Northern Ireland indicates, it is a thankless task in which
minimising, rather than eliminating violence is about the best that can be
expected.

Sarajevo is surrounded by housing estates, some of which are entirely populated
by Serbs. A few would, no doubt, be peaceful. But many others are guaranteed to
become no-go areas. The N forces would be required to deal with the restoration
of electricity, plumbing, housing for refugees, claims on property destroyed by
the war, as well as winter food supplies. In short, they would be expected to
perform tasks which every army officer considers to be a civilian
responsibility, remote from classic military training.

Given the will and adequate resources, such challenges can be met. Yet it is
precisely here that the UN would find the greatest obstacle. Britain, France and
Spain, the countries that have contributed most of the forces in Bosnia, are
unwilling to dispatch many more soldiers. The east Europeans and the Russians
may be available, but their troops are poorly equipped and inexperienced in the
art of handling civilian populations. Some Middle Eastern states, such as Iran,
have offered to send their forces. But such an offer can hardly be contemplated.
As for the Americans, they still prefer to talk about air strikes rather than
share in the implementation of any peace plan.

Ultimately, the UN would be forced to cut corners: the central area of Sarajevo
may well be open to traffic and supplies; the city's peripheries would be a law
unto themselves. As the example of Cyprus indicates, the UN is good at freezing
a situation on the ground once all sides to a conflict have tired of fighting;
but the organisation is not usually able to reverse an intolerable situation.

Three powers guaranteed Cyprus's independence in 1960, and all betrayed the
island's interests at various times. Greece's military dictatorship engineered a
coup in 1974; Turkey used this as a pretext to invade, while Britain, another
co-guarantor, did nothing to stop the Turkish offensive.

''Ethnic cleansing'' duly followed: in the aftermath of the Turkish incursion of
1974, more than 224,000 Cypriots (at least two-thirds of them ethnic Greeks)
were forced to abandon their homes and the island's division cut through the
capital of Nicosia. A plethora of UN resolutions have called for the withdrawal
of Turkey's forces. Nevertheless, the status quo, in the shape of a ''Green
Line'' dividing the Turks and the Greeks in Nicosia, is precisely all that the
international community has protected for decades.  With time, right and wrong
became virtually indistinguishable; occupier and occupied were blamed in equal
measures for destroying various peace initiatives.

Furthermore, with no solution in sight, the countries which contributed UN
forces started withdrawing their soldiers from Cyprus. The strength of the UN
peace corps (Unficyp) stood at one time at 6,000 troops. Denmark pulled out in
1992; Canada is leaving next month and by the end of 1993, fewer than 1,000
troops (mainly British and Austrian) will remain. Payments for this operation
are Pounds 135 million in the red and any attempt to place the Cyprus force
under the general financing of the UN was blocked by the alliance of Russia,
France and China. And, with every contingent that leaves, pressure intensifies
on other governments to withdraw their forces. Aware that the UN withdrawal
works in their favour, the Turks of Cyprus now have even less of an incentive to
compromise.

Just like in Bosnia, instead of contemplating a real long-term engagement, the
European Community, Nato and every other relevant international institution
prefers to hide behind the UN. The UN, in turn, is reducing its involvement just
at a time when every Western government claims to regard peace-keeping
activities as the way of the future.

It may be argued that the arrangements for Sarajevo are the best that could be
conceived under current circumstances. Nevertheless, the reality still is that,
just as in Nicosia, the Bosnians would end up with the division of their city.
Ethnic cleansing, once undertaken, is always irreversible. Western governments
that really wanted to prevent this outcome should have realised this long ago.

Dr Jonathan Eyal is director of studies at the Royal United Services Institute,
London

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1993 Times Newspapers Limited

                              146 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                August 28, 1993

Father Ryan in court appearance

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 306 words


FATHER Patrick Ryan, Roman Catholic priest and one-time top Scotland Yard
terrorist bombings suspect, appeared in court yesterday accused of handling
stolen property.

Father Ryan appeared in Dublin's anti-terrorist Special Criminal Court hours
after being arrested by Special Branch police in a city centre street.

The 63-year-old priest -- at the centre of a bitter UK-Irish extradition tussle
four years ago -- faced five charges, involving a six-berth caravan, tools and
other items on dates between March 1991 and April last year.

He was remanded on a surety of £950 until October 5 by Mr Justice Liam Hamilton,
president of the no-jury court.

Asked by the Judge why Father Ryan was not before an ordinary court, assistant
State solicitor John Rohan said he was not in a position to "second guess" what
was in the mind of the Irish Director of Public Prosecutions.

In the 1980s, County

Tipperary-born Father Ryan was wanted by Scotland Yard in connection with an IRA
bombing campaign in Britain.

He was detained in Belgium, but the authorities in Brussels rejected a British
extradition application and instead deported him to the Irish Republic.

A request for his extradition from Ireland was controversially turned down
because of remarks made about Father Ryan in the House of Commons, and coverage
of the affair in the media. Both factors were considered to be prejudicial to
chances of the priest getting a fair trial.

Later, the possibility of a trial in Dublin under the terms of special UK-Irish
legislation were also ruled out.

Last year, Father Ryan was held by police in Tipperary after they raided a house
where he had been staying.

Father Ryan has been suspended by his Church order, the Pallotine Fathers, but
retains the title of priest as he has not been laicised.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1993 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              147 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 4, 1993

LEADING ARTICLE: TIME TO FILL THE ULSTER VACUUM

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGE; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 672 words


ANCESTRAL conflicts do not settle easily. See, despairingly this week, Bosnia.
See also, fingers crossed each day, Palestine.  And see, in all sorts of
spiralling dangerous ways, Northern Ireland, forgotten by the world, unloved in
Britain and once more increasingly unstable at home. Four sickening sectarian
killings by loyalist paramilitaries in five days, a huge and terrible IRA bomb
in the centre of Armagh yesterday, all against a droning descant of political
impotence on all sides.  Northern Ireland is paying a continuing high price for
the total absence of political initiative. The proximate cause was the failure
of all-party talks among the local parties nearly two years ago. Sir Patrick
Mayhew's inability to move that process on had already created a directionless
situation at the start of the year. But it left the field open for ever more
audacious freelance initiatives to fill the gap. The election of the Fianna
Fail-Labour coalition in Dublin, freshly anxious to restart talks, turned the
screw on London, but London failed to respond. This was followed by an upsurge
of activity on the political margins: talks between the SDLP's John Hume and
Sinn Fein's Gerry Adams, the release of a Labour document floating Dublin-London
rule in the north, speculation that Bill Clinton would send an envoy. The result
has been a summer of panic and deepening suspicion among loyalists. They sense
that London's heart is less than ever in the cause of the Union. In the shadows,
a new generation of gunmen has become impatient with the inability of an ageing
generation of small-minded politicians to get rid of the hated Anglo-Irish
agreement. Loyalist violence has escalated all year; this week's killings are
merely the climax of a trend. Then, in the summer, unionist politicans pulled
off their greatest and still not fully tested coup for years - the Westminster
deal with the Tories which helped save John Major over Maastricht. The impact of
that will be tested remorselessly this autumn. So far, however, the signs are
predictably destructive. In Dublin there is affronted anger and confusion at
what appears to be a unilateral subversion of the 1985 agreement, or at least of
its spirit. The Taoiseach, Albert Reynolds, who earlier in the year got the
Americans to hold off from early intervention, now seems to believe that the
Washington card may be the one to play. His deputy, Dick Spring, continues to
push ingeniously for an extension of the Anglo-Irish deal. In the US, the Irish
lobby grows impatient for the tangible reward it has so far been denied and,
right on cue, Jimmy Carter hints that he is available to serve as envoy.
Meanwhile in London the Labour Party, far from preparing to organise in Northern
Ireland as some reports have hinted, is about to reiterate its interest in some
form of shared sovereignty, thus reopening in British politics a debate which
has remained strictly off limits to the major parties for a generation. It is a
new time and in many respects a frightening time. The fresh round of killings
are a grim reminder of the lives and civilised values which are at stake in
Northern Ireland. But the murders have to be seen for what they are. Horrible
but not mindless; horrible political crimes in a society whose politics involves
a repertoire of unacceptable choices, dilemmas and solutions. They underline
both that the British government's political inactivity was in itself a public
act to which others felt themselves bound to respond and also that the
Conservatives are now paying a high price for the opaque deal with the
Unionists. The stakes are higher across the Northern Ireland board than they
have been for at least a decade. Change is once again in the air, necessarily
unstable and destabilising, for nothing is without its consequence or its risk
in Northern Ireland. At the end of a darkening week, we peer into the future
with anxiety, but perhaps also with the sense that more is possible than for a
long time past, for good as well as ill.


LOAD-DATE: September 6, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              148 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               September 4, 1993

Fighting rips across Bosnia as Serbs dismiss air strike

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 670 words


MOSTAR exploded in tank and mortar fire today as heavy fighting between Muslim
-led Government forces and Bosnian Croat troops raged across central Bosnia.

The Mostar fighting erupted at the end of a two-day ceasefire and set back UN
efforts to build confidence between Muslim and Croat authorities in the divided
city, which stands on a vital aid route to Sarajevo.

The United Nations today began evacuating wounded from the Croat-held town of
Nova Bila, which is surrounded by Government forces.

A simultaneous evacuation of Croats from Nova Bila and Muslims from the eastern
half of Mostar was agreed between the two sides.

A convoy of ambulances took 38 seriously wounded from Nova Bila to Kiseljak,
west of Sarajevo. From there they were flown by helicopter to the Croatian port
of Split, a UN spokesman said. More were to be evacuated tomorrow.

However the planned evacuation of Muslims from Mostar, was held up, possibly by
the fighting. There was also heavy shelling in Gornji Vakuf.

The Muslim-led Government has agreed to a three-way partition of Bosnia, but
peace talks in Geneva collapsed on Wednesday when the Serbs and Croats who
between them control about 90% of Bosnia refused to give the Government more
than 31% of the territory.

Away from the fighting, the leader of the Bosnian Serbs today dismissed threats
of a Nato air strike.

President Clinton has warned Croats and Serbs that Nato air strikes are still a
real possibility, but Bosnian Serb chief Radovan Karadzic denied today that his
side was to blame for the current fighting.

"I think someone is misinforming President Clinton," he said. "The Serbs are not
in the war any longer. We haven't fought the Croats for five months. We don't
fight against the Muslims except for some border incidents."

Clinton said yesterday that Nato air strikes could be ordered if Serbs renew
heavy shelling of Sarajevo or if humanitarian convoys are blocked.

The US air base at Aviano in northern Italy, from where American jets enforce
the no-fly zone over Bosnia and could be called on in case of a Nato air strike,
was attacked during the night by gunmen who fired on the base sleeping quarters.
A spokesman called the incident, in which no-one was hurt, "a terrorist attack".

* British nurse Sally Becker, 33, dubbed "the Angel of Mostar" for rescuing five
critically-ill children, returned to Britain today and dismissed fears for her
safety in Bosnia.

She said that espionage allegations against her were "rubbish" and added: "If
going across the line to rescue children is spying then I will happily continue
being a spy.

"The Croats and Muslims know exactly who I am and what I am trying to do. I go
across the line to bring back both Muslims and Croats. I hope I will continue to
do so as long as I am needed," she said at Heathrow airport.

"It is a high-risk thing to do, but for me the rewards are worth it. I have
saved 15 lives in five or six days. If I had been shot, at least I would have
died knowing that my life was worthwhile."

She said that claims from Spanish UN personnel about her being a spy came after
their embarrassment at being seen in front of the media refusing access to
injured children.

* Two British aid workers who disappeared after running guns and ammunition to
Muslim fighters were tonight on their way out of Bosnia escorted by UK troops.

Stephen Pinnock and Lawrence Foster said they wished they could have done more
to help the Muslims fight back.

"The only regret we've got is that we couldn't do more," said Mr Foster, from
Potters Bar, Hertfordshire. Mr Pinnock, 29, from Braintree, Essex, added: "At
the end of the day you can't feed dead people and that's how we see it."

The men disappeared in central Bosnia last month after taking a Feed the
Children Land Rover to smuggle weapons to besieged Muslims.

Tonight they were on their way from Vitez to the Croatian port of Split, where
they will be met by the British consul.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1993 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              149 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 7, 1993

FRESH INQUIRY INTO SAS SHOOTING OF GIBRALTAR THREE;
European Commission on Human Rights to investigate deaths of three unarmed IRA
members after parents claim violation

BYLINE: OWEN BOWCOTT IN BELFAST, JOHN CARVEL IN BRUSSELS AND STEPHEN BATES

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 751 words


THE European Commission on Human Rights is to investigate the shooting by the
SAS of three unarmed IRA members in Gibraltar five years ago.

The decision to set up an international inquiry is highly embarrassing for the
Government, which has repeatedly prevented the families of Dan McCann, Mairead
Farrell and Sean Savage from taking legal action in Britain.

The new investigation, potentially far more wide-reaching than the original
inquest in Gibraltar, will revive the political controversy over so-called
shoot-to-kill operations stirred up by Thames Television's Death on the Rock
programme.

Whitehall yesterday rejected any suggestion of official concern about the
decision and pointed out that it had co-operated fully in the hearing.

Downing Street sources said the Government would justify the killings under an
article of the European Convention of Human Rights on the grounds of protecting
lives which could have been lost had the terrorists succeeded in causing an
explosion.

A Foreign Office spokesman said: "The commission's decision has nothing to do
with the merits of the case."

Lawyers representing the victims' relatives claim that all three IRA members
could easily have been arrested. Instead, those in charge of the surveillance
operation arranged to have McCann, Farrell and Savage shot dead at close range
without warning, it is alleged.

The announcement yesterday by the European Commission on Human Rights in
Strasbourg follows a five-hour hearing in Strasbourg last Friday at which the
Belfast solicitor Barra McGrory and a Dutch civil rights lawyer, Douwe Korff,
presented the parents' case.

In its response, released early yesterday, the commission ruled that Britain has
a prima facie case to answer but it did not give its reasoning, which is
expected to be published in about a month.

The statement said that the parents claimed a violation of Article 2 of the
convention on the grounds that it imposed a duty on governments to adopt clear
and detailed rules on the use of lethal force.

"They consider that UK law is vague and general and therefore is in itself in
violation of this provision . . . They contend that soldiers are trained to
shoot to kill without warning and that the operation in Gibraltar was neither
planned nor executed in such a way as to minimise the need for the use of lethal
force.

"They point to the fact that the soldiers were apparently made to believe
(wrongly) firstly, that the suspects were armed; secondly, that there was a car
bomb in place; and thirdly, that the bomb could be denotated by the suspects by
means of remote control device," the commission said.

The parents have been unable to argue their case in the UK courts because
ministers issued certificates halting proceedings on the grounds that Gibraltar
is outside the UK's jurisdiction.

The families were unable to challenge the inquest verdict for lack of legal aid.

"They [the UK authorities] point out that the [inquest] jury . . . found that
the killings were lawful. They contend that it is implicit from that finding
that the jury considered there had been no plot to kill the deceased terrorists,
that the soldiers had honestly believed there was a car bomb which could be
detonated by remote control, and that the degree of force used by the soldiers
was proportionate to the aim of protecting the lives of the people of
Gibraltar."

The commission declared the parents' application admissible. It said it would
now consider its merits and try to achieve a "friendly settlement" between the
parties. If that was not possible, it would produce its own opinion whether or
not the UK had broken its human rights obligations.

The case may not be settled for at least another year. If agreement cannot be
reached after the commission's report then it may go to a full hearing at the
European Court of Human Rights.

The Ministry of Defence said yesterday: "We have noted that the commission has
ruled that this case is admissible and has requested further information before
reaching any decision. This does not mean that the commission has ruled that the
Government has breached the convention."

- A long-delayed bill extending the grounds for extraditing those involved in
paramilitary offences from the Irish Republic is to be published early in the
autumn. The draft legislation is expected to tighten up what the Northern
Ireland Office has claimed are loopholes in the present system.


LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              150 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               September 7, 1993

Britain to face EC court on Gibraltar killings

BYLINE: Murray Ritchie, European Editor

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 581 words


Brussels

BRITAIN was yesterday told it had a case to answer after the "shoot to kill"
decision, allegedly taken by Mrs Thatcher and Cabinet colleagues, which led to
the deaths of three IRA members in Gibraltar.

The European Commission of Human Rights in Strasbourg -- comprising 16 lawyers
-- yesterday declared admissible an application by the parents of the three,
which argued that the British Government had contravened the European Convention
on Human Rights by using unwarranted "lethal force" against the three
Provisional IRA members.

All three were on so-called "active service" when they were shot dead by an SAS
squad on Gibraltar. Danny McCann, Mairead Farrell, and Sean Savage were killed
while unarmed and carrying no explosive detonation devices, at a time when there
was no car bomb present on Gibraltar. A car containing explosives was later
found in Spain.

Evidence which could be crucial to the case might now be heard from the Spanish
police, which did not give evidence to a long inquiry in Gibraltar because Spain
does not recognise British sovereignty over the rock.

Mr Niall Farrell, brother of Mairead Farrell, said he welcomed the Commission's
decision because it meant that for the first time there would be an independent
and full inquiry into the killings. He said he was unhappy with the attitude of
the Irish government, which did not support the case, and he urged Irish
Ministers to step in to help.

Mr Farrell said the Spanish police evidence which was not heard could now be
brought into the open, and he urged the Irish Government to make representations
to Spain to produce evidence for the European hearing, which is expected to take
place within a year.

The three IRA terrorists were believed by the British to be planning a bomb
attack on British troops when they were shot dead, allegedly in "execution
style".

Britain claimed the killings were lawful and this view was upheld by the
conclusions of a controversial inquest held on Gibraltar, in which the
identities of the SAS men were kept secret. A jury returned a majority verdict
that the killings were lawful.

Lawyers and relatives of the three terrorists have always argued that the
killings were needless and that the suspects could simply have been arrested.

After the deaths, it emerged that an SAS anti-terrorist unit had been on alert
in Gibraltar for days before the shootings. It was sent in after a request from
Gibraltar's police commissioner for military help after evidence from the
Spanish authorities that an IRA active service unit was preparing an attack.
Britain has said it stands by its actions on the rock and can justify them.

Parents of the three argued last week before the European Commission that they
had exhausted all possibilities of a domestic remedy to their case. They
contended the SAS operation on the rock was neither planned nor executed in such
a way as to minimise the need for the use of lethal force.

They emphasised that the soldiers had apparently been led to believe, wrongly,
that the suspects were armed and had a car bomb in place which could be
detonated by remote control.

Britain says the handling of the Gibraltar incident conformed with the Gibraltar
constitution, that the killings were lawful, that there was no plot to kill
terrorists, that the soldiers honestly believed there was a car bomb about to be
detonated, and that the inquiry had been exhaustive and independent.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1993 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              151 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                          September 9, 1993, Thursday

More Egypt flights despite fears

BYLINE: Marianne Curphey

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 321 words


Egyptair is introducing a new weekly flight from London to Luxor, just as a UK
operator has announced that it is withdrawing tours of Egypt next year amid
fears of terrorist attacks.

The airline already flies passengers daily from London to Cairo and predicts
that there will be strong demand for seats on its new five-hour Luxor direct
flight by the beginning of next summer's season.

Insight International Tours revealed this week that it has dropped Egypt from
next year's brochure and will replace it with Israel because of the drop in
demand from UK holidaymakers.

Andy Fairburn, Insight marketing manager, says: ''Reports of attacks on
terrorists have meant our bookings are down. We can fill space in our brochures
more effectively with other destinations.

''The problem is small compared with attacks in the US, for example, but in
Britain people now perceive it as dangerous. We have decided to promote Israel
instead.''

Muslim fundamentalists have devastated Egypt's holiday image in Britain after a
series of gun and bomb attacks. Three tourists including a nurse, Sharon Hill,
have been killed and about a dozen injured in political violence during the past
18 months.

Ernest Alsina, Egyptair sales manager, says the airline decided to go ahead with
the Luxor flights despite low numbers of tourists this year. ''We believe they
will be heavily subscribed once people recognise the benefit of arriving in
Luxor, one of the most important historical areas, rather than having to
transfer from Cairo.''

Luxor, on the banks of the Nile, boasts the ancient Egyptian capital city Thebes
and the temple of Karnak, dedicated to the god Amun. A short boat journey and
drive away is the Valley of the Kings, with the most famous tomb of all, that of
King Tutankhamun.

Heathrow-Luxor flights, every Monday, cost from Pounds 250 return. Daily flights
are available to Cairo from London Heathrow.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1993 Times Newspapers Limited

                              152 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           September 10, 1993, Friday

Facing up to ecumenical terror

BYLINE: CONOR CRUISE O'BRIEN

SECTION: COMMENT PAGE; Page 22

LENGTH: 1056 words


THE INCIPIENT civil war in Northern Ireland is now so much worse that the Chief
Constable, Sir Hugh Annesley, gave a press conference on Wednesday to deny that
the situation is ''out of control''. There is ''no crisis'', he says, but there
is ''cause for concern''. There has been cause for concern for more than 20
years. The new factor is that the concern is now more evenly distributed. For
most of the period since the Provisional IRA began in 1971, the Protestant
population - together with the security forces to which it contributes - has
felt the main brunt of terrorist violence. Today, it is the loyalist
paramilitaries who are on the offensive and the Catholics are supplying the
victims, though not by a large margin.

This is bound to have political effects, and some of these may even be benign.
That depends on how what might be called the ecumenisation of terrorism is
handled on a political level, both in London and in Dublin. The new situation
ought to lead to a common understanding, in both capitals, of the primacy of
security; the need for a tough and even-handed campaign against the paramilitary
Godfathers in both communities who terrorise Northern Ireland.

It may come to that in time. But preliminary signs this week are not
particularly auspicious. The Annesley press conference does not seem to have
made much impact in Britain, where in general people prefer not to be reminded
that Northern Ireland is still there. In the Republic, however, that press
conference led the television news. The main reason for this was that Sir Hugh
revealed that he had just warned his Garda counterpart, Commissioner Patrick
Culligan, that bombings by loyalist paramilitaries on targets in the Republic,
as well as on Catholic housing estates in Northern Ireland, are now being
prepared and must be taken seriously.

From several of the politicians we got the conventional mindless response: that
the latest atrocities ''demonstrate the urgency'' of resuming the talks on the
future of Northern Ireland. It is absurd to connect the ''urgency'' of a
reaction to terrorism with the resumption of talks which have continued off and
on for more than two years while terrorism has proliferated. And it is only too
evident that even if the parties were to reach agreement - which is unlikely -
this would have no effect on the tit- for-tat murders by the two sets of
paramilitary terrorists.

We still hear from the same bankrupt politicians the old tune about
even-handedly ''marginalising the men of violence'' through political agreement.
That tune was heard, loudly and confidently, during the run-up to the
Anglo-Irish Agreement eight years ago. It is surely a tune that should die on
the lips of those who were then so partial to it, as they contemplate the
present condition of Northern Ireland nearly a decade after their triumph at
Hillsborough.

The Anglo-Irish intergovernmental conference is meeting today. The Dublin
delegation will be in some disarray. They want, indeed need, tougher security
against the loyalist paramilitaries, now a serious threat to those whom the
Dublin delegation represents. But their main theme as far as security is
concerned, has been based on complaints, fed to them by the SDLP, about alleged
''over-reaction'' and ''insensitivity'' on the part of the security forces in
their struggle against the IRA. The security forces cannot, of course, operate
in the areas that harbour the IRA without inconveniencing the population that
does the harbouring, willingly or unwillingly. So Dublin is under pressure from
the SDLP to see to it that the security forces (in effect) get tough with the
loyalist paramilitaries, and the areas that harbour them, while refraining from
causing any inconvenience to the population that harbours the IRA.

But the Irish Prime Minister, Albert Reynolds, at least - if not his deputy,
Dick Spring - will be aware that such a policy stance now endangers people in
the Republic. That is the sort of consideration that concentrates the mind of
any serious politician.

As readers know, I have long advocated the introduction of selective internment,
applied even-handedly to the godfathers in both communities. I believe that the
successful application of such a policy would be received with a (mostly silent)
sigh of relief from most people in Northern Ireland, irrespective of religion
and allegiance. But I don't expect such a change to be achieved through - or
even discussed at - the Anglo-Irish Parliamentary Conference. John Hume of the
SDLP would be against and, although his charisma has somewhat diminished in
recent years, it is still formidable, not only in Ireland but also in Britain.

Mr Hume does not want even-handed internment. He wants an IRA ceasefire, which
he hopes to achieve through his talks with Gerry Adams (and no doubt others in
the Sinn Fein-IRA amalgam). If the IRA were to cease fire, and the loyalist
paramilitaries did not, there would then be a case, which Mr Hume and his
friends would strongly press, for a clamp-down by the security forces on the
loyalist paramilitaries only, and the community that supports them. After that,
the way might be open for Mr Hume's present nostrum: joint administration for
Northern Ireland by Dublin and London.

This would be a dangerous course, but it is not likely to be adopted by the
present British Government. Mr Major has ruled out joint administration, and
James Molyneaux, the leader of the Ulster Unionist Party, can hold him to that.
For the moment, it remains the basic need to give urgent priority to security.
In that domain nothing will be accomplished through the Anglo-Irish Conference
(which tends to be dominated by the physically absent Mr Hume).

The best hope lies in a private talk between Mr Reynolds and Mr Major about
security. Mr Reynolds has now rather strong reasons for not resisting the
introduction of internment. If he can tell Mr Major that the Government of the
republic will not oppose internment, provided it is truly even-handed, then the
way at last can be open to the primacy of security.

If that were established, serious political talks might then become possible.
The failure of the alternative approach, that gives priority to the political
quest, is already amply demonstrated.

(Photograph omitted)


LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1993 Independent Print Ltd

                              153 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           September 17, 1993, Friday

Turks 'facing threats from terror group'; Inquiry launched as restaurateur
attacked

BYLINE: DAVID CONNETT

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 3

LENGTH: 453 words


DETECTIVES are investigating claims that a terrorist group is raising cash to
buy weapons by extorting money from the Turkish business community in Britain.

Police in Humberside are investigating claims that members of the terrorist
group Dev Sol are blackmailing owners of Turkish restaurants, food shops and
other businesses.

The gang, all Turkish nationals, is allegedly extorting money to finance
terrorist acts in Turkey.

The investigation was launched after a restaurant owner in Hull was attacked at
the weekend. He was approached by six men claiming to represent Dev Sol, an
extreme left-wing terrorist organisation, who demanded pounds 2,500 cash.

When he refused he was beaten and told he would be killed if he went to the
police. He was later treated in hospital for facial injuries.

Dev Sol has been responsible for a series of bombings and shootings in Turkey
since 1980. The group, which is said to have little popular support, says its
aim is to destabilise and overthrow the Turkish government.

It has claimed responsibility for a number of assassinations included the
killing of Andrew Blake, a British insurance assessor, in Istanbul in 1991. It
has also murdered dozens of Turkish police and army officers as well as two
Americans.

The Turkish government claims the group received military and financial aid from
the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, which is led by George Habash
and is believed to be behind a series of international hijackings in the 1970s.

Detective Chief Superintendent Geoffrey Ogden, of Humberside Police, who is
leading the inquiry, said: ''We have been liaising with members of the Turkish
community in Hull and surrounding areas following reports that attempts have
been made to extort money from them by other Turkish nationals from elsewhere in
the UK.

''Detectives are investigating claims that the alleged offenders purport to
represent a Turkish terrorist group known as Dev Sol, to obtain money from the
proprietors of restaurants and food outlets.''

A spokesman for Humberside police said officers were liaising with other forces,
including the Metropolitan Police, and the Home Office.

Humberside police are questioning three Hull-based Turkish men who were arrested
after the incident. North Yorkshire police arrested a fourth man in York and he
was taken to Hull yesterday.

Senior officers met worried leaders of the Turkish community at Humberside
police headquarters yesterday to reassure them and appeal for help.

The spokesman said: ''The Turkish community have been given assurances by the
police that we are taking matters very seriously and will thoroughly investigate
the allegations.''


LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1993 Independent Print Ltd

                              154 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 18, 1993

THE TIME TO TALK IS NOW;
No one is jumping the gun, but the likelihood of finding a solution to the
Troubles has never appeared stronger. Sinn Fein's Martin McGuinness tells PAUL
JOHNSON that his side is prepared to be pragmatic

BYLINE: PAUL JOHNSON

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGE; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 2338 words


"IRA gunmen shot dead a Catholic haulier, Adrian McGovern, aged 34, on the
doorstep of his Lisburn home while his children looked on. They were crying and
saying over and over again 'Daddy's been shot'." - Irish News, Friday, September
17.

POSITIVE. Accommodating. Pragmatic. Acceptable. The words tumble out of Martin
McGuinness, a Sinn Fein leader. The language of Sinn Fein is changing.

"The reality is that in Ireland for the past 25 years there was not much hope of
a solution. Talks failed. People lost hope.  Until now. I don't want to be too
emotive about it, but the reality now is that after 25 years we have been given
hope that all the parties want to emerge with a solution."

Even the prolixity which characterised so much republican argument is gone. And
this from a man who in his first public speech in 1972 said: "It does not matter
what Gerry Fitt says. It does not matter what John Hume says. The IRA will fight
until the British leave and we get a united Ireland." Strident, inflexible and
simplistic, that speech set the tone for years. But now it is different.

It is not just Sinn Fein that is excited. John Hume, leader of the Social
Democratic and Labour Party, this week speaking about the talks he has been
holding with Gerry Adams, the Sinn Fein president, said: "I believe these talks
I am engaged in have been the most hopeful sign of bringing a total cessation of
all violence that I have seen in the past 20 years."

And there's more. The Irish Deputy Prime Minister, Dick Spring, also this week,
said: "We may now have all the pieces of a jigsaw which spells peace. If only we
knew how to put the pieces together."

This pregnant anticipation has been prompted by events which, if taken
singularly, may not mean much. Put some of the pieces together, and it is easier
to see something positive.

First, the Hume-Adams talks. One genuinely wants an end to violence and the
other genuinely wants common political ground, an ally. John Hume has met
criticism of his involvement with the barked retort: "I don't care two snowballs
in hell what anyone else thinks. These are positive moves." Gerry Adams has even
described himself as "a peace facilitator".

Second, the intriguing events that surrounded the visit to Northern Ireland last
week of an Irish-American delegation headed by a former congressman, Bruce
Morrison. They talked to politicians and community leaders and made inquiries
about the idea of a US peace envoy, something President Clinton is said to be
veering towards, and an idea the nationalists are keen on.  They know it will
help focus attention - American particularly - on Northern Ireland. Andrew
Young, former US ambassador to the UN, has been mentioned.

Anyway, Morrison and his fellow travellers let it be known they thought it would
be helpful if their visit took place in peaceful circumstances. What followed
next, from September 3 to 10, was either a ceasefire, a lull, or a period of
inactivity.

But the semantics may not matter. The IRA did not lift an Armalite for a week.
And this when loyalist para-militaries were accelerating the violence, killing
four Roman Catholics in their homes or at work and creating what the Irish Times
called a "fearful terror in Catholic ghettos".

And third, there was an interview with a self-confessed senior figure from the
Ulster Defence Association, the largest proscribed loyalist paramilitary group,
in the Belfast newspaper, the Irish News. He said that if the IRA called off its
violence, there could be talks with "everything on the table". According to the
UDA man, nothing need be ruled out: a federal Ireland; a 32-county republic; a
solution within Europe.

And fourth, there were reports that representatives from the loyalist side - not
paramilitaries, probably community workers - have been in talks with the
Northern Ireland Office to try to abate the violence from their own side.

And fifth, there is the impact of shalom, salaam, peace. That Rabin and Arafat
handshake. The Northern Ireland conflict may be different in its scale and
genesis, but those who do not accept the status quo are pointing out that the
insoluble may be soluble after all.

"Things appear to be moving. There's no question about that," says McGuinness.
Silk tie and denim shirt, he sits in Sinn Fein's Londonderry headquarters
beneath revolutionary posters featuring James Connolly and Malcolm X. But, more
incongruously, alongside a computer humming away producing letters and a sign
advising those interested that tickets for the Sinn Fein dinner dance are going
quickly.

The official British version of Martin McGuinness's CV goes like this. They say:
born in a terraced house in the Bogside of Londonderry in 1950, started
employment as a butcher's boy. After a probationary period on the streets
throwing stones at British soldiers, joined the Official IRA - by mistake. Left
the Officials for the Provisionals, in disgust at being asked to blow up
electricity pylons with only four ounces of gelignite.

In 1971 became commander of the Derry Brigade when his elders were arrested in
army swoops. In 1972 accompanied Gerry Adams and other Provisional IRA leaders
to London where, in the Cheyne Walk home of Paul Channon, they held secret talks
with Willie Whitelaw, then Secretary of State for Northern Ireland. In 1973
jailed in the Republic for being an IRA member. The same thing happened the
following year. In 1977 became director of operations, IRA, and 1978-1982 chief
of staff, IRA.

He says: "Well, I was born in the Bogside. The people of Derry know what I have
been in the past and they know what I am now." Official sources credit him with
the development of the theory of the "legitimate target" - the tactic whereby
the IRA claims that victims as diverse as Lord Mountbatten and a woman
census-information collector are both murdered in actions described as falling
under the mortal cloak of "legitimacy".

He is also credited with first spotting the potential to hit the Government in
its pocket through commercial bombing. It was said of Londonderry in the 1970s
that it had been "bombed until it looked as if it had been hit from the air".

He says: "I am not a member of the IRA. I cannot hide from the past and I have
never made any attempt to hide from it. But I am not a member of the IRA."

But the Cook Report television programme last month named him unequivocally as "
Britain's No 1 terrorist". "Well, it's been a most unusual life for the past 25
years," says McGuinness disingenuously.

There then follows the "ordinary family man" scenario: church-going,
father-of-four, enjoys fly-fishing, playing chess.  Doesn't smoke, doesn't drink
and hates pubs. He is looking forward to going to Dublin tomorrow where Derry
are playing in the All Ireland Gaelic football final.

The very picture that once persuaded the Daily Telegraph to claim: "Martin
McGuinness is like all annihilatory radicals.  Every one the same combination of
virtue and psychosis."

The Sinn Fein tactics are palpably simple: establish common ground first with
the constitutional SDLP, and then the Irish government. Then get a seat at the
table.

"We have to reach a situation whereby those on the nationalist side get their
act together. Republicans, Dublin, the SDLP .  . . and put it to the British
Government that a solution is possible. There is a sense that through [Peter]
Brooke and [Sir Patrick] Mayhew the British Government was grappling with the
issue. That process must be accelerated."

But what about the IRA, and the intractable nature of the 32-county All Ireland
demand as articulated by republicans? Here the language changes again: "We would
like to see a 32-county republic in Ireland, but what we're trying to bring
about is a situation where all the people of Ireland get a right to national
self-determination. The type of government and the structures would be for the
people of Ireland. They might choose things we would not think are brilliant,
which some Unionists might not think are brilliant, or someone in Cork might not
think are brilliant. But at least there is the choice.

"We are not saying that we have all the answers. We are not saying that the
answers we have are correct. We are saying that we have something to say to
people who have been considered to be our enemies.  We believe that with a
pragmatic approach, including everybody so far excluded from the process, a
solution could be found.

"The key is the British Government. If it was prepared to be radical, to learn
from South Africa and Israel, then it is conceivable to us that things could
move rapidly. We could see a solution within six to 12 months."

Naive optimism? A cynical ploy to invest Sinn Fein with credibility? Blanket
ignorance of the Unionist position? Perhaps. But there is little doubt that
these republicans have been encouraged by other signals. Mary Robinson, the
President of Ireland, offered her hand to Adams on a visit to the North. He
seized it with unashamed speed.

The Opsahl Commission, an independent inquiry into the future of Northern
Ireland, said earlier this year that attempts to marginalise Sinn Fein were
counter-productive. "Any settlement which excluded Sinn Fein would not be
lasting nor stable," it concluded.

Edward Heath has even suggested that there should be talks with Sinn Fein - when
the time was right. He also advised the Government that Ian Paisley of the
Democratic Unionist Party should be excluded from them because in Heath's view
he was not interested in any agreement.

Meanwhile, Sinn Fein has been distancing itself from the IRA. "We are not
repudiating the IRA but we can be critical of things the IRA does" - Gerry
Adams. "The IRA have realistically admitted that they do not have the military
capacity to drive the British out of Ireland" - Sinn Fein's Northern chairman
earlier this year. Not so long ago that would have been seen as dangerously
defeatist.

Even Sinn Fein delegates are speaking the previously unspeakable: that the IRA
link is preventing the party from building other bridges.

This change of language describing the IRA also reflects a realisation at some
levels that the revolutionary theory is fatally flawed on two counts: the IRA
does not have the power to make Northern Ireland ungovernable; and it does not
have the mass support to make it a government-in-waiting.

Of course, the now-diluted talk of victory, no mention of "the
Armalite-and-the-ballot box" philosophy of political progress, has a genesis:
electoral failure, or at least stagnation. An inability to build on the bedrock
support of 10 to 12 per cent of the population of Northern Ireland. Even worse,
embarrassment in the Republic where, in last year's general election, Sinn Fein
secured a miserly 1.6 per cent of the vote, with 38 of its 40 candidates losing
their deposits.

Hence the desperation for a seat at the table of any talks. "We are entitled to
that seat. We have the same amount of support - 12.5 per cent - as the DUP in
proportion to our communities."

The thoughts of the UDA spokesman have also struck an eager chord. "Any talks
should include everyone, the Protestant paramilitaries as well. We have been
attempting to come to grips with the reality that there are Unionists out there
who don't know what's going on; don't trust the British Government; don't trust
their own political representatives. Any talks would have to take consideration
of these views."

And the IRA? What if they did not like it? McGuinness ignores suggestions that
he is involved and lends his endorsement to the Adams-Hume talks so as to keep
the IRA on board. As one commentator put it: "While he is there the Provos know
they won't be betrayed. He can deliver the IRA."

McGuinness says: "Now is the time for pragmatism. That pragmatism also lives in
the IRA. I don't think any republican would be seen to be lacking if there
appeared to be a possible scenario whereby the jigsaw could be put together. "

The argument is that there is a recognition on the streets that the Provos are
not going to bomb the British out of any of the Catholic areas. Accordingly, a
place at the negotiating table would be viewed as popular among the majority of
Sinn Fein supporters. Any hard-core Provos determined not to lay down their
masks would find it much more difficult to operate in a community that had
withdrawn its consent to violence - for the moment at least.

"But anyway, the British Government is the key to this. Ingenuity is needed on
their part," says McGuinness.

"Perhaps Mayhew could do it. He is better than some, although no Secretary of
State has been impressive. The only one who impressed anybody was Roy Mason. He
impressed some of the Unionists because he beat the shit out of us.

"What about someone like Chris Patten?" A Catholic? "It's not his religion
that's important. He comes across as more pragmatic. I saw him on Question Time
once saying that Northern Ireland was Britain's No 1 priority.

"At least he would be better than Willie Whitelaw. That really was the most
unusual experience I've had in 25 years," says McGuinness of the time he, Adams
and other IRA men left Northern Ireland on an RAF jet for talks with British
government representatives 21 years ago.

"Imagine it. I was saluted by a British captain at one point. Willie Whitelaw
was a nice old man, but he didn't have a clue about Ireland. But at least we
were talking."

And in 21 years' time? "It'll all be over. And if it isn't, it won't be our
fault."

"Armed and masked members of the Ulster Freedom Fighters staged a show of force
in loyalist West Belfast yesterday. Two men, armed with an AK47 assault rifle
and an automatic pistol, took up position.  They shouted that the UFF was
prepared to take over protecting the area." - Irish News, Friday, September 17.

Paul Johnson is the Guardian's former Northern Ireland correspondent.


LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              155 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          September 18, 1993, Saturday

MPs to see Howard over attacks on Turks

BYLINE: DAVID CONNETT

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 3

LENGTH: 197 words


MPs ARE seeking an urgent meeting with Michael Howard, the Home Secretary, next
week to express concern about allegations that a terrorist group is blackmailing
Britain's Turkish community, writes David Connett.

John Prescott, Labour MP for Hull East, has asked for the meeting after claims
that an extreme left-wing terrorist group is extorting money from Turkish
businessmen in the United Kingdom to fund terrorism abroad.

It followed an attack on a Turkish restaurant owner in Hull six days ago. He
said six men approached him purporting to be from the Turkish left-wing
terrorist group Dev Sol, which has been responsible for a series of shootings
and bombings in Turkey since 1980.

Mr Prescott said frightened businessmen from Hull had sought his help. ''I'm
very concerned that it has all the implications of raising money for terrorist
activities. This kind of extortion has been common in Europe and now it seems it
will be adopted here,'' he said.

He is to lead a delegation of MPs from Humberside and Yorkshire to see Mr
Howard, seeking assurances ''that everything is being done to stop such
activities because these actions don't stop at money''.


LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1993 Independent Print Ltd

                              156 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                          September 21, 1993, Tuesday

SOLDIER WOUNDED IN TERROR BLAST

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 369 words


A soldier was injured in a terrorist bomb attack on a military patrol in Belfast
tonight.  Police said the soldier was hurt when a device was thrown at the
patrol in Etna Drive in the nationalist Ardoyne area.  The extent of the
soldier's injuries was not known. A civilian was also treated for shock after
the attack.

The soldier suffered leg injuries but was not seriously hurt, according to
police.  He had been part of a foot patrol walking through the Ardoyne behind a
mobile patrol when the device was thrown.

Sinn Fein president Gerry Adams dismissed loyalist claims that the attacks such
linked to his talks with John Hume.  He claimed the first took place several
months before he met the SDLP leader.  Mr Adams said: "These attacks are clearly
part of the Unionist political strategy which is designed to force Northern
nationalists to accept Unionist demands and Britain's framework and agenda for
talks."

MP Seamus Mallon, deputy leader of the SDLP, condemned the attacks and
challenged the terrorists to meet him face to face.  He said: "I would like the
opportunity of facing them across a table and asking them why they attack
vulnerable people in this way and try to hear at first hand their spurious
reasons for carrying out violence such as this and the horrific killings we saw
in Belfast in recent weeks."

Northern Ireland Security Minister Sir John Wheeler today reaffirmed that the
Government's first priority in Ulster was to bring terrorism from whatever
quarter to a complete and final end.  After meeting members of the security
forces in South Armagh, he said they were determined to "grind down and overcome
the terrorists".  Demands for extreme action were understandable, but a lasting
peace could only be won by actions taken within the law.  Sir John, who was met
with derision when he said recently that the IRA was defeated and saw his words
followed by an IRA bombing blitz and loyalist killing spree, insisted that "the
steps which the Government and the security forces are taking are leading
towards the eradication of terrorism".  He sent a message to the terrorists that
their activities would not win political objectives - only more long years in
prison.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1993 The Press Association Limited

                              157 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Daily Mail (London)

                           September 27, 1993, Monday

I'll speak up for IRA gunman says Red Ken

BYLINE: John Deans

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 614 words


LABOUR leaders were put on the spot last night after MP Ken Livingstone promised
to speak up for a convicted IRA gunman fighting extradition to Britain.

With his party's conference opening in Brighton today, Opposition Leader John
Smith came under immediate pressure to disown the maverick backbencher.

Tory MP Sir Ivan Lawrence, chairman of the powerful Commons Home Affairs
Committee, warned: 'If he refuses to act then we will know which side the Labour
Party is on in the war against terrorism.'

Former Labour Leader Neil Kinnock admitted Mr Livingstone's behaviour was
damaging and out of step with the public mood, adding: 'It is very strange.'

But the Left-wing Brent MP and former GLC chief refused calls to back down, and
confirmed that he will fly to San Francisco at the end of the week to give court
evidence on behalf of James Smyth, 39, who took part in a mass escape from
Ulster's Maze Prison in 1983.

'I have been subpoenaed to attend, and I think it would be completely
unacceptable for a British MP to refuse to appear in the court of our prime
ally,' he said. 'I can just imagine the uproar if we requested a member of the
U.S. Congress to appear here and he refused.'

Mr Livingstone, who has consistently supported Sinn Fein in its campaign for
British withdrawal from Ulster, added: 'I've been asked to give evidence on oath
and I'll tell the truth.'

Smyth, serving 20 years for attempted murder when he escaped, married an
American citizen and worked in San Francisco as a painter and decorator until
his cover was blown in June last year. He claims he is innocent and will not get
a fair trial in Britain, where his life will be at risk.

Mr Livingstone, whose air fares and expenses will be met by U.S. legal
authorities, admitted he knows little about the case, though he apparently met
Smyth last October during a U.S. presidential election rally.

Asked if he thought the gunman could rely on British justice, he said: 'I can
only repeat what the judge said when he convicted him: that there were doubts in
this case. It is certainly not a strong case and that's why the Government is
struggling.'

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1993 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              158 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                          September 28, 1993, Tuesday

Sinn Fein 'hypocrisy' angers Mayhew

BYLINE: Sheila Gunn, Political Correspondent

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 334 words


THE joint SDLP and Sinn Fein strategy devised by John Hume and Gerry Adams to
end the violence in Northern Ireland was in effect dismissed by the British
government yesterday as an attempt to hijack the official talks.

As the government became increasingly alarmed at the prominence given to the
secret plan drawn up by Mr Hume, leader of the Social Democratic and Labour
Party, and Gerry Adams, president of Sinn Fein, ministerial aides emphasised
that politicians seriously working for a solution should return to negotiations.

Downing Street officials denied unionist accusations that John Major had
''connived'' in the Hume-Adams talks.

The officials also dismissed reports that British and Irish officials were
drawing up a new constitution for the province, although they are working on an
agenda for new talks. Michael Ancram, the Northern Ireland minister, is holding
private meetings with the four constitutional parties in the hope of reviving
the talks, which stalled last November, by the end of next month.

Nationalist sources indicated that the Hume-Adams plan calls for Britain to
declare that it has no long-term interest in Ireland. It does not, as claimed by
unionists, recommend joint authority for the province.

However, British ministers in effect admitted yesterday that the Hume-Adams
strategy was damaging Mr Ancram's chances of reaching agreement with Ulster
politicians to return to the talks.

Sir Patrick Mayhew, the Northern Ireland secretary, tried to calm unionist
discontent by accusing Sinn Fein of hypocrisy in talking of a lasting peace
while the IRA continued to shoot people and plant bombs in the province.

Sir Patrick reacted sharply following a car bomb attack by the IRA in central
Belfast yesterday. He pointed out that the IRA had been quiet during a recent
visit to the province by the former US congressman Bruce Morrison.  He also
repeated the government's refusal to talk to anyone who perpetrated violence or
supported its use.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1993 Times Newspapers Limited

                              159 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                October 1, 1993

Gaddafi faces fresh UN sanctions over jet bomb suspects Western allies turn
screw on Libya

BYLINE: Derek Douglas, Chief Reporter

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 659 words


THE Western allies turned the diplomatic screw on Libya yesterday with a clear
warning that they would go to the United Nations today to begin procedures to
bring tougher sanctions to bear because of the failure to surrender the two men
suspected of the Lockerbie bombing.

Britain, the United States and France all indicated that the threat to implement
more punitive sanctions would become reality when a fresh resolution would be
laid before the UN Security Council.

Talks were continuing in New York yesterday between Libyan diplomats and UN
secretary-general Boutros Boutros-Ghali but the key points of the draft
resolution document were made available to journalists at UN headquarters.

The threatened fresh sanctions include:

* A freeze on the bank accounts abroad of any Libyan government authority or
persons acting on its behalf. The draft excludes funds derived from oil or
agricultural products after the resolution comes into force.

* A prohibition on the sale of oil-related equipment used in refineries and for
transporting oil. The list excludes production equipment Libya uses to drill for
oil.

* The draft resolution closes loopholes on the air embargo against Libya, in
force since April 1992, such as immediate and complete closure of Libyan airline
offices abroad.

* The resolution promises to suspend all sanctions once Libya has surrendered
the two accused for trial in Britain or the United States.

The sanctions can be reimposed after 90 days if Libya does not comply with the
remaining demands in the 1992 sanctions resolution. These involve proving that
Libya has renounced all ties to alleged terrorists.

A previous UN declaration called for the two suspects, Al Amin Khalifa Fhima and
Abdel Baset Ali ali Megrahi, to be surrendered for trial in Scotland or the US
by October 1. They are accused of planting the bomb which destroyed PanAm flight
103 over Lockerbie in December 1988 with the loss of 270 lives.

On Wednesday the Libyan government lifted its long-held veto of the possibility
of a trial in Scotland or the US. The Libyan foreign ministry declared that
whether or not the men surrendered themselves to the jurisdiction of the
Scottish courts was now a matter for them and their legal advisers.

Yesterday the suspects' principal legal adviser, Tripoli advocate Dr Ibrahim
Legwell, said that he would be calling a meeting of his legal team in Tripoli
next week and it would be decided then what advice to offer his clients.

In Edinburgh, the suspects' Scottish lawyer, Mr Alistair Duff, said: "I have
spoken to Dr Legwell today and it seems to me that a meeting with all of the
lawyers involved would be a sensible idea. I would imagine it would take place
some time within the next fortnight. Obviously that cannot now be done in time
to comply with the UN sanctions deadline."

Britain remains suspicious that Wednesday's offer by Libya to let the men decide
whether or not they come to Scotland or the US for trial was merely an effort to
buy time.

"Whether they're playing for time or not, we're in no doubt the United Nations
resolution will be tabled if there's no commitment there," a Foreign Office
spokesman said.

"There's no slippage in the 1 October deadline. If there's no clear commitment
by tomorrow then we will propose that the resolution goes ahead."

France confirmed yesterday that it would back Washington and London in seeking
stiffer sanctions if Libya did not move within 24 hours to surrender the two
suspects.

In addition, Libya must satisfy demands of a French magistrate investigating the
mid-air bombing of a French UTA airliner over the West African state of Niger in
1989. All 171 people on board were killed.

The magistrate issued four arrest warrants in that case including one for a man
identified by Paris as deputy head of the Libyan secret service and brother-in
-law of Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1993 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              160 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 2, 1993

SINN FEIN HINTS AT POLICY SHIFT IN SEARCH FOR PEACE;
'If someone hadn't grasped the nettle in South Africa or in Palestine . . .
Mandela would still be slopping out his cell rather than preparing to be
president. The Government is part of the problem and it has to be part of the
solution'

BYLINE: OWEN BOWCOTT TALKS TO GERRY ADAMS ABOUT MOVES TO END CONFLICT

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 765 words


THE ONLY visible sign that something extraordinary is being contemplated in west
Belfast comes from the look of sheer excitement on the faces of republican
officials.

The Sinn Fein leadership appears to be in a ferment of intensive, internal
meetings. Gerry Adams, the party president, exudes an unfamiliar sense of
ebullient anticipation.

For the rest, so far, it is all words. The bombings continue. The party's
tabloid paper this week carried its usual section devoted to "War News" - IRA
attacks - but it gave over four pages to the Hume/Adams talks.

The front page headline of Republican News declared "Progress on the road to
peace", insisting that the development is "of major significance". There was no
mention of any IRA ceasefire. In republican terms, the aspiration remains for a
"complete demilitarisation of the situation".

In the windowless, downstairs back room at the Sinn Fein office on the Lower
Falls Road in west Belfast, Mr Adams is eager to communicate his hopes that,
after nearly 25 years of continuous conflict, an end could be in sight.

Reminders of the violence are everywhere close at hand. In an adjoining room a
black formica plaque commemorates the dead.  The first names are from the early
1970s. The last are those of several Sinn Fein workers killed in the building
one lunchtime in February last year by an apparently deranged Royal Ulster
Constabulary officer armed with a pump-action shotgun, who later committed
suicide.

What everyone is now waiting to see is how far any of the parties to the
conflict are willing to go in lowering their expectations in order to escape the
oppressive weight of such bloody history.

The Sinn Fein leader declined to release any details of the joint proposals
agreed with John Hume, leader of the Social Democratic and Labour Party, which
Mr Hume says he will present to the Irish government next week.

Mr Adams' observations on political progress are, as ever, in guarded language
but they contained one of the broadest hints yet that Sinn Fein may prove
flexible in moving away from traditional policy positions.

"The message to the British people should be that republicans are prepared and
are willing to consider ways and means to move forward," he explained. "What we
are asking of this government is that they should also consider that and should
grasp the opportunity to make a move forward. If they don't, what they are in
fact doing is taking the responsibility for this type of cul-de-sac conflict.

"If someone hadn't grasped the nettle in South Africa or in Palestine . . .
Mandela would still be slopping out his cell rather than preparing to be
president. The British Government is part of the problem and it has to be part
of the solution."

The example of Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organisation unexpectedly
compromising to make progress together seems to have fired up the imagination of
republican strategists. They appreciate that it is, potentially, also a
dangerous path.

"One takes a step on to a slippery slope and therein lies the risk. We have
taken the first step," said Mr Adams.

The two party leaders' proposals are believed to include a short formulation of
principles, encapsulating the notion that Britain should recognise the "right of
the Irish people as a whole to self-determination".

If that was achieved - it is a condition the Government appears highly unlikely
to concede because it would mean, in effect, that London was ignoring the border
- there would be a staggered peace conference. Sinn Fein would be present along
with initially other nationalist parties.

As progress was made, an IRA ceasefire would come into effect so that by the
time the Government and Northern Ireland unionist parties joined them at the
conference table, the republican movement would have gone a long way to
renouncing the use of violence.

From a nationalist perspective it is an enticing scenario. The credibility gap
for most observers, however, is what "Irish national self-determination" means?

Sinn Fein has always demanded that any referendums should be on an all-Ireland
basis. The SDLP has, by contrast, accepted that a majority for a united Ireland
would be needed in separate polls in the Republic and in Northern Ireland.

Mr Adams finds depressing the response so far of Sir Patrick Mayhew, the
Northern Ireland Secretary, to the Hume/Adams initiative. "Maybe we are wrong,
maybe it won't work, maybe it's impossible," he said. "But I don't think the
attitude he has taken so far is helpful."


LOAD-DATE: October 5, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              161 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            October 3, 1993, Sunday

IRA may talk about peace

BYLINE: DAVID MCKITTRICK Ireland Correspondent

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Page 801$

LENGTH: 566 words


GERRY Adams, the Sinn Fein leader, yesterday raised hopes of an end to the IRA's
campaign of violence.

In a declaration which will increase the prospects for a peace deal in Northern
Ireland, he said he was seeking a package to put to the IRA. This is seen in
some quarters as the clearest indication yet that republicans may be serious
about entering negotiations.

Mr Adams told the Independent On Sunday: ''This is one of the best opportunities
for peace since what are now called the Troubles began in 1968. The onus is on
the British government not to be blinkered and to try to move forward on this.''

If a package could be produced, Mr Adams said, he was prepared to put it to the
IRA. He was seeking one that would allow him to make ''definitive proposals'' to
the IRA about its campaign of violence.

These and other comments by Mr Adams have increased interest in the process
begun in private talks between him and the SDLP leader, John Hume.

Mr Humeis due to meet the Taoiseach, Albert Reynolds, and the Irish foreign
minister, Dick Spring, this week to brief them on the ''considerable progress''
he believes has been made.

The Irish government will want to know the exact grounds on which the SDLP
leader bases his optimism that progress can be made. Dublinis then expected to
make contact with the Northern Ireland Secretary, Sir Patrick Mayhew, who has
indicated that he will consider any matters put to him by the Irish government.

There has been condemnation from many quarters of the fact that the IRA
continues to carry out bombings while its political representative, Mr Adams,
speaks of peace. Last week Unionist politicians launched a barrage of opposition
to even the idea of Sinn Fein being involved in any form of contacts.

Their fear is that the price demanded for any end to republican violence would
include concessions that would be unacceptable to Unionists.

Those who believe, on the other hand, that the initiative is worth exploring
will draw encouragement from Mr Adams's comments, which appear to provide
evidence of fresh republican thinking. ''Whatever agreement we come up with has
to be an agreement that Unionists, like the rest of us, can give their
allegiance to. They have to be part of it and have to feel that it accommodates
them,'' he said.

''The broad next phase is that both governments have the opportunity to give
these matters their consideration. The response of the British government to
date has been a matter of concern. Mayhew has been arrogant, clumsy and
gratuitously insulting. Their policy is in absolute tatters.

''Where are they going? Are we going to face into the next century, when other
apparently intractable conflicts throughout the world are being resolved, with
Britain still propping this place up with British soldiers and subventions?''

Asked whether Sinn Fein was prepared to compromise, he said: ''The fact that I
have agreed a number of statements with Mr Hume, which are not in language that
would normally be part of the republican

vocabulary, indicates a willingness on Sinn Fein's part to look at other points
of view and to look at other ways forward. Now it's very much over to the
British government.''

The IRA last night admitted responsibility for a series of terrorist bomb
attacks in north London early on Saturday in which five people were slightly
hurt.


LOAD-DATE: October 03, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1993 Independent Print Ltd

                              162 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 5, 1993

IRA BLASTS MARK 'SINISTER CHANGE OF TACTICS'

BYLINE: DUNCAN CAMPBELL, CRIME CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 272 words


FIVE bombs exploded in north London early yesterday, causing traffic chaos and
suggesting that the IRA is anxious that talk of a ceasefire should not be seen
as a sign of weakness.

The absence of any warnings was described by Commander David Tucker, head of the
Anti-Terrorist Branch, as a sinister change of strategy. He added that the bombs
could reasonably be assumed to be the work of the IRA.

No one was injured in the blasts although five people were reported as being
treated for shock at local hospitals. A sixth device was defused by an
explosives expert.

The effect of the explosions, which came over a 10 minute period from 6.37am,
was to close many of the main roads into central London used by commuters.

The bombs were placed within a few miles of each other. Two were left opposite
Highgate underground station on the Archway Road, two in Tottenham Lane,
Hornsey, and one in Highgate High Street. They weighed less than a pound.

It is thought that the bombs were intended to remind the Government that the IRA
is still capable of disrupting the capital almost at will: tens of thousands of
commuters were affected by the blasts.

- A scheme aimed at creating a closer understanding between the people of
Ireland and mainland Britain is to be launched at Warrington this weekend,
writes Tom Sharratt.

Prompted by the deaths of two boys in an IRA bomb attack on the Cheshire town
last March, the Warrington Project hopes to arrange exchange visits by
schoolchildren, students, church and civic leaders, and business people. There
are also plans for sporting and cultural events.


LOAD-DATE: October 6, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              163 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            October 5, 1993, Tuesday

Letter: Libya is legally correct over Lockerbie

BYLINE: Mr GEOFF SIMONS

SECTION: COMMENT PAGE; Page 17

LENGTH: 402 words


Sir: At a time when Libya is being coerced to deliver the two Lockerbie suspects
for trial in the West, James Cusick is right to observe that the ''isolation of
the two Libyan agents in the charge list surprised many experts in the field of
international terrorism'' (''Gaddafi prepares a sacrifice'', 30 September).
Publicity has been given to the complicity of other states and terrorist groups
in addition to Libya. It is important to remember the legal position.

Terrorist attacks against civil aircraft are properly addressed by the 1971
Montreal Convention, to which both Britain and Libya are signatories. Since
there is no extradition treaty between Britain and Libya, Article 7 of the
Convention applies:

The Contracting State in the territory of which the alleged offender is found
shall, if it does not extradite him, be obliged, without exception whatsoever
and whether or not the offence was committed in its territory, to submit the
case to its competent authorities for the purpose of prosecution.

If Britain were to dispute the good faith of Libya in trying the alleged
terrorists, then Article 14 of the Convention makes provision for arbitration
and reference to the International Court of Justice. In fact, the evidence
suggests that Libya has observed its legal obligations.

In April 1992, Francis A. Boyle, professor of international law at the
University of Illinois, prepared a memorandum of law on the US/Libyan dispute
over Lockerbie. In assessing Libya's liabilities under the Montreal Convention,
he commented:

Libya has fully discharged its obligations . . . there is no obligation whatever
for Libya to extradite its two nationals to either the United States or the
United Kingdom . . . both the United States and the United Kingdom have
effectively violated most of the provisions of the Montreal Convention.

In the same vein, Marc Weller, research fellow in international law at St
Catherine's College, Cambridge, concluded a detailed analysis with the
observation that Libya has responded ''in accordance with international legal
requirements'' and that the US and UK governments ''may well have contributed
to, or brought about, an abuse of rights by the Security Council''.

Yours sincerely,

GEOFF SIMONS

Stockport

Cheshire

30 September

The writer's book 'Libya: the Struggle for Survival' was published by Macmillan
in March.


LOAD-DATE: October 05, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1993 Independent Print Ltd

                              164 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                            October 5, 1993, Tuesday

IRA hardliners ruffle peace discussions

BYLINE: By Edward Gorman

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 455 words


THE IRA bombings in north London yesterday were intended to remind the British
government that while one part of the republican movement talks peace, the other
retains the right to continue its war.

They also suggest that the hardline militarists in the movement may be less
willing to contemplate a cessation of violence than Gerry Adams, the Sinn Fein
president, who has been engaged in talks with John Hume, leader of the Social
Democratic and Labour Party.

At present there is nothing to suggest that these two strands are in open
dispute. The IRA gave its formal backing to the Hume-Adams talks in a statement
on Sunday. But there is the prospect that the IRA could split if a deal is
reached that does not satisfy the extreme elements. Observers in Dublin
yesterday had no doubt about the link between the bombings and the Hume-Adams
talks. ''This is a show of force by the IRA army council to demonstrate that it
means business,'' an experienced observer in Dublin said. ''It is also a sign to
Mr Adams and those talking to him that he can operate only with the approval of
the IRA army council.''

He added that he expected the weekend bombs to mark the beginning of a new phase
of activity by the Provisionals in Britain. The IRA may be content to use
bombings that cause damage but few casualties, as reminders of its potential
which would not upset any negotiations. It may, however, switch to a more
destructive pattern if it concludes that the British and Irish governments are
not taking its proposals seriously.

In any case the flurry of speculation about the outcome of the Hume-Adams talks
may lead to nothing. Neither the British nor Irish governments has seen the
proposals contained in a secret report drawn up by the two men ten days ago, but
Whitehall sources have remained extremely sceptical about the prospects for
agreement.

Reports at the weekend indicated that the document calls on London and Dublin to
agree on a long-term aim to end partition by allowing ''the Irish people the
right to self-determination'', in return for which the IRA would consider a
ceasefire. The proposals are also thought to envisage some form of joint
British-Irish authority over Northern Ireland. Both of these objectives are
anathema to unionists and neither is on the agenda of a Conservative government.

Sir Patrick Mayhew, the Northern Ireland secretary, has made clear that any
joint arrangement is out of the question. He has also said that anything that
does not involve the people of Northern Ireland alone determining whether they
remain in the United Kingdom or join a united Ireland will not be acceptable.
The IRA has accused him of reacting negatively and fuelling unionist anxiety.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1993 Times Newspapers Limited

                              165 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                October 6, 1993

McAliskey defends bombers at IRA hearing

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 263 words


San Francisco, Tuesday.

NORTHERN Ireland politician Bernadette McAliskey -- the former Bernadette Devlin
-- today refused to condemn those using violence to fight British rule in
Northern Ireland and told a US court the American civil war was not won "with
feather dusters".

She was giving evidence in the second week of the extradition hearing of
suspected IRA terrorist James Smyth.

McAliskey was asked by prosecutor Mark Zanides about last year's IRA bomb blast
in Warrington that killed two children.

"I do not condemn those people. That's not to say I support violence. It was a
terrible thing. But the American civil war wasn't won with feather dusters," she
said.

Smyth, 39, is one of 38 men who escaped from the Maze prison in 1983. Britain
wants to extradite him to complete a 20-year sentence for the attempted murder
of an off-duty prison guard.

Smyth, who was arrested in San Francisco last year, denies being a member of the
IRA and claims he will be discriminated against or harmed if he is returned to
the province.

McAliskey, a county councillor and former MP, is an advocate for Roman Catholic
civil rights in Northern Ireland.

Under re-examination by defence lawyer Karen Snell, she said those fighting for
a united Ireland had good cause to come to the United States.

"It was ex-republicans' previous best option to sneak into the United States."

In Northern Ireland the Republicans were "marked men", she claimed, but she
conceded that conditions in the Maze prison had improved since the mass
breakout.--Reuter.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1993 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              166 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           October 6, 1993, Wednesday

Former MP supports Maze escaper

BYLINE: PHIL REEVES in San Francisco

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 3

LENGTH: 308 words


THE FORMER MP and civil rights leader Bernadette Devlin McAliskey yesterday told
a US Federal court that she could not condemn this year's IRA bombing at
Warrington in which two children were killed.

Mrs McAliskey was testifying on behalf of Jimmy Smyth, who escaped from Northern
Ireland's maximum-security Maze Prison in 1983. Britain is seeking to extradite
him to serve the remainder of a 20-year sentence.

Under cross examination by Mark Zanides, the assistant US Attorney representing
the British government, she said she would not condemn the Warrington bombers,
although she insisted she did not support the use of violence. ''I will not
condemn those people. I think it was a terrible action. But then the American
War of Independence was not won with feather dusters either.''

Elaborating on her position, she said: ''I understand where violence comes from.
I refuse to condemn those who are forced by the system to resort to violence,
but if I actually supported violence, I would use it.''

Mrs McAliskey was the first witness called by Mr Smyth's defending lawyer, who
claims that he should not be extradited because, as a convicted Republican, he
would be at risk of victimisation from the security forces, or even death. A
clause in the US- UK extradition treaty exempts anyone who may face persecution
on the grounds of race, religion, or political beliefs.

The former MP for mid-Ulster, who served six months in prison in 1970 for
riotous behaviour and causing actual bodily harm to a policeman, gave long and
graphic accounts saying Irish nationalists faced continuous harassment and civil
rights abuses in Northern Ireland. Speaking on the 25th anniversary of the first
civil rights march through Londonderry, she accused Britain of having a
''running battle'' with the EC over human rights violations.


LOAD-DATE: October 06, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1993 Independent Print Ltd

                              167 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 9, 1993

INSIDE STORY: ALL-ROUND PROTECTION;
A brace of Hollywood films have sent people rushing to train as bodyguards.  But
wouldn't you know - it's not like in the movies. SIMON FREEMAN joined hopefuls
on a muscle and brain-numbing course

BYLINE: SIMON FREEMAN

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN WEEKEND PAGE; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 2553 words


THE THREE women dropped to the ground, took aim with their Browning automatics
and commenced rapid firing: crack, crack, crack, crack, crack! A dozen yards
away, splinters of wood flew as a hail of bullets found their targets. The women
rose together, each clipping a fresh magazine into their automatics, and moved
forwards slowly and in line. Jenny, Helen and Agata maintained the line until
they were a few feet from their targets. Then they stopped, took aim once more,
and blasted them from close range.

"Not bad, not bad at all," yelled James Brown, BEM - a bullet-headed,
35-year-old former instructor in the Royal Military Police and units he prefers
not to mention. Brown is founder of Excel, one of Britain's leading bodyguard -
or as he calls it "close protection" - companies. Clients include tycoons,
African presidents and ruling families in the Gulf.

Brown rarely praises pupils who come to the Manor, Shropshire, to attend their
courses. So Jenny, Agata and Helen glowed with pride as they retreated to let
the lads have a go.

This was day three on the course for the three women and 20 men. It had taken
most of them months to find the pounds 763 fee but they hoped it would open up
new and exciting lives for themselves as bodyguards protecting the rich and
famous.

Brown said his students always enjoyed coming to the range. It was the "Fun
Day", though he reminded them that they would never carry guns in Britain and
would probably not have to use a weapon even if they worked abroad. The reality
of being a bodyguard was much duller: the person you are guarding was more
likely to have a heart attack than be shot by terrorists, he said.

Jenny, Helen and Agata, basking in their success with the Brownings, nodded
attentively. Jenny (not her real name - she was worried about friends' and her
employers' reaction to her wanting to be a bodyguard), was born in Germany 30
years ago and has lived in London for 13 years. She is a secretary and dreams of
breaking away. She keeps herself fit through martial arts and dangerous sports
and had already shown, said Brown, that she had all the necessary qualities -
fit, presentable, clean, stable but not wimpish - to become a bodyguard.

"When you first pick up a gun you are very nervous but then you learn and you
are calm and steady. It is all about maturity," Jenny said. "Now I know that I
definitely want to be a bodyguard. I want a challenge. I want to make something
of myself."

Helen, a tiny 22-year-old secretary from Stockport who was once a national-class
gymnast, was also doing rather better than many of the men, including her
boyfriend, Phil, a 23-year-old soldier, who had persuaded her to come to
Shropshire.

"It was his idea but my parents are very supportive and all my friends are very
envious. This is challenging," said Helen.  "I am bored with my life, sitting in
the same room every day. Phil and I are both action people. I want to find out
if I have got what it takes to put myself between a VIP and a bullet. I want to
travel and have excitement."

The third woman, Agata, a tall 36-year-old mother of one, from Gdansk, a painter
now based in Notting Hill, was not shining as brightly. She was uncomfortable in
this unintellectual, gung-ho environment and was worried that her parents in
Poland might find out that she was keeping such peculiar company.

NONETHELESS, she could see the attractions of the job. "I love painting but it
is not very lucrative. I think I can combine the two jobs. Painting and being a
bodyguard. But I am not ready to shoot anyone," she said.

Women are in far greater demand than men in the close protection game. Brown
said: "A half-decent woman bodyguard will get lots of work because there are so
few women in the industry. You get clients who want their wives and children
looking after.  But it is not easy for a woman. They must not be more attractive
than the woman they are looking after, which can be pretty difficult with some
of our clients."

After their day blasting targets on the range, the class returned to base, the
Manor, an adventure centre 20 miles away.  Brown said that this was not a
typical group. First, there were three "feminine" women instead of perhaps one,
usually butch one. Second, the lads were either ordinary or utterly useless.
Usually, Brown said, there were a couple of "tasty" lads - ex-SAS or former
Paras or martial arts instructors -who could set the standard.

Class of summer '93 consisted mainly of lads desperate to avoid the scrapheap:
squaddies soon to be made redundant and ex-soldiers struggling in civvy street;
labourers, a security officer, lorry driver, tarmac layer, stable lad, pub
manager, fitness instructor, sound engineer, accounts clerk, insurance broker
and the long-term unemployed. But there was one smart lad, Bob, a 29-year-old
South African who intended to set up a similar operation at home.

Most of this group had been inspired by Kevin Costner in The Bodyguard and Clint
Eastwood, who stars as an ageing US presidential bodyguard in In The Line Of
Fire. Costner impressed students at the Manor because he was not an 18-stone,
6ft 6in giant but appeared an ordinary bloke, who had skills which they believed
they, too, could learn.

The course is modelled on the respected Royal Military Police's bodyguard
programme. Everything about it had the feel of specialist army training. There
was non-stop sexist, racist and politically incorrect mickey-taking from Brown
and his instructors.

The class grabbed a few hours sleep then spluttered through two hours of
physical training and martial arts before dawn. They spent every day changing
quickly and arbitrarily - from sodden sports kit to suits, to casual clothes and
back again - and, instead of being congratulated for looking spruce in difficult
circumstances, were always told that they were bags of shit who stank of BO.

FOR SOME, it was too much. By day three, four students had either left the Manor
voluntarily or been kicked out. The others stuck with it, though it was becoming
clear to even the most determined that they would never emulate Kevin Costner.
They could see the daunting standards required just by comparing themselves with
the three instructors, all of whom earned a living in close protection: Peter
Consterdine, 44, 6ft-plus, well-built, bearded and balding, was a nice chap
whose hobbies included wildlife photography. He had served with British special
forces and is also chief instructor of the British Karate Association.

Consterdine believes a good bodyguard should avoid violence but must be able to
strike swiftly and effectively in a fight. He wanted to help students find
themselves. "Most people do not have a true perception of themselves when they
come here," he said. "Our job is to help them, which usually means they realise
they are out of their depth."

Andy Davies, 29, ex-Marine, witty and tough (half an ear missing), was a student
with Excel two years ago, when he was painting white lines on motorways. He was
natural bodyguard material and joined as an instructor. Finally, there was Pete,
formerly of Army intelligence and an expert on surveillance.

And the students? Sam, a young black security officer from west London, was
overweight and mentally sluggish but, to his credit, kept going despite the
barrage from the instructors. ("You know what you are, Sam? A fat, useless black
bastard. Now move your arse.")

But Sam convinced himself he was doing well. One evening, after he had met one
disaster after another, he said: "I have all the techniques of martial arts. The
good news is that there has been a massive improvement in my physical fitness. I
hope to pass the course but if I do not, I will return. The only thing that I
did not know before I came here was weapons. Now I feel complete."

George, a 25-year-old bodybuilder from London, unwisely sported a pony-tail.
("Christ, what's that you're wearing on your head? A helmet? What's the point of
having biceps like Garth if you've got no bloody strength? You know what your
problem is?  It's all those bloody steroids.") Then came Terry, a 29-year-old
sound engineer. He was tall, pale and unco-ordinated.  ("Terry, you are a
pathetic wanker. What's the matter with you? Pull your finger out.")

Finally, there was Guy, a quiet ex-soldier who was unemployed and spent his days
in bed. "I am sick of this country," he said. "I want to be a bodyguard in the
States because the quality of bodyguards there is crap." But he with his
skinhead fuzz and arms full of tattoos, he could never escort a VIP to the
Dorchester.

The bible at the Manor was an 80-page document detailing the bodyguard's role
from residence security, securing advance parties, use of radios, walking
drills, to vehicle searches, anti-ambush drills, etc. In it, Brown writes: "The
days of the 6ft 6in, 250-pound strong-arm men who's only use would be in a
one-on-one unarmed struggle are numbered; while he is not extinct, this
gorilla-type can still be found looking after rock stars and boxing venues.

"The bodyguard of today is a business suited operative, who, while not looking
special, is a highly skilled and motivated individual . . . he will be fit and
not overweight, an expert in threat assessment, first aid, fire-fighting,
defensive driving, weapons systems, unarmed combat, communication skills and
psychology; he will probably be fluent in at least two languages and be of above
average intelligence. A good bodyguard learns about his VIP. Knows his personal
habits, his prejudices, his politics. Does he have a girlfriend or boyfriend?
Who are his enemies? Remember the six Ps of Personal Protection: Perfect Prior
Planning Prevents Piss Poor Performance."

Brown says protocol causes bodyguards most problems. This is defined as, "to
conduct yourself in a manner synonymous with the VIP and the situations that you
may find yourself in. Dress, Hygiene, Habits, Behaviour . . . Protocol (or the
lack of it) is the single most common reason for a bodyguard to lose his job,
probably as many as 80 per cent of bodyguards who are sacked, are so, not
because they are no good with a weapon, can't drive for a toffee, or have let
some assailant get too close to their charge; they are sacked for lack of
protocol."

Brown says his students should always wear navy blue or grey suits, preferably a
50 per cent wool mix, and should be wary of dark cloth because they exude
authority which might overshadow the VIP. The length of trousers (never too
short), choice of ties (silk, darker than the shirt), shoes (never slip-ons) and
much else is covered. Bodyguards must never smoke and never, ever "re-arrange
balls or pick noses". They must not smell. They must never be distracted by
secretaries or air stewardesses on the VIP's private jet. Women, he says, have
been "the downfall of many a good bodyguard".

And, above all, if they are guarding a woman they must not have an affair with
her (which is what Costner does in The Bodyguard). There was nothing about
female bodyguards, but Brown said this would be corrected in the next edition.

Despite the generally lamentable standard of the class, every member had passed
a weekend course, Basic Bodyguard Skills (cost pounds 100). Fledgeling Costners,
who have responded to ads in The Soldier or Police Review, gather to be vetted
and given the basics of close protection. Excel rarely bothers with the national
tabloids; they attract too many headbangers.

Brown said: "We weed out the plonkers at the weekend sessions. The bouncers.
The doormen. The blokes with criminal records.  If people get through the
weekend course it doesn't mean that they have what it takes to be bodyguards. It
just means that they might have the potential." By the end of an average weekend
some have dropped out and many others failed. Some are given a basic pass
certificate; two or three a year receive a distinction.

The rewards can be handsome. The stars of "close protection" can earn more than
pounds 50,000 a year, often working, cash in hand, in sunny locations where
British restrictions do not apply. But most bodyguards earn around pounds 150 a
day, often standing, soaked, in gardens and spending long periods at home,
waiting by the phone.

"You can still make a good living," said Brown. "But people are more careful
about their money now. The days when a bodyguard would be given pounds 50 by an
Arab to buy a newspaper and told to keep the change are over." Brown's company
has an annual turnover of pounds 1.2 million, and employs 35 full-time staff,
including 28 bodyguards, with dozens more established freelances on call. Anyone
can go into the bodyguard business although Brown said that he was working with
the International Professional Security Association to introduce minimum
standards.

The slog came in the last few days at the Manor: first aid training, learning to
drive in a convoy and, finally, the Exercise - when a fictional VIP arrived and
required round-the-clock close protection.  The class had worked late the night
before on the VIP's arrival, drawing up rotas for the "ops room", the teams who
would patrol the grounds, drivers and other units which would make up the
bodyguard squad.

But, as they discovered, it was not as easy as it looked. The VIP, played by
Stuart Wright, 44, a bodyguard and ex-Navy and special forces fitness
instructor, was supposed to be a South African tycoon called Hertz van Rental
(Excel humour) who had just bought the Manor.

In the 36 hours that Wright was van Rental everything that could have gone wrong
did. When the class escorted him into nearby towns, they lost him. Back at the
Manor, there was one crisis after another as instructors launched mock attacks.
The class lost their radios. The chain of command disintegrated. Poor Sam, the
security officer, kept vanishing from his post. And, to add to their
humiliation, Brown said they all stank of BO.

BUT BY the end of what had been, an exhausting and, for most, demoralising week,
no one wanted to leave. And, with two exceptions, Agata and the insurance
broker, all insisted that they were more enthusiastic than ever about becoming
bodyguards.

A few weeks later most of them had to face the awful reality when they received
written reports on their performance. Only a handful - Jenny, the German-born
secretary, little Helen, the ex-gymnast from Stockport, the South African, Bob,
and an ex-policeman called Clive, who now runs a pub, emerged with credit. Helen
was informed that she had promise but boyfriend Phil, the soldier, was desribed
as "immature and over-confident".

Sam, the security guard, had worked hard despite being overweight and unfit and
he had a good sense of humour. He was told that the complexities of close
protection were too much for him.

Does that mean these would-be Costners wasted their money? Brown thought not:
"For many, it will be the most important, interesting thing they have ever done.
They will have learnt a lot about themselves. You know, a lot of them write to
me and say just that."

He added that Jenny and Helen had applied to return to Shropshire to learn more
about guns on a pounds 300, two-day, advanced weapons course.


LOAD-DATE: October 8, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              168 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                            October 10, 1993, Sunday

Charles launches peace project

BYLINE: Andrew Chapman

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 654 words


PRINCE CHARLES yesterday helped launch an Anglo-Irish peace initiative nurtured
in the wake of Warrington.

Youngsters Johnathan Ball, three, and Tim Parry, 12, died in the IRA bomb
carnage in Bridge Street seven months ago which left 50 injured.

The Prince joined Eire President Mary Robinson and Northern Ireland Secretary
Sir Patrick Mayhew to launch the £400,000 Warrington Project - funded largely by
charities, business, and the Irish and UK governments.

At Warrington Town Hall Prince Charles was introduced to Tim's parents, Wendy
and Colin Parry, Bronwen Vickers, 33, who lost her left leg in the blast,
Johnathan's father Wilf and his uncle John Donlan, who is co-ordinating the
£400,000 project.

Colin Parry said: 'I intend to keep talking about peace. And I intend to make
sure Tim's life counted for something.

'We all spend too much time looking backwards and doing a roll call and body
count. We really have to build from communities upwards.'

He said later he was impressed by the SDLP's John Hume, who has been in
discussion with Sinn Fein leader Gerry Adams.

He said: 'I admire John Hume as a serious politician who is examining how to
bring about peace. But it is difficult for me to comment on Gerry Adams, as you
would expect.'

Sir Patrick Mayhew repeated the Government's refusal to talk with Sinn Fein
until the IRA renounced violence.

And Mary Robinson said: 'Out of the scars of Warrington the Warrington Project
has been born and that is its great strength and great hope.' This weekend
members will discuss a number of schemes including pupil exchange visits between
Britain and Ireland and cultural and sporting events.

John Donlan said: 'This is the first project that plans to enhance community
relations on the British mainland, Ulster and the Republic of Ireland
simultaneously.'

Emotions will run high this afternoon when a plaque in honour of Johnathan Ball
and Tim Parry will be unveiled in Bridge Street. For Wendy Parry it will be the
first time she has been to the scene since her son's death.(

Five quizzed: See Page 20(

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: INITIATIVE: Mary Robinson and Prince Charles

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1993 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              169 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 11, 1993

MAYHEW WARNS OF TALKS 'OBSTACLE';
Hume-Adams plan 'must not block wider negotiations'

BYLINE: MAGGIE O'KANE IN BELFAST

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 590 words


TALKS between the Social Democratic Labour Party and Sinn Fein should be
abandoned if they become an obstacle to all-party cross-border negotiations, Sir
Patrick Mayhew, the Northern Ireland Secretary, said yesterday.

John Hume, the SDLP leader, immediately rejected the suggestion, saying the
Unionists were using his peace talks with Sinn Fein leader Gerry Adams as an
excuse to stall the wider talks process.

In an interview on Irish Radio, Sir Patrick said the all-party peace talks
halted almost a year ago were not dead, and they represented the best hope for
political progress which most sensible people wanted.

Commenting on Unionist warnings that the Hume-Adams meetings could block
resumption of the broader talks process, Sir Patrick said: "If the Hume-Adams
talks are seen as an obstacle, then . . . it would be better if they did not
continue. Let's concentrate on the real process that offers a way forward."

Mr Hume, who returned to Derry yesterday after presenting the still secret
details of SDLP-Sinn Fein peace proposal to Albert Reynolds, the Republic's
prime minister, said: "The Unionists stopped the last set of talks because the
Anglo-Irish conference was meeting after six months' suspension. The next excuse
was that the Irish government had to change the constitution. Now, another
excuse is the talks with Mr Adams. I'll let the public judge for themselves."

Mr Adams said his talks with the SDLP were the "only real hope for a genuine
peace process".

He added: "Mr Hume and I are trying to find the beginning of the end of the
conflict. Mr Mayhew and Mr Major want to see an end to that effort. Our
initiative cannot succeed if they refuse to be positive."

In Dublin, the government has given an apparent seal of approval to the
Hume-Adams exchanges. Details will be discussed at a cabinet meeting tomorrow.

According to a MORI poll in the Republic, more than 70 per cent of those
questioned supported the Hume-Adams initiative.

However, in the North, Unionist politicians accused Mr Hume of arrogance and of
trying to negotiate the future of Northern Ireland over the heads of the
loyalists.

A spokesman for the Ulster Freedom Fighters, which last week said its members
had killed a Catholic hotel worker in protest at the initiative, said it would
step up its killing campaign unless the talks were ended.

Nelson Mandela, the leader of the African National Congress, yesterday said he
endorsed the Hume-Adams dialogue.

Mr Mandela flew to Dublin yesterday for talks with Irish ministers. Afterwards
he told Mr Reynolds that he would give any help he could to achieve peace in
Northern Ireland, saying he recognised the Irish position after the struggle he
had come through in South Africa.

- A memorial to the two boys who died in the IRA bomb attack in Warrington was
yesterday unveiled by their mothers, Wendy Parry and Marie Ball.

Two hundred people at the ceremony heard Colin Parry, father of 12-year-old Tim,
repeat his call for friendship and understanding between Britain and Ireland.

Irish senator Gordon Wilson, whose daughter Marie was killed in the Enniskillen
Remembrance Day bombing, attended the ceremony after taking part in a seminar to
launch the Warrington Project to forge links between Britain, Northern Ireland
and the Republic, which was opened on Saturday by Irish president Mary Robinson.

Tim Parry and three-year-old Johnathan Ball died after a bomb exploded in a
litter bin in a shopping precinct in March.


LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              170 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                        Local Government Chronicle (LGC)

                            October 11, 1993 Monday

25 YEAR PROGRAMME TO END TERRORISM LAUNCHED IN WARRINGTON

SECTION: ARTICLE; Archive; News

LENGTH: 120  words



HIGHLIGHT: Political leaders, bereaved families and the Prince of Wales joined
together in Warrington this weekend to launch a...


Political leaders, bereaved families and the Prince of Wales joined together in
Warrington this weekend to launch a 25-year programme aimed at ending terrorism
in Britain and Northern Ireland, the Sunday Times reports (10 October
p9).Warrington was twice a target of IRA bombs this year.  On the second
occasion two young boy were killed.Mary Robinson, the Irish president, spoke of
her sorrow that the Warrington bombs had not marked an end to the violence.  The
paper notes that among those listening was Northern Ireland secretary Sir
Patrick Mayhew.The aim of the Warrington Project is to work with children in
England and both sides of the Irish border to try and break down prejudices and
foster a new understanding.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: Local Government Chronical


                            Copyright 1993 Emap Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              171 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 12, 1993

RUSHDIE DENOUNCES SHOOTING

BYLINE: GREG MCIVOR IN STOCKHOLM AND IAN BLACK IN LONDON

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 423 words


THE author Salman Rushdie said last night he was appalled by the attack on the
Norwegian publisher of his novel, The Satanic Verses, and called for world
condemnation of the "gangster terrorist" state of Iran.

The shooting in Oslo, meanwhile, coincided with a furious row between Britain
and Germany over German links with Iran's secret services.

William Nygaard, of the publishers Aschehoug, was shot several times in the back
as he got into his car. He was rushed to hospital, where doctors operated to
remove two bullets. His condition was described as serious but not
life-threatening.

Oslo's police chief, Truls Fyhn, said: "We do not know of any motive but we are
acquainted with all the circumstances around the book, The Satanic Verses. We
are keeping all options open."

Mr Rushdie appeared convinced that the shooting was linked to the Iranian fatwa,
or death order, against him and anyone translating or publishing The Satanic
Verses.

"Surely, this time, at last, the world community will prevent Iran from behaving
like this. This time at last, let the gangster terrorist state be treated like
the gangster terrorist state that it is," he said.

The attack came as British officials reacted angrily to reports of meetings last
week between Iran's minister for intelligence and security and the political and
operational chiefs of Germany's secret services.

"This is quite startling when you have an EC national under death threat," said
one. "The latest incident in Norway is a reminder that with the Iranians you are
dealing with life and death issues."

The Iranian minister, Ali Fallahian, held two days of talks in Bonn with Bernd
Schmidbauer, minister responsible for secret service co-ordination, and the
heads of the domestic and foreign intelligence services. He said afterwards that
the security agencies of the two countries had been co-operating for the past
two years and were seeking closer co-operation against terrorism and the drug
trade.

The talks came three weeks before a Berlin court begins hearing the case of an
Iranian agent and four Lebanese men accused of the September 1992 killing of an
Iranian Kurdish leader and three colleagues.

Twenty-one Iranian dissidents have been assassinated in western Europe since
President Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani was elected in 1989.

The Japanese translator of The Satanic Verses was stabbed to death in Tokyo in
1991, one week after the translator of the Italian version was injured in a
knife attack in Milan.


LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              172 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 13, 1993

TOP UNIONISTS BALK AT ORANGE OLIVE BRANCH

BYLINE: MAGGIE O'KANE IN BELFAST

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 431 words


UNIONIST politicians reacted angrily yesterday to the suggestion by the Rev
Martin Smyth, Ulster Unionist MP for South Belfast, that there could be a place
at the negotiating table for Sinn Fein if the party rejects IRA violence.

The Orange Order leader's comments have provoked fury from the hardline
Democratic Unionist Party and may mark the most significant split since the
parties got together to oppose the Anglo-Irish agreement.

The DUP's deputy leader, Peter Robinson, called Mr Smyth's comments "monumental
folly" while Unionist party offices reported angry calls from supporters.

Mr Robinson said: "Gone are the days when the Rev Smyth's Ulster Unionist Party
sought to have Sinn Fein proscribed. Now they eagerly await the day they can
parley with the Provos. No wonder they are being applauded by the SDLP and the
IRA." The Rev Robert McCrea, DUP MP for Mid Ulster, said: "Any Unionist who sits
down with Sinn Fein will have betrayed the blood of Ulster's innocent."

Mr Smyth denied he had given credibility to Sinn Fein. "We are prepared to
discuss realistically every issue but they must recognise that when it comes to
the ballot box, the people of Northern Ireland will want to remain in the UK."

The Irish prime minister, Albert Reynolds, said he welcomed Mr Smyth's comments
as "a positive and constructive contribution". In Dublin, the cabinet, which has
endorsed the talks between the SDLP and Sinn Fein, decided it wants more time to
consider details before talking to Britain.

The row over Mr Smyth's comments came to a head as sectarian violence claimed
more victims in Belfast yesterday.

Last night the outlawed Ulster Volunteer Force shot a man four or five times
when he opened his door to a caller. Police said he was seriously ill.

The UVF also claimed responsibility for an attack on a van yesterday which
killed one Catholic worker and injured three others, one seriously.

Protestant paramilitaries have pledged to kill Catholics as long as the SDLP
leader, John Hume, and Sinn Fein's president, Gerry Adams, continue to discuss a
secret peace deal.

The van driver said the attacker was about 18 years old. He was wearing a
baseball cap and had a scarf wrapped around his face.

The van driver was injured in the leg but his uncle, Patsy Reynolds, aged 40,
was killed. Others in the van were injured in the hail of bullets as the van
driver sped away.

The Northern Ireland Secretary, Sir Patrick Mayhew, said he was "horrified" at
the attacks. Politicians on all sides also condemned the shootings.


LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              173 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          October 13, 1993, Wednesday

Media: Northern Ireland: a story stifled; David Miller argues that the
five-year-old broadcasting ban has failed to halt terrorist bombings and
killings. Instead it has succeeded in hampering Sinn Fein, a legal politcal
party

BYLINE: DAVID MILLER

SECTION: MEDIA PAGE; Page 25

LENGTH: 1664 words


It is five years since the broadcasting of direct interviews with 11 Irish
organisations was banned - one of a number of measures taken after a series of
IRA attacks.

According to Douglas Hurd, then Home Secretary, the notice was introduced, on 19
October 1988, because ''the terrorists themselves draw support and sustenance
from access to radio and television . . . The Government has decided that the
time has come to deny this easy platform to those who use it to propagate
terrorism''.

The use of violence by the IRA, however, does not seem to have been affected by
broadcasting censorship: the bombings and killings continue. And it is hard to
see how terrorists managed to draw support and sustenance from access to
television before the ban was introduced, since active members of the IRA or the
Irish National Liberation Army (Inla) had not appeared on British television
since 1979, nine years before the ban. Interviews with members of the IRA and
the Inla, which were in any case rare, stopped immediately the organisations
were pronounced illegal in 1974.

In fact, the ban is not aimed at the activities of the IRA (or any of the other
illegal groups named in the notice), but specifically at the ability of Sinn
Fein, a legal political party, to operate in a normal democratic manner. The
notice forbids the broadcast of words that ''support or solicit or invite
support'' for one of the listed organisations, or any words by ''a person who
represents or purports to represent'' one of the organisations.

This covers any statement by any person who supports the use of political
violence by any paramilitary organisation, and as such might be regarded as
corresponding to the Government's stated aims in combating terrorism. But it was
already illegal under the Emergency Provisions Act to utter support for an
illegal paramilitary organisation.

On top of this, broadcasters are bound under statutory and charter duties not to
broadcast material that could encourage crime, and Sinn Fein candidates are
required to sign a declaration renouncing violence before they can stand for
election.

The single sense in which the ban goes further than existing law is that it
specifically prohibits statements, which may have nothing to do with terrorism,
in support of or by representatives of legal organisations. Thus a statement
supporting Sinn Fein policy on women's rights or post offices is prohibited. The
impact of the notice has been quite marked. In the 12 months from October 1988,
Sinn Fein appearances on British television news declined by 63 per cent; and in
the four years since then, such interviews seem to have become even scarcer.

This is a product of the notice's vague and confusing wording and of a
broadcasting establishment under siege by the Government. Thus, the easiest
time-saver in a busy newsroom is simply to leave Sinn Fein out. And a ripple
effect has resulted in the exclusion of other critical voices on Northern
Ireland issues, even where they do not express support for terrorism or Sinn
Fein. The best-known example is the banning of the Pogues' song ''Streets of
Sorrow/Birmingham Six'' for containing a ''general disagreement with the way in
which the British government responds to, and the courts deal with, the
terrorist threat in the UK''.

Perhaps the most serious extension of the ban occurred in an edition of the BBC
programme Nation, which featured a discussion on justifications for political
violence. The programme featured the activist and former MP Bernadette Devlin
McAliskey, but almost her entire contribution was subtitled.

Rejection of her request for a judicial review of the BBC's decision was
overturned by the Court of Appeal in July, and the case will now go to a full
hearing. Mrs McAliskey is opposing the ban at the European Court of Human
Rights, and two other attempts to challenge it - by the Sinn Fein councillor
Mitchel McLaughlin and the National Union of Journalists - are pending.

The ban is only a small part of the repertoire of government information
management techniques. Before the ban, successive governments had been
increasing the pressure on the broadcasting institutions not to give all sides
of the Northern Ireland story.

Allied with this is the routine use of misinformation by official bodies, such
as the Royal Ulster Constabulary and the Army, and attempts by the Northern
Ireland Office to pretend that things are getting ''back to normal''.

So, even if the broadcasting ban is lifted, the British public will still not be
given enough information to make sense of the conflict in Northern Ireland.

- The author is a member of the Glasgow University Media Group.

TONY HALL

Managing director of BBC News and Current Affairs

THE TALKS between the SDLP's John Hume and Sinn Fein's Gerry Adams have
highlighted the need for the Government to re-examine the necessity for
legislation that undermines the ability of British broadcasters to tell the full
story. The ban is damaging to broadcast journalism and to Britain's reputation
as an upholder of free speech.

Before the ban, broadcasters could carry testing interviews with Sinn Fein
representatives after IRA atrocities. Now these representatives often avoid
interviews, claiming that their voice will not be heard.

The inconsistency of the notice regularly surfaces. During an edition of Inside
Ulster last summer, one member of Sinn Fein was voiced over by an actor because
of a story's political theme, while in another instance a member of the party
was heard in his own voice because he was the witness to an attack and was thus
speaking in a personal capacity.

The BBC has always been careful about interviewing members of Sinn Fein and
other listed organisations. When we conducted interviews before the notice, with
due sensitivity to audience feeling, complaint was rare.

- This is a condensed version of Tony Hall's article in the current issue of
'Index on Censorship'.

TOM HARTLEY

Chairperson of Sinn Fein

POLITICAL censorship aims to ''manage'' the public and political debate about
the conflict in Ireland. The people, censorship implies, are too immature, too
unintelligent, too nave to deal with all of the arguments posed by the various
sides to the conflict.

The censors, however, cannot evade the reality. They can mould perceptions. They
can conceal the facts and effects of their participation in this conflict. They
cannot hide the existence of the conflict.

Two leaders of nationalist opinion in the six counties, Gerry Adams and John
Hume, have recently addressed, with some success, the issue of how to create the
conditions that will bring a just and lasting peace. Freedom of expression,
freedom of information and inclusive dialogue are vital ingredients in the
search for that peace. Censorship is a barrier. It is widely acknowledged that
censorship of Sinn Fein prevents public opinion being properly informed.

Broadcasters often tell us that they must be careful they do not become part of
the propaganda war. They are right, but their caution must be exercised on all
sides. They should never allow themselves to become an instrument of state
propaganda against dissidents.

I appeal to them to recognise the importance of their role and the need to
oppose censorship.

ANN CLWYD

Labour spokesperson on National Heritage

FIVE years on, the broadcasting ban remains a nasty little law, flirting with
censorship. It was draconian in drafting, and has proved to be ineffectual in
execution.

The way a democratic society deals with threats of terrorism goes to the heart
of its constitution. Tolerance of the intolerable is the hallmark of a
democracy. The Government, however, by ordering a blackout, blurred the
distinction between debating the issues and inciting anti-social activity. It is
the criminal law that ought to be brought to bear on terrorism, not some
off-the-shelf administrative device.

It took the Roman Curia 400 years to exonerate Galileo. And though I would
hesitate before confusing Gerry Adams with the great astronomer, each has
articulated the unspeakable for their times.

Being right is not the key. Being allowed to be obnoxiously wrong is. The
constitutional concept of free expression means something in continental Europe,
and it means something in the United States. It should mean something here. A
written constitution and a Bill of Rights would not make deciding every case
easy. But they would allow each generation to learn the things of value to a
democratic way of life. They would set the limits for what is unconstitutional.
The ban is outside that limit and should be lifted.

PETER BROOKE

Secretary of State for National Heritage and former Secretary of State for
Northern Ireland

THE GOVERNMENT currently has no plans to withdraw the broadcasting restrictions,
because there has been no change in the circumstances which led to their
introduction. Northern Ireland terrorist organisations continue to commit acts
of violence and their apologists still seek to justify the use of murder as a
legitimate ''political'' tool.

In a democratic society, there is a difference between the use of television and
radio to pursue legitimate political aspirations and their use to advocate
murder and violence, which causes further distress to the victims of that
violence and their families.

The broadcasting restrictions do not amount to censorship. Television and radio
journalists share the same rights as their newspaper colleagues to report fully
the actions, words and thoughts of the terrorist organisations and their
supporters.

In my experience, there is substantial public support for the principle that
terrorists and their apologists should not enjoy the same unfettered access to
the broadcast media as those who are committed to, and respect, the standards
and restraints of peaceful democracy.

(Photographs omitted)


LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1993 Independent Print Ltd

                              174 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           October 14, 1993, Thursday

Recall scheme means 250 'lifers' freed

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 5

LENGTH: 316 words


OVER the past 10 years successive Northern Ireland ministers have administered a
unique penal experiment which would be unimaginable under a Home Secretary such
as Michael Howard.

In the past decade 250 ''lifers'' sentenced for terrorist murders have been
released, together with a further 70 non-terrorists.

Under the terms of their release they can be arrested and recalled to prison
without notice and without judicial proceedings.

This threat of instant recall acts as a powerful deterrent, and the authorities
are satisfied that none of those freed have become re-involved in terrorist
activity.

The 250 are roughly half republicans and half loyalists. There are 300 lifers
still inside. The release scheme, which is markedly more liberal than policies
operating in Britain or the Irish Republic, means many lifers have been set free
after serving 11 or 12 years.

A number of criteria are considered, including the nature of the original
offence and the prisoner's behaviour in jail. The crucial calculation, however,
is whether they are likely to re-offend.

There have recently been complaints that a change in the approach of the
authorities means ministers are insisting on longer terms for killing soldiers.
In practice this would mean republicans serving longer terms than loyalists.

Welfare workers say most of the released lifers have difficulties in
re-adjusting to the outside world, but say a majority of them become involved in
community work. Many of them are now active in youth work, for example in
working with joyriders.

One worker said: ''They're not like fixed-term prisoners, a lot of whom just go
back to violence. Some of them develop businesses, some get involved in useful
community work, some - both Protestants and Catholics - get into Christian work.
All the evidence is that released lifers are spending their time atoning.''


LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1993 Independent Print Ltd

                              175 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 15, 1993

EX-MINISTER RAILS AT ARMY'S ROLES

BYLINE: DAVID FAIRHALL, DEFENCE CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 449 words


BRITAIN is squandering its military resources on United Nations peacekeeping
operations that do not necessarily reflect our national interests and risk
distorting our basic defence capability, the former armed forces minister
claimed yesterday.

Archie Hamilton, who until April was responsible for the army's humanitarian
relief effort in Bosnia, said even this was of doubtful value.

The largest stocks of UN supplies were held at headquarters of the warring
factions, he told the Royal United Services Institute in London. In reality, we
were feeding a civil war that might otherwise have come to an earlier end, he
said.

In an outburst suggesting deep frustration with the way policy developed during
his time at the Ministry of Defence, Mr Hamilton also questioned the army's
heavy commitment in Northern Ireland.

There was no correlation between the number of terrorist incidents and the
number of troops deployed there, he insisted. The army was bound to respond to
an escalation of violence, but should then slowly be withdrawn again, he said.

Otherwise, he argued, it was increasingly difficult to contribute to UN
operations that were in the national interest - and he quoted as examples the
Gulf war and possible security guarantees for Macedonia.

Mr Hamilton, Tory MP for Epsom and Ewell, had booked his lecture date when still
a defence minister, and would then have been expected to follow the official
policy line. Now though, he leapt at the chance to expound his personal views.

Setting his non-intervention thesis in the context of the public expenditure
cuts, which he said would hit the defence budget hard, he congratulated the
Government on not being drawn further into the Bosnian morass, blaming media
coverage for fostering a belief that "something must be done".

Britain should only fight winnable wars, he told his largely military audience.
If the army was drawn in to civil wars through open-ended peacekeeping
commitments, it would absorb resources that should be devoted to the RAF or the
Royal Navy, while the ability to defend this country would be jeopardised.

Mr Hamilton's prescription for a well-balanced defence policy included a demand
that the sponsoring department - be it the Northern Ireland Office or Foreign
Office - should pay.

However, this point is difficult for him to sustain. The defence budget has not
carried the net additional costs of either the Gulf war or the Bosnian
operations. An account of these is passed to the Foreign Office, which does its
best to recover them either from the UN or, in the case of the Gulf, from
interested foreign governments.

Vitez base break-in, page 10


LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              176 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            October 17, 1993, Sunday

Scots radicals aim to drive out English

BYLINE: JOHN ARLIDGE, Scotland Correspondent

SECTION: BRITAIN PAGE; Page 10

LENGTH: 533 words


RADICAL nationalists launched a campaign of direct action yesterday to
''cleanse'' Scotland of ''English white settler exploitation''.

Scottish Watch, a Dumfries-based group, is using informants to draw up an
''ethnic map'' of Scotland ''to determine the extent of English imperialism''.

Activists plan to lobby Scottish economic and cultural organisations to replace
English employees with Scots. If the organisations fail to do so, they say, they
will take non-violent action against them.

Speaking after the inaugural conference of Scottish Watch in Perth, Iain
Sutherland, national treasurer, denied that the campaign was racist. ''We are
freedom fighters, just like any of the other liberation movements which have
fought English imperialism in the colonies over the years,'' he said.

Mr Sutherland, aged 38, a college lecturer and author of a book on ''tartan
terrorism'', said that Scottish Watch ''fills a gap in the political process''.

''None of the major parties will address the problem of English influence. They
are terrified it will lose them votes. But people are suffering because of the
English influx. The incomers are pricing natives out of the local housing and
jobs market and are taking senior posts in cultural organisations, which
threatens our heritage. We have got to reclaim it.''

Leaflets claim that more than half the inhabitants of Sanday in Orkney and the
Isle of Arran are English. ''There is a real danger that if we do not take
action now, we will find that in 20 or 50 years' time, Scots will be a minority
in their own land.''

Mr Sutherland and other members of the Scottish National Party, exasperated by
what they describe as its failure to consider ''the English question'' following
its poor performance in the last general election, resigned earlier this year to
form Scottish Watch. The group claims 137 members.

Grampian police are investigating possible links between ultra-nationalists and
letter- bomb attacks earlier this year in Aberdeen, Edinburgh, Dundee, and East
Anglia. Mr Sutherland said the Scottish Watch ''ethnic map'' would be published
next year when the fight against Englishness would ''begin in earnest''.

The number of English people living in Scotland is not known. But government
figures show that almost 800,000 English people moved to Scotland between 1976
and 1991. In the same period 1.2 million people - most of them Scots - left the
country.

The prospect of a concerted campaign against English residents north of the
border prompted condemnation across the political spectrum in Scotland
yesterday. Margaret Ewing, Scottish Nationalist MP for Moray, said: ''If these
people are members of the SNP, they should be expelled. They are doing the
general cause of Scottish nationalism no favours whatsoever.''

Bill Walker, Conservative MP for Tayside North, said: ''This is the kind of
ethnic cleansing that has produced the problems that we see in former
Yugoslavia. Narrow nationalism of that kind is the worst form of political
order. Wherever it exists, it ends in bloodshed.''

Brian Wilson, Labour MP for Cunninghame North, described Scottish Watch as
''unpleasant nonsense''.


LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1993 Independent Print Ltd

                              177 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 18, 1993

STUDENT MEDIA AWARDS: STUDENT HACKS;
The winners of the Guardian/NUS student media awards show the life and vibrancy
that still exists at universities and colleges.

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN EDUCATION PAGE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 559 words


ATTACKS on students, warnings of aids and HIV and the Government proposals to
reform union funding have filled pages and air-time in the student media over
the past year.

Student newspapers, magazines, radio and television are a mixed bag of the
awful, pretentious and good, but they reflect a life and vibrancy in Britain's
universities and colleges that their institutions' official staff newsletters
fail to match.

The student media are now taking up the cudgels about the possible effects of
Government funding changes on themselves - no grant or subsidy from the student
union, no sabbatical staff, and no subsidised equipment or office space.

Many survive on grants, ranging from the small to pounds 25,000, while others
with virtually no grant attract advertising income of up to pounds 40,000 a year
to help cover costs.

The Guardian's editor Peter Preston is concerned that the proposals may both
damage student life and represent bad news for the journalism of the future.

As he told the National Student magazine: "Student media is an absolutely
umbilical part of training for journalism in this country. They are the vital
first bit to tell you whether or not you wish to go on to all manner of postgrad
schemes, and in fact they save an awful lot of wasted time and money."

Some of the potential was demonstrated by entrants for this year's Guardian/NUS
student media awards which were presented last Saturday. The quality of its news
coverage, writing, photography and lay-out made London Student an easy winner in
the newspaper category.

One of its writers, Emily Barr, won the individual student journalist award, for
her mature, warm and intelligent handling of difficult issues. This was
displayed in articles on individuals who witnessed an IRA bomb in the City; on
students who "sell" their bodies; and on the difficulties facing students with
children.

Judges were disappointed by the arts coverage in this year's comp-etition,
although Matthew Hanson, again of London Student, was a rare exception. The
student photographer prize went to Thomas Best, again from London Student, whose
portraits had Eamon n McCabe, the Guardian's picture editor, and Sue Adler, of
the Observer, enthusing: "beautiful, interpretive, thoughtful, knockout".

The "practical, lively and informative" Shout, from Liverpool John Moores
University, won the magazine award, although there was warm praise for an issue
of Isis, the better-known Oxford publication, which Rosie Boycott, editor of
Esquire, termed a "sophisticated, world-class magazine" for the range and
breadth of its interviews and articles. She said entries for this category had
improved. "It is miraculous what people do for the money. It is so impressive."

Point Shirley, a literary magazine entered by students from York University, won
the special Impact award. Judges admired its contributors' nerve in producing a
serious, well-written and "highbrow" product. BBC presenters Jenni Murray and
James Naughtie reported improved standards in broadcasting entries, particularly
in radio, where the importance of technical care was being recognised.

Livewire 945, from UEA, emerged as the winner of the broadcast media award.

The student broadcaster of the year was Sue Cain, of Bloomsbury Television, at
University College, London.


LOAD-DATE: October 19, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              178 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          October 20, 1993, Wednesday

Man gets 25 years for IRA bomb plot; Judges tells court that terrorist plan to
detonate three-and-a-half-tons of explosive would have caused enormous damage.
Terry Kirby reports

BYLINE: TERRY KIRBY

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 2

LENGTH: 552 words


AN IRISH lorry driver with convictions for importuning and indecency was
yesterday sentenced to 25 years in prison for his part in an IRA plot to
detonate its biggest terrorist bomb in Britain.

Patrick Kelly, 41, was also convicted of the attempted murder of Constable
Raymond Hall, who was shot in the back by Kelly's accomplice after the police
officer stopped the IRA lorry bomb during a routine check in November last year.

The Old Bailey jury was told that the three-and-a-half-ton bomb, packed in a
lorry being driven by Kelly, had more than twice the destructive power of the
bombs planted at St Mary Axe and Bishopsgate in the City of London and would
have caused massive destruction. Although the bomb's timers were ready to be set
for detonation, anti-terrorist branch officers were unable to establish its
intended target, or why it was being driven north through Stoke Newington in
north-east London during the middle of the night.

Sentencing Kelly, Mr Justice Leonard said the bomb ''would have caused enormous
damage and destruction to property - and more importantly would have killed or
seriously hurt anyone in the area''. As a driver, Kelly was not in command, but
his responsibility had been ''enormous''.

After the lorry was brought to a halt by PC Hall and a colleague, Kelly and his
accomplice were chased up a side road. There, the court was told, the accomplice
pointed a gun at the bridge of PC Hall's nose and fired, but the officer ducked
and the bullet grazed his scalp. As he fled, he was shot in the back. The bullet
missed his vital organs and he later recovered from his injuries. The accomplice
has not yet been caught.

After unsuccessfully trying to hijack a car, containing a young couple and a
baby, Kelly was arrested a short distance away. Analysis of fibres linked him to
a red sweater found abandoned nearby - which witnesses saw him wearing - and
also to the lorry cabin; a particle of firearms residue was found on his face.
The gun was discovered in a nearby garden.

Detectives could not establish firm links between Kelly and the Republican
movement. He came from a farming family in Ballybrittas, County Laoise, left
school at 13 and later worked as a lorry and crane driver, spending much of the
last 20 years in England. Said by police to be bisexual, he has convictions in
London in 1973 and 1989 for importuning and gross indecency. In 1987, he was
convicted in Dublin, with three other men, of kidnapping a horse dealer. He was
jailed for nine years, suspended for two.

It is understood Irish police had Kelly earmarked as a Republican activist. He
may have been approached to become involved in the IRA's mainland campaign after
returning home following the deaths of his parents in 1991.

Defence witnesses described him as ''a typical country boy''. The defence
claimed he had nothing to do with the lorry and had been in England on a trip to
buy ''computers, umbrellas and kettles'' for a business. He did not give
evidence.

PC Hall, 37, married with two children, has been a police officer since 1988; he
is a former Royal Engineer who served in the Falklands. He said yesterday: ''I
joined the police to serve the public and the public, in the form of the jury,
returned their support with the guilty verdict.''


LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1993 Independent Print Ltd

                              179 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           October 23, 1993, Saturday

Adams is cleared to meet MPs, says Benn; Sinn Fein leader's talks with SDLP
provoke confrontation in Commons. Colin Brown reports

BYLINE: COLIN BROWN

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 2

LENGTH: 459 words


THE SPEAKER of the Commons has said there are ''no obstacles'' to Gerry Adams,
president of Sinn Fein, meeting MPs at the Houses of Parliament to pursue plans
for peace and an IRA ceasefire, Tony Benn told the Commons yesterday.

In the first full-scale Commons debate since the disclosure of the secret talks
between Mr Adams and John Hume, the SDLP leader, over a constitutional
settlement for Ulster with a cessation of terrorist violence, Mr Benn urged Sir
Patrick Mayhew, the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland, not to oppose the
visit.

But the killing of a Protestant building contractor by the IRA highlighted the
stumbling blocks. Ulster Unionist MPs accused the Sinn Fein leader of being ''a
terrorist stained by the blood of innocent people''.

Defending his talks with Mr Adams, Mr Hume told Sir Patrick: ''I am saying hurry
up and deal with it because I believe that an opportunity is there . . .''

Albert Reynolds, the Irish Prime Minister, will raise the Hume-Adams initiative
with John Major at the EC summit in Brussels next Friday. However, Sir Patrick
made it clear that the Government would not talk to Sinn Fein until the end of
violence had been established.

He said the inter-party talks, excluding Sinn Fein, were still ''alive''. ''A
lot of people have been quick to write this process off. I don't agree with them
. . .''

Mr Hume said the dialogue with Mr Adams was the ''most hopeful in 20 years''. He
accused the Ulster Unionists of being fixed in a ''mind-set''. ''I make no
apologies to anyone for entering into a dialogue with Mr Adams for the objective
of bringing a total cessation of all violence . . . I hope this happens as soon
as possible. I want to see the two governments meeting next week.''

He was told it was no good coming to the Commons to speak in ''platitudes and
cliches'' by Ken Maginnis, the Ulster Unionist MP for Fermanagh and South
Tyrone. Ian Paisley, the Democratic Unionist MP for Antrim North, said the
purpose of the Hume-Adams talks was ''not peace - it is surrender'' by the
Unionists.

Kevin McNamara, the Labour spokesman, confirmed he was against Ireland
unilaterally abandoning articles two and three of the Irish constitution, laying
claim to Ulster. But he said the sovereignty claims by Britain and the Republic
over Northern Ireland should be put on the negotiating table.

Sinn Fein dealt the Social Democratic and Labour Party an embarrassing blow
yesterday when it held a local council seat in a Londonderry by-election.

The SDLP had been confident of taking the seat but its candidate was more than
550 votes behind the Sinn Fein winner. Sinn Fein said that the result was an
endorsement of the Hume-Adams talks.

(Photograph omitted)


LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1993 Independent Print Ltd

                              180 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Standard (London)

                            October 25, 1993, Monday

MAJOR IN FURY OVER SINN FEIN;
PREMIER ACCUSES GERRY ADAMS OF BLACKMAIL

BYLINE: Peter Oborne

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 814 words


AN ANGRY John Major this afternoon accused Sinn Fein leader Gerry Adams of
blackmail in setting out conditions for an end to the IRA violence.

Mr Major said: 'I'm not going to do deals with people who plant bombs and kill
innocent people.'

His attack came in a response to a proposal from Mr Adams that he could secure
an end to the bombing if Britain agreed to talks.

Speaking at a Press conference at the Commonwealth conference in Cyprus, Mr
Major said: 'There's only one message I want to hear from the men of violence. I
want to hear from them that they're going to end the violence for good.

'If Mr Adams could end the violence he should end the violence now without any
pre-conditions, without any delay, and without any suggestion of a political
advantage and without any proposals which seem to me to be tantamount to
blackmail.'

Mr Major, speaking out after Saturday's bombing on the Shankill Road and
yesterday's bombs on mainland Britain, went on: 'If Mr Adams has any proposals
to end the violence let him get on and do it. If he doesn't, he should say
nothing about it.

Mr Major, who ruled out sending more troops to Northern Ireland, said that
people in Ulster 'who over the years have seen their friends, their relatives,
their families, murdered by IRA violence' would regard a cessation of violence
dependent on political dividends for Sinn Fein as 'outrageous'.

'And so do I,' he added.

The message was rammed home in a Commons statement from Ulster Secretary Sir
Patrick Mayhew.

He said that those who committed such terrible crimes 'and those who justify
them' could not and must not be bargained with.

Sir Patrick appealed to the community in Belfast and throughout Northern Ireland
to show self-control in the days ahead.

'Revenge merely multiplies the murder and the injustice,' he said.  'Reason, not
rage, must be our guide.'

Security forces in Northern Ireland are braced for a massive backlash by angry
and embittered loyalists after Saturday's atrocity in Belfast in which 10 people
were killed - two of them children - and 50 injured. Eleven of those injured
were still in hospital today.

The RUC named the bomber killed in the attack as 22-year-old Thomas Begley. His
companion remains critically ill in Musgrave Park Hospital.

This afternoon about 6,000 workers from the Belfast shipyard and Shorts aircraft
factories marched in silence through the city for a prayer service at the scene
of the massacre.

As the march got under way it was revealed that a Catholic delivery man, Martin
Moran, 22, who was shot on Saturday evening died today.

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1993 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              181 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 25, 1993

SHAKEN ON THE HIGH-WIRE;
London and Dublin hope passions will quickly subside in the aftermath of the
Belfast bomb blast. But where does the atrocity leave the fragile axis between
SDLP leader John Hume and Sinn Fein's Gerry Adams?

BYLINE: FRANK MILLAR

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGE; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1096 words


AFTER all the talk of peace, Ulster's death squads prepare for war. John Major
says everything must be done to prevent a tit-for-tat response to Saturday's IRA
bomb attack in the heart of the Shankill. But calls for restraint are an
established part of now-ritual condemnation: like so many before it, the Prime
Minister's will go unheeded.

Saturday's atrocity, leaving 10 dead and some 57 injured, brought a swift and
chilling response from the outlawed Ulster Freedom Fighters. The nationalist
community, they warned, would pay "a heavy, heavy price". No powers of prophecy
are required to foresee the grim tale already scripted for the weeks ahead.

The Irish foreign minister, Dick Spring, moved quickly yesterday to cancel
Wednesday's scheduled meeting of the Anglo-Irish Intergovernmental Conference in
Belfast. If his intended "mark of respect" is lost on the injured and bereaved,
Spring knows his presence would have been highly offensive to loyalists burying
their most recent dead. The hope in London and Dublin will be that passions soon
subside. British and Irish governments have been here many times before. While
they need to show themselves sensitive to the public mood, quiet reflection and
assessment will be the order of the day when Major meets the Taoiseach, Albert
Reynolds, on the margins of the European Council at the end of this week.

Media hype will be accompanied by determined official attempts to play down
expectations of this encounter. Indeed the terms of the draft communique readily
suggest themselves. Both leaders will restate their trenchant condemnation of
violence and their refusal to negotiate with those who seek political advantage
by way of the bullet and the bomb. They will review the "progress made" in the
British government's bilateral discussions with the Northern Ireland parties, as
in the ongoing negotiations between the two governments in strand three of the
Mayhew talks process. And they will declare themselves confident that the
objective of that process - a more broadly-based alternative to the Anglo-Irish
agreement - remains viable and achievable.

It seems a safe bet that Major and Reynolds will shed little light on the
alternative talks process - involving the SDLP leader John Hume and the Sinn
Fein president Gerry Adams - which has cast relations between the Northern
Ireland parties, between Northern nationalists and the Irish government, and
between Dublin and London, into turmoil.

The expectation had been - and doubtless will persist - that Reynolds would use
this week's meeting to advise Major of the contents of the Hume-Adams "peace"
plan. In the Commons last week, the Prime Minister told the Rev Ian Paisley he
knew "nothing of the details" of the agreement, and that Reynolds's apparent
intention to discuss the issue had not been cleared with him.

Few in Dublin or at Westminster believe the British government can be unaware of
the essence of the "peace process" divined by the Sinn Fein and SDLP leaders.
Behind the scenes there is intense speculation that the proposals would have
been communicated to London at the highest official level. But some sources
suggest the possible use of an intermediary, with inbuilt "deniability" which
might explain ministerial comment to date.

To compound the confusion, some Irish government sources say they are unlikely
to present any plan which London seems bound to reject. And they say it is more
unlikely still that a sovereign Irish government will be happy to have itself
reduced to the role of messenger for Adams (or for that matter Hume). Upon being
briefed by the SDLP leader, Dublin set out to calm the excitement. While
commentators saw analogies with South Africa and the Middle East, Spring
significantly welcomed the Hume-Adams development as another contribution to
"the jigsaw". It seems clear that if he is to have his way the Irish government
will complete the picture - and that any plan put to London will bear its
imprimatur.

Which is grand at least in theory. In reality, the Irish government is in a
bind. Dublin ministers simply cannot turn their backs on the combined voice of
Northern Ireland's nationalist-republican community. And whatever the problems
of protocol and precedence, packaging or presentation - not to mention the small
question of Unionist and British acceptance - if the Hume-Adams axis holds, the
assumption is that Dublin will be obliged to sign on the dotted line.

In the aftermath of Saturday's attack, Hume has offered a resolute defence of
his "peace" project. The immediate and cynical response will be that he had
little choice. He had. Already under massive attack, the SDLP leader could have
used the murders as a pretext to call off his dialogue with Adams. In choosing
not to do so, Hume may have calculated that public outrage will have
strengthened his hand with Adams, and that of Adams in dealing with the men who
prime the bombs and pull the triggers. But it is a high risk strategy,
underlined by the personal warning to Hume contained in the UFF statement.

The IRA's insistence that this was an attack directed at the headquarters of the
UDA which went "tragically wrong" may afford both men some temporary respite.
But neither can discount the very real possibility that this was a warning shot
across the bows of the Sinn Fein president. The actual state of opinion within
the Republican camp will surely be quickly evidenced when Hume insists on a
cessation of violence, as the price of continued dialogue with Adams. The
party's deputy leader, Seamus Mallon, had previously warned that patience with
the process was "finite" and could not be sustained against a backdrop of
continued bombings and killings.

As they struggle to repair their credibility in the eyes of their own
supporters, Hume and Adams must know they have none among the Unionists to whom
they offer accommodation in "a new Ireland". Even if they get their "peace"
train back on track, they know the Unionists won't be climbing aboard. Indeed
the Hume-Adams strategem allows for rejection by Major's "Conservative and
Unionist" government. Hume is planning for the long term. In the short, Ulster
Unionists will press home their perceived advantage with Major, seeking to
reverse the central thrust of Britain's Northern Ireland policy, and to make
manifest Major's commitment to stand "four-square" behind the Union. It is not
yet clear how Dublin will hope to manage the consequential Anglo-Irish vacuum.

Frank Millar is London editor of the Irish Times.


LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              182 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            October 25, 1993, Monday

The Shankill Road Bomb: Major condemns IRA apology

BYLINE: ANNIKA SAVILL in Episkopali, Cyprus

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 3

LENGTH: 321 words


JOHN MAJOR yesterday condemned the IRA bombing in Belfast as ''cold-blooded and
premeditated'' and indicated Britain would not now be prepared to consider a
peace plan due to be discussed this week.

Visiting the Royal Irish Regiment at the Episkopali Sovereign Base Area in
Cyprus, the Prime Minister said: ''This is cold-blooded, premeditated attempted
murder. Alas, it was successful. It is no good apologising for it later. It is
inexcusable.''

Asked if he was prepared to consider the peace plan proposed by John Hume and
Gerry Adams, he replied: ''The message I want to hear from the IRA is that
they've given up violence for good. And I haven't heard it.''

A senior British official said the IRA's timing ''was obviously deliberate'',
coming five days before Albert Reynolds, the Irish prime minister, was due to
discuss the plan with Mr Major on the sidelines of a European Community summit
in Brussels.

Indicating that Britain was not enthusiastic at the prospect of the discussion,
he pointed out that ''there is no formal arrangement for a meeting anyway. It's
just that they both happen to be going to Brussels. The attack must mean the
message coming out of Northern Ireland is war, not peace.''

The timing was also striking in that it happened on the eve of Mr Major's first
visit to the Royal Irish Regiment in Cyprus, an island as divided as Ireland.
''One half of the soldiers here are from Ulster,'' Mr Major said. ''It must be
very poignant for them. Expressions of regret don't cut ice with anyone.''

Sergeant Major Robert Mallon, of Belfast, the soldier selected to perform Irish
ballads at the annual army fundraiser fete, which Mr Major attended, had a mask
of Ian Paisley attached to his microphone. ''He is my hero,'' he said. ''I live
in the Shankill Road, just round the corner from where the bomb went off, and I
knew the woman who ran the shop below who was killed.''


LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1993 Independent Print Ltd

                              183 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            October 25, 1993, Monday

The Shankill Road Bomb: Peace process another victim of the massacre; Fragile
hopes of progress from the Hume-Adams initiative have barely survived. David
McKittrick reports

BYLINE: DAVID McKITTRICK

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 3

LENGTH: 770 words


IN ADDITION to the appalling carnage, Saturday's bombing has dealt a severe blow
to the Hume-Adams talks process which seemed to many to offer a slender hope of
eventual peace.

It is too early to pronounce the initiative dead, but a most delicate and
hazardous operation has been made doubly difficult. Even if the British
government was keen to become involved in the process - which is by no means
certain - the killings have made it almost impossible for London to make any
positive response at this stage.

Many were already sceptical that the Sinn Fein president, Gerry Adams, had the
potential to be a peacemaker. Others doubted his ability to persuade his party's
military wing to lay down its arms in exchange for less than total victory.
These doubts will now be reinforced.

The immediate context of the attack lies in the IRA's increasing appetite for
strikes at loyalist paramilitary groups, which have themselves significantly
stepped up their violence in the last two years. The IRA in the Ardoyne district
of north Belfast, where at least two of the bombers came from, has historically
been noted for its readiness to kill Protestants.

Recent months have seen a series of abortive IRA attacks on UDA activists in the
Shankill and elsewhere, and Saturday's incident may have been triggered by local
republicans' frustration at their lack of success.

The attack may not have been a deliberate effort to scupper Mr Adams's political
manoeuvrings, but it certainly bears the hallmarks of showing indifference to
his efforts. Even if it had been a success in IRA terms, wiping out half a dozen
extreme loyalists without causing civilian casualties, the result would have
been a security crisis which would have damaged the Hume-Adams process.

No government, British or Irish, would wish to become publicly involved with the
IRA or its political wing in the immediate wake of such an outrage. At the same
time, no government would wish, in the heat of the moment, to close off an
avenue which might offer even a remote chance of peace.

The chances are, therefore, that the instinct of both London and Dublin will be
to refrain from pronouncing the Hume-Adams process stone dead, and to leave the
door open. In the meantime, Mr Adams's calls for an early positive response from
Britain look unrealistic.

At the same time, comments yesterday from Dick Spring, the Irish minister for
foreign affairs, have led to speculation of an increasing distance between
Dublin and Mr Hume. The SDLP leader has been publicly pressing for a quick
response to his plan from both governments, but the postponement of this week's
scheduled Anglo-Irish conference makes this impossible.

It remains to be seen whether the process will survive this period of heat and
tension. In the longer term, the question also arises of the effect the Shankill
bombing will have on the IRA and Sinn Fein. First impressions are that the
incident will represent a serious blow to the republican movement, but not a
mortal one. There have been numerous incidents like this, and if the past is any
guide, support will not drain away within the ghettos and the rural strongholds,
which are the heart of the Provisionals. There it will be said that the
operation was a botched job, and that the fact that two IRA men were blown up
proves they were not intent on causing civilian casualties.

That will be enough to satisfy the faithful. They will point out, correctly,
that the Ardoyne area, where the two IRA members came from, has suffered
appallingly at the hands of Shankill Road gunmen over the last quarter of a
century.

The hardcore will remain untouched, but if the Enniskillen Remembrance Day
massacre is any guide, the IRA will pay a real price in the republic, Britain
and internationally. After Enniskillen, an IRA spokesman told the Independent:
''Our central base can take a hell of a lot of jolting and crises with limited
demoralisation. But the outer reaches are just totally devastated.'' That
assessment proved correct.

In the republic, especially, the level of toleration of republican activities
has steadily dropped. The fierce anti-IRA reaction after the deaths of children
in Warrington was a demonstration that people in the south are more and more
ashamed of northern republican violence and increasingly hostile to it.

The Shankill bombing seems destined to increase the isolation of the IRA and
Sinn Fein, who can look forward to ever-diminishing support and sympathy from
the outside world.But, friendless or not, the IRA has again demonstrated its
capacity to go on killing.


LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1993 Independent Print Ltd

                              184 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                            October 25, 1993, Monday

IRA BLITZ ON MAINLAND

BYLINE:  Grania Langdon-Down, Press Association Crime Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 946 words


This has been the most intense year of IRA activity in mainland Britain since
1974 when pubs and an Army coach were devastated.  Scotland Yard revealed in
July there had been 121 terrorist incidents on the mainland during financial
year 1992/1993 - 52 in London.
    Saturday, August, 28 - Small device discovered behind hoarding in Wormwood
Street, City of London, after telephone warning and made safe with controlled
explosion. Find came just 48 hours after City Police Commissioner Owen Kelly
warned Square Mile still at risk from hand-carried bombs despite security cordon
set up in July.  A man with an Irish accent telephoned a warning, police said.
    Friday, August 13 - Firebombs exploded in Bournemouth, Dorset, damaging
shops and threatening the pier. Security alert in Brighton, Sussex, following
coded warning of "explosive devices".
    Monday, July 5 - Police blocked off 18 roads into the City of London and set
up eight checkpoints in first of similar attempts to foil terrorist attacks.
    Thursday, June 10 - Esso oil refinery in Howdon, North Shields, hit by three
explosions, the second time it had been hit in six weeks.
    Wednesday, June 9 - bomb ripped hole in side of gas tank in Gateshead, Tyne
and Wear, forcing evacuation of 250 homes. No one injured.
    Wednesday, May 12 - Device bearing "all the hallmarks of the IRA" dealt with
by controlled explosion in Reject Shop, Oxford, according to Thames Valley
police.
    Sunday, May 9 - Incendiary devices ignited in Reject Shop and Waterstones
book store. No one injured, no one claimed responsibility.
    Saturday, April 24 - massive bomb packed into stolen tipper truck exploded
in Bishopsgate in City after eight coded telephone warnings, killing
photographer, injuring dozens and causing millions of pounds worth of damage.
Hours later, gunmen hijacked two minicabs and ordered drivers to take bombs to
Downing Street and New Scotland Yard. Both disobeyed and alerted police so no
one injured when devices exploded;
    Friday, April 23 - Device similar to one recovered after IRA bombing of
Warrington gas works exploded at Esso oil deput, Tyneside, North Shields,
blowing hole in side of storage tank. 600 gallons crude oil poured out but
failed to ignite. No one injured. Second device found intact.
    Wednesday, April 7 - small bomb exploded outside Conservative club near
King's Cross, London, as memorial being held for two child victims in
Warrington. No one injured by device, seen as warning IRA prepared to keep up
attacks despite international outcry over Warrington bombs.
    Saturday, March 20 - two bombs left in litter bins exploded in Warrington,
Cheshire, killing three year-old Johnathan Ball, out shopping for Mother's Day
card. Timothy Parry, 12, died five days later from devastating head wounds.
Another 56 injured. Warning, without code, said bomb planted outside Boots in
Liverpool, 14 miles away. IRA later apologised for death and injuries but tried
to blame police for failing to act on "precise and adequate warnings".
    Thursday, March 4 - Police discovered hundreds of pounds of home-made
explosives in lock-up garage in Muswell Hill, north London. Find kept closely
guarded secret for five days.
    Tuesday, March 2 - Semtex high explosive and guns found in Stoke Newington
flat, east London, after swoop by armed officers, hours after police released
video pictures of two men wanted for the Harrods bombing in January.
    Saturday, February 27 - 18 injured, two seriously, by blast in Camden High
Street, north London. Police condemned two coded telephone warnings as
misleading so shoppers evacuated into path of explosion.
    Friday, February 26 - three bombs caused massive explosion at gasworks in
Warrington, Cheshire shortly after policeman shot and wounded when he stopped a
van for routine check. Armed police follow-up operation later in Nottingham,
where explosives cache discovered in allotment.
    Wednesday, February 10 - small bomb exploded in doorway of private house in
Cadogan Place, Belgravia, in early hours. Detectives believe terrorists mady
have dumped it as no obvious target.
    Wednesday, February 3 - passengers evacuated off Victoria to Ramsgate train
at a Kent station shortly before bomb exploded, devastating one of carriages.
First time bomb planted on passenger train rather than in station or by track.
Second blast hours later at South kensington underground station, followed by
series of hoaxes around capital;
    Thursday, January 28 - Small bomb exploded outside Harrods in Knightsbridge,
slightly injuring four people, half an hour after two coded telephone warnings.
Device hidden in litter bin outside store, replaced ten days earlier after being
removed over Christmas for fear of IRA attack.
    Thursday, January 14 - Incendiary device was made safe after it was
discovered by member of staff in Top Shop in Great Castle Street, near Oxford
Street, central London.
    Wednesday, January 6 - Four firebombs ignited in early hours in four London
stores in Oxford Street and The Strand, one in a children's clothing department.
First mainland attacks of New Year. No injuries and serious damage to only one
of targeted stores.


    Friday, October 1: IRA explode three bombs in Finchley Road, North London,
injuring five people.
    Monday, October 4: IRA explode five small bombs in North London at Hornsey,
Archway and Highgate. No injuries.
    Friday, October 8: Two bombs explode in London, one in West Hampstead and
one at Staples Corner. No injuries.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1993 The Press Association Limited

                              185 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Daily Mail (London)

                           October 26, 1993, Tuesday

'Blackmail' fury as Britain bans Adams;
Viewers protest as TV pays lip service to the law

SECTION: Pg. 1, 2

LENGTH: 1240 words


JOHN MAJOR slammed the door on peace talks with Gerry Adams yesterday, as it was
revealed that the Sinn Fein leader has been banned from mainland Britain under
the Prevention of Terrorism Act.

The Prime Minister angrily branded the IRA's political frontman a blackmailer
after he suggested he might be able to end the carnage if Britain agreed to
discuss the Ulster peace plan he has worked out with nationalist leader John
Hume.

Mr Major declared: 'I am not going to do deals with people who plant bombs and
kill innocent people.'

He said if Adams could end the violence he should do it now, without strings
that 'sound to be tantamount to blackmail'.

It emerged that Home Secretary Michael Howard had signed an indefinite exclusion
order against Adams last Tuesday after reports that he planned to visit the
mainland at the invitation of Labour MP Anthony Wedgwood Benn. Mr Howard had to
be satisfied, under the Act, that Adams was, or is, concerned in the
'commission, preparation or instigation of acts of terrorism' connected with
Ulster.

An order previously in force between 1982 and 1983 was revoked when Adams was
elected MP for West Belfast. He lost his seat at the last election.

Mr Major's attack, delivered in Cyprus at the end of the Commonwealth summit,
followed the weekend carnage in the Shankill Road and rail bombs on the
mainland. M15 fear the mainland campaign may be escalated as part of a
curtain-raiser to some offer of a Christmas moratorium to pressure politicians.

The Prime Minister's declaration appeared to wreck any remaining hopes held by
Mr Hume, leader of the mainly-Catholic SDLP, and the Dublin government.  Irish
Foreign Minister Dick Spring yesterday described Adams's offer, made in a BBC
interview, as 'a little hard to take'.

The blueprint is thought to propose giving Dublin a degree of sovereignty in
Ulster in return for an IRA promise to stop the 'armed struggle'. Irish Premier
Albert Reynolds planned to show Mr Major the scheme at the EC summit in Brussels
this week, although Adams claimed yesterday that he had been given it some time
ago.

Mr Major would have faced considerable pressure, not least from the U.S., to
give the initiative a full hearing - putting at risk the Parliamentary support
of the Ulster Unionists, crucial to his slender majority.

By failing to stamp earlier on the Adams-Hume talks, the Cabinet has allowed
them to gain a momentum which Whitehall has found hard to kill. But the plan has
always been anathema to Mr Major.

Ulster Secretary Sir Patrick Mayhew later reinforced the message. He declared:
'Never is there going to be any bargaining with those who reinforce their
arguments with bombs and bullets or the threat of violence.'

He added: 'Next to the sickening quality of what was done to people in the
Shankill has been the sickening quality of the hypocrisy of Mr Adams.'

Adams claimed yesterday: 'I want peace. I live here.' He implied he was much
more upset about the Shankill bombing than he could say. 'On many occasions what
I say publicly may not reflect the totality of my private position.'

Eleven of the 50 people injured on Saturday - including a suspected bomber -
were still in hospital yesterday. Loyalist terrorists last night gave a clear
indication that they planned to target Sinn Fein as a reprisal. The outlawed
Ulster Volunteer Force issued a brief statement advising all Catholics to stay
away from Sinn Fein offices.

Anger at dubbing of Gerry Adams SCORES of angry TV viewers telephoned the BBC
yesterday to protest at the dubbing of Adams's words using an actor's voice.

The complaints followed his appearance on news bulletins throughout the day,
including the lunchtime and nine o'clock news. A BBC spokesman said calls
'numbered below 100'.

MPs also expressed their outrage at recent dubbing by both the BBC and ITN. They
complained that actors were synchronising their speech with

Adams's lip movements with ever-increasing accuracy - getting round the law
banning direct broadcasting of his voice.

One Tory MP, Mr David Ashby, a member of the Home Affairs Select Committee, said
the Government was trying not to give a voice to the IRA or its political wing,
adding: 'But that is just what the broadcasters are doing. It behoves them to
abide by the spirit of the law.'

The BBC and ITN said 'lip-synch' techniques were legal and justified by the
importance of the events.

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1993 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              186 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Standard (London)

                           October 26, 1993, Tuesday

DEADLY FARCE

SECTION: Pg. 9

LENGTH: 867 words


THE stony face of Sinn Fein chief Gerry Adams peers out of the television,
saying - via an actor's voice - that he has it within his power to call off the
IRA's campaign of terrorism. As grieving Belfast families prepare for the
funerals of their loved ones, Mr Adams indicates that all of this misery could
end if the British Government sat down with the IRA and negotiated a peace
treaty. The Prime Minister, John Major, says he is not going to deal with those
who plant bombs and kill innocent people. And the Home Secretary, Michael
Howard, signs an order under the Prevention of Terrorism Act banning Mr Adams
from travelling to mainland Britain. This intolerable situation is now shot
through with deadly farce. If Mr Adams has it within his power to end IRA
bombing then he has a degree of responsibility for it. If so, he should be
prosecuted. If, as Mr Howard says, Mr Adams cannot come to the mainland because
we believe he instigates IRA violence, why is he allowed to remain at large in
Ulster, which is part of the United Kingdom? The effect of Mr Howard's action is
that we don't mind IRA terrorists if they stay in Ulster but we can't have them
here. In other words, Ulster isn't really part of the UK any more. Mr Adams can
come into homes here, via TV, but his real voice cannot be heard. This maddening
game has gone on too long. If we mean to keep the province within the United
Kingdom then we cannot treat it as a bolthole for terrorists. Neither can we
maintain the pretence that a man who says he can turn terrorism on and off like
a tap - a man we can't allow into Britain for this reason - is merely a
politician of whom we disapprove. It is not good enough to repeat, after each
outrage, the mantra that we will not be defeated by terrorism. When our public
life is reduced to elaborate games, dubbed voices and Alice in Wonderland
exclusion rules, we're halfway to defeat already.

Feeling the benefit

SOCIAL Security Minister Peter Lilley has said that he could cut £1 billion from
his department's budget next year by eliminating fraud. Now a Downing Street
efficiency adviser, Sir Peter Levene, claims that fraud actually costs the DSS
£5 billion per year: a huge proportion of its £80 billion annual budget. The DSS
is letting it be known that this has strengthened its resolve to press ahead
with the introduction of some means of verifying

identity for those claiming benefits. This could mean an identity card - or even
some form of futuristic 'hand-print scan', although Whitehall is not putting too
much emphasis on that option, and is at pains to add that considerations of
civil liberty mean that data collected in this way would be divorced from police
computers. As long as social security expenditure is considered within the
complete context of fiscal policy, the Government is right to be concerned about
it and right to be considering ways of bringing it within a reasonable compass.
This is for two simple reasons: good housekeeping and simple maintenance of the
law. An annual waste of £5 billion - if so it proves - is scandalous for a
Government running an estimated annual budget deficit of £50 billion. It has a
duty to eliminate it. But secondly, even if there were no budget deficit at all,
it would still be entirely proper to eliminate waste of this kind. Defrauding
the system is not a venial ruse to milk some abstract benefit scheme - it is
stealing money from working men and women. Providing a safety net for the needy
and deserving is a necessary and honourable part of government in a civilised
society. So our Government owes it to all of us to ensure a tight and
sustainable budget for the Department of Social Security.

Trust Philip

PRINCE Philip asks a pretty young fashion reporter in Canada if she is wearing
mink knickers. He says of a City Hall annexe in Vancouver: 'I declare this thing
open, whatever it is.' Some will deplore the Prince's habitual indelicacy.
Others give thanks that in a grey world his desire to tickle our national funny
bone remains as sharp as ever.

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1993 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              187 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                October 26, 1993

Former Northern Ireland Secretaries clash on internment

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 471 words


TWO Labour former Northern Ireland Secretaries clashed in the Lords last night
on the question of reintroducing internment in a bid to curb terrorism.

Following Saturday's IRA bomb outrage, Lord Mason of Barnsley called for the
reintroduction of "selective detention".

He said: "A round-up of senior known suspects -- the Provisional IRA, the Ulster
Volunteer Force and the Ulster Freedom Fighters -- would take the tension out of
the situation, ease the fears of the people in the Province, and hopefully
minimise the backlash."

However, Lord Merlyn-Rees, who ended detention without trial when he was
Northern Ireland Secretary, said that internment only would help the IRA.

"It is my view that one of the aims of the Provisional IRA is the return of
detention. It's the best thing they can have to get more recruits."

Junior Northern Ireland Minister the Earl of Arran said that the power to
reintroduce internment remained on the Statute Book.

"But it would only be brought into force in very particular circumstances and it
is not the Government's policy to discuss what that might be."

The exchange came after Lord Arran made a statement to the House on the
Government's response to the Belfast bombing, repeating Northern Ireland
Secretary Sir Patrick Mayhew's pledge there would be no bargaining with those
responsible.

Former SDLP leader Lord Fitt (Ind.) condemned the SDLP's recent talks with Sinn
Fein and insisted a solution could only be found with the consent of the
Protestant majority in Northern Ireland.

However, in the Commons, Mr Tony Benn (Chesterfield), who was a member of the
Labour Cabinet which sent troops to Northern Ireland in 1969, said he welcomed
the Northern Ireland Secretary's comments on the Hume-Adams initiative.

"I ask you to remember that the Dublin Government also said this initiative was
a constructive and a creative one," he said.

He urged Sir Patrick also to take into account "that there are many people,
probably a majority in this country, who believe at some stage everybody has got
to get round a table to find a peaceful way to avoid a repetition of the
terrible deaths that are occurring".

Sir Patrick said he warmly agreed.

"All those who are constitutional politicians have got to get around a table,
recognising it is only those who disavow the use of violence for political
purposes that are going to be able to be able to find a political solution to
political problems.

"The price of defending democracy is always high, but it is always worth paying.

"That is what we are about and we are going to go on paying it for as long as
may be necessary."

Sir Patrick told former Tory Minister David Howell (Guildford -- Con.) that co
-operation between the Irish Republic and Britain had never been higher.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1993 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              188 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                October 26, 1993

Adams is banned under Terror Act

BYLINE: Geoffrey Parkhouse,Stephen Mcgregor

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1027 words


THE Home Office last night prohibited Gerry Adams from entering Great Britain,
as Prime Minister John Major angrily rejected as "blackmail" the Sinn Fein
president's offer to sue for peace in Northern Ireland.

The proposition was "outrageous", Mr Major said. The IRA must stop the violence
now unconditionally, he insisted.

Mr Major's refusal to deal with Mr Adams came as it was revealed that an
exclusion order had been signed by Home Secretary Michael Howard under the
Prevention of Terrorism Act last Tuesday.

Mr Howard was satisfied, as he must be according to the Act, that Mr Adams was
or is concerned in the commission, preparation, or instigation of acts of
terrorism connected with Northern Ireland.

The indefinite order was signed after a review of the case following reports
that he planned to visit mainland Britain at the invitation of Labour MP Tony
Benn.

An exclusion order was previously in force on Mr Adams between 1982 and 1983.

It was revoked when Mr Adams was elected MP for West Belfast. However he lost
his seat at the last General Election.

Mr Major, in a news conference marking the end of the Commonwealth Conference in
Cyprus, was clearly angered by Mr Adams's comments after the IRA bombing in
Belfast's Shankill Road on Saturday.

"If Mr Adams can end the violence then he should end the violence now without
preconditions, without any delay, without any suggestions about political
advantage, and without any proposals which sound to me as tantamount to
blackmail.

"People in Northern Ireland who have seen their friends, relatives, families
killed . . . these people hearing him suggest that providing there is a
political benefit for him he can stop the violence will find his remarks
outrageous, as I do.

Mr Major repeated that the only message he wanted to hear from the IRA was that
it was ending violence -- "for good. I am not going to do deals with people who
plant bombs and kill people. I have no intention of doing that and the people of
Ulster would not want me to do so".

Mr Major, who is due to meet Irish Premier Albert Reynolds in Brussels at the
weekend to discuss the situation, is clearly not interested in the Hume/Adams
peace plan unless the violence ends. A truce will not do.

But he hopes that the currently stalled three-stranded approach to peace --
through Belfast, Dublin, and London -- will be able to resume. He refused to
acknowledge that the UK-Irish talks had effectively broken down. The Prime
Minister said he had been advised even more troops in Northern Ireland could not
have prevented the Shankill atrocity.

However, SDLP leader John Hume said he would continue his talks with Mr Adams.

Mr Adams -- who has condemned the bombing as inexcusable -- said he was
convinced the British Government already knew the details of the Hume/Adams
proposals. This was denied by British sources yesterday.

He was convinced he could deliver an end to IRA violence, he told BBC Radio
Ulster, adding: "I would not have agreed with Mr Hume and made the proposals to
Dublin if I was not satisfied that the IRA would accept the outcome of it."

He did not that believe the proposals (and whatever response they got) would
provoke a split with the Republican movement.

Last night, loyalist terrorists shot dead a Roman Catholic in north Belfast.

The outlawed Ulster Freedom Fighters claimed Sean Fox, a widower and father of
four, was a known republican whom they had interrogated at his house in Harmin
Park, Glengormley.

But a second claim to a local radio station said the murder was carried out by
the Ulster Volunteer Force, rather than the UFF.

Police were uncertain whether the two organisations were vying with each other
to claim the killing, or the terrorists responsible belonged to both
organisations.

Police discovered Mr Fox's body after the terrorists announced their latest
killing to a local radio station.

It was not the first time he had been targeted. More than 10 years ago a booby
-trap bomb was defused under his car.

Meanwhile, the IRA said it fired a volley of shots in the Ardoyne area of
Belfast in a tribute to Patrick Begley, their 23-year-old bomber who died in the
Shankill Road blast.

Begley will be buried after a service in Ardoyne's Holy Cross Church tomorrow,
shortly before the funerals of five of those he killed.

Another Roman Catholic, taxi driver Martin Moran, died in hospital yesterday
after he was the victim of a revenge shooting after Saturday's Shankill Road
bombing.

Last night's murder showed loyalist terrorists were intent on avenging their
dead despite pleas by political and Church leaders for restraint and calm.

Meanwhile, a bomb exploded close to the County Fermanagh border last night. The
RUC said no-one was injured. The device went off near the Mullan border
checkpoint, which is believed to have been unmanned.

Earlier yesterday, in an emergency statement in the Commons, Northern Ireland
Secretary Sir Patrick Mayhew echoed Mr Major's message that there would be no
dialogue with the men of violence.

He told MPs: "To those who did this terrible thing, and to those who justify
this use of violence, the message, and the only message, is this. In this
democracy no political purpose, whatever it may be, will be advanced by a single
inch through the use or the threat of violence.

"No campaign, however horrible or protracted, will shift us from that
determination."

Sir Patrick, who expressed "heartfelt sympathies" for the victims of the attack,
sought to keep the talks involving constitutional politicians on the road, but
it was clear that he had firmly shut the door on the Hume/Adams dialogue.

The Northern Ireland Secretary said: "This atrocity surely reinforces the
challenge to all the participants, including the two Governments, who are
currently involved as constitutional politicians in the urgent search for a
solution to Northern Ireland's political problems."

From the Labour benches, Shadow Northern Ireland Secretary Kevin McNamara echoed
Labour leader John Smith in condemning the outrage as a

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Thousands of workers march along the Shankill Road in Belfast on their
way to a service of remembrance for the 10 people killed in the IRA bombing at
the weekend. About 6000 workers from Harland and Wolff shipyard and the
neighbouring Shorts aerospace factory marched across the city to attend the
service, hastily arranged at the request of shop stewards from the two
factories, outside the Methodist church near the bombed fish shop. About 2000
local people attended the service, during which many shops closed as a mark of
respect.  Picture: MARTIN McCULLOUGH/PA

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1993 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              189 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           October 26, 1993, Tuesday

Britain bars Adams as loyalists wreak revenge

BYLINE: DONALD MACINTYRE, DAVID MCKITTRICK and IAN MACKINNON

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Page 1

LENGTH: 600 words


THE GOVERNMENT has banned Gerry Adams, the Sinn Fein president, from Britain
indefinitely, it was revealed last night as the feared loyalist retaliation for
Saturday's Shankill Road bombing in Belfast continued.

The body of a man in his seventies was found on the outskirts of north Belfast
last night following a claim from an extreme loyalist group that it had killed
''a well-known republican''. Police discovered his corpse inside a house at
Harmin Park, Glengormley, after a local radio station was telephoned by the
outlawed Ulster Volunteer Force.

The man was a widower and father of four who had survived an attempt on his life
some years ago. The UVF said it had questioned the man for an hour before
shooting him. Another Catholic, shot by loyalists within hours of Saturday's
bombing, died yesterday in hospital.

As the sectarian killing continued and thousands of Protestant workers from
Belfast's Harland and Woolf shipyard marched to the scene of the weekend
atrocity for a open-air service, the Government launched a strong personal
attack on Mr Adams, whose suggestion that he might be able to persuade the IRA
to call a ceasefire was described as ''sickening hypocrisy'' by Sir Patrick
Mayhew, Secretary of State for Northern Ireland.

He was reinforcing angry criticism by the Prime Minister, who said in Cyprus,
where he was attending the Commonwealth heads of government meeting, that he was
not going to respond to ''proposals which sound to me as tantamount to
blackmail''. The Government was ''not going to do deals with people who plant
bombs and kill innocent people''.

Mr Adams had said earlier on BBC television that he could secure an end to
violence if the Government responded positively to his talks with John Hume,
leader of the Social Democratic and Labour Party.

The ban preventing him crossing the Irish Sea was ordered before Saturday's
Belfast bombing, which left 10 people dead and 57 injured.

The order against Mr Adams, under the Prevention of Terrorism Act, had been
issued last Tuesday by Michael Howard, the Home Secretary, following reports
that Tony Benn, Labour MP for Chesterfield, had invited him to to address a
meeting in the House of Commons.

According to the Act, Mr Howard must be satisfied that a person against whom
such an order is to be made is concerned in the commission, preparation or
instigation of acts of terrorism connected with Northern Ireland. The ban will
be taken as a further indication that the Government does not want to validate
the peace initiative arising from talks between Mr Adams and Mr Hume.

Bit in a Commons statement on the bombing, Sir Patrick was careful not to
condemn Mr Hume for seeking a breakthrough in his talks with Mr Adams. He
saluted Mr Hume's ''courage''.

Eight people are still in hospital after Saturday's bombing, one in a critical
condition. Among the injured are a 79-year-old woman and a 13-year-old boy.

The first victim of the loyalists to die yesterday was Martin Moran, 22, whose
girlfriend had a baby five weeks ago. He had been shot twice in the head as he
was answering a bogus telephone call for Chinese food in south Belfast on
Saturday night. He was a voluntary worker for a charity helping needy children
in Africa.

Fear on the streets, page 3

Parliament, page 8

Leading article, page 17

Andrew Marr, page 19

Trains between London and the West of England and Oxfordshire should should run
normally today. Damage was repaired yesterday after an IRA bomb on a bridge at
Brill, Buckinghamshire and Sunday's blast near Reading.


LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1993 Independent Print Ltd

                              190 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 27, 1993

PM APPEASES UNIONISTS;
Hume-Adams hope fades - Loyalist killings shake Belfast

BYLINE: STEPHEN BATES, OWEN BOWCOTT AND MICHAEL WHITE

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 765 words


AS Protestant revenge killings shook Belfast, the Government edged yesterday
towards delivering its new Ulster Unionist allies one of their key demands - the
creation of a Commons select committee to monitor Northern Ireland affairs.  But
the Government's attitude towards the all-but-collapsed Hume-Adams peace
initiative became increasingly shrouded in diplomatic fog.

Downing Street denied persistently that John Major knew any more details of its
proposals than have appeared in the press - just 48 hours before the Prime
Minister is certain to discuss it with the Irish taoiseach Albert Reynolds at
the European Community summit in Brussels.

Coming alongside today's expected proposal for the select committee from the
Commons procedure committee, the stance was widely seen as a hardening of
ministerial attitudes against any concessionary gestures towards the Hume-Adams
initiative in the wake of Saturday's IRA bomb which killed 10 people and injured
53.

In a delicate balancing act between the two sides, ministers also appeared to
reject out of hand Unionist pressure to re-introduce internment - "selective
detention". Sir John Wheeler, Ulster security minister, said the difficulties
outweighed the advantages - and hinted that such a move would land Britain in
the European Court of Human Rights.

Shortly before the Labour MP Tony Benn protested in the Commons about the
exclusion of Gerry Adams, the Sinn Fein president, Mr Major was joined by the
other party leaders in condemning the latest sectarian reprisal murders - the
shooting of two Catholic Belfast council workmen by Protestant gunmen - as well
as Saturday's Shankill Road bombing.

The city's already volatile security situation deteriorated further as the day
wore on, with the shooting by a soldier of a mourner outside the home of the IRA
man Thomas Begley, killed by the premature explosion of the bomb he was planting
in the Shankill Road.

Local people said the soldier was unprovoked and fired about 10 shots
indiscriminately. He was subsequently arrested. The injured man was Eddie
Copeland, a well known republican, whose condition was said to be stable.

The Begley funeral is due to take place today amid an intensive security
operation designed to ensure that the cortege is not attacked by loyalist
paramilitaries.

Away from Belfast, a terrorist attack on the crowded Ballymac Restaurant outside
Lisburn, County Antrim, failed last night when one man's machine-gun jammed
after he fired two rounds. The Ulster Freedom Fighters said later they carried
out the attack, in which police said three masked men were involved.

As Mr Major condemned both sides for the recent bloodletting, the Official
Unionist Party leader, James Molyneaux, nodded in agreement.

Speaking as the first victims of the Shankill Road bombing were buried, Mr Major
warned that the "cold blooded and premeditated" perpetrators would be hunted
down.

He told MPs: "Today's bloodshed will only have one effect . . . it will deepen
the bloodshed through revenge killings. There will be more deaths, more misery,
before Northern Ireland can return to the peaceful, democratic future that
everyone wishes to see it have."

John Smith, the Labour leader, warned that "those who seek to impose their will
by the bomb or the bullet . . . will not succeed in undermining this nation's
total commitment to the democratic process."

Paddy Ashdown, the Liberal Democrat leader, also condemned the violence and
called for closer co-ordination between rival intelligence services.

Mary Robinson, the Irish president, spoke of her anguish over the Shankill Road
attack and the retaliation.

Downing Street sources remained adamant yesterday that the Government had not
seen the details of SDLP leader John Hume's discussion with Mr Adams and
appeared dismissive of it. Observers in both London and Dublin regarded the
scarcely credible denial as a calculated distancing of Whitehall from Mr Hume's
efforts.

Officials also played down Friday's meeting with Albert Reynolds in the margins
of the EC summit, although Dick Spring, the Irish foreign minister, said Dublin
regarded the meeting as very important and the Hume-Adams initiative was still
under active consideration.

Last night, Mr Hume repeated his call for a response to his and Mr Adams's
initiative. Asked for his reaction to the latest killings, he said: "The
doctrine of 'An eye for an eye' leaves everybody blind.

"Catholics shot dead, page 2; Martin Woollacott, page 18; Leader comment and
Letters, page 19


LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              191 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          October 27, 1993, Wednesday

Ulster in Crisis: 'Surely to God it must be my duty to try'; John Hume tells
David McKittrick that he will continue meeting with Sinn Fein, despite the
threat to any peace initiative posed by the IRA bombing of the Shankill Road

BYLINE: DAVID MCKITTRICK

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 2

LENGTH: 1170 words


WHEN YOU put yourself forward to represent people, and a problem of this nature
exists, then you must do everything in your power to resolve it. The least you
can do is talk to those involved.

We have had up to 20,000 soldiers on our streets, 12,000 armed policemen,
stringent security legislation, and none of it has succeeded. If direct dialogue
can possibly succeed then surely to God it's my duty to try. The responsibility
rises way above party politics.

I would have preferred to go about this as the PLO and Israelis did in Norway,
in total secrecy. Knowing the risks involved we agreed our meetings would be
secret, but unfortunately word leaked out and this has created massive pressures
and increased the risks. But I believe it to be my responsibility to continue to
do everything in my power first to bring violence to an end and then to get the
whole problem settled.

The risks are very considerable, as the loyalist paramilitaries are making
clear. But for weeks my telephone has been inundated with calls from all
sections of the community encouraging me to keep going, because they don't see
anybody else doing anything and they want the violence stopped. Since the
weekend bombing I have had many calls from people on the Shankill Road telling
me that.

That bombing shattered me totally. I feel that if the process that has been
proposed was agreed to, events like Saturday would not happen. When I said I had
made substantial progress with Gerry Adams I meant it.

Now I am saying directly to the British government: statements are easy to make,
but given my record, and their knowledge that I have never misinformed any
British government in 20 years, I would expect and am entitled to expect a very
positive examination of what they already know.

I am available to meet them at any time if they require any clarification. I
would be astonished if the British government does not take the opportunity that
is being offered to them. I know the Irish government have considered the
proposals seriously and I know that they regard them as positive.

I want a meeting between John Major and the Irish prime minister Albert Reynolds
to take place sooner rather than later. I would have considered it to be number
one on Mr Major's agenda. If what was happening on our streets was happening on
the streets of Britain, and an MP announced he had major progress towards
getting a total cessation of violence, what would the Prime Minister's response
be?

The major problem which has been facing us for more than 20 years is the
terrible violence which arises out of the division of the population, together
with the underlying political problem.

Northern Ireland has never been a stable or a just society since it was set up.
I came from an unemployed family in Derry, and when I came back from university
I got immediately involved in dealing with the problems of people around me. By
the time I was 27 I was president of the Credit Union in Ireland.

In Derry in the Sixties the Unionists wouldn't build houses for the people, so
with other people we set up the first housing association to build them
ourselves. The Unionists then refused us planning permission and that led me
into the civil rights movement.

I was against politics because they were too sectarian. My father, in my first
political lesson, took me to a nationalist meeting. They were waving the flag
and whipping up the emotion. Nationalism in those days was simply saying a
united Ireland was the answer, but they never told us how they were going to do
it.

I was about 10 when I went to that meeting, and I was getting emotive too, but
my father, he was a labour man and he was unemployed, puts his hand on my
shoulder and says: ''Don't get involved in that stuff, son.'' I says: ''Why not,
daddy?'' And he says: ''Because you can't eat a flag, son.''

From the beginning I have argued that two mind-sets have to change if we are to
solve the problem, the Unionist mind-set and the nationalist mind-set.

I have challenged the nationalist mind-set which says that it's about territory
and not about people. I have quoted it so often that my children tell me they're
bored listening to me. But it has to be said: it's people who are divided and
not territory, and a solution can only come by agreement and not by any form of
coercion.

The principle of consent is now virtually accepted right across nationalist
Ireland, north and south, and anybody reading the published statements on my
dialogue with Sinn Fein knows that agreement is central to the whole approach.

The Provisional IRA are a product of nationalist Ireland and a patriotism which
is dying for Ireland. But we all know that there's a thin line between that and
killing for Ireland: I have kept insisting that people should be living for
Ireland.

My approach with the IRA has been to reject their methods totally and to examine
their reasons, which are the historical reasons handed down in nationalist
Ireland - that the British are here defending their interests by force.

Historically that was true. Britain came into Ireland in the 17th century
because of Irish links with Spain. The Act of Union in 1800 was Britain's
response to the links with France, fearing that Ireland could be used as a back
door by her European enemies.

That's all gone now, is my argument. The nature of the problem has changed, but
the legacy remains and the legacy is a divided people. That's the problem and
that can only be solved by peaceful means, whether we're talking about
self-determination or anything else. It's people who have rights, not territory.

The divisions of a divided people can only be healed by agreement, and agreement
can only be brought about by peaceful means. If people take the trouble to look
at the two statements issued by Mr Adams and myself they will see that they
concentrate on that central issue.

The other mind-set I have challenged is the Unionist one, which is that the only
way to protect themselves is to hold all power in their own hands. Since the
power-sharing executive was brought down in 1974 - by a combination of Unionist
politicians and paramilitaries working together - there is not the slightest
evidence of any re-examination of that mind-set.

It's an exclusive approach, meaning that if you're not a Unionist you have to be
excluded. That is a conflict mentality as well.

I wish the Unionist people would re-examine how they could protect their
identity in a new Ireland without excluding other people. The real answer is
agreement among our divided people, an agreement which must respect our
diversity.

I am beginning to wonder - do loyalist paramilitaries want the violence to stop?
I have offered to talk to them directly as well, as they know, and I would have
said no different to them than I've said to Sinn Fein. Because the problem
doesn't change, no matter who you're talking to, and neither does my approach to
solving it.

(Photograph omitted)


LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1993 Independent Print Ltd

                              192 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                October 28, 1993

Irish Premier hopeful of peaceful settlement

BYLINE: John Cooney

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 564 words


Dublin

MR Albert Reynolds, the Prime Minister of the Irish Republic, told the Dail last
night he was convinced that an opportunity for peace in Northern Ireland still
exists, despite the escalation of violence since the weekend IRA bomb attack in
the Shankill district of Belfast.

Warning that time was not on the side of the British and Irish Governments, he
called on them "to act and act quickly".

Neither London nor Dublin could afford to hand over the stage to Irish
Republican or Ulster Loyalist paramilitaries, he said.

Mr Reynolds was speaking in a special parliamentary debate deploring the
deteriorating security situation in Northern Ireland.

An emergency motion called on the two Governments to find agreement on new
political structures for Northern Ireland and to isolate and defeat "terrorist
gangs".

The debate was held as the Irish Government was embarrassed by television
pictures of the Sinn Fein president Gerry Adams carrying the coffin at the
funeral in Belfast of Thomas Begley, the IRA terrorist who was killed by the
premature detonation of the bomb which he planted in the Shankill fish shop on
Saturday, killing nine innocent people.

Politicians of all parties in the Republic were scandalised by the spectacle of
the tricolour -- the Irish flag -- wrapped around Begley's coffin.

The debate took the Opposition parties by surprise, because for several weeks
the Irish Government had said it was too delicate a time to discuss Northern
Ireland.

Praising Mr John Hume, the SDLP leader, Mr Reynolds said there was no question
of the British and Irish Governments simply adopting or endorsing his report on
his talks with Mr Adams.

Without giving any details of either the Hume-Adams report or of Irish
Government thinking on a possible solution, Mr Reynolds said that, for some time
past, his Government had been working on a formula for peace.

In an effort to reassure Ulster Unionists, Mr Reynolds said there was no
question of tampering with the right of the majority of the people of Northern
Ireland to remain part of the United Kingdom.

Subject to that constraint, the people of Ireland, north and south, had a right
to determine their own future.

"We are prepared to accept into the democratic process any party which
permanently and verifiably renounces violence," he said.

Mr John Bruton, the leader of Fine Gael, said it was unhealthy that the
political agenda was being dictated by paramilitaries.

Mr Proinsias De Rossa, leader of the Democratic Left, said that the Irish
Government should recognise the Hume-Adams process was dead and that no
realistic talks could take place with Ulster Unionists until the territorial
claims made by the Republic over Northern Ireland were amended.

Several hundred people attended a half-hour vigil service in Dublin's O'Connell
Street in memory of those killed in the Shankill bombing. Mrs Susan McHugh,
leader of Peace '93, said she wanted to make it clear that ordinary people in
the Irish Republic wished to express solidarity with those suffering on both
sides of the community.

In Britain, Mr and Mrs Colin and Wendy Parry whose son Tim was killed by the
Warrington bomb blast, laid flowers in memory of the Shankill Road victims at
the start of a vigil in Warrington town centre, 100 yards from the scene of the
March 20 explosion.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Wendy Parry, mother of Warrington bomb victim Tim Parry, lays flowers
at the peace vigil in the town. Picture:MALCOLM CROFT/PA

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1993 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              193 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                            October 31, 1993, Sunday

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 1264 words


A CYCLE OF BLOOD, TEARS - AND HOPE?  A week ago today the slaughter of nine
innocent people and an IRA bomber in Belfast heralded the start of one of
Northern Ireland's bloodiest weeks.  Altogether, 23 people have died since two
IRA killers made their way to the Shankill Road fish shop last Saturday
lunchtime with their cargo of death.  The bombing brought almost immediate
revenge from the loyalist men of violence - the original targets of the
republicans' tragically bungled attack.  In the next seven days six Roman
Catholics died as loyalist paramilitaries carried out their threat with bloody
ruthlessness.  This is the week's cycle - of bloodshed, of funerals and tears
and of desperate peace moves by the politicians.  SATURDAY OCTOBER 23
    Within hours of the bombing in the loyalist Shankill Road - in which 57
people were injured - a Catholic man was shot in the arm in a bar in the
Bawnmore area of north Belfast.
    That night the homes of two Lisburn families were petrol-bombed.
    And back in Belfast 21-year-old Catholic taxi driver Martin Moran was shot
and fatally wounded delivering Chinese food to a house in Donegal Pass, south
Belfast. Mr Moran, who clung to life for two days, had been lured to a trap by
the paramilitaries.  SUNDAY OCTOBER 24
    Another 21-year-old Catholic man was shot in the face as he sat in a car
with his girlfriend in Kingsmere Avenue, another predominantly Catholic district
of north Belfast.  MONDAY OCTOBER 25
    The backlash continued when a Catholic pensioner was shot dead by the Ulster
Volunteer Force after an hour long "interrogation" at his home in Newtownabbey,
on Belfast's northern outskirts.
    The Ulster Volunteer Force claimed their victim, Sean Fox, 72, a widower and
father of four, was a known Republican. Police only discovered the body that
evening after the terrorists announced their latest killing to a local radio
station.
    Sinn Fein president Gerry Adams said he would advise the IRA to lay down its
weapons if the British government responded "positively" to peace proposals he
has agreed with Social Democratic and Labour Party leader John Hume.
    John Major said the Government would not be bombed into changing its policy
in Northern Ireland and dismissed Mr Adams's offer, saying: "I am not going to
do deals with people who plant bombs and kill innocent people."
    Workers at Harland and Wolff shipyard and Shorts aerospace factory downed
tools to march to the scene of Saturday's bomb outrage. The workers, the vast
majority of them Protestants, laid a wreath in Shankill Road.
    Mr Moran, the Catholic taxi driver shot in Belfast hours after Saturday's
bomb, died in hospital.
    The Home Office confirmed that Mr Adams is banned from mainland Britain
under the Prevention of Terrorism Act.
    A bomb exploded close to a vehicle checkpoint on the Co Fermanagh border.
There were no casualties.  TUESDAY OCTOBER 26
    A petrol bomb was thrown through the kitchen window of a Catholic family's
home in Newtownabbey. The occupants were not hurt.
    In west Belfast, a 29-year-old man was shot in the leg in the Stewartstown
Road area in what police believe was a paramilitary punishment shooting.
    As morning broke in Belfast, council workmen James Cameron, 54, and Mark
Rodgers, 28, were killed and five others were injured when gunmen fired on a
council cleansing department depot in a Catholic area of west Belfast.
    RUC Chief Constable Sir Hugh Annesley described the attack as "odious,
cowardly and vicious".
    The Ulster Freedom Fighters said the attack was just the start of the
revenge they had sworn to take on the Catholic population for the Shankill
bombing. One RUC officer predicted more revenge attacks. "They've only started.
They are totally indifferent to people's feelings."
    Extra troops and police were drafted into Belfast with police officers put
on extended 12-hour shifts in a bid to stamp out the trouble.
    In the republican Ardoyne area, a soldier was arrested after the shooting of
a mourner outside the home of 23-year-old Thomas Begley, the IRA bomber killed
in the fish shop bombing.
    Little Darren Baird bravely led thousands of mourners to the funeral of
three of the Shankill victims - his seven-year-old sister Michelle, mother
Evelyn and father Michael Morrison. Another victim, Wilma McKee, 38, was also
buried.
    A new loyalist attempt to exact revenge failed when a UFF terrorist's
machinegun jammed during an attack on a restaurant in County Antrim.  WEDNESDAY
OCTOBER 27
    Five more victims of the Shankill bombing were buried along with the bomber
Thomas Begley and Sean Fox, the Catholic pensioner shot dead at his home on
Monday.
    Top Republicans were among mourners at Begley's funeral and Sinn Fein
president Gerry Adams provoked new anger when he helped to carry the
tricolor-draped coffin through the streets of Ardoyne.
    At the funeral of 27-year-old Sharon McBride, her husband Alan wept as he
stroked the flower-decked coffin.
    Sharon was seven months pregnant when she was cut down in the IRA bombing as
she worked behind the counter of the fish shop with her father, John Frizzell,
63. Her distraught husband has been left alone to bring up two-year-old daughter
Zoe.
    A soldier was charged with the attempted murder of a leading Republican
outside the home of IRA Shankill Road bomber Thomas Begley who died with his
nine victims.
    A Belfast Catholic man was critically wounded after being shot. He was hit
several times in the chest.
    In South Belfast, IRA gunmen opened fire on security forces manning a
checkpoint at Derryiaghy. No-one was hurt.  THURSDAY OCTOBER 28
    Trooper Andrew Clarke, 26, of 9th/12th Lancers, was charged in Belfast with
attempted murder outside the home of Thomas Begley.
    Belfast continued to bury its dead with the funerals of Martin Moran - the
first victim of the loyalist backlash - and the two council binmen James Cameron
and Mark Rodgers.
    Further horror followed when two Catholic brothers, lorry driver Gerard
Cairns, 22, and Rory Cairns, 18, an apprentice joiner, were shot dead in front
of their 11-year-old sister in the living room of their home at Bleary, near
Waringstown, Co Down.  The girl, who was celebrating her birthday, at first
thought the gunmen were part of a Hallow'een prank.  FRIDAY OCTOBER 29
    Police arrested a number of men in swoops in loyalist areas of Belfast today
in connection with the spate of killings of Catholics.
    At the EC Brussels summit, John Major met Irish premier Albert Reynolds to
discuss a six-point Dublin peace plan.
    They offered the IRA and other terrorist groups a part in the peace process
if they give up violence.  SATURDAY OCTOBER 30
    Loyalist gunmen joked "trick or treat" as they shot seven dead in a pub in
the latest sickening escalation of sectarian violence in Northern Ireland.
    Police said 11 were injured in the attack on the Rising Sun pub at
Greysteel, Co Londonderry, where up to 70 people were enjoying a Saturday night
drink, some wearing Hallowe'en fancy dress.
    The outlawed Ulster Freedom Fighters said they carried out the massacre in a
telephone call to the BBC.
    Ulster Secretary of State Sir Patrick Mayhew said all decent people would
feel the deepest degree of anger and disgust at the latest profoundly evil
attack.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1993 The Press Association Limited

                              194 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            October 31, 1993, Sunday

World's terrorists extort money in UK

BYLINE: By Ian Burrell

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 757 words


HE IS leader of the world's most vicious terrorist group, an organisation that
has killed thousands pursuing its Maoist dreams. But while Abimael Guzman
languishes in a Peruvian high-security jail, the tentacles of his organisation
have spread to Britain.

Guzman's face is painted on walls throughout London, while his cadres extort
funds for their insurgency from the capital's Peruvian community.  British
police believe it is just one of the foreign terror groups increasingly funding
their violence with money extorted from refugees and immigrant communities.

Detectives at the National Criminal Intelligence Service (NCIS) have uncovered
growing evidence that blackmail, drug-running and protection rackets in Britain
are fuelling terrorist attacks in South America, the Middle East, Turkey, the
Indian subcontinent and Ireland. ''These are some of the most brutal
international criminals we have known,'' said one officer.

Arturo Garcia, the Peruvian ambassador in London, said yesterday that the
Shining Path had been conducting an extortion campaign against Peruvians living
in London. Human rights groups have accused the Shining Path of slaughtering
thousands of peasants and community leaders who refused to support their
insurgency, which began in 1980.

Garcia's allegations follow claims by Peruvians of being forced to bring cocaine
into Britain by the Shining Path, which had threatened members of their families
in Peru.

Irish paramilitaries have long used such tactics to raise funds in mainland
Britain, with loyalist groups thought to make more than Pounds 750,000 a year
from protection rackets. Their methods are being adopted by foreign
revolutionary organisations.

The NCIS said that one group, the Kurdistan Workers' party (PKK), raised Pounds
2.5m last year from extortion rackets carried out against the Kurdish community
in Britain. The PKK has been fighting a nine-year war with Turkish security
forces for an independent Kurdish state.

Dev Sol, a second Kurdish terrorist organisation behind the kidnapping of
several tourists in Turkey, raised Pounds 350,000 last year through a similar
intimidation campaign. The money is used to fund the bombings and shootings
which the group has carried out in Turkey since 1989.

Last month a Hull restaurant owner was beaten up by six men from Dev Sol after
refusing to hand over Pounds 2,500 protection money. In north London, a kebab
shop owner admitted giving the organisation Pounds 2,000 after four men
threatened to wreck premises if he did not pay up.

Sikh terrorists, fighting for an independent state, are also resorting to
extortion campaigns in Britain. One shop owner from west London said that the
pressure started with graffiti. ''Then they break things and burn things and
give your car a going over.'' The shopkeeper said the revolutionaries behind
such intimidation wanted payments which started at Pounds 2,000 and rapidly
increased. ''They don't want to break you totally. They want you to stay open so
they can keep sponging from you,'' he said.

The Sikh terror groups suffered a setback when police made 150 arrests during
Operation Shampoo, a 1991 campaign against Asian organised crime. But Sikh
businessmen said the pressure was restarting in west London and the West
Midlands.

A Bangladeshi restaurateur said last week that he had been stabbed and forced to
pay money to young thugs employed by a Bangladeshi political group in east
London. ''The young people are paid to cause problems, they are used for
political purposes,'' he said.

Professor Paul Wilkinson, director of the Research Institute for the Study of
Conflict and Terrorism, said other notorious terror groups used more
sophisticated intimidation tactics to raise money.

He said Hamas and Hezbollah, Islamic fundamentalist groups, extorted large sums
from wealthy Arabs living in London. ''They go for very lucrative targets and
try to intimidate individuals rather than whole communities.'' He said secret
agents from Libya and Iran were also sent to Britain to conduct state-sponsored
extortion rackets.

Many immigrant entrepreneurs often face pressure from organised crime syndicates
from their home countries. Italian restaurant owners in London and the southeast
have recently fallen victim to an extortion racket organised by the Camorra, the
Naples branch of the Italian mafia, while Vietnamese and Chinese businessmen in
cities all over Britain are forced to make weekly payments of Pounds 300 a week
and upwards to Triad gangs.

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1993 Times Newspapers Limited

                              195 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                November 1, 1993

FRONT LINES FROM AFAR;
Another blast from Belfast. Across the Channel, readers turn over. Dominique
Jackson and Gary Younge on the foreign view of Northern Ireland's war without
end

BYLINE: DOMINIQUE JACKSON AND GARY YOUNGE

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN EURO PAGE; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 974 words


THINK of Sinn Fein and its president Gerry Adams as Yasser Arafat and the
Palestine Liberation Organisation. Imagine London is Jerusalem and Dublin is
Cairo. In this scenario, the Anglo-Irish Agreement is the Camp David Agreement.
And the IRA? An extremist faction like Hezbollah.

This was how a Greek correspondent set about explaining the bloody mess of
Northern Ireland last week to his readers a thousand miles away. At least he
tried.

As the sectarian strife in Britain's backyard "escalated", "mounted" and
"spiralled" into a "Crisis in Ulster" covering page upon page of British
broadsheet and tabloid newsprint, the media in the rest of Europe remained
largely unmoved; unwilling, or perhaps unable, to comprehend that anything truly
new or newsworthy was happening.

Whenever Fabrice Rousselot, Liberation's London correspondent, tries to sell a
Northern Ireland story to his foreign editor, he is always asked: What's new?

"In a journalistic sense, very little is usually new for a foreign reader," he
says. "Either it is another bomb and more human tragedy, or another attempt at
peace negotations which nobody believes will work." Still, Liberation devoted
two entire pages to the issue, including analysis of the effect of the bomb
blasts on the Hume-Adams peace negotiations.

Gerd Kroncke, London correspondent of the Suddeutsche Zeitung in Germany, was
one of the few foreign correspondents to venture across the Irish Sea last week.
His Munich-based broadsheet gave the story some prominence; Kroncke wrote two
long pieces of analysis. Yet even the venerable Suddeutsche headlined them Life
in the Killing Fields. Other choice headlines included Le Figaro's The Madmen of
Belfast and Die Zeit's Snipers and Mafiosi.

"Perhaps it is a little dangerous to make such simplistic parallels," says Babis
Metaxas, who used the Middle East analogy above in a commentary for Greek daily
Eleftheroptipia. "But it was the best way I could think of to try and explain
something that looks and sounds like a television series with scores of murders,
illegal armies, secret negotiations and clandestine deals. Understanding of the
Northern Irish problem in Greece is at best superficial."

"The death of Bobby Sands was the last thing to provoke any real commotion,"
says Jorge Almeida Fernandes of Portugal's Publico. "Portuguese media has
carried the latest news but no editorials were written."

Comparisons with other regional conflicts such as the Middle East and former
Yugoslavia are often made. But most Europeans still cannot see why Britain
should want to retain control of a region which is of no economic significance
and which invites so much international criticism; why the Unionists are so keen
to remain part of the United Kingdom; or why the Republicans are desperate to be
part of a re-united Ireland, when the Irish seem to have only a romantic
attachment to their cause.

"Danish people are very well-informed about what is going on in Northern
Ireland, but they cannot grasp the psychological complexity of the situation,"
says Jorgen Larsen, editor of Sondags Politiken.

In Sweden, Dagens Nyheter made Northern Ireland its front page story on
Wednesday and followed it up with editorial analysis.  "People here do
understand the basics, but that's all," says Torkel Rasmusson.  "It may sound
cynical, but they soon lose interest as it has been going on for so long and
there never seems any hope it will stop."

Pers-Kristian Holgen, foreign editor of Norway's Aftenposten, agrees. "You
cannot talk about loyalists, republicans, nationalists and unionists; nobody
will understand. So it is presented as Catholics against Protestants. That's why
it seems so medieval," he says.

WEEKEND bomb attacks are also poorly timed for much of Europe's news media. Few
countries have a Sunday newspaper tradition and reports of the latest atrocity
in distant Belfast rarely even make it on to foreign broadcast news schedules.

Several major European newspapers publish in the afternoons, which means early
deadlines and little space to carry more than a paragraph. While British papers
carried huge pictures of the Shankill Road and victims' funerals, the photograph
many European ones carried was of policemen combing the railtracks after the
Reading explosion.

"It's tempting to think about it as just another bomb in Belfast," admits
Vittorio Sabadin, editor-in-chief of news at the Turin-based daily La Stampa.
"There is sympathy in Italy for innocent victims of terror, but most people have
probably forgotten why Northern Ireland is at war." One country which does
follow the Troubles closely is Spain.

"There are clear parallels with the Basque country and ETA, although the root
causes are different: ours is more cultural and historical than religious. Only
last week ETA gunmen killed a general on the streets of Madrid," explains Carlos
Salas, foreign editor of El Mundo. El Mundo carried the Shankill bomb story on
the front page on Sunday and Salas sent his London correspondent to Ireland
immediately. "What we see in Ireland is very familiar. When an Etarra dies, his
priest speaks at the funeral, his mother cries in the street."

If there are general sympathies, they seem to be with the Catholic community,
even after the IRA attack. "The French know that there is some discrimination
against the Catholic community and even though they do not support the IRA, I
think they view them in that context," said Rousselot.

Laurent Zecchini, Le Monde's London correspondent, draws parallels with the
treatment of the Algerian nationalists (the FLN) during the Franco-Algerian war.
"For the time being, the IRA are terrorists but, as was the case with the FLN,
within a decade they could be negotiators and politicians. It is not out of the
question."


LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              196 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                November 1, 1993

Speed urged in talks on future Government pressured to speed up talks

BYLINE: Stuart Trotter,Political Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 654 words


THE Government was urged from several quarters yesterday to speed up talks on
the future of Northern Ireland as violence in the province showed no sign of
abating. However, a way forward still seemed obscure.

Mr Major condemned the Greysteel attack as "butchery" and is expected to respond
quickly to the desire for an "immediate" meeting expressed by SDLP leader John
Hume.

However, any progress on the still unpublished peace plan of Mr Hume and Sinn
Fein president Gerry Adams looks certain to be blocked by the insistence of both
the UK and Irish Governments on an unconditional end to violence before talking
begins.

A Downing Street spokesman said yesterday that violence would have to stop "for
a fairly long time" before those perpetrating it could be accepted round the
conference table.

Mr Major described the terrorist attacks of the past 10 days as "acts against
humanity". Irish Prime Minister Albert Reynolds said the search for peace had to
be speeded up.

Mr John Smith, Leader of the Opposition, said recent events emphasised the need
for the two Governments to "embark on a new effort to find a

way forward". Liberal Democrat leader Paddy Ashdown said imagination and courage
would be required if any progress were to be made.

Mr Hume, in a series of interviews, continued to insist the Hume-Adams plan
offered "the best hope of peace of 20 years".

Because of his respect for Mr Hume, the Prime Minister will see him soon once a
formal

request has been made to Downing Street. Nevertheless, the outline of the plan
given to him by Mr Reynolds in Brussels on Friday does not appear to have
altered the determination of both Governments not to give the IRA a voice at any
talks without a lengthy period of quarantine first.

Without revealing any details of the plan, Mr Hume denied that it proposed joint
sovereignty of the UK and the republic over Northern Ireland, saying that the
talks envisaged different "models" for a constitutional settlement could be
tabled by the Governments and parties involved.

None the less, his description of a settlement which would command the loyalties
of both unionist and nationalist communities will confirm unionists in their
conviction that the object of the plan is to move towards joint sovereignty as a
preliminary to creating a single Irish state.

Quite apart from the IRA, the loyalist terrorist groups might consider they had
a vested interest in preventing talks getting under way. Only if both
communities were to turn against their men of violence might there be a prospect
of useful talks. However, both IRA and loyalist gunmen are posing as the
"protectors" of their communities.

The Government's dependence on unionist votes at Westminster makes it difficult
for Mr Major to take any action which heightens the suspicions of their MPs that
the British Government is privately seeking ways to disengage itself from the
province. The Democratic Unionist leader, the Rev. Ian Paisley, said the recent
speech by Irish Foreign Minister Dick Spring simply sought to "sanitise" the
Hume-Adams plan.

East Belfast Democratic Unionist MP Peter Robinson said he was opposed to any
dialogue with the paramilitaries. He said: "What good has John Hume been in
terms of stopping IRA violence? What good would it do?

"I do not believe that talking to them does anything to stop terrorism,
especially in the current climate. You only validate terrorism if you allow it
to become part of the political process."

Mr Hume, interviewed on the ITV's Walden programme, said the 3000-plus death
toll in the province since the troubles flared up again in 1969 was equivalent
to 100,000 deaths on the streets of Britain.

He added, with understandable bitterness: "If that was happening in mainland
Britain, the House of Commons would be packed to the doors every day until the
Government had sorted it out."

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1993 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              197 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                           November 2, 1993, Tuesday

Cycle of violence sways arguments for internment

BYLINE: By Michael Evans and Richard Ford

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 538 words


TEN days of slaughter in Northern Ireland have failed publicly to shake the
establishment consensus opposing the reintroduction of internment.

But the deadly cycle of violence gripping the province and the knowledge that
Loyalist and republican paramilitaries have an armoury capable of sustaining a
low-level civil war for many years give more credence to arguments for
internment to be introduced in the north.

Intelligence profiles of the main IRA and Loyalist terrorists are so
comprehensive that internment of the key figures could be highly effective, a
former senior army commander involved in the 1971 internment operation said
yesterday.

''At least the security authorities would be seen to be doing something instead
of just reacting to terrorist attacks as they occur,'' the former commander
said. Those involved in the debate are agreed that it would transform security
and politics in the province but they disagree whether rounding up terrorist
suspects would change things for better or worse.

It is common ground that when last used between 1971 and 1975, internment proved
a disaster, unleashing a wave of violence upon the province and alienating the
nationalist community from Stormont. The initial swoop of Operation Demetrius
was only on nationalist areas and poor RUC intelligence meant that 104 of the
350 IRA suspects picked up had been released within two days.

One suspect arrested was blind, another sought had died four years earlier and
many were the old republican campaigners from the 1940s and 1950s. Many of the
addresses were wrong. No Loyalist terrorist suspects were arrested.

Many leading republicans had already fled before the swoops designed in the
words of Brian Faulkner, then Northern Ireland premier, to smash the IRA began
at 4am. As the army proclaimed the operation a success, Joe Cahill, a leading
IRA man, held a press conference in west Belfast. Within hours, street disorder
began. In the eight months before internment, 30 people died in Northern
Ireland, in the four months afterwards 143 died and there were 729 explosions.
The next year 467 people died.

Internationally, Britain's image was damaged. The Irish republic accused Britain
of torture and years later the European Court of Human Rights found the UK
guilty of inflicting ''inhuman and degrading treatment'' on a number of
internees.

It is the disastrous implementation of the policy in 1971 that still haunts
British governments. But those in favour of internment say the security forces
have better intelligence, known IRA activists are on file, and that internment
could be introduced with a sensitivity and finesse that was absent in 1971. Many
people believe that internment could succeed only if it were also introduced
south of the border. Previous Irish governments have never hesitated to intern
republicans but usually when they perceive them as a threat to their own state.

Although internment would be a political decision, none of the security
organisations operating in Northern Ireland, such as the army and MI5, would be
expected to advise in favour of interning terrorists unless the Dublin
government had agreed to do the same throughout the Republic of Ireland.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1993 Times Newspapers Limited

                              198 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                           November 4, 1993, Thursday

Major begins quest for round-table Ulster talks

BYLINE: By Nicholas Wood and Nicholas Watt

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 544 words


SENIOR Downing Street officials yesterday confirmed that an elected Northern
Ireland assembly is part of the package being drawn up by John Major for
discussion by leaders of the province's four constitutional parties, if they can
be persuaded to sit around the same table.

The prime minister will today invest his personal authority in the quest for
such talks when he meets John Hume, the leader of the SDLP, and John Alderdice,
leader of the non-sectarian Alliance party. There will be talks with the Rev Ian
Paisley of the DUP and James Molyneaux of the Official Unionists next week.

Confirmation of Mr Major's plans came as Sir Patrick Mayhew, the Northern
Ireland secretary, said talks between Ulster's main constitutional parties were
some way off. After the first Anglo-Irish conference since the recent upsurge in
violence, he said in Belfast that he was still looking for common ground between
the parties, and round-table talks would be counter-productive at the moment.
However, after a four-hour meeting with Dick Spring, Ireland's deputy prime
minister, Sir Patrick held out hope for a future resumption of the talks.

''There are sensible, rational grounds for hoping that the parties will be able
to meet what is the demand of everyday people in this province that politicians
sit down and enter into a process of dialogue,'' he said.

Sir Patrick was joined at the conference by Michael Ancram, the political
development minister, who has been holding exploratory talks with the
constitutional parties. The obstacles he faces were underlined outside
yesterday's meeting when Mr Paisley handed in a letter of protest saying that
Dublin was pouring oil on a dangerous situation. Despite the flurry of activity
in Downing Street, galvanised by the Shankill bomb and the Greysteel massacre,
some senior ministers remain sceptical of the prospects for peace in Northern
Ireland. One said yesterday that they were about as good as at any time in the
last 200 years. But Tom King, the former Northern Ireland secretary, backs the
prime minister's initiative in a letter in The Times today.

In a message aimed at assuaging unionist fears, he denies that Britain is
irrevocably committed to joint authority with the republic over Northern
Ireland. Mr King says that Mr Spring has accepted there can be no change in
Ulster's place as part of the United Kingdom without the consent of the majority
of the people of the province.

Referring to the atrocities in the province over the past few days, Mr King
suggests that internment of terrorist suspects would be counterproductive.

Yesterday's conference at Stormont Castle was delayed by a week as a mark of
respect for the nine people killed in the IRA bomb attack on a fish shop in
Shankill Road, Belfast, on October 23. Since then Loyalist gunmen have killed 13
Catholics and the IRA has murdered an RUC officer. Mr Spring said that the
violence had added new urgency to talks on the future of Northern Ireland.

Derek Grieve, 24, a labourer from the Waterside area of Londonderry, was
remanded in custody yesterday charged with withholding information from police
about the Loyalist shootings at Greysteel, Co Londonderry, on Saturday, and with
perverting the course of justice.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1993 Times Newspapers Limited

                              199 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            November 5, 1993, Friday

Kurds blamed for wave of bombings; PKK separatists suspected of mounting
firebomb attacks throughout Europe in protest at Turkish 'genocide'

BYLINE: ADRIAN BRIDGE in Berlin

SECTION: INTERNATIONAL NEWS PAGE; Page 12

LENGTH: 581 words


ONE PERSON was killed and several injured yesterday after suspected Kurdish
separatists launched a wave of attacks against Turkish consulates, properties
and businesses across Europe.

The attacks, with petrol bombs, sledge-hammers and baseball bats, bore a
striking resemblance to a similar concerted action in June. As then, they were
precisely co-ordinated and focused primarily on cities in Germany, home to
nearly 2 million Turks. Targets in Britain, Austria, France, Denmark and
Switzerland were also hit.

Kurdish firebombers managed to penetrate the ring of steel erected as a security
cordon round the City of London to prevent IRA car bombs. Five British Telecom
employees were taken to hospital, one with serious burns, after one of five
firebomb attacks on Turkish buildings in the capital hit the wrong target. The
building is in Gresham Street, in the heart of the City.

Nearly 1,000 people were evacuated after a bomb which exploded in a ground-floor
office hit a female building inspector. Three suspects had been detained and
were being questioned about the incident, a City police spokesman said.

Another firebomb went off at the Turkish Sabanci bank in Finsbury Square, again
in London's financial district. The attacks raise questions about how effective
is the security of the City of London, and how much longer Western governments
can allow the separatist Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) to operate in Europe.

Other London firebomb attacks were at the Turkish embassy in Belgrave Square,
Turkish Airlines offices in Hanover Street near Oxford Circus and a Turkish
working men's club in Stoke Newington. They all went off around 10.30am.

Criminal investigators in the German Land (regional state) of Hessen said four
people were arrested after a Turkish restaurant in Wiesbaden was set ablaze,
killing one person and injuring eight. A spokesman for the investigators said
the attacks bore the hallmark of the PKK, which has been fighting for a separate
Kurdish state since 1984.

In Bonn, police found a leaflet protesting about ''Turkish genocide'' against
Kurds close to the scene of another firebombing, while in Stuttgart two Turks
and one policeman were injured after a gang of masked men who had run through
the city's pedestrianised zone hurled petrol bombs into the Turkish consulate
and the office of Turkish Airlines.

In Frankfurt, two banks, one airline office and a travel agency were firebombed
and attacked with sledge-hammers. No one was injured. Protesters forced their
way at gunpoint into the European headquarters and printing plant of Turkey's
Hurriyet newspaper and vandalised it before fleeing. One guard was hit by a
sledge-hammer.

In Mainz, police arrested 10 youths after they broke into a cultural centre and
ransacked it. In Bremen, two travel agencies and one shop were damaged in petrol
bomb attacks.

In the French city of Strasbourg, two Turkish travel agencies and a bank were
attacked with firebombs. No one was hurt. A petrol bomb was thrown into the
local branch of the Bosphore bank at about 11.35am. There were similar attacks
minutes later against the Marmara and Mondial Tourism travel agencies in the
city centre.

The attacks were all highly coordinated. If the PKK is found to have been behind
them, Bonn more than other government will come under renewed pressure from
Ankara to ban the party, which is believed to have close to 4,000 members in
Germany.

(Photograph omitted)


LOAD-DATE: November 05, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1993 Independent Print Ltd

                              200 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                           November 6, 1993, Saturday

Biting the bullet

BYLINE: Robert Kee

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 3647 words


The talks between John Hume and Gerry Adams have been reviled by some as
treachery and hailed by others as the best chance yet to break Northern
Ireland's forlorn cycle of violence, counter violence and ritual denunciation.
At the heart of any settlement, argues Robert Kee, must lie an understanding of
the origins of Irish national identity and an attempt to find a realistic way of
resolving its complexity.

EDMUND BURKE once said you cannot plan the future by the past, but in Northern
Ireland the past is not a different country; it is the landscape and you have to
adjust all movement to it.

Despite the ghastly death toll of the past three weeks, the talks between John
Hume, the Irish nationalist who deplores IRA violence, and Gerry Adams, the
Irish nationalist who has been supporting it, can be seen as the most hopeful
event in Ireland for the past 25 years. They are more than that: they are the
most positive development since talks over Ireland took place 73 years ago this
winter. Then, at the height of the last major IRA campaign in which British
forces were eventually confronted by guerrilla warfare, the first tentative
feelers began to be put out by individuals on both sides. At first these came to
nothing, but finally they led to the truce and settlement of 1921.

The Hume-Adams talks were very different from what happened then. The first
moves of that day came from intermediaries trying to bring the two conflicting
sides together. This was something subtler. Now, although the British government
and the IRA are again in conflict, and Hume and Adams differ about that
conflict, the two men are also, in a sense, on the same side.

For both are Irish nationalists, Catholic educated, who believe passionately
that Ireland should be a single state. But they differ bitterly over whether,
given that the South is a democracy which has renounced violence as a means to
embrace the North, violence is a legitimate means of making the country whole.

Hume, 56, is the popular leader of the Social Democratic and Labour Party and is
a member of the European Parliament for Northern Ireland. He was a involved in
the short-lived power-sharing government at Stormont in 1974 as minister of
commerce, and since 1983 has been the MP for Foyle, Derry, an IRA stronghold
from where, with a personal courage which is not always recognised at
Westminster, he has never ceased to denounce its murderous acts.

Adams, 45, is the president of Sinn Fein, and was also elected an MP in 1983,
for West Belfast. He, too, is popular, although he lost his seat which, in
accordance with traditional pre-1921 doctrine, he had not taken up to a member
of Hume's SDLP in 1992. The two parties have been fighting political street
battles in Northern Ireland for years.

Both Hume and Adams are intelligent, likable men Hume more expansive, Adams more
ascetic in personal style. What they have been talking about is whether, if the
IRA were to renounce terrorism, they could find a formula for the future of
Ireland which nationalists, Unionists and the British and Irish governments
might accept. During the six months over which their talks continued, they got
on well together. They have said that they are now ''convinced that a process
can be designed to lead to agreement among the divided people of this island
which will provide a solid basis for peace''.  Whatever the original details of
this process, it was the Hume-Adams initiative which led to the joint statement
a week ago by the British and Irish governments that once IRA violence had
stopped ''new doors could open and both governments would wish to respond
imaginatively to the new situation which would arise''. A new situation has
thereby already arisen.

The Shankill Road bomb cast a complex shadow over the whole event. Questions
were inevitably asked about whether Adams really does have influence over the
IRA which alone gives point to the meeting if the IRA perpetrates such a crime
at a time when the men have met to talk about peace. Did it mean that he
approved the attack itself when he said that the way it turned out was wrong,
''whatever the intentions''? Why, if he thought it was wrong, did he carry the
bomber's coffin at the funeral?

Whatever the answers, Hume has said the bomb and subsequent violence have made
the talks more necessary than ever. Wherever the two of them now go, they will
already have had to dismantle cliches of attitude to which all sides have clung
complacently for decades. That is just what the parties to the 1921 settlement
had to do, and it is not surprising that people in the Republic see a parallel.

Few British people today know much about the last time a British government sat
down formally at a conference table to meet Irish terrorists with whom the
government had said it could never have a dialogue. To go back into history may
be the best way of moving forward to understand the present.

A number of things turn out not to be what they seem. At Easter 1916, in the
middle of the war against Germany in which tens of thousands of Irishmen from
all parts of Ireland were fighting for the freedom of small nations, a
well-meaning schoolmaster and poet came out of the Dublin post office and
proclaimed to bewildered passers-by a German-allied Irish Republic in the name
of which the building behind him had just been occupied. The bewilderment was
understandable. The proclamation was full of absurdity. It spoke of the Irish
people asserting their right to sovereignty and freedom six times during the
preceding 300 years. In fact, the first of these occasions had been in support
of a reigning English king (Charles I), the second in support of a deposed one
(James II). The third, in 1798, had been a disastrous failure by mainly
Protestant idealists to mobilise Catholics for nationhood in something more than
a peasants' revolt; the fourth a street riot in 1803; the fifth an affray in
1848 to be known as the battle of the Widow McCormack's cabbage garden; the
sixth the Fenian Rising of 1867 in which fewer than a dozen men were killed and
now this. Yet the Easter Rising was to change the course of 700 years of
history, not because some 200 combatants were killed during the week's violence
(and still more civilians), nor because of the ill-judged executions that
followed, but because the episode touched a nerve deep in the Irish
consciousness, which the British government had so long disregarded.YEATS'S ''A
TERRIBLE BEAUTY is born'' was a poetic expression of sober truth. Within three
years a majority of the Irish people, denied a demand for home rule under the
crown for the past 30 years, had voted for a sovereign independent Irish
Republic for all Ireland.  The problem about Irish identity was that it had long
been difficult to define precisely what it was, or where its political
aspirations lay. The first modern expression of independent Irish nationalism
had not come from the majority of the Irish people, but from the Anglican
Protestant minority of the 18th century, who wanted to manage their own affairs
on the model of the recently successful American colonists. Their parliament,
from which Catholics were excluded and for which they did not even have a vote
until near the end of the century, had come to be thought of as a ''patriot
parliament''.

It was only when radical Protestant reformers looked to the French revolution,
rather than the American, and failed to unite a Catholic, Protestant and
dissenter Irish nation in the calamitous rebellion of 1798 that Protestant
colonists came to see their ascendancy interests as safer in parliamentary union
with Britain. Catholics, too, concerned more for their interests and equality
before the law than with nationhood, largely welcomed the wider embrace.

The Catholic majority covered a wide social and economic range, from landless
labourers and artisans to small and large tenant farmers, landlords,
shopkeepers, the professional classes and the Catholic hierarchy. Most had some
share in an ancient Gaelic identity which had been enriched by Christianity and
had proved capable of absorbing Viking, Norman and early English settlers. But
internal dissensions and Elizabethan conquest had broken the political character
of this identity. Subsequent attempts to rally it politically had been under the
banner of English kings losing civil wars of their own. The identity had
survived strongly, preserved in the patina of pre-Reformation Catholicism, in
language and in the isolation of civil disadvantage. But, by definition, it had
no power and had not in modern times been harnessed to political effect. A
Catholic who opposed both the rebellion of 1798 and the Union of 1801 was a
young lawyer, Daniel O'Connell. His family had managed to hang on to a part of
their estates in Co Kerry and retained some sense of Irish glory from an ancient
past. While in theory visualising an Irish nation of all religions, O'Connell
made his life's work the organisation of Irish Catholics for political action.
After nearly 30 years of the Union, he won Catholic emancipation and the right
for Catholics, including himself, to sit in parliament. His next campaign was to
repeal the Union and set up an Irish parliament, loyally under the Crown but
containing representatives of the majority of the Irish people.

His campaign for repeal of the Union was swept away by the social tidal-wave of
the Irish famine in the mid-1840s, which made politics in Ireland temporarily a
side-issue. But O'Connell had left an all-important political legacy for our own
time: he had organised the Catholic majority of the Irish people for political
action and so had made Irish Nationalism a Catholic cause. The Protestant
minority now looked to the Union for protection of their minority status. Irish
nationalism, for all the reassurance of its many Protestant supporters (and of
its next great leader, Charles Parnell, a Protestant himself) that it embraced
all Irishmen, was never again able to escape easily from this identification
with a Catholic people.

In the days of the Land League, Parnell made some headway in Ulster by stressing
the league's determination to put the undermining

of rents before its national aspirations. Speaking on the first Home Rule bill
of 1886, he said that he wanted the energy, patriotism, talents and work of all
Irishmen, believing that the best system was one which required government to be
the result of ''all the forces within that country''. He ignored what has been
ignored by nationalists ever since: that in Ireland ''all the forces within that
country'' did not see it that way.

Attempts to reconcile the concerns of the Protestants of northeast Ulster with
Irish nationalism were always few; dedication to much more than a theoretical
concept of a united Ireland was only routine. And the refusal of Protestants to
be reconciled was always taken by nationalists for bluff until it was too late.

PARNELL'S GREAT POLITICAL achievement had been, at the head of more than 80
Irish nationalists in the House of Commons, to convert the leader of one of the
two British political parties, the Liberal William Gladstone, to the principle
of Home Rule for all Ireland.

Earlier, he'd had to convert the majority of the Irish people themselves to a
sense of nationalism. Their own principal concern in 1874, the year he first
went into politics as a Home Ruler, was not with the issue of nationality but
with their need for security on the land which so many of them held from
landlords. Home Rule in the House of Commons was then little more than a matter
for gentlemanly enquiry: The Daily Telegraph said those who spoke for it there
''might as well climb the moon'' as hope for the creation of an Irish
parliament.

By the end of the 1870s not only had Parnell succeeded in making Home Rule an
awkward nuisance in the House of Commons but, in Ireland, he was haranguing
crowds about the link between their enthusiasm for land reform and the higher
ideal of nationality. Nationality was to be, in the words of one of his
semi-revolutionary organisers in the Land League, ''the soul of the movement''.
Yet, interviewed at the height of the Land League's success, Parnell admitted
that it was the land question in which the people were primarily interested. For
all his rhetoric about independence, he settled for a very limited form of
self-government in Gladstone's first Home Rule bill.  The majority of Irish
people were happy to accept it, as he said he did, as a final settlement.
Gladstone eventually got Home Rule through the Commons in 1893, but it was
rejected by the Lords. Meanwhile, Parnell's personal problems with his party and
premature death at 45 had meant that there was no nationalist leader of major
stature in the 17-year interval before the Liberals again needed Irish
nationalist support in the House of Commons in 1910.

With the powers of the Lords limited by the Parliament Act, Home Rule finally
received the royal assent in September 1914, but it was suspended until the end
of the war to await an amending bill to deal with the problem of Ulster. By then
the nationalist nerve had snapped, activated by disappointment with delay, lack
of response to most nationalists' co-operation in the war and the emotional
after-effects of the Easter Rising.  The Irish majority voted for an all-Ireland
sovereign republic. They did not get an all-Ireland Home Rule but two
parliaments with limited powers, one in Dublin and one in Belfast. They rejected
the whole arrangement. The IRA campaign of 1919-1921 and truce followed.

A sizable part of the IRA refused to accept the deal which their chief
organiser, Michael Collins, brought back from London. The deal gave the six
counties of Ulster the right to opt out of the new Irish Free State, but it was
not this which caused the split in the IRA; the main objection was to the clause
which required an Irish parliamentary oath to the British Crown. Eamon de
Valera, who was to head the dissenters' political front in the ensuing Irish
civil war, produced an alternative document. While dropping the oath, this
conceded the separation from the Free State of the six counties in similar terms
to the London agreement.

When, by 1937, de Valera was himself in a position to change the name of the
state to Eire (Ireland), its new constitution recognised ''the special position
of the Holy Catholic Apostolic and Roman Catholic Church''. Although this clause
disappeared from the constitution (now that of the Irish Republic) in 1972,
after an 84 per cent referendum vote for its removal, its absence was not by
then likely to change many minds north of the border. That Irish nationalism
meant the nationalism of the Catholic people of Ireland was no longer in doubt.
De Valera, by keeping Eire neutral in the second world war, set the seal on a
valid Irish nationalism. He also set the seal on its essential 26-county
Catholic identity.

That a significant part of that Catholic Irish people's identity lives as a
minority in the North is true. That they were treated as second-class citizens
before the days of the civil rights movement is also true. But such wrongs have
now officially been righted. A minority problem handled decently does not
necessarily entail a nationalist problem. The present foreign minister of the
Irish Republic has said categorically that the two articles of the constitution
which implicitly claim sovereignty over Northern Ireland are ''not cast in
bronze'' in other words, to use another phrase of his, it is ''on the table''
that they, too, could be submitted to a referendum.

It could now be possible for doctrinaire Irish nationalism to accept at last a
realistic understanding of its true aspiration: the freedom of one particular
type of Irish identity. What has, for much of this century, seemed to most
Northern Protestants the menace of a Republican united Ireland, from which only
the force of arms or union with Britain can protect them, could be removed at a
stroke.

History, reinforced by the past 25 years, demonstrates that for the Protestant
Unionists of northeast Ulster a united republican Ireland can never be
acceptable, and also that it may not be necessary for the nationalist Republic
of Ireland to insist on one. But to bring its citizens to an agreement will
certainly require some concession to the all-Ireland nationalist dogma which
history has shown to be hollow.

There is one concession it could be possible for present-day Unionists to make
in return for the assured security of their own permanent independence.  But
what, they might reasonably ask, would be their guarantee that the security
would be assured and the independence permanent?

The answer is that the concession could be to accept their own sovereign
independence. They could, together with their minority, become the thirteenth
independent sovereign state of the European Community, guaranteed
constitutionally by Dublin and London and with necessary economic support from
both, as well as from Brussels. (Britain's continuing economic support would no
longer have to bear the brunt of the security budget.)

But what is the concession to the Republic in this? The answer is that it would
leave, if not a united Ireland, at least an Irish Ireland an honourable
compromise on nationalist principle. It would remove British sovereignty from
Ireland altogether: the chief objective of legendary Irish heroes from Wolfe
Tone onwards, including Parnell, and certainly Michael Collins.

THERE ARE, OF COURSE, two other parties which also have to agree any eventual
solution: those latter-day Fenians of the IRA who see themselves as legendary
heroes, and the British government.  The British government presents no problem
provided it can be persuaded to want to break the present degrading deadlock in
the first place. And it is morally degrading for a democratic society to
confront with nothing more constructive than indignation IRA terrorism, which,
together with the official and unofficial counter-violence it provokes, has been
killing on average between two and three people a week for the past 25 years.
The present British government's dependence on placid Unionist votes in the
House of Commons may disincline it to look any further at the problem, but this
will not be to its credit in the history books. There is no British patriotic
sovereign commitment to Northern Ireland territory such as there is to the
Falklands, only one to remain there as long as the majority of the people and
the parliament of Northern Ireland want us to. We could give up our sovereignty
to that people, and that parliament, whenever they chose.

So what, then, of the latter-day Fenians of the IRA? The IRA is plainly now not
so completely hooked on national myth to think that there could ever be a chance
of agreement to a republican united Ireland. Gerry Adams would not otherwise
have been having talks with John Hume. The Unionists of Northern Ireland could
never agree to any proposal for joint sovereignty that might have come out of
the talks and, besides, the Fenians could do better than that. There is, after
all, an element of reality in their superannuated myth that a united Ireland was
worth fighting for, or the myth would not have existed. An Ireland without
British rule would meet it generously.

TO THOSE WHO would, understandably, argue particularly after the Belfast bombing
two weeks ago that they deserve no generosity, it should be said that since we
have been unable to deal with terrorism successfully by confronting bombs and
bullets for the past 25 years, it is time to confront the ideology.  If an Irish
Ireland were to come about in this fashion, we would be giving nothing away to
terrorism: it would happen because the other three parties wanted it to. That
much, at least, will be part of whatever formula is to be found to end the
800-year-old Irish question.

Such uncorroborated reports as did at first appear of the ''process'' by which
Hume and Adams hoped to recommend a solution suggested a very different formula.
There was talk of Britain calling a round-table conference at which all parties
on the basis of the Rhodesia Lancaster House conference of the Seventies would
somehow arrive, through Irish ''self-determination'', at an arrangement all
could accept. Provided such agreement were to be reached, the British government
would be pledged in advance to accept it.

On the surface and both Hume and Adams described the reports as ''pure
speculation'', Adams adding that it was ''widely inaccurate'' and ''unhelpful''
this seemed even then very simplistic. If all parties could have agreed by
determining their settlement for themselves, they would have done so long ago.
There was nothing new about the British government pledging itself to accept
such agreement: it did so long ago. That the British government was kept quietly
in touch with what was going on seems likely. But all John Major said for a time
was: ''We do not negotiate with terrorists, we do not surrender to violence.''
Now, by his talk in harmony with the Irish government of ''new doors'' opening,
the smallest chink of hope begins to appear through them. After a week in which
more than 20 deaths were added to the 3,600 of the last 25 years, the only
comfort may be that these make it more likely that the doors will not only stay
open but open wider. And this the Hume-Adams talks, with their attempt to
getbeyond the routine cliches which simply express indignation at the violence,
will have made much easier.  There is no evidence that the doors would have
begun to open without their first initiative.

Robert Kee's The Laurel and The Ivy: The Story of Charles Stewart Parnell and
Irish Nationalism was published last week by Hamish Hamilton (Pounds 20).

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1993 Times Newspapers Limited

                              201 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 11, 1993

FOREIGNERS FLOCK TO 'FEARFUL' LONDON

BYLINE: JAMES ERLICHMAN, CONSUMER AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 346 words


SEVENTY per cent of Britons believe visiting London is more dangerous than going
abroad, while in Scotland this rises to 80 per cent.

The findings come despite a spate of tourist killings in Florida, Egypt and
elsewhere in Africa, according to Lunn Poly, the travel firm which polled a
random sample of 1,030 adults about their holiday intentions.

Trips to Florida from Britain fell by 20 per cent last summer, and nearly half
those polled said the reported violence there would deter them from going next
year.

That is bad news for Disney World in Orlando, the top American attraction for
British tourists, and it comes as bookings to Euro Disney near Paris are also
plunging.

The British fear of London, presumably fuelled by IRA bombings, is not shared by
the 9 million foreigners who visited the capital last year - London attractions
being the overwhelming reason why Britain was the world's sixth most popular
tourist destination.

At least a quarter of British families are expected to holiday abroad next year,
and a record 9 million are forecast to book a foreign package holiday with
travel agents - a good indication, the company said, that economic recovery is
under way.

But early figures suggest the biggest beneficiary will be the cheapest country,
Spain, where bookings are up by 50 per cent - not least because the peseta has
fallen faster than the pound.

The top 10 package holiday destinations last summer were: Majorca, Cyprus,
Tenerife, Turkey, Florida, Corfu, Ibiza, Algarve, Crete and Menorca. This year
also, self-catering holidays are for the first time poised to overtake hotel
bookings.

Nearly half of those interviewed, and two-thirds in Scotland, said their main
reason for taking a foreign holiday was sunshine and good weather.

The main reason for not going abroad (59 per cent of people) was not being able
to afford it. Other reasons included the difficulty of taking young children,
health worries - mainly among the elderly - fear of flying, dislike of the sun
and needing to care for pets.


LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              202 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          November 11, 1993, Thursday

Bargain hunters home in on mean streets of Belfast; Houses for sale from pounds
1,350, good security, ripe for restoration. Ian MacKinnon reports

BYLINE: IAN MACKINNON

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 4

LENGTH: 566 words


FOR the proud new owners of what must be the UK's cheapest, and possibly least
desirable residences, the emphasis on security will be hard to escape. The armed
police and army patrols that constantly cruise the streets would ordinarily
engender a feeling of safety.

But with the addresses being in some of the less salubrious streets of Belfast,
particularly in the north of the city, security on that scale takes on new and
rather sinister connotations.

Still, all but one of the nine Northern Irish houses up at an auction at a
Merseyside racecourse yesterday were sold in a flurry of bids within an hour,
some to speculators hoping to make a quick turn on the bargain-basement prices.

But while Northern Ireland has been long-feted for having the lowest house
prices in Britain, it achieved new notoriety when a one-bedroomed flat went for
the princely sum of pounds 1,350.

Even that was an advance on the pounds 1,000 price tag which one estate agent
estimated would be reasonable for the repossessed flat in Midland Crescent, just
off the Antrim Road in north Belfast, which had refused to budge on the open
market.

The other eight properties - most of them vandalised, bricked up and covered in
sectarian graffiti after lying empty for long periods - fetched marginally
better prices at the General Accident Property Services' auction at Haydock
Park.

Top price was pounds 7,000 for a vandalised two-bedroomed terraced house just
off the Falls Road in Beechmount Street, looking out over a grim, litter-strewn
wasteland.

But near the bargain one-bedroom flat was the jewel in the crown: lot 108, a
four-bedroomed end-of-terrace house in Atlantic Avenue, which did not quite
achieve the guide price of pounds 10,000, though the estate agents, Cornerstone,
are negotiating over a slightly lower bid.

Another four-bedroomed house a short distance away in Willowbank Gardens, its
downstairs windows boarded up to keep out the vandals, did not quite reach the
reserve price of pounds 6,000, but the agents were happy to get it off their
hands for pounds 4,600.

In Etna Drive, on the staunchly Republican Ardoyne, with its murals depicting
masked IRA gunmen, the story was different. A two-bedroomed mid-terrace house,
complete with rear garden and off-street parking, achieved its reserve price,
but then that was only pounds 3,000 to start with.

Those flipping through the catalogue would surely have been tempted. The picture
shows a pleasant, red-brick house with new curtains, set back from the road,
gates protecting the driveway. Reality, however, is more sobering. The gates are
long gone, all the windows are smashed and boarded up, and adorned with graffiti
supporting the Irish National Liberation Army.

Yet all this - and the fact that Thomas Begley, the IRA man blown up by his own
bomb in the Shankill bombing, lived in neighbouring Brompton Park - was not
enough to deter the prospective buyer.

''There are bargain hunters out in force,'' one agent involved in the sale said.
''But at least one of the properties will be refurbished and go straight back on
the market. The buyer sees it as a bit of speculation.

''Quite a few of the properties will be done up and then let out, probably to
the unemployed, because the landlord will get the rent straight from the social
security and they'll be quids in.''

(Photograph omitted)


LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1993 Independent Print Ltd

                              203 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               November 12, 1993

President Clinton upholds ban on Adams visit

BYLINE: John Cooney

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 884 words


PRESIDENT Bill Clinton has accused Mr Gerry Adams of being involved "at the
highest level" in IRA terrorism and has upheld a ban on the Sinn Fein president
visiting the United States.

This unprecedented public rebuke by Mr Clinton of Mr Adams is a huge diplomatic
success for the British Government in the propaganda war against the powerful
Irish-American lobby.

The Clinton statement offering firm support to the British approach to peace
talks has also out-manoeuvred the Irish government, which wants Washington's
support for its "peace first" strategy of allowing Sinn Fein into peace talks
after an IRA cessation of violence.

"Neither the British nor the Irish government favour granting Adams a visa," Mr
Clinton said in a letter to defeated New York Mayor David Dinkins, who had
invited the IRA's chief apologist to the United States.

Mr Clinton makes it clear the White House has little sympathy for the joint
peace initiative with the leader of the Social Democratic and Labour Party, Mr
John Hume.

Instead, the president strongly backs the British Government's strategy of
relaunching talks among the constitutional political parties in Northern
Ireland.

On a number of occasions Mr Adams has been banned by US immigration authorities
because of his involvement in terrorist activity.

The Irish-American lobby, specifically the Ad Hoc Committee for Irish Affairs in
Congress, were pressing to reverse the latest ban so that Mr Adams could
campaign for American support for his peace plan.

This move has been firmly rejected by Mr Clinton after a considerable lobby by
British diplomats in Washington.

"I continue to believe that we should not grant Adams a waiver," Mr Clinton
wrote in his reply to Mr Dinkins.

"Credible evidence exists that Adams remains involved at the highest level in
devising IRA strategy.

"Moreover, despite his recent talks with SDLP leader John Hume, Adams still has
not publicly renounced terrorism.

"Unfortunately recent events provide no grounds for reconsidering Adams visa
request."

The president said that the IRA bombing in Belfast on October 23 that killed 10
people including two children had underscored "the brutal and terrorist nature
of the organisation and undermined efforts to resume the political dialogue
among the parties".

The Irish government insisted last night that it did not advise the Clinton
administration to refuse Mr Adams a visa. A spokesman at the Department of
Foreign Affairs in Dublin said "no advice was offered" by the Irish embassy in
Washington.

"It is wrong to say that President Clinton's administration came to us and asked
our advice. That is a matter for the American government. Our embassy was not
consulted and no advice was given on the visa."

The timing of the Clinton statement, as well as its substance, has taken the
Irish government by surprise.

Mr Dick Spring, the deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs, was
preparing the ground for a major diplomatic offensive when he visits Washington
next week.

Mr Spring is scheduled to meet US Secretary of State Warren Christopher and
leading politicians on Capitol Hill.

Despite earlier indications by Irish diplomats that he would meet Mr Clinton, no
arrangements have been made for such a meeting.

The extent of the British Government's successful input into the US assessment
of Northern Ireland policy is also revealed in the Clinton statement.

"My administration's policy continues to support the early resumption of
political talks as the most promising way to seek peace and reconciliation in
Northern Ireland," the president wrote.

Last night Mr Adams claimed he was the victim of black propaganda after the
outspoken attack on him by Mr Clinton.

Mr Adams said the Clinton remarks amounted to "black propaganda" based on "lies
concocted by the British" in a bid to stifle debate about their role in Ireland.
He insisted he had no involvement in terrorism.

"This type of unfounded allegation is used by the British Government as a cover
for its real intention which is to prevent any informed debate about its
involvment in Irish affairs," he said.

The Sinn Fein president had also been invited to Britain by former Labour
government minister Tony Benn.

Noraid, an American-based organisation that has backed the republican cause in
Northern Ireland, said the tone of a letter from Mr Clinton to Mr Dinkins
clearly indicated he had been influenced by the British.

A reference by Mr Clinton to Irish government opposition to Mr Adams getting a
visa for the US caused some puzzlement in Dublin. But sources in the Irish
capital agreed that Mr Adams's absence from America would head off a possible
propaganda coup for Sinn Fein.

The former West Belfast MP said he had instructed his lawyers to contest the ban
on his entry to Britain and he would also appeal against Mr Clinton's ruling.

Irish Americans, he added, also would be concerned to know if the Irish
government influenced the decision at a crucial time in UK-Irish affairs.

Mr Adams added: "The US administration is clearly sending a signal through its
State Department that its policy continues to favour the failed policies of the
past. This is not good enough."

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1993 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              204 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                           November 14, 1993, Sunday

IN OTHER PAPERS: FIGURES OF SPEECH

SECTION: THE OBSERVER NEWS PAGE; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 627 words


REPORTS in several of today's papers indulge in that favourite pastime of
guessing what's going to be the Queen's Speech.

The Independent on Sunday says it will pave the way for the scrapping of a raft
of workplace safety legislation. Safeguards in all but the most dangerous cases
will be replaced by 'a more general, goal-based duty of care'.The paper claims
Ministers will argue existing laws put unacceptable burdens on businesses.

The Sunday Times says the Queen will announce plans for legislation forcing
local authorities to sell assets worth pounds 100 billion to the private sector.
The package will affect 26 regional airports including Luton, Manchester and
Birmingham.

The Mail on Sunday forecasts a 24-hour shopping revolution aimed at revitalising
Britain's town and city centres. It says restrictions on the opening hours of
shopping centres and supermarkets will be relaxed, creating thousands of jobs.

The Mail also says lawyers acting for the Princess of Wales have gone back to
the High Court in further action against Bryce Taylor, former boss of the gym
where she was photographed with a hidden camera. As a result, Mr Taylor will
have to provide detailed accounts of his earnings from selling the pictures,
including payments from the Sunday Mirror which first carried them.

The Mirror itself focuses on prescription charges, forecasting they will go up
by 75 pence to pounds 5 as a result of pressure by the Treasury on Health
Secretary Virginia Bottomley.

In sharp contrast, Britain's cereal farmers are about to harvest a pounds 1
billion crop of subsidies, thanks to European Community inducements to leave
fields empty, the Sunday Express reports. It says the payments are intended to
cut Europe's food mountains but early signs are that they are having little
effect.

It also reports that home owners in England and Wales are burgled more often
than those in any other country in Europe.

John Major believes the debate on single mothers is in danger of backfiring on
his Government, according to the Sunday Telegraph. The Prime Minister has
ordered his Cabinet colleagues to ease off the subject.

It also reports that a Tunisian terrorist convicted of bomb attacks that injured
five British holidaymakers has been granted political asylum in the UK. Islamic
fundamentalist Rashid Ghannouchi masterminded bomb attacks on four Tunisian
hotels in 1987.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              205 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 15, 1993

TUNISIAN WHO BOMBED BRITONS 'GRANTED ASYLUM'

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 257 words


A TUNISIAN Islamic fundamentalist leader convicted of bomb attacks that injured
five British holidaymakers has reportedly been granted political asylum.

George Foulkes, the Labour MP for Carrick, Cumnock and Doon Valley, said he
would protest to the Home Secretary about the case of Rashid Ghannouchi, aged
50, who was found guilty of masterminding explosions at four hotels in Tunisia
in 1987. He was jailed for life but was later given a presidential pardon.

According to a report in the Sunday Telegraph, he has been granted exceptional
leave to remain in Britain, even though the Tunisian government has protested
about his terrorist links. He had claimed his safety could not be guaranteed if
he returned.

Those injured by the bombs included one of Mr Foulkes's constituents, Helen
Strochi, aged 27, from Maypole, Ayrshire, who lost a foot.

"I'm surprised he has got such sympathetic consideration and such quick
consideration," Mr Foulkes said. "I have experienced difficulties in getting
political asylum for other people who are fleeing from persecution, and their
presence in the UK wouldn't cause any offence at all. I'm concerned at the
offence this could cause to people who were injured in the bombing, and their
relatives."

He said he would write to the Home Secretary, Michael Howard, expressing "very
serious concern".

The Home Office said it was unable to comment on individual asylum cases. A
spokesman said political asylum was granted when there was a well-founded fear
of persecution.


LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              206 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               November 15, 1993

Irish press Major on plan for IRA ceasefire

BYLINE: John Cooney

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 638 words


IRISH Prime Minister Albert Reynolds is prepared to provoke a major crisis in
British-Irish relations by pushing for a peace formula which he believes could
result in an end to IRA violence by Christmas.

At a political rally in Sligo at the weekend, Mr Reynolds said: "Nobody should
have the veto on peace."

This is the latest in a series of public comments directed by Mr Reynolds to
engage the more personal active intervention of John Major in Northern Ireland
policy.

Mr Reynolds fears that Mr Major -- because of his Westminster dependence on
support of the Ulster Unionists, led by Mr James Molyneaux -- is not prepared to
change the political status in Northern Ireland.

In the three week run-up to his summit meeting in Dublin with Mr Major, Mr
Reynolds wants to increase pressure on Britain to counteract the Molyneaux
influence.

Government sources in Dublin said last night that Mr Reynolds would like to see
Mr Major relax what is seen as the pro-Unionist grip on policy of Northern
Ireland Secretary Sir Patrick Mayhew.

Sir Patrick's priority is to resume the talks which ended a year ago between the
constitutional parties in Northern Ireland and the two Governments in London and
Dublin.

However, Mr Reynolds is concentrating on the need to bring about an immediate
cessation of violence, because he believes there is a unique window of
opportunity for peace.

This opportunity has arisen largely because of the agreement reached in private
talks between Mr John Hume, the leader of Northern Ireland's Social Democratic
and Labour Party, and Mr Gerry Adams, the president of Sinn Fein, the IRA's
political wing.

Mr Reynolds has tried to reformulate the basic Irish republican desire for a
British acknowledgement of the Irish right to self-determination.

A satisfactory formulation is very difficult as account has to be taken of the
legitimate desire of Ulster Unionists to remain British.

Politically, such a formula has to take account of Mr

Major's repugnance for anything which has "the fingerprints" of Mr Adams on it.

Government sources in Dublin suggest that the objective is to persuade London to
make a declaration urging the Unionists to seek a political accommodation with
the Republic, while the two Governments still would agree to recognise Northern
Ireland's union with Britain as long as a majority wants to remain British.

Speaking in Sligo on Saturday, Mr Reynolds said there was now a tremendous mood
for peace and a belief that there was an opportunity to bring it about.

"The talks process is, of course, very essential, if a political settlement is
to be eventually reached. But the achievement of peace first would greatly
improve the atmosphere for the talks process and the prospects of a positive
result.

"It is not credible to expect that peace will come about of its own accord. It
has to be actively sought."

Mr Reynolds referred to talk recently about vetoes by a majority on
constitutional change.

"That is one thing. But nobody should have a veto on peace."

Attempts to repair Irish-US relations will be made in Washington this week by Mr
Dick Spring, the Republic's Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign
Affairs. Last week, British diplomats outflanked their Irish colleagues by
persuading President Clinton publicly to support the refusal to grant a visa
entry to Mr Adams.

Mr Spring is to discuss "misunderstandings" over President Clinton's claim that
the Irish Government approved the administration's decision not to issue a visa
to the Sinn Fein leader.

Mr Martin McGuiness, a senior figure in the republican movement, said yesterday
that the Irish people would have peace, a real peace. However, this would have
to be based on the principles agreed by Mr

Adams with Mr Hume.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1993 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              207 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                           November 15, 1993, Monday

Visit by the Princess of Wales takes Enniskillen by surprise

BYLINE: Nicholas Watt and Joe Joseph

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 633 words


THE Princess of Wales, missing from the line-up at yesterday's traditional
Remembrance ceremony in London, made an unexpected trip to join soldiers and war
veterans in Enniskillen in Northern Ireland, six years after visiting the town
to comfort victims of the 1987 IRA Remembrance Day bomb attack.

Amid tight security the princess flew to Enniskillen by helicopter. Local people
knew that a VIP was due to attend, but did not know it

was the princess until a fleet of cars drew up at the town's cenotaph.

The princess laid the first wreath at the war memorial. Rebuilt after the
bombing, it is decorated with 11 doves in honour of the 11 killed by the

blast. She was followed at the cenotaph by Lord Arran, the Northern Ireland
minister, and by bereaved relatives. Gordon Wilson, who was made a senator for
his role in fostering reconciliation in Enniskillen after his daughter, Marie,
died in his arms following the bomb, laid a wreath on behalf of his family.

Catherine Ross, 18, who was comforted by the princess in 1987 as she recovered
in hospital after being dragged from the bomb's rubble, was pleased Enniskillen
had not been forgotten. ''It was nice to see her again,'' she said.

The princess later laid the final stone on a peace cairn built by children from
all denominations. Flanked by youngsters and church leaders, she read from
Christ's Sermon on the Mount. The Rev Robert Frost, a Methodist minister who
organised the peace cairn, said: ''It is about young people and young people
discussing hope. Princess Diana was the perfect symbol.''

The Prince of Wales, who was 45 yesterday, was in London with the Queen, the
Duke of Edinburgh and 10,000 former servicemen and women. They attended a
Remembrance service at the Cenotaph scarred by the irony of how, 75 years after
the century's bloodiest conflict, gunfire still rings out in the Bosnian capital
Sarajevo, the spot where the first bullet of that war was heard.

By the time Big Ben struck 11am, a crowd of thousands had gathered to observe
two minutes of silence. The Queen, dressed in black and wearing a black velvet
beret, laid the first wreath, followed by the Duke of Edinburgh.  The Prince of
Wales added a third. As Beethoven's Funeral March swirled around the government
offices of Whitehall, John Major, John Smith, the Labour leader, Paddy Ashdown
of the Liberal Democrats, and James Molyneaux, leader of the Ulster Unionists,
placed their wreaths on the steps of the Cenotaph. Near by stood a trio of
former prime ministers: Baroness Thatcher, Lord Callaghan and Sir Edward Heath.

Queen Elizabeth the Queen Mother looked down from a Foreign Office balcony, with
the Princess Royal and the Duke of Gloucester by her side. Other members of the
royal family occupied a neighbouring perch. And then the march of the 10,000
veterans began, many of them white-haired, most still familiar with the skill of
marching in step. The massed bands of the Guards played on. As the marchers
added their wreaths of poppies to the Cenotaph steps, a thick blood-red necklace
grew around the white Portland stone obelisk, like a wound in the middle of
Whitehall that could not be staunched. At noon, the veterans were still
marching.

A posse of National Front members, barely 200-strong, later laid a wreath at the
Cenotaph, waving the Union flag and singing Rule Britannia as onlookers
denounced them as ''scum'' and ''fascists''.

A former sergeant in the Royal Artillery was robbed of his second world war
medals in London on Saturday evening as he celebrated his 70th birthday (Adam
Fresco writes). Cyril Cook, of Shipston-on-Stour, Warwickshire, lost a Burma
Star Medal, a Victory Medal and an Air Defence of Great Britain medal.  Despite
the theft, he went to a Remembrance Sunday parade.

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1993 Times Newspapers Limited

                              208 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 16, 1993

LETTER: TRIDENT WARHEAD REDUCTION 'NO HELP TO DISARMAMENT'

BYLINE: JANET BLOOMFIELED

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGE; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 374 words


SO the Government is to reduce the number of warheads carried by Trident
submarines. This is a step in the right direction but let no one be fooled into
thinking that it is a disarmament measure. It is merely a reduction in the
planned escalation of Britain's nuclear arsenal.

Certainly it will save some money, and that is to be welcomed, as is the
consequent reduction in the number of warhead convoys on our roads.

But it will still leave Britain as a major contributor to nuclear proliferation.

Unlike Polaris, the warheads on Trident are independently targetable, so the
same number of weapons will enable Britain to attack three times as many
targets. And the missiles are far more accurate, making Trident a potential war
fighting weapon, rather than simply a "last resort deterrent".

Within days a government announcement is expected on the opening of the Thorp
reprocessing plant at Sellafield. If the decision is to go ahead, then this will
constitute just as great an incentive to nuclear proliferation as the Trident
programme.

The transportation of hundreds of tons of plutonium to Japan will not only pose
the risk of accident or terrorist attack, but will ensure that the Japanese
government has the ability to produce a significant nuclear arsenal, should it
decide to do so.

This will raise tensions in the region, and can only encourage North Korea in
its nuclear ambitions. If such countries are to be persuaded to abandon their
programmes - other than by the highly immoral and legally dubious undertaking of
bombing their plants - then the nuclear powers must start to take their
non-proliferation commitments more seriously.

In Britain's case, that would require a rather more constructive attitude to the
comprehensive banning of nuclear weapons tests than has so far been displayed;
real and significant reductions in our nuclear arsenal; and a guarantee that
nuclear bomb-making materials will not be transferred to other states.

At its annual conference this weekend, CND reinforced its commitment to
scrapping Trident and recognised the urgent need to halt nuclear proliferation.
We urge the Government to do the same.

Janet Bloomfield.

Chair,

CND,

London N7.


LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              209 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           November 16, 1993, Tuesday

Adams says Major broke off talks; Prime Minister in row over Sinn Fein after
Guildhall call to Ulster parties to accept its role in peace negotiations

BYLINE: DONALD MACINTYRE and DAVID MCKITTRICK

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Page 1

LENGTH: 720 words


GERRY ADAMS, the Sinn Fein president, last night claimed that his party had been
in ''protracted'' contact with the British government over the future of
Northern Ireland. The claim - flatly denied by Downing Street - was made by Mr
Adams last night as John Major went the farthest he has yet gone in holding out
the prospect for Sinn Fein to join all-party talks if the IRA renounced
violence.

In his first public allegation that such contact had taken place, Mr Adams
claimed the Prime Minister had broken it off ''at the behest of his Unionist
allies'' and that Mr Major's speech last night was an attempt to deflect
attention from that dialogue.

Mr Major, speaking at the Lord Mayor of London's banquet at Guildhall, had said
all the parties in Northern Ireland would have to accept Sinn Fein's
participation in talks on the province's future if the IRA permanently ended
violence.

The Prime Minister underlined the priority he now attaches to a settlement by
devoting much of his wide-ranging speech to an outline of what he said was ''a
better opportunity for peace in Northern Ireland than for many years''.

As he declared his determination to build on a ''burning desire on each side of
the community'' for peace, Downing Street stuck firmly to its earlier insistence
that there had been no negotiation with Sinn Fein, or any other terrorist-linked
organisation. Apart from the routine, low-level government traffic between all
elected representatives - including those from Sinn Fein on ''local and
constituency issues'' - there had been ''no contacts''. A Northern Ireland
official was even terser, saying angrily that Mr Adams should ''put up or shut
up''.

In what will be seen as a signal to Dublin that he will not be deflected by
hard-line Unionist opposition from seeking an outright settlement, Mr Major said
that after a ''sufficient interval'' to guarantee the permanence of an end to
IRA violence, ''Sinn Fein can enter the political arena as a democratic party
and join the dialogue on the way ahead''.

Speaking after his talks last week with the leaders of all the constitutional
parties, and in advance of his planned summit with Albert Reynolds, the Irish
Prime Minister, early next month, Mr Major said he accepted that ''against the
sombre history of Ireland many will say that the odds are against us''.

Downing Street officials, while emphasising that the Northern Ireland issue was
on the ''front burner'', declined to say how long would be needed to establish
the permanence of any IRA renunciation of violence. And Mr Major said he did not
want to ''raise false hopes or set deadlines'' for the completion of the peace
process.

Implying that the Government is ready to press on without Democratic Unionist
Party support if necessary, Mr Major went out of his way to emphasise that
Dublin had shown a ''new understanding of the rights and concerns of
Unionists''.

David Trimble, Ulster Unionist MP for Upper Bann, acknowledged that there had
been suspicions of contacts between Sinn Fein and the Government ''from time to
time''. But he said that what Mr Adams was claiming ''to my knowledge isn't
true''. The claim was given more credence by Ian Paisley, the DUP leader,
however, who said he had ''some evidence'' that there had been secret contacts
between No 10 and Sinn Fein.

Despite several official denials, republican sources in Belfast last night
insisted that Sinn Fein representatives had held several secret meetings with
representatives of the British government earlier this year.

According to reports circulating in Belfast, the talks were in strict secrecy
and ended in June. The contacts were said to have been cleared at the highest
levels of both the Government and the republican movement. One republican is
quoted as saying: ''The conlict, its cause and resolution, were discussed.''

In his Guildhall speech, the Prime Minister coupled his commitment to raising
educational standards to make Britain's workforce more competitive with a
declaration that schooling was ''not just a preparation for work''. He added:
''It is a wider preparation for life, and it involves parents as well as
teachers. It means learning the values of our society as well as the rules.''

Guildhall speech, page 6

(Photograph omitted)


LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1993 Independent Print Ltd

                              210 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 18, 1993

LEADING ARTICLE: TALK ABOUT TALKING

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGE; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 488 words


FOR THE first time in 20 years, there is the possibility of a solution to the
Northern Ireland situation. As recently as two weeks ago, this was not a serious
proposition. Today it has become one, as the Prime Minister acknowledged in his
Mansion House speech on Monday night. It is important that no one should allow
the novelty of this recognition go to their heads. It won't all be over by
Christmas. But it is also important that, now that Northern Ireland is at the
top of the agenda, all involved should realise that this is a serious exercise,
with no room either for bravado or naivety.

The significance of the Mansion House speech is that it shows alignment between
the Dublin and London governments about the possibility, and desirability, of
coordinated, complementary initiatives combining the search for peace - an end
to terrorist violence - and the search for new political relationships involving
the two administrations and the Northern Ireland political parties. Before
Monday this had not been so certain, partly because Dublin and London had been
discordant about the respective priority with which the two initiatives should
be pursued, and partly because Mr Major had appeared, in public at least, to be
unclear about his aims and the extent to which he was inhibited by the Unionist
deal at Westminster. For whatever reason - and assume his meeting last week with
James Molyneaux played a part in it - Mr Major has now moved the game forward to
a new level of seriousness.

At this level, new rules also apply. It would be extremely strange if there were
not to be some form of communication between the two governments and Sinn Fein.
Nay, it would be desirable. There is now a working assumption in both capitals
that Sinn Fein is serious about looking for peace. It will now be put to the
test. Albert Reynolds more or less admitted on Tuesday that he keeps himself
well-briefed at arm's length. Mr Major would be foolish not to do likewise.
Whether he does it by contacts between officials and Sinn Fein councillors or,
as happened in 1920-21, by means of intermediaries is a matter of tactical
judgment. But he should do it one way or another. Just as it is in Britain's
interests for there to be a cessation of violence in Northern Ireland, so it is
also in Britain's - and everyone else's interests - that the current Sinn Fein
and IRA leaderships are neither spurned altogether nor misled into talks which
then fail, thus engineering either a resumption of violence or, still worse, a
split within their organisation as happened both in 1921 and in the mid-1970s.
Negotiating an end to the Northern Ireland violence is going to require both
toughness and care.  It also requires extreme mutual clarity about the many
detailed steps involved. But this is the path Mr Major is embarked upon. It is a
tantalising prize; and if gaining it means talking to terrorists, then so be it.


LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              211 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          November 18, 1993, Thursday

Businesses put up pounds 1m reward

BYLINE: TERRY KIRBY, Crime Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 3

LENGTH: 249 words


ORGANISATIONS and individuals representing British business have launched a
pounds 1m reward fund to help catch IRA terrorists operating in Britain,
Scotland Yard announced yesterday.

It is the first time reward money has been made available nationally to the
public for information about all IRA attacks. Previously, rewards were only
available to registered police informants or from local funds for specific
incidents.

Police refused to disclose any details of those behind the fund, who they said
wished to remain anonymous for fear of becoming IRA targets. However, it is
known that the group, which is likely to include interests representing the City
of London, approached the Yard of its own accord.

Payments will be available to those who supply useful information however it is
received, but Scotland Yard is actively encouraging people to use the
Anti-Terrorist Branch 24-hour freephone number - 0800 789 321.

Decisions on how the money will be allocated will be made by a group of senior
police officers and private sector administrators.

During the recent campaign, the IRA has concentrated on economic targets - most
dramatically in the City of London.

A Yard spokesman said the initiative demonstrated the determination of the
business community to support the work of the police.

He said: ''If there is the possibility that the potential of a large sum of cash
might persuade someone to talk to us then a scheme of this kind is worthwhile.''


LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1993 Independent Print Ltd

                              212 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 19, 1993

TREATY TO DETER SIKH MILITANTS

BYLINE: IAN BLACK, DIPLOMATIC EDITOR

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FOREIGN PAGE; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 404 words


BRITAIN and India have concluded a landmark extradition treaty expected to be
used by the authorities in New Delhi to help suppress the activities of militant
Sikh and Kashmiri separatists.

Britain has accepted Indian demands for a treaty that removes the possibility of
a political defence in extradition proceedings, though charges must be for a
crime in the laws of both countries.

Britain insists that it is aware of widely-held concerns about human rights
abuses in India and has negotiated an agreement which includes prosecution in
Britain. It brings arrangements with India into line with those with European
states and the US.

The treaty came into force on Monday when instruments of ratification were
exchanged in New Delhi between Douglas Hurd, the Foreign Secretary, and his
Indian counterpart, Dinesh Singh. They also signed an agreement permitting the
confiscation of assets of people involved in terrorist activity.

No extradition requests are pending immediately but Indian officials hope the
treaty will have a powerful deterrent effect.  "For a long time there was a
belief that the UK was turning a blind eye to support for terrorist activity in
India as long as it did not take place on British soil," one diplomat said.

"This is a clear warning to people in the UK who support terrorism in India that
the British Government supports the Indian government. We hope it will help
marginalise terrorists and ultimately render them insignificant."

But it has been sharply criticised by Sikh militants, a tiny proportion of the
400,000 strong community living in Britain.  "This was done by Britain to please
the Indian government to get a contract," charged Sewa Singh Lalli, self-styled
president of the Gravesend-based Khalistan government-in-exile. "Thousands of
Sikhs have been cold-bloodedly killed in fake encounters. The Punjab police have
admitted this. There is no justice in India. Anyone extradited from here will be
killed.

"They can put you in prison without charge for an unlimited period. They can
torture you and they don't even tell anyone you're in custody."

Mr Lalli campaigned long and hard against the treaty. He told MPs shortly before
it was ratified by the Commons: "Sikh immigrants will have to think several
times before they protest against the injustices and atrocities being
perpetrated against their near and dear ones in the Punjab."


LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              213 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           November 22, 1993, Monday

Reynolds wary of talks without Sinn Fein; Gulf still exists between London and
Dublin on strategy for Ulster. David McKittrick and Donald Macintyre report

BYLINE: DAVID MCKITTRICK and DONALD MACINTYRE

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 2

LENGTH: 543 words


ALBERT REYNOLDS, the Irish premier, indicated yesterday that he saw little hope
for the inter-party talks favoured by John Major unless they took place in an
atmosphere of peace, and included Sinn Fein.

The Taoiseach's view was a sign of the gulf which exists between Britain and
Ireland on how to push for peace in Northern Ireland.

Inter-party talks, involving the two governments and the non-violent parties in
Northern Ireland, form the centrepiece of Mr Major's plans. But Mr Reynolds
clearly regards this approach as subordinate to that of trying to bring about a
cessation of IRA violence.

And amid growing evidence that Unionists and right-wing Tories are putting
pressure on the Prime Minister from the other end of the spectrum, Downing
Street last night went to unusual lengths to reassure them, saying that it was
''wholly wrong'' to suggest that any amnesty would be offered to IRA prisoners
in the event of an end to violence.

The Prime Minister's office also said that it was ''mischievous fantasy'' to
suggest that the Government would ever be party to a plan to break the British
link with Northern Ireland against the wishes of its people.

The pledges came as the timetable for the Anglo-Irish summit in Dublin began to
slip from its originally planned date of 3 December. There are signs that
officials of the two governments are still discussing the basic outline of a
communique which both want to issue after the meeting. Mr Reynolds said
yesterday: ''I don't think we are likely to get a lasting solution if we don't
involve all the parties at the end of the day in the talks process.

''If you can have a talks process without violence breathing down their neck,
without the communities being driven farther and farther apart - the talks
process has a poor enough chance of success. If the talks process was ready to
resume tomorrow morning, I would say proceed with it, but it's not ready.''

His scepticism about the chances for progress in inter-party talks is in sharp
contrast to London's projection that such talks should be the first priority.
His remarks show that the two governments have some way to go if they are to
reach significant agreement by the time of the Anglo-Irish summit.

In a clear attempt to distance the peace process from the accord reached between
John Hume, leader of the Social Democratic and Labour Party and Gerry Adams,
president of Sinn Fein, senior government sources said any solution which dealt
with only one side of the problem would make ''more balanced proposals'' more
difficult.

Mr Major has already said in the Commons that since Britain does not recognise
terrorists convicted of murder and other crimes as ''political prisoners'' the
question of any amnesty for them does not arise. But Whitehall went further
yesterday, saying that all unsolved crimes would continue to be investigated
after any renunciation of paramilitary violence.

Mr Reynolds said on the BBC's Breakfast With Frost that there was an ''excellent
rapport'' between him and Mr Major. But he said the two leaders were engaged on
a ''process for peace'' - peace that would not prejudice the outcome ''the
political talks that will hopefully follow the cessation of violence''.


LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1993 Independent Print Ltd

                              214 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          November 24, 1993, Wednesday

Leading Article: Wild play with the Orange card

SECTION: COMMENT PAGE; Page 17

LENGTH: 493 words


AFTER Maastricht, some Tory right-wingers seem determined to make Ulster the
next battleground for their party's civil war. With Parliament's sovereignty
once more the rallying call, they hope that Euro-sceptics will regroup around
fears for the union of Britain with Northern Ireland. Such a cynical ploy puts
faction-fighting above the cause of peace. It is supported by a small,
disaffected minority whose actions amount to little more than political
vandalism.

Lord Tebbit, given his experience of the Brighton bombing, may be forgiven for
challenging John Major's peace initiative. But only political expediency and
personal animosity towards the Prime Minister seem to explain Norman Lamont's
recent pandering to right-wing concern that IRA bombers may be granted an
amnesty.

Mr Lamont has no track record of interest in Northern Ireland. Nor has Lord
Tebbit traditionally been regarded as a friend of Unionists. He earned their
enduring distrust after he reassured them that they could feel safe with the
Anglo-Irish Agreement. It is difficult to avoid the conclusion that the Orange
card has been played not out of concern for Ulster's Protestants but to rekindle
Tory party conflict.

Those tempted to follow this example should be wary. The Maastricht rebels kept
respectable, if somewhat eccentric, company; Ulster rebels could expect to find
themselves in common cause with the loyalist paramilitaries - which is unlikely
to endear them to their electorates.

Nor do these right-wingers strike a chord with the public in the same way as
they did over Maastricht. Euro-scepticism reflects popular disdain for the
Brussels bureaucracy. In contrast, most British people are tired of Northern
Ireland and desperately want a settlement. They are likely be impatient with any
parliamentary shenanigans by government rebels.

Lord Tebbit and Mr Lamont are almost certainly spitting in the wind over
Northern Ireland, and can expect few to follow their lead. The broad church of
Conservatism is content, at least for the moment, to follow Mr Major in his
search for peace and a political settlement. MPs' passion for Ulster's politics
continues to be characterised by empty benches in the Commons.

The Tory party has changed a great deal since the days before 1972 when Unionist
MPs automatically took the Conservative whip. The Unionist cause within the
party no longer has the intellectual leadership once offered by Ian Gow, Airey
Neave and Enoch Powell. As one former Northern Ireland minister said: ''There
are no 'No surrender' Unionists left in the Tory party.''

Nor can the Right fairly use the Northern Ireland issue to suggest that the
Prime Minister is selling out Thatcherism. After all, it was Margaret Thatcher
who signed the Anglo-Irish Agreement in 1985. Disaffected right-wingers should
set aside past grievances and give her successor a chance to build on that
accord to achieve a comprehensive settlement.


LOAD-DATE: November 24, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1993 Independent Print Ltd

                              215 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 25, 1993

PASS NOTES: NO 292: THE ROYAL TRAIN

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 370 words


Age: 150.

Length: Fourteen carriages.

Functions: Discreet transport of royals around the country; facility for working
lunches for Duke of Edinburgh and Prince Charles; mobile family home in which
royals can relax out of public eye.

Cost: pounds 19 million a year.

Movements: Top secret, controlled from Marylebone Station.

Colours: Purple and grey.

Appearance: The Orient Express.

Reality: A hi-tech security fortress guarded by infra-red, steel-plate sides,
bulletproof windows, armed guards.

Justification: Marvellous diplomatic tool for the selling of Britain to foreign
dignitaries.

Greatest fear: A terrorist attack.

Top speed: Modest by InterCity standards, 100mph.

Level of comfort: Sumptuous by BR standards, OK by standards of a five-star
hotel.

Number of journeys a year: About 80.

Does the rest of BR have to fit in with them? Not really. The royals fit into
the BR timetable and pull over into special sidings for the night.

What sidings? Hush-hush old boy.

Didn't Charles and Di pull into a siding before they were married? So they say.

Does anyone else have their own train? Yes. General managers of the four railway
regions had them until fairly recently. The chairman of the British Railways
Board is entitled to call on the services of a coach and carriage.

Why the fuss now? Because it will be privatised along with the rest of BR.

Really? The Government says no, claiming the royal train will be the one and
only publicly owned service. If you believe that . . .

Who will buy it? Who knows? Richard Branson, Freddie Laker, a consortium of
video-game companies . . .

What will the Queen make of it? She'll just have to sit back, enjoy the video
game and await the trolley service with its selection of hot and cold snacks.

Will privatisation really be vile and tacky? It has been everywhere else.

So the train now is? Elegant and functional.

But will become? Smeared in yellow plastic and no-smoking stickers.

Future most frequent on-board announcements: We apologise for the delay/We are
closing the buffet now/We represent the People's Liberation Front, put your

hands behind your head.


LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              216 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                          November 25, 1993, Thursday

BA returns to Aden after 25 years

BYLINE: By Christopher Lockwood

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 404 words


BRITISH Airways returned to Aden on Tuesday after an absence of 25 years with
non-stop flights for the first time.

McDonnell Douglas DC10-30s are now operating twice-weekly flights of
eight-and-a-half hours from Gatwick to Aden, the former capital of South Yemen,
which then fly on to the Yemeni capital, Sana'a, in the north of the country,
before returning non-stop to London. Services leave on Tuesdays and Saturdays.

BA's return marks renewed confidence in the future of the country, which has a
troubled past, much of it ingrained in the memories of British servicemen and
women who struggled to maintain order in the former protectorate during the
1950s and 1960s.

Originally part of the Ottoman Empire, the south Arabian country was captured
from the Turks in 1839 and occupied by the British East India company, marking
the start of a long and often bloody association with the United Kingdom.

Britain's protection of the country coincided with its need to guard trade
routes through the Gulf of Aden between Britain and India, and continued until
the final withdrawal of British troops in 1967.

The last years of occupation were scarred by terrorist attack, mutiny by local
forces, factional conflicts, a military coup and civil war.

Some readers will recall Aden as a key port on sea routes between Britain and
Australia. Others will remember the gallant retaking of Aden's Crater District
by Lieutenant-Colonel Colin Mitchell's Argyll and Sutherland Highlanders in July
1967, an action achieved without loss.

After retiring from the army, Lt Col Mitchell became Conservative MP for West
Aberdeenshire. Since leaving the Commons in 1974 he has become chairman of the
HALO (hazardous areas life support organisation) trust, which, among other work,
has cleared mines in Afghanistan.

Many people will be haunted by the scenes of final withdrawal from Aden. The
British retreat was marked by specially composed pipe music, which is still
played on military occasions, and symbolises for many the end of Britain's
traditional imperial role ''east of Suez''.

The passage of time has healed old wounds and now the Yemenis are eager to
attract trade and tourism from Britain and to reforge links cemented over 100
years.

Apart from desert and mountain scenery, the country offers a glimpse of the
nomadic Arab way of life and the lure of untapped mineral resources and refined
oil.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1993 Times Newspapers Limited

                              217 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 27, 1993

GERMAN POLICE RAID BANNED PKK GROUPS;
UK has 'no plans' to follow hard line on separatists

BYLINE: DAVID GOW IN BONN AND SALLY WEALE

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FOREIGN PAGE; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 735 words


HUNDREDS of police officers raided the homes and offices of the Kurdish Workers'
Party (PKK) throughout west Germany at dawn yesterday, seizing documents and
freezing bank accounts to coincide with the government's decision to ban the
party and 35 related bodies.

The decision, announced by Manfred Kanther, the interior minister, came three
weeks after Kurdish-inspired attacks against Turks in Germany left a Turkish man
dead in Wiesbaden.

It was welcomed in Ankara and by Germany's foreign minister, Klaus Kinkel, who
saw it as a long-overdue measure to contain the abuse of democratic rights on
German streets.

But Komkar, the still-legal umbrella body for Germany's 330,000 Kurds, warned in
Cologne that hundreds were now threatened with expulsion to Turkey where they
faced "liquidation". The PKK ban would not solve the fundamental problem of
Kurdish nationalism, Komkar said.

There are fears that the estimated 1,900 PKK members in Germany will now go
underground to continue their violent campaign.

In London, where there has been growing concern about pro-PKK activities, the
Home Office said last night there were no plans to ban the PKK or any related
organisations in Britain, but it warned that action would be taken against any
individuals who broke the law.

On November 4, five British Telecom workers were injured, one seriously, when
Kurdish separatists mistakenly firebombed their London office. The intended
target, the Turkish bank Ziraat Bankasi, was next door.

The attack in the City was one of five in London that day. Petrol bombs were
also thrown at the Turkish embassy, the offices of Turkish Airlines, the Turkish
Islamic Centre in north London and the Turkish Sabanci bank, also in the City.

Previously Kurdish separatists had been involved in a number of violent
incidents in London in which Turkish organisations were targeted. In July 1991
supporters stormed the Turkish embassy causing pounds 100,000-worth of damage.
More than 50 were arrested. Last year there was another attack on the London
offices of the Turkish newspaper Hurriyet.

Last month the National Criminal Intelligence Service reported that the PKK
raised pounds 2.5 million in 1992 from extortion rackets in north London, money
which was then used to fuel terrorist attacks elsewhere.

There have been claims that gangs of PKK supporters are systematically harassing
the Turkish community in north London, where businessmen are reported to have
been beaten up and forced to hand over protection money.

The Kurdish Information Centre in north London claims such reports are Turkish
propaganda.

According to a spokeswoman at the centre the PKK does not have a headquarters or
organised membership in Britain. It nevertheless enjoys considerable support
among the estimated 10,000-plus Kurdish people now living in London.

The PKK attacks on targets in Europe, which began in 1992, peaked on June 24
this year when, according to the German interior ministry, 600 took part in 50
co-ordinated assaults on Turkish offices and businesses in Germany and
elsewhere.

Ferhat Ataman, spokesman for Turkey's foreign ministry, said: "We hope Germany's
move will encourage other countries to adopt courageous measures. It has now
become clear that the PKK's bloody acts have nothing to do with democracy and
human rights and it seriously disrupts public order in other countries."

The PKK, founded in Turkey in 1978, has always denied responsibility for violent
attacks in Europe.

The main police action in Germany was in North-Rhine Westphalia, where 600
officers raided offices and homes in 19 cities.  Raids took place in ten other
states, including Berlin.

The non-violent Komkar accused Mr Kanther of political opportunism and said the
German government placed far greater value on its political, economic and
strategic interests in Turkey than on criticising its policy towards Kurds and
human rights.

Mr Kinkel, in a statement released in Bonn and Ankara, said the West's foreign
policy interests stood for the integrity of an important Nato and European
partner. Further toleration of PKK activities in Germany would have made the
country's foreign policy untrustworthy.

But he added: "However much we condemn the PKK's terror we still understand the
justified wishes of the long-suffering Kurdish people in south-east Anatolia."


LOAD-DATE: November 29, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              218 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           November 28, 1993, Sunday

'Clarification' simply adds more questions for Major

BYLINE: By DAVID MCKITTRICK, Ireland Correspondent

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Page 1

LENGTH: 804 words


THE GOVERNMENT's latest version of its policy on contacts with republicans will
be received with much scepticism by almost all shades of opinion in Ireland,
north and south.

The belief was already widespread among Unionists and nationalists alike that
some section of the British administration had been in touch with Sinn Fein or
the IRA, partly because there is such a long history of contacts.

Last night's statement from the Northern Ireland Office will be seen as
confirming what was already believed: that, despite the numerous emphatic
denials, surreptitious talks had taken place.

Unionist MPs have been saying for some months that talks had been held, and
republican leaders, including the Sinn Fein president, Gerry Adams, confirmed
several times that this was the case.

On Friday night the Ulster Unionist leader, James Molyneaux, in a reference to
an impending newspaper story, warned his supporters ''not to jump to
conclusions''. Mr Molyneaux - who has a close voting arrangement with the
Conservative party - had apparently already been briefed about the Northern
Ireland Office statement.

The statement admitting such contacts was not issued in any spirit of open
government, but in response to a continuing wave of media speculation. In
particular, it was produced after a Sunday newspaper printed a secret British
document giving instructions to an ''interlocutor''.

The document indicated that the interlocutor's instructions had been personally
approved by the Northern Ireland Secretary, Sir Patrick Mayhew, who has
repeatedly asserted in recent weeks that no one had been speaking to republicans
on behalf of the Government. Last night the Northern Ireland Office statement
did not deny that Sir Patrick had been personally involved in the exercise.

The statement raises points that the Government will certainly be pressed to
clarify in the coming week. It says that at the end of February a message was
passed on to the Government from the IRA leadership ''to the effect that the
conflict was over but they needed our advice as to the means of bringing it to a
close''.

The IRA, however, has shown no public sign of believing the conflict was over.
IRA violence in Northern Ireland continued unabated, while in Britain the
Warrington bombing, in which two children were killed, happened on 20 March. The
devastating Bishopgate bombing in the City of London took place on 24 April.

A week ago, Mr Adams, in an Irish newspaper interview, denied that the IRA
wanted to surrender. He said: ''Nothing could be further from the truth. The
capacity of republicans to engage in struggle is totally undaunted. If the IRA
wanted to surrender then they would simply surrender.''

The Northern Ireland Office statement does not explain why the IRA, if it wanted
to end the conflict unilaterally, did not respond to the Government ''advice''
by calling off its campaign. The statement implies that only one contact was
made with the IRA. Mr Adams's version of events, however, is that Sinn Fein held
''protracted negotiations'' with British government representatives. A series of
documents are said to have been exchanged.

The document published today mentions the start of a process and appears to
indicate that the Government was prepared to maintain contact while violence
continued, stating: ''It must be recognised that all acts of violence hereafter
could only enhance these difficulties and risks, quite conceivably to the point
when the process would be destroyed.'' The secret document mentions ''Annex C'',
suggesting that a substantial amount of documentation was involved.

Mr Adams has said the process went on for several months and ended in June, when
it became apparent that Mr Major might have to rely on Unionist votes in the
Maastricht votes.

The existence of so much documentation lends considerable weight to Mr Adams's
description of protracted negotiations rather than the IRA seeking the
Government's advice on ending the conflict.

One thing is certain: both Unionists and nationalists will tend to accept the
word of the Sinn Fein president rather than that of the Government.

Timetable of events

FEBRUARY: IRA approaches Government.

20 MARCH: Warrington bomb. Two children killed and 56 people injured when two
IRA bombs explode in crowded market.

MARCH and JUNE: High-level IRA-Government contact.

24 APRIL: Bishopsgate bomb. One man killed and more than 40 injured in financial
centre of London.

OCTOBER/NOVEMBER: Government consistently denies IRA contacts. On 15 November
John Major says: ''There can be no secret deals'' with IRA. Less than two weeks
ago Sir Patrick Mayhew says: ''There have been no talks on behalf of the British
Government with Sinn Fein.''

27 NOVEMBER: Government admits IRA links.


LOAD-DATE: November 29, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1993 Independent Print Ltd

                              219 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                           November 29, 1993, Monday

TRADE UNIONISTS HELD IN TURKEY 'VERY UNWISE' - MINISTER

BYLINE:  Press Association Lords Staff

SECTION: PARLIMENTARY NEWS

LENGTH: 344 words


British trade unionists, detained for 26 hours by the Turkish authorities at the
weekend, were criticised by Foreign Office Minister of State Baroness Chalker
tonight for ignoring Foreign Office advice about visiting south east Turkey.
Lady Chalker told the Lords the group had been "very unwise" to travel to that
area, given that it was under emergency law last week.  "Unfortunately the trade
unionists who went went against specific advice of the British Government to
those who travel in Turkey," she said, during a debate on conflict between Kurds
and Turks in the area.  They had been in the area at the invitation of a Kurdish
human rights group and came back with what they regard as evidence that Turkish
security forces had burned down a Kurdish village and murdered civilians there.
Lady Chalker said Foreign Office advice was: "Do not go there unless on
essential business, in which case advise the British Embassy in Ankara or the
British consulate in Istanbul of your travel plans." She told peers: "The group
informed neither the Government, nor the embassy, nor the consulate." The visit
had been organised by the Kurdish Solidarity Committee and they had been
accompanied by two pro-Kurdish journalists. The aim of the visit, she said, had
been to investigate reports that "in their attacks on PKK terrorists, the
Turkish security forces evacuated villages".  The group had been detained on
Friday and released without charge the next day. Britain had asked Turkey for "a
full explanation of this incident", said Lady Chalker.  The British Ambassador
had asked Turkey to remind its local authorities that detained foreign nationals
should be given early access to consular assistance.  The ambassador had also
reminded Turkey "to respect all international human rights rules".  Lady Chalker
said the visit had served to publicise a "totally unacceptable" situation. "But
it was unwise, and it might have resulted in far more difficulty for the
individuals involved without advancing the cause of the ordinary Kurdish
people," she added.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1993 The Press Association Limited

                              220 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 30, 1993

A 'PRIVATE' PEACE TURNED PUBLIC FIASCO

BYLINE: STAFF REPORTERS

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2106 words


THE secret exchanges between the Government and the leadership of the
Provisional republican movement in Northern Ireland began, according to the
Government, with a message from the Provisionals dated February 22 of this year.

"The conflict is over but we need your advice on how to bring it to a close,"
said the IRA according to the record published yesterday by Sir Patrick Mayhew,
the Northern Ireland Secretary.

"We wish to have an unannounced ceasefire in order to hold dialogue leading to
peace. We cannot announce such a move as it will lead to confusion for the
volunteers because the press will misinterpret it as a surrender. We cannot meet
the Secretary of State's public renunciation of violence, but it would be given
privately as long as we were sure that we were not being tricked."

Last night, Martin McGuinness of Sinn Fein said it was a "lie" that such a
message had been sent. But what is not denied is the substance of the succeeding
20 communications between the IRA and government representatives - 16 written
exchanges and four verbal ones.

Between February 22 and March 19, the Government assured the IRA it was taking
their overture seriously and considering a substantive response. The
Provisionals suggested that Mr McGuinness and a convicted IRA bomber and Maze
escaper, Gerry Kelly, should have an exploratory meeting with government
representatives.

On March 19, the Government gave its substantive response. The following is a
full text:

1. The importance of what has been said, the wish to take it seriously, and the
influence of events on the ground, have been acknowledged.

All of those involved share a responsibility to work to end the conflict. No one
has a monopoly of suffering. There is a need for a healing process.

2. It is essential that there should be no deception on either side, and also
that no deception should, through any misunderstanding, be seen where it is not
intended.

It is also essential that both sides have a clear and realistic understanding of
what it is possible to achieve, so that neither side can in the future claim
that it has been tricked.

3. The position of the British government on dealing with those who espouse
violence is clearly understood. This is why the envisaged sequence of events is
important.

We note that what is being sought at this stage is advice, and that any dialogue
would follow an unannounced halt to violent activity. We confirm that if
violence had genuinely been brought to an end, whether or not that fact had been
announced, then dialogue could take place.

4. It must be understood though, that once a halt to activity became public, the
British government would have to acknowledge and defend its entry into dialogue.

It would do so by pointing out that its agreement to exploratory dialogue about
the possibility of an inclusive process had been given because - and only
because - it had received a private assurance that organised violence had been
brought to an end.

5. The British government has made clear that:

- No political objective which is advocated by constitutional means alone could
properly be excluded from discussion in the talks process;

- The commitment to return as much responsibility as possible to local
politicians should be seen within a wider framework of stable relationships to
be worked out with all concerned

- New political arrangements would be designed to ensure that no legitimate
group was excluded from eligibility to share in the exercise of this
responsibility

- In the event of a genuine and established ending of violence, the whole range
of responses to it would inevitably be looked at afresh.

6. The British government has no desire to inhibit or impede legitimate
constitutional expression of any political opinion, or any input to the
political process, and wants to see included in this process all main parties
which have sufficiently shown they genuinely do not espouse violence.

It has no blueprint. It wants an agreed accommodation, not an imposed
settlement, arrived at through an inclusive process in which the parties are
free agents.

7. The British government does not have, and will not adopt, any prior objective
of "ending of partition".

The British government cannot enter a talks process, or expect others to do so,
with the purpose of achieving a predetermined outcome, whether the "ending of
partition" or anything else.

It has accepted that the eventual outcome of such a process could be a united
Ireland, but only on the basis of the consent of the people of Northern Ireland.

Should this be the eventual outcome of a peaceful democratic process, the
British government would bring forward legislation to implement the will of the
people here.

But unless the people of Northern Ireland come to express such a view, the
British government will continue to uphold the Union, seeking to ensure the good
governance of Northern Ireland, in the interests of all its people, within the
totality of relationships in these islands.

8. Evidence on the ground that any group had ceased violent activity would
induce resulting reduction of security force activity.

Were violence to end, the British government's overall response in terms of
security force activity on the ground would still have to take account of the
overall threat. The threat posed by republican and loyalist groups which
remained active would have to continue to be countered.

9. It is important to establish whether this provides a basis for the way
forward. We are ready to answer specific questions or to give further
explanation.

THE Warrington bombing the following day threatened to derail the process. The
Provisional IRA sent an oral message to the Government, according to the Mayhew
documents.

"It is with total sadness that we have to accept responsibility for the recent
action," they said. "The last thing we needed at this sensitive time was what
has happened. It is the fate of history that we find ourselves in this position;
all we can think of at this time is an old Irish proverb: 'God's hand works in
mysterious ways'. Our hope is that this hand will lead to peace and friendship."

Between this communication and July 22, the two sides exchanged several messages
A substantive response from the Provisionals to the Government's nine point
message came on July 22. The following is an edited version:

1. We welcome this contact and hope it can help create a healing process which
removes both the causes and the consequences of conflict . . . Republicans are
not reluctant to face up to our responsibility in this but the British
government clearly has the power and the major responsibility to initiate the
necessary process.

2. Our long-standing position has been of willingness to enter into dialogue
with a view to resolving the conflict. In all of this we do not seek to impose
preconditions nor should preconditions be imposed on us.

Preconditions represent obstacles to peace. Moreover, after more than two
decades of conflict and political impasse, we hold as self-evident the view that
democratic, political and practical imperatives clearly require the open
involvement and inclusion of all political views if a democratic resolution is
to be sought and achieved.

3. The route to peace in Ireland is to be found in the restoration to the Irish
people of our right to national self-determination - in the free exercise of
this right without impediment of any kind.

4. British sovereignty over the six counties, as with all of Ireland before
partition, is the inherent cause of political instability and conflict.

This must be addressed within the democratic context of the exercise of the
right to national self-determination if the cause of instability and conflict is
to be removed.

5. We seek to assist the establishment of, and to support, a process which, with
due regard for the real difficulties involved, culminates in the exercise of
that right and the end of your jurisdiction.

6. We believe that the wish of the majority of the Irish people is for Irish
unity. We believe that an adherence to democratic principles makes Irish unity
inevitable.

The emerging political and economic imperatives both within Ireland and within
the broader context of greater European political union support the logic of
Irish unity. It is our view therefore that the British government should play a
crucial and constructive role in persuading the Unionist community to reach an
accommodation with the rest of the Irish people.

7. Your disavowal of any prior objective is contradicted by your commitment to
uphold the Unionist veto. The consequence of upholding the veto is, in effect,
to set as your objective maintenance of partition and the six-county statelet,
and of the primary source of the conflict.

8. We recognise that the concerns and perceived concerns of the Unionist
population about their position in an Irish national democracy must be addressed
and resolved in the form of the greatest reassurance possible, including
legislation for all measures agreed in the course of the process of
negotiations.

This process of national reconciliation must secure the political, religious and
democratic rights of the northern unionist population.

9. The most urgent issue facing the people of Ireland and Britain is the need
for a genuine peace process which sets equality, justice and political stability
as its objectives and has as its means, dialogue and all-embracing negotiations.

In attempting to progress towards that position we are prepared to be as
reasonable and flexible as possible. In this context, we are willing to
seriously consider any proposal which genuinely aims to set such a process in
train and to take the accompanying political risks involved.

10. We accept, of course, that it is essential that both sides have a clear and
realistic understanding of what it is possible to achieve. But we are sure you
will agree that what is realistic is dependent upon the existing conditions at
any given point and the political will to move the situation on. If the
essential political will exists then the construction, at this time, of a peace
process is clearly feasible.

11. We believe that there exists a basis for progress which can be developed
into a genuine, realistic and democratic peace process.

The potentially historic opportunity which this represents for the cause of
peace in Ireland should not be lost. We have outlined our position. You have
outlined yours. It is now time to move on. You should arrange for us to do so as
speedily as possible.

EXCHANGES continued through the summer and autumn, though the Provisionals
dispute a November 2 transcript released yesterday by Mr Mayhew. Nonetheless, a
November 5 message from the Government and accompanying "Procedural Annex"
illustrated the huge progress both sides had made towards the negotiating table.
This message said in part:

"Your message of November 2 is taken as being of the greatest importance and
significance.

"There can be no departure from [a previous statement] that there could be no
secret agreements or understandings between governments and organisations
supporting violence as a price for its cessation.

"There can also be no departure from the constitutional guarantee that Northern
Ireland's status as part of the United Kingdom will not change without the
consent of a majority of its people.

"You ask about the sequence of events in the event of a total end to
hostilities. If, as you have offered, you were to give us an unequivocal
assurance that violence has indeed been brought to a permanent end, and that
accordingly Sinn Fein is now committed to political progress by peaceful and
democratic means alone, we will make clear publicly our commitment to enter
exploratory dialogue with you.

"Our public statement will make clear that, provided your private assurance is
promptly confirmed publicly after our public statement and that events on the
ground are consistent with this, a first meeting for exploratory dialogue will
take place within a week of Parliament's return in January."

The annex, covering procedures after a permanent cessation of violence, stated
that at the first exploratory meeting each party could field up to three
delegates, possibly with advisers.

It would be for each party to decide who should represent it. The British side
would be represented by senior officials "acting under political authority and
direction".


LOAD-DATE: November 30, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              221 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 30, 1993

IRISH TERROR TEAM 'TRAPPED WITH HELP FROM MI5 AGENT';
INLA unit planned assassinations of MPs and soldiers together with attacks on
fuel terminals and ferry, jury told

BYLINE: DUNCAN CAMPBELL CRIME CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 674 words


AN MI5 undercover agent helped police to trap two members of the Irish National
Liberation Army who were plotting to blow up MPs, members of the military, oil
and gas terminals and a ferry, an Old Bailey jury heard yesterday.

The men were captured after one trod on a hidden police officer at a Somerset
quarry, the court was told.

Martin McMonagle, aged 31, from Limerick in the Irish Republic, and Liam
Heffernan, also 31, from Belfast, both deny conspiring to steal explosives,
conspiring to cause explosions and possessing firearms with intent to cause
injury.

Nigel Sweeney, prosecuting, said that the two were members of a three-man INLA
active service unit which had travelled to Britain to steal explosives. They
intended to undertake a bombing campaign on the mainland and in Northern
Ireland, he said.

But the man who had guided them to the explosives and helped to arrange their
safe house was an informer working for MI5.

Patrick Daly, now in his mid-40s, had been a police informer in Bristol since
the mid-1970s, supplying information about the IRA, the INLA and the INLA's
political wing, the Irish Republican Socialist Party. In 1989, his handling was
taken over by the security services and he moved to the Irish Republic, where he
worked as a driving instructor near Galway and played an active role in the
IRSP.

In July last year, he was taken from Fat Harry's Bar in Belfast to a meeting
with the INLA chief of staff, Hugh Torney, whose code name was Cueball, the
court heard. Mr Daley was asked to find a quarry in the West Country from which
explosives could be stolen and to provide transport.

The INLA had little or no explosives at that time because of the work of the
army and the Royal Ulster Constabulary, the court was told. Mr Daly was also
asked to identify potential targets, such as military installations and pubs
where soldiers drank.

The three-man unit was to consist of Mr McMonagle - a high-ranking INLA officer
- a man called Anthony Gorman, known as "Pat the welder," and Mr Heffernan, who
had lived in Manchester and could speak with an English accent. Mr Sweeney said
that Mr Heffernan's role was to obtain false identities, firearms and
ammunition.

Through his police contacts, Mr Daly provided a car which had been wiped clean
so that it would show up fingerprints. The house he rented in St George,
Bristol, was wired for sound so that police in another house further down the
street could hear what was being said. Tape recordings of the men's
conversations showed that Mr McMonagle had described the INLA assassination of
the Conservative MP, Airey Neave, by a car bomb in 1979 as a "great job" and has
said they needed another one like it.

When the three men arrived at the Westbury quarry, near the village of
Westbury-sub-Mendip in the Mendip hills in February this year, 40 armed police
officers were waiting in hiding.

Mr McMonagle, who was armed with a .357 Magnum, stepped on the back of a
concealed officer, PC Grainger, and stumbled. The officer grabbed his ankles and
"the surprise was so complete McMonagle gave up without a fight". Mr Heffernan
was also held at the scene.

The third man, Mr Gorman, saw the police flares and lights and fled by car and
foot. He managed to escape because of poor visibility. He probably stole a
Toyota pick-up from a nearby pig farm.

Explaining why the operation had been allowed to go ahead, Mr Sweeney said that
the police and security services had faced a dilemma, because if Mr Daly
withdrew from the operation it might cast suspicion on him and another plan
might have been devised. Dummy explosives had been substituted for the real ones
in the quarry.

Mr Daly - who is to give evidence today from behind a screen - and his wife had
since been given new identities. Mr Daly had received "substantial financial
compensation" for having to abandon his home and job in Ireland, the court was
told, and had had to undergo great "stresses and dangers".

The trial continues today.


LOAD-DATE: November 30, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              222 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           November 30, 1993, Tuesday

The Secret Ira Meetings: Gulf between Adams and Mayhew on documents; Sinn Fein
may produce further papers to prove message claiming conflict was over was not
sent

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 3

LENGTH: 1454 words


THE DOCUMENTS published yesterday by Sir Patrick Mayhew, Secretary of State for
Northern Ireland, are disputed by Sinn Fein on a series of crucial points.

The factual differences between the two sides are so stark that they mean one
side or the other is telling lies and indulging in forgery.

Gerry Adams, the Sinn Fein president, was last night adamant about Sir Patrick's
statement to the House of Commons. ''The text he read is counterfeit. No such
communication was ever sent. It is a lie.''

Mr Adams said yesterday that Sinn Fein was deciding whether to produce further
evidence which he claimed would prove Sir Patrick was lying.

The first major point of difference is in the first document published by Sir
Patrick, which is said to be the note of an oral message from the republican
movement, dated 22 February this year, which began the exchange of
communications. This begins: ''The conflict is over but we need your advice on
how to bring it to a close.''

Mr Adams says no such message was sent and that the contact was in fact
initiated by the British government.

According to Sir Patrick's published material, a series of short messages then
followed from each side. In one of these the republicans nominated as their
representatives Martin McGuinness and Gerry Kelly. (Mr Kelly has been alleged in
several newspaper reports to be involved in the IRA bombing campaign in Britain.
)

The first substantive response from the Government, dated 19 March, stipulates
that it will continue to uphold the union unless a majority of people in
Northern Ireland expressed an opposite view.

Sinn Fein yesterday released its own version of the text of this document, and
examination shows it differs from that released by Sir Patrick.

The government document states: ''We note that what is being sought at this
stage is advice.''

The Sinn Fein version, by contrast, has the Government saying: ''What is being
sought at this stage is advice.''

With this small but crucial difference each document leaves the impression that
the other side is seeking the advice. The change in the text is clearly
politically motivated rather than a typing error and indicates that one of the
documents has been tampered with.

In its undisputed sections, the Government said in the event of a genuine and
established ending of violence, ''the whole range of responses to it'' would
inevitably be looked at afresh. It said the Government had no blueprint and
wanted an agreed accommodation arrived at through an inclusive process.

The Government did not have, and would not adopt, any prior objective of the
''ending of partition''. It accepted that such a process could lead to a united
Ireland, but only on the basis of the consent of the people of Northern Ireland.

A republican message, dated 22 July, outlines a hardline political position,
saying that what is sought is a process which culminates in ''the end of your
jurisdiction''.

But it also said that republicans' long-standing positon ''has been of
willingness to enter into dialogue with a view to resolving the conflict. In all
of this we do not seek to impose preconditions nor should preconditions be
imposed on us . . . Preconditions represent obstacles to peace''.

It stated that British sovereignty was the inherent cause of political
instability and conflict, and was an issue which ''must be addressed within the
democratic context of the exercise of the right to national
self-determination''.

The message said an adherence to democratic principles made Irish unity
inevitable, and that the Government should play a crucial and constructive role
in persuading Unionists to reach an accommodation with the rest of the Irish
people.

It added: ''We recognise that the concerns and perceived concerns of the
Unionist population about their position in an Irish national democracy must be
addressed and resolved in the form of the greatest reassurance possible,
including legislation for all measures agreed in the course of the process of
negotiations. This is not only the democratic norm but a practical necessity.''

These words are confirmed in the Sinn Fein version, released yesterday, but
another major point of difference arises in the same document.

The republican version contains the sentence: ''We found our preliminary meeting
with your representative valuable'', but this does not appear in the Government
document.

Subsequent documents reveal that the two sides regard each other's positions as
inflexible and hardening, with the Government questioning whether the IRA wants
to end its campaign only with victory for itself.

A government document of 17 July says: ''Recent pronouncements seem to imply
that unless your analysis of the way forward is accepted within a set time, the
halt in violence will only be temporary. This is not acceptable.

''The reasons for not talking about a permanent cessation are understood, but
the peace process cannot be conditional on the acceptance of any particular or
single analysis.

''Can you confirm that you want a peace process which is aimed at an inclusive
political process and that a lasting end to violence does not depend on your
analysis being endorsed as the only way forward?

''If you can, we remind you that this process of dialogue leading to an
inclusive political process can only start after we have received the necessary
assurance that organised violence had been brought to an end.

''In the meantime progress has to be subject to events on the ground.''

The final government document, dated 5 November, declares: ''It is the public
and consistent position of the British government that any dialogue would only
follow a permanent end to violent activity.

''If, as you have offered, you were to give us an unequivocal assurance that
violence has indeed been brought to a permanent end, and that accordingly Sinn
Fein is now committed to political progress by peaceful and democratic means
alone, we will make clear publicly our commitment to enter exploratory dialogue
with you.''

This was in response to a message, supplied by Sir Patrick, which appealed to
the Government: ''In plain language please tell us as a matter of urgency when
you will open dialogue in the event of a total end to hostilities.''

Last night, Mr Adams said this message was bogus, and that the 5 November
message had appeared out of the blue.

He declared: ''This unsolicited communication was a transparent manoeuvre to
synchronise their public and private positions in advance of this contact
becoming public in a climate of leaks and rumours.''

He added that the Government had been informed through this channel of
communication of the terms of the Hume-Adams initiative, alleging that John
Major and Sir Patrick Mayhew had been lying when they said they were not aware
of its contents.

Accusing the Government of ''bad faith and double dealing'', Mr Adams said he
hoped that when this phase was over the Hume-Adams initiative could make
progress.

The exchanges were taking place over a period marked by the bombings in
Warrington, Cheshire, and Bishopsgate in the City of London.

A government document, dated 22 March, had this oral message from the leadership
of the Provisional Movement:

''It is with total sadness that we have to accept responsibility for the recent
action reference to the Warrington bombing on 20 March .

''The last thing we needed at this sensitive time was what has happened. It is
the fate of history that we find ourselves in this position, all we can think of
at this time is an old Irish proverb: 'God's hand works in mysterious ways'. Our
hope is that this hand will lead to peace and friendship.''

This was followed by the Bishopsgate bomb in the City of London in April and led
to a British message to the IRA on 5 May, which said: ''Events on the ground are
crucial, as we have consistently made clear. We cannot conceivably disregard
them.

''We gave in good faith the advice which was sought, taking what we were told at
face value. It is difficult to reconcile that with recent events.

''None the less we confirm that we stand by the nine-paragraph document, which
we prepared in response to that request for advice.

''We have not received the necessary private assurance that organised violence
has been brought to an end. We hope that we do so soon and that violence is
genuinely brought to an end as, without that, further progress cannot be made.''

However, within a day the exchanges were back on course.

Politics and policy, page 6

Leading article, page 17

Andrew Marr, page 19

Unwanted problem, page 19

(Photograph omitted)


LOAD-DATE: November 30, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1993 Independent Print Ltd

                              223 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                           November 30, 1993, Tuesday

Major's line to IRA will remain open

BYLINE: By Philip Webster and Nicholas Watt

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 730 words


JOHN Major is to keep open Britain's line of communication with the IRA and
remains ready to offer face-to-face talks within weeks if they show they have
given up violence.

The prime minister issued that message through his senior officials last night
after winning Commons support for his high-risk gamble for peace in Northern
Ireland and for the newly revealed contacts with leaders of the Irish republican
movement.

Mr Major and Sir Patrick Mayhew, the Northern Ireland secretary, responded
defiantly to the furore over the series of contacts with the IRA that began with
an alleged message from the republican movement on February 22 that the
''conflict is over''. Officials said the message, an oral one from a Sinn Fein
leader, Martin McGuinness, came ''out of the blue''.

Sir Patrick ran into implacable opposition from hardline Unionists in the
Commons. The Rev Ian Paisley, leader of the Democratic Unionists, was expelled
from the House after being ''named'' by Betty Boothroyd, the Speaker, for
accusing him of lying. Mr Paisley said of Sir Patrick's denial of negotiations
with the IRA: ''It was a falsehood, it was worse, it was a lie.'' He will not be
allowed back into the Commons for five days.

Sir Patrick and Mr Major mounted a fierce defence suggesting that the government
had a duty to respond to peace overtures. Sir Patrick told the Commons that
''peace properly attained is a prize worth risks''. MPs were startled to learn
that Mr Major's peace initiative had moved so far that he had been ready to give
the go-ahead for exploratory talks with Sinn Fein as early as January if they
had shown that violence had been ended permanently.  Documents published by the
government and Sinn Fein showed that on November 5 a message from the British
side was sent saying that if a ceasefire held a ''first meeting for exploratory
dialogue would take place within a week of Parliament's return in January''.

Officials made it plain later that the door remained open. ''Talks about talks''
could start along the lines suggested in the exchange of documents about ten
weeks after a ceasefire began and was shown to have held. They said the
government was encouraged by the recent absence of IRA violence but there had
been no private assurance that a ceasefire was in force.

Sir Patrick said that as recently as November 2 the IRA had approached the
government saying it believed there could be the ''basis of an understanding''
on obtaining a genuine political role for Sinn Fein and an ''ending of the
violence''. He said: ''It is for the IRA and its supporters to explain why they
have failed to deliver the promised ending of violence.''

The documents also include a message of regret from the IRA two days after the
Warrington bombing, in which two boys died and more than 50 people were injured.
The attack came a day after the government sent a nine-paragraph message setting
out the terms on which it would admit Sinn Fein to constitutional talks. The
IRA's oral message, dated March 22, says: ''The last thing we needed at this
sensitive time was what has happened.''

After the Commons debate last night, it was clear that Sir Patrick had weathered
earlier demands for his resignation. He was given strong support from Tory MPs
and tacit backing from Labour. James Molyneaux, leader of the Official
Unionists, attacked Labour as being the mouthpiece for Gerry Adams, the Sinn
Fein president, and offered no criticism of the contacts.

Tory MPs said the leaked papers upheld the government's repeatedly stated stance
that it would not talk to the IRA unless violence was renounced.  However, Sir
Patrick's longer term future is uncertain. Some MPs believe that he has
forfeited the trust of the Unionist community.

In Belfast Sinn Fein released its version of the contacts and claimed the IRA
had offered a two-week ceasefire in May. Mr Adams accused Sir Patrick of
squandering the best chance for peace in 25 years and said he had told repeated
lies. He singled out Sir Patrick's claim that he did not know the contents of
the Hume-Adams initiative.

Last night Panorama challenged Sir Patrick's claims that he had not seen the
Hume-Adams initiative. It also claimed that the government had planned to order
troops in Ulster to remain in their barracks if the IRA had extended last year's
Christmas ceasefire to ten days.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1993 Times Newspapers Limited

                              224 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                December 1, 1993

LITTLE CHANCE OF PEACE IN ULSTER, BRUSSELS TOLD

BYLINE: JOHN CARVEL IN BRUSSELS

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 472 words


THE Government is telling Britain's European Union partners that it remains
pessimistic about the possibilities for peace in Northern Ireland despite the
secret exchanges with the IRA.

A confidential terrorist risk assessment which the EU's law and order ministers
discussed during their meeting in Brussels over the past two days said there was
"little likelihood of an end to violence".

The assessment is part of a six-monthly union review of the internal and
external terrorist threats which officials from the police and secret services
prepare for a joint meeting of ministers. Such information has never previously
been disclosed.

It was discussed in private on Monday after officials were sent out of the room
by Charles Pasqua, the French interior minister, who said he had evidence of
Libya's preparation to restart its overseas campaign.

The document is a distillation of the views of all member states'
counter-terrorism operations. Although it is undated, it bears evidence that it
was drawn up or revised after November 4 when the Government's communication
channel with the IRA was about to be closed.

The IRA remains committed to its Northern Ireland and Great Britain campaigns,
and has the will, determination and resources to continue to mount attacks for
the foreseeable future, says the document.

"At present we assess that [the Provisional IRA] aims to avoid civilian
casualties when mounting attacks. However, it continues to mount attacks where
there is a risk of such casualties. We generally consider that the present
absence of Provisional IRA campaigns outside the UK is rather due to it
concentrating its resources on the campaigns in Northern Ireland and Great
Britain.

"However, we believe that it retains the capability to operate on the continent
if it chooses to do so at some future date.

"Loyalist terrorist organisations are likely to continue to mount attacks in
Northern Ireland against Irish republicans and the Catholic community in
general. The Irish delegation assesses that loyalist targets will also continue
to include nationalist politicians and persons and properties in the south of
Ireland."

- The ministers yesterday called for a convention to be prepared on Europol, the
embryonic EU criminal intelligence agency.  They will consider extending
Europol's role from combating drug trafficking into counter-terrorism work,
although British ministers oppose this.

They also began work on an extradition agreement which would abolish the concept
of political crimes which terrorists have used to avoid being returned to face
trial. Melchior Wathelet, the Belgian justice minister, said the proposal was to
provide swift extradition of anyone facing charges carrying a possible prison
sentence of at least a year - including tax dodgers.


LOAD-DATE: December 1, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              225 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                December 1, 1993

REPUBLICANS SURGE BUT TALKS IN DOUBT: SINN FEIN WHICH ONCE SEEMED HEADED FOR
ISOLATION, HAS LATELY MOVED TOWARDS CENTRE-STAGE;
THE IRA CONNECTION: Sinn Fein comes out of the cold

BYLINE: OWEN BOWCOTT IN BELFAST

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 482 words


IT WAS at Sinn Fein's annual conference in Dublin's Mansion House three years
ago that a speaker stood up and declared that the party could not win "the
struggle" on its own.

There was irony in that statement since Sinn Fein means Ourselves Alone. Later
that year, Dublin corporation voted to ban all parties supporting violence from
council property.

The party seemed headed for political isolation. Its vote was dropping in the
Republic and in Northern Ireland; its press conferences were poorly attended.
Only IRA violence lent it a sense of purpose.

Nearly three years on, the broad front strategy urged upon delegates has borne
extraordinary fruit. The republican movement now has a sense of anticipation,
hoping that a joint declaration at the forthcoming Dublin summit will unlock a
peace process in which it can be involved.

Despite the IRA's Warrington and Shankill Road bombings, this year has been one
of unprecedented success for Sinn Fein. In May's local elections, in the
province the party increased its vote (to 12.5 per cent), the first rise in
nearly 10 years.

Several months later the Irish President, Mary Robinson, shook hands with Gerry
Adams at a gathering in West Belfast - a symbolic breaking of a long-standing
taboo. The Republic is now reconsidering its broadcasting ban on Sinn Fein. At
the same time, Mr Adams has been engaged in talks with the Social Democratic and
Labour Party, John Hume MP.

While the exact terms of their "initiative" have not been released, they centre
on a predominantly nationalist agenda, requiring Britain to accept the right of
the Irish people as a whole to "national self-determination". Although rejected
by London, and initially by Dublin, the fact that the initiative still holds out
the prospect of a ceasefire and an eventual end to IRA violence has ensured it
considerable popular support in the nationalist community.

With no inter-party talks taking place at Stormont this year, Sinn Fein has been
able to move to centre stage. The revelation that it has been secretly talking
to the Government for up to 20 years has further enhanced the party's status.

Even if the Dublin summit fails to deliver a declaration which is sufficiently
nationalist, Sinn Fein's isolation is, for the present, suspended.

But much of that sympathy will be eroded if the IRA steps up its campaign again.
At present there are just enough attacks to prevent observers claiming that
there has already been a ceasefire.

Shots were fired at a policeman's home in Armagh on Monday night, and in
Belfast's Ardoyne, a coffee-jar bomb packed with Semtex missed an army patrol at
lunchtime yesterday but damaged 20 houses.

If the joint declaration in Dublin does not meet republican hopes, the IRA may
not so much be contemplating a ceasefire as a return to the problem of how to
step up its campaign.


LOAD-DATE: December 1, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              226 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                December 1, 1993

BOMB SUSPECT 'WANTED TO BLAST ENGLISH BASTARDS'

BYLINE: DUNCAN CAMPBELL, CRIME CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 462 words


A MAN accused of conspiring to bomb mainland Britain said he would like to "blow
the English bastards to pieces," an MI5 agent told an Old Bailey jury yesterday.
The agent, Patrick Daly, said he heard the threat after he was recruited by the
Irish National Liberation Army to help steal explosives from a Somerset quarry.

Mr Daly, a former driving instructor from Galway in the Irish Republic, was
giving evidence against Martin McMonagle, aged 31, from Limerick and Liam
Heffernan, aged 31, from Belfast, who deny conspiracy to steal explosives,
conspiracy to cause explosions and possession of firearms with intent to
endanger life. Mr Daly, who is in his mid-40s, was hidden from the public and
press by screens and brown paper. Only the judge, jury, court officials and the
two accused could see him. He said that he had lived in the Bristol area for 20
years and been a police informer providing details about the IRA. He was also
active in the Irish Republican Socialist Party, the political wing of the INLA.
In 1989 he had moved to Galway and became an MI5 agent.

In response to prosecuting counsel Nigel Sweeney, Mr Daly said that somewhat to
his surprise last year he had been taken to the West Belfast home of the chief
of staff of the INLA, Hugh Torney, known as Cueball. He was asked to seek out
quarries in the west country from which explosives could be stolen for attacks
on the mainland and in Northern Ireland.

Mr Torney told him that he was interested in the army base at Warminster and the
pubs frequented by British soldiers. He also asked about military bases in
Salisbury and Devon.

. "The purpose was to kill another soldier," he told the court. "Torney said it
would be easy pickings."

Since he was going back to Bristol for a family holiday, he agreed to look at
quarries. He reported the talks to the security services. He found a safe house
in Bristol for the three- man active service unit which consisted of the two
accused, he said, and a man called Anthony Gorman, known as Pat the Welder. He
agreed to stock the house with food.

Mr Daly said he drove Mr McMonagle to Limerick after his car broke down. Mr
McMonagle had told him they needed explosives to boost the INLA's morale. He
added that he "would like to blow the English bastards to pieces," said Mr Daly.
He said that Mr McMonagle had asked him if he would like to join the army
council but he had said he felt his face was too well known in political
circles.

In England in February, Mr Daly helped the active service unit into the safe
house.

Mr McMonagle and Mr Heffernan were arrested in February by 40 armed police in
the Westbury quarry as a result of the information from Mr Daly. Mr Gorman
escaped.

The trial continues today.


LOAD-DATE: December 1, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              227 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                            December 3, 1993, Friday

HUME-ADAMS TALKS GAVE IMPETUS IN SEARCH FOR PEACE

BYLINE:  John Deane, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 444 words


The search for peace which will today take John Major to Dublin was given a
significant injection of impetus with the revelation earlier this year that Sinn
Fein president Gerry Adams had held secret talks with SDLP leader John Hume.
News of the discussions emerged in April. Mr Adams and Mr Hume, the MP for
Foyle, held a 90-minute meeting in Londonderry in the company of Roman Catholic
clergymen.  It came just a week after abortive talks between IRA leaders and Mr
Gordon Wilson, whose daughter died in the 1987 Remembrance Day bombing in
Enniskillen, Co Fermanagh, and a month after the death of two children in the
Warrington bombing.  Mr Hume was later to say the talks represented the best
hope for bringing an end to violence in the province that he had seen in 20
years. The objective was "a total cessation of violence", he said.  Mr Hume
briefed Mr Major on his talks in September, and later that month a joint
document outlining the basis of the Hume-Adams peace initiative was forwarded to
the Irish government.  Formidable obstacles to progress were only too evident.
In the province, there were a number of attacks by Loyalist terrorists on the
homes of SDLP councillors.  At Westminster, it was widely believed the
Government's reaction to the initiative would be coloured by Mr Major's securing
of the support of Unionist MPs in July's confidence vote on Maastricht.  The
quest for peace appeared to have been dealt a devastating blow with October's
Shankill Road bombing and retaliatory Greysteel massacre.  Just a few days later
the British and Irish governments appeared to be attempting to seize the
initiative, with Mr Major and Mr Reynolds, speaking after an EC summit in
Brussels, agreeing to relaunch suspended peace talks.  Early in November Mr
Major met the leaders of the province's political parties, while Mr Hume
proclaimed peace could come within a week if Britain accepted the Hume-Adams
proposals. Later Mr Hume held talks with Mr Reynolds in Dublin.  On November 15
in his Guildhall speech, Mr Major offered talks with Sinn Fein if the IRA ended
its violence. Gerry Adams said the offer was insincere, claiming the British
government had been in protracted dialogue with Sinn Fein - a claim dismissed by
Downing Street.  Both the British and Irish governments were later embarrassed
by a leak of a draft of the Republic's plans for Northern Ireland. The draft
called for Britain to recognise the legitimacy of the goal of Irish unity.  Mr
Hume and Mr Adams met again to discuss their initiative in late November, but
last weekend details of the contacts between the British Government and the IRA
emerged in the press.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1993 The Press Association Limited

                              228 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                December 4, 1993

DUBLIN TALKS SURVIVE QUARREL;
Major and Reynolds to meet again after efforts to bridge differences

BYLINE: OWEN BOWCOTT, PATRICK WINTOUR AND JOE JOYCE IN DUBLIN

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 702 words


BRITISH insistence that a joint declaration leading to an end to IRA violence
must contain an Irish commitment to reform its constitutional claim on the North
emerged last night as a major stumbling block to the Northern Ireland peace
process.

After seven hours of prime ministerial talks in Dublin, areas of agreement were
identified but three or four fundamental constitutional differences remained.

As well as Dublin's claim to Northern Ireland, they included the question of
Britain's willingness to recognise the desirability of a united Ireland.

Teams of civil servants have been instructed to start work on these areas early
next week in preparation for another working meeting between John Major and
Albert Reynolds at the European Council in Brussels on Friday.

Neither prime minister did anything to hide the fact that angry words had been
exchanged in the opening two-hour one-to-one session over the revelations that
the British government had been maintaining a close contact with the IRA all
this year.

"We had a long and productive meeting," said Mr Reynolds, the Taoiseach. "There
was some very open and frank talking. We started off clearing the air between
the prime minister and myself. Then we got down to the real business of the
day."

Mr Major said they both went into the meeting with frustrations over recent
events but they were determined to push ahead.

The depth of the problems to be resolved emerged very quickly when it became
clear that the British were not prepared to exclude constitutional issues from
the declaration. Dublin had been insisting that its constitutional claim to
Northern Ireland was a matter for the separate talks process which has been
stalled for most of the past year.

Mr Reynolds, in contrast to Mr Major, has repeatedly stated that the search for
peace should be separate from discussions between the constitutional parties
involved in the conflict.

The Taoiseach repeated last night his willingness to amend the Republic's
constitution in the context of an overall settlement. He said: "If at the end of
the talks process, which is a separate process from the peace initiative, a
balanced agreement is the outcome, the Irish government will be prepared to put
to the people the agreement for their approval."

On Britain's side, there is an initial reluctance about any declaration which
implies that something is being offered to the IRA in order to end its campaign.

Mr Major said: "There's no question of bargaining for an end to violence. The
Provisional IRA present themselves as interested in securing peace yet they have
signally failed to deliver an end to violence. I believe they should do so at
once."

In as much as the British have travelled to Dublin, they seem prepared to go
along with the Taoiseach's peace process, but they may be seeking concessions
which will reassure Unionists. Both leaders stressed that they wanted an
agreement which would have the backing of both communities in Northern Ireland.

Mr Major was particularly adamant in rejecting suggestions that the Government
should join those seeking to persuade Unionists to join a united Ireland. "I
have made it clear from the outset that we don't see this as the role of the
British government," he said.

The Irish government was unaware of the full extent of the British contacts with
the IRA until it was given a briefing last Friday, after it became clear that
details were being leaked to the press.

Mr Reynolds said yesterday: "There has been some strong talking, frank talking,
but after some time we put it to one side.  We are not denying that there was a
strong exchange of views."

Mr Major refused to close down his chain of communication with the IRA.

He said: "I don't think people have taken fully on board the nature of these
contacts. The British Government was approached by the IRA with a statement to
be issued. We confirmed to them that our private position was our public
position. It has not been a question of negotiating with the IRA. It has been a
question of responding to their questions. I do not know whether they will ask
us any more questions. That is a matter for them."


LOAD-DATE: December 6, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              229 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                December 4, 1993

ARMOUR-PLATED PROTEST STOPPED IN ITS TRACKS

BYLINE: ANGELLA JOHNSON

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 287 words


IT LOOKED like the advance party of an invading army - and armed police at the
Old Bailey were thrown into a security alert yesterday when a tank clattered
into the City of London.

The military monster got within 200 yards of breaching security before it was
halted and forced to park at a bus stop where it was surrounded by police with
machine guns, protecting the court from terrorist attack.

The Central Criminal Court is trying two alleged Irish National Liberation Army
members accused of plotting a bombing blitz in Britain.

Inside the tank was disgruntled 44-year-old angler John Gladden, who was
protesting against Croydon council, in south London.

He explained that he had caught the third-biggest Marlin by rod and line while
on holiday in Hawaii. But the council refused to let him mount his prize trophy
on the roof of his house in Norbury.

A bemused Mr Gladden said afterwards: "I don't know what all the fuss is about.
The police and traffic wardens have got to get used to them. It is perfectly
legal and is my own licensed heavy goods vehicle."

Mr Gladden, who runs a building supply company, had cleared his trip into the
City with Scotland Yard. The 1965 tank, for which he paid the Ministry of
Defence pounds 4,000 10 days ago, was taxed and insured. He was not arrested as
no law bans an armoured vehicle driving through London.

As a protest Mr Gladden was trying to use the tank to deliver samples to his
customers, but police refused to allow it past the City checkpoints and escorted
it out of London.

An officer, who refused to be named, said: "We could not believe what we saw
when it came rolling down the street and stopped outside the Old Bailey."


LOAD-DATE: December 6, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              230 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                December 4, 1993

Angler sends tank into the City

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 280 words


A TANK drove into the City of London yesterday, causing a security alert outside
the Old Bailey.

The tank was surrounded by armed police with machine-guns, who were protecting
the court from a possible attack by terrorists.

The Central Criminal Court is trying two alleged Irish National Liberation Army
terrorists who are accused of plotting a bombing campaign in Britain.

The tank got within 200 yards of the City's ring of steel protection against
terrorist attacks before it was halted and forced to park in a bus stop in
Newgate Street.

Police refused to allow it past the City checkpoints and escorted it out of
London.

Mr John Gladden, 44, who organised the tank drive, said it was a protest against
Croydon Council, in London. He was not arrested because there is no law banning
an armoured vehicle driving through London.

He explained that he had caught a Marlin fish while on holiday in Hawaii. He
mounted his prize trophy on the roof of his house in St Oswalds Road, Norbury,
but was told by council officials to take it down because he was breaching a by
-law.

Mr Gladden, who runs a building supply company, said that the tank was taxed,
insured and he had cleared his trip into the City with Scotland Yard.

He added that as a protest he had decided to use the tank to deliver samples to
his customers. He said that when he was stopped by the police marksmen he was
trying to make a delivery to the Old Bailey.

"The vehicle is legal and entitled to be on the road. The police and traffic
wardens have got to get used to them."

He added that he bought the 1965 tank ten days ago from the Ministry of Defence
for £4000.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1993 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              231 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                           December 4, 1993, Saturday

Dublin talks edge to a new round

BYLINE: From Philip Webster and Nicholas Watt in Dublin

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 691 words


JOHN Major and Albert Reynolds kept their stalled Ulster peace initiative alive
last night by edging towards a declaration which Ireland believes could end IRA
violence permanently.

Serious differences surfaced between the two sides during eight hours of talks
at Dublin Castle, but a compromise was reached which will allow the negotiating
process to continue at the European summit in Brussels next week.  Both leaders
agreed at a press conference last night that good progress had been made, but
admitted that much more had to be done.

Mr Reynolds won agreement to his demand that a formula designed to bring an end
to violence should take precedence over the more detailed talks on the
constitutional future of Northern Ireland. But he gave ground as Mr Major
secured acceptance of his insistence that a joint declaration should cover
constitutional issues.

Mr Major intends that these should include a firm guarantee that there can be no
change in the constitutional position of Northern Ireland although there are
obvious divisions over whether it should also contain a reaffirmation of the
South's readiness to give up its long-standing territorial claim on the North.

The atmosphere at yesterday's meeting had been soured by the disclosure over
recent days of contacts between the British government and the IRA. It appeared
that the Irish government was intent on putting Mr Major on the defensive to
extract concessions.

Noel Dempsey, the Fianna Fail chief whip, gave a series of interviews in which
he accused Britain of bad faith. ''We expect the cards to be dealt from the top
of the deck and not the bottom,'' he said. Speaking in the courtyard of the
castle as Mr Major flew in, he said that Dublin would be disappointed and
annoyed if talks that had taken place in confidence with the British had been
relayed to the IRA.

Mr Reynolds said last night that he and Mr Major had cleared the air between
them. Mr Major said that each had felt frustration over recent events: ''The
first thing to do was to lay to rest those concerns. We did so satisfactorily
this morning in private.'' Mr Reynolds said he was satisfied that the incidents
would not ''interfere with the continuation of our talks process''. Mr Major
said if agreement was not possible this time ''we will go on and on until we do.
This is not something that will be suddenly cut off.''

British officials said that the constitutional talks involving Northern
Ireland's political parties would run parallel to the effort to secure a joint
declaration, but it was accepted that the latter would come first.  Britain is
still pressing Dublin for its detailed position on the constitution.

Mr Reynolds said that if the initiative resulted in a ''balanced agreement'' he
was prepared to put it to a referendum.

Mr Major, emphasising the scale of of the task ahead, said that many matters
''have advanced in our discussions; some have not. There are still differences
between us. We cannot guarantee that we will end the differences but we can give
an assurance we will work towards that.''

A British source said last night that the government was cautiously optimistic,
but substantial questions still had to be resolved. Good progress had been made
on the joint declaration and officials had been sent off to work on the
differences before the two prime ministers meet in Brussels next week.

However, the two governments differed over the timescale. While the British
source said that no date had been set for agreeing the declaration, Dublin
indicated that it was working towards December 17.

A soldier murdered by an IRA sniper in south Armagh was named as Lance Bombadier
Paul Andrew Garrett. The 23-year-old single man from Battersea, south London,
was attached to the 26th Regiment, Royal Artillery, and was two months into his
first tour of duty in Northern Ireland.

Three policemen escaped injury after being lured into a booby-trap blast in the
Ardoyne area of North Belfast last night. A man broke into a house and fled:
when police went to investigate, a bomb in the back yard was detonated from a
neighbouring property.

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1993 Times Newspapers Limited

                              232 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               December 11, 1993

TERROR ACT BAN LIFTED ON WITNESS

BYLINE: OWEN BOWCOTT IN BELFAST

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 384 words


THE Home Office has revoked an exclusioin order against a West Belfast man it
has branded a security risk so he can give evidence at the Old Bailey.

Kevin Maquillan, aged 34, who is due to give evidence on behalf of two alleged
members of the Irish National Liberation Army, has been banned from entering
Britain for six years.

For the past two months he has been in a bizarre legal predicament.

If he obeyed the witness summons, he could have been jailed for breaching his
exclusion order on arrival in Britain.

If he ignored the subpoena, he could have been arrested by the Royal Ulster
Constabulary for failing to appear in court. The Prevention of Terrorism Act
makes no provision for temporarily lifting an exclusion order.

The dilemma delayed the start of the trial. But in a letter to Mr Maquillan's
solicitor, a Home Office official said: "The Home Secretary has decided that,
solely for the purpose of allowing Mr Maquillan to give evidence before the
Central Criminal Court, the exclusion order will be revoked with effect from
midnight on the day before he is directed to attend the court.  The Home
Secretary will consider whether, in the light of the statutory criteria, Mr
Maquillan is to be excluded immediately after he has given evidence."

Mr Maquillan, a former spokesman for the political wing of INLA, the Irish
Republican Socialist Party, said yesterday that he was disappointed that the
Government had not promised to end the exclusion order for ever.

"As soon as I have given evidence I will presumably be rearrested and put on the
next flight back to Belfast," said Mr Maquillan.

"I don't think they will want me to stay or it will be seen as a loophole in the
Prevention of Terrorism Act."

He is now expected to travel to London next week to give evidence in defence of
Liam Heffernan and Martin McMonagle, who have denied charges of conspiracy to
steal explosives from a quarry in Somerset.

- A man who served 14 years for the 1974 murder of an RUC officer yesterday won
a ruling at Belfast High Court that the RUC must reconsider its decision not to
release crucial interview notes for electro-static document analysis (ESDA)
tests.

Billy Gorman, aged 34, wants the tests to show that his alleged confession was
falsified.


LOAD-DATE: December 13, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              233 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Daily Mail (London)

                           December 13, 1993, Monday

IRA KILLERS WARN MAJOR;
POLICE MURDERS PUT PRESSURE ON PEACE TALKS

BYLINE: John Deans, Political Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 1, 2

LENGTH: 1254 words


THE IRA left two more grieving widows yesterday as John Major and Albert
Reynolds fought to keep their Ulster peace initiative alive.

Two policemen were slaughtered in a desperate and cynical attempt to put
pressure on the Premier.

The ambush came hours before a Dublin-London phone call, due today, which could
bring lasting peace by Christmas or plunge the province into renewed civil war.

Mr Major and his Irish counterpart will discuss whether intensive weekend
negotiations have produced the basis for a joint declaration of intent.

If so, they will go ahead with a London summit at which they will call on the
IRA to end its 25-year campaign of death and violence.

If the two governments fail to find an acceptable blueprint for peace, the
people of Ulster and mainland Britain face the prospect of more killings as
terrorists turn their back on the peace process.

Mr Reynolds put the chances of success at 70 per cent yesterday. But for the
families of William Beacom and Ernest Smith, optimism died in a hail of bullets
at Fivemiletown, County Tyrone.

The officers' unmarked car was ambushed by IRA gunmen in what was widely seen as
an

attempt to push Mr Major into a peace deal. Constable Beacom, 46, was married
with three children - a daughter of 21 and sons of 19 and ten.  Reserve
constable Smith, aged 49, was also married. His sons are 24 and 22.

Mr Major is facing similar pressure from the opposite direction, with the
prospect of a savage backlash from Protestant paramilitaries if they see a peace
deal as a sell-out.

Unionist MPs added to his troubles by warning that they are ready to pull the
Commons plug on his Government.

Leading Unionist MP John Taylor declared: 'The problem could be that the
Unionists cease to have a working relationship with the Government and that we
move towards a situation where we would support a vote of no confidence and
bring about an early election.'

His colleague, Upper Bann MP David Trimble, accused Mr Reynolds of 'acting on
behalf of the IRA'.

He warned: 'The people of Ulster are worried about the danger of a surrender to
terrorism. This is a surrender. Let us not fool ourselves and don't mislead the
public either.'

Mr Reynolds, however, repeated his claim that there was no threat to either side
in the draft document being thrashed out at official level and due to be
considered by senior ministers at Downing Street this morning.

He said: 'It is not a question of trying to coerce one group into another, there
has to be agreement from both communities. When it is on the table, it will be
seen in that light.'

But Mr Trimble was unconvinced. He told interviewer Brian Walden on ITV: 'The
Irish are pushing for a declaration which carries with it the message that Irish
unity is the preferred goal and that the British Government will become the
persuaders - that they will try and encourage and persuade the people of
Northern Ireland to agree to Irish unity. That is what is being sold.'

He said later: 'You can always get peace by surrendering to the aggressor and
that is what this is.

'Mr Reynolds is in there negotiating, in effect, on behalf of the IRA to try and
achieve what are the IRA's minimum demands, namely a declaration which is in
favour of Irish unity plus a political process to achieve that.

'What we are being offered at the moment is just surrender by stages. That is
not acceptable to us and it is not acceptable to the British Government.'

Tory MPs are also piling pressure on the Prime Minister to reject further
concessions to Dublin.

Scottish Tory backbencher Phil Gallie urged Mr Major to strengthen Ulster's
links with Britain by putting them on a par with Scotland's.

Labour's Irish affairs spokesman Kevin McNamara called on the Premier to balance
the interests of the UK as a whole and, while stressing the Unionist veto on a
united Ireland, 'go further' in response to the wishes of the Dublin government.

* Mr Reynolds denied reports that his Government has had secret talks with the
Loyalist paramilitary UVF. 'There is no foundation for this story,' he insisted.

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1993 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              234 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               December 13, 1993

TWO RUC OFFICERS GUNNED DOWN IN AMBUSH

BYLINE: OWEN BOWCOTT

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 458 words


THE Provisional IRA yesterday ambushed and killed two Royal Ulster Constabulary
officers as they drove around a quiet Co Tyrone town on night patrol.

The killings, at a highly sensitive moment in the peace process talks between
Britain and Ireland, come at a time when Gerry Adams, the president of Sinn
Fein, has been stressing that the IRA is far from being war-weary or near
surrender.

A number of men were arrested yesterday morning in connection with the killings.
No one has yet been charged.

Constable William Beacom, aged 46, and reserve constable Ernest Smith, aged 49,
died in their unmarked Renault estate car when several gunmen, standing either
side of the road, strafed the vehicle with machine-gun fire. The ambush came at
around 1.30 am in Fivemiletown on the Belfast to Enniskillen road. Co Tyrone,
once a centre of republican paramilitary activity, has witnessed relatively few
IRA attacks in recent times.

Mr Beacom was married with a 21-year-old daughter and sons aged 19 and 10. He
lived in Fivemiletown, and had been a member of the RUC for over 23 years. Mr
Smith was married with sons aged 24 and 22. He had been in the force for nearly
19 years.

In another attack late on Saturday night, at least one IRA gunman opened fire on
a car leaving a golf club in north Belfast.  The driver, a former policeman, was
wounded in the arm. His wife was hit in the hand. Neither of the victims were
seriously injured.

The Fivemiletown killings may force the RUC to review its policy of using
unmarked cars with little reinforced protection.  Although Landrovers are used
for patrols in most cities, in the countryside faster cars are more common.

Yesterday's shootings take the number of people killed in paramilitary violence
in the province to 82 this year.

There were widespread condemnations of the attack. Northern Ireland's Chief
Constable Sir Hugh Annesley said: "At a time when the whole community is looking
towards peace the Provisional IRA have yet again shown they have absolutely
nothing to offer but death and suffering."

The local MP and Ulster Unionist Party security spokesman, Ken Maginnis MP,
denounced the "unforgiveable" killing of "two decent men".

Ian Paisley MP, the leader of the Democratic Unionist Party, said the attack was
a "stark reminder of the real nature of the IRA".

John Alderdice, of the non-sectarian Alliance Party warned that "responsibility
for killing off the peace process rests with those who continue to carry out
killings and ambushes".

- In south Belfast a Catholic couple were forced to flee their home early on
Sunday morning after a firebomb was thrown through a window. It is believed to
have been a loyalist sectarian attack.


LOAD-DATE: December 13, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              235 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           December 13, 1993, Monday

Leading Article: Taking risks for peace in Ireland

SECTION: COMMENT PAGE; Page 13

LENGTH: 504 words


GLOOM is beginning to settle over the Anglo-Irish talks. If there is no
agreement by Christmas, there are likely to be more deaths on both sides and a
long wait for another opening as promising as this one. It is therefore vital
that the politicians avoid becoming so entangled in detail that they lose sight
of the principles at stake.

The main issue now is one of method and timing. Albert Reynolds wants to advance
in two stages, starting with a declaration that would persuade the IRA to end
violence. Then, he believes, in the atmosphere that would follow, it would
become easier to reassure the Unionists. He is, as he made clear at the weekend,
strongly against a fudged document that would not persuade the IRA to lay down
its arms. That would be pointless.

John Major appears to be aiming for a single declaration designed to satisfy the
IRA and the Unionists simultaneously. This is far more difficult to achieve,
because reassurances for one side tend to cancel out those for the other. But Mr
Major is afraid that a declaration unacceptable to the Unionists would provoke a
wave of violence from their side and cost him their support in the Commons. He
is, therefore, consulting the Unionists at every stage.

The underlying question is whether a basis exists for a bridge between the
British and Irish positions. The evidence suggests that it does. The IRA has
retreated from its insistence on instant unity as the price for ending violence.
It now seems willing to accept a declaration that acknowledges the principle of
self-determination for Ireland, but leaves the process open to negotiation and
subject to agreement by the North. According to what is known of the Hume-Adams
talks, it would then pledge to work for union by peaceful means.

This looks like a big change. If the British government has good reason to
believe the change is not real, it has no business negotiating at all. If it
believes the change is real, or worth testing, its duty is to be bold. This
means opening a political path for the IRA, even at the risk of seeming to
reward violence. To shrink back from doing so, for fear of the Unionists at
Westminster, would be to put party before country. There is a real threat of
increased loyalist violence, but to retreat before it would be every bit as
cowardly as surrendering to IRA violence.

It is not as if Mr Reynolds were asking Britain to sacrifice the Unionists. He
has conceded them the right of veto, and the IRA seems ready to do the same.
What Mr Reynolds is arguing is simply that their worries can be more easily
dealt with in detailed negotiations when violence has ceased.

His case looks convincing. The two-stage approach would work provided there was
not a long pause between the stages, in which Unionist fears could be whipped
up. Mr Major would have to take a risk; but there is no risk-free option in
Ireland. He will be judged far less harshly if he tries and fails, than if he
allows timidity to lose him an historic opportunity.


LOAD-DATE: December 13, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1993 Independent Print Ltd

                              236 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               December 14, 1993

ACTIVIST 'ADMITTED BOMB'

BYLINE: ERLEND CLOUSTON

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 308 words


A SCOTTISH nationalist who faces 18 charges, including planting four improvised
mortars outside oil company premises, admitted sending a letter bomb to the
Scottish Office, the High Court in Aberdeen heard yesterday.

Gordon Cantlay, a documents supervisor, said Andrew McIntosh reassured him the
package had contained "only a harmless flash device".

Mr Cantlay also alleged that Mr McIntosh, formerly a courier with the Wood Group
in Aberdeen, had indicated that he approved of terrorism: "He seemed to think
that in some areas it achieved the desired results."

Mr McIntosh denies conspiring "to further by criminal means the purposes of the
Scottish National Liberation Army . . . with the intention of overthrowing Her
Majesty's Government in Scotland, or with the intent of coercing Her Majesty's
Government in Great Britain into the setting up of a separate government in
Scotland."

The mortars were allegedly placed outside Aberdeen-based oil companies in March.

Mr McIntosh is also accused of sending letter bombs to the Scottish Office,
Dounreay atomic station and Anglian Water headquarters in Huntingdon, injuring
an employee, and illegal possession of firearms.

Mr Cantlay said that on his recommendation Mr McIntosh had secured a job with Mr
Cantlay's employer that involved ferrying oil workers to and from Aberdeen
airport.

During a journey, Mr Cantlay said his colleague mentioned a letter bomb sent to
the Scottish Office: "I took it by the fact that he told me about it that he had
some part in sending it."

Cross-examined by Donald Finlay, QC, Mr Cantlay denied inventing Mr McIntosh's
confession to secure lenient treatment from the police. The court had heard that
a raid on the Cantlay home in Aberdeen had discovered an unlicensed 7.65mm
handgun under the bed.

The trial was adjourned.


LOAD-DATE: December 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              237 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Daily Mail (London)

                          December 15, 1993, Wednesday

Commuter chaos as rail bombers keep pressure on Major

BYLINE: Peter Burden,And,Peter Rose

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 574 words


MORE terror attacks on mainland Britain were feared last night after a bomb
exploded on a railway track.

No one was hurt in the blast, which halted services and disrupted journeys for
100,000 London commuters.

Police fear that, despite the current peace talks, the IRA is determined to keep
up pressure on the Government before a planned Christmas truce. They believe
yesterday's action was a clear signal to the authorities that the terrorists are
still active on the mainland.

The device exploded without warning at 2.50am on the line between Woking and
West Byfleet station in Surrey, leaving a crater 1ft deep and 2ft wide and
damaging one rail.

As officers from Scotland Yard's Anti-Terrorist Branch were called in, British
Transport and local police sealed off the area.

For thousands of commuters heading for London, it was the second day of delays.
On Monday, Woking was the centre of a series of alerts after coded warnings were
made to Scotland Yard from payphones in Dublin.

The area was searched - and officers believe yesterday's bomb was planted after
those checks were completed.

Experts say the attack was probably intended as an IRA 'public relations
exercise' to highlight its potential capabilities.

Stations temporarily closed because of the bomb were Woking, Worplesdon, Byfleet
and New Haw, West Byfleet, Brookwood, Farnborough, Fleet, Hook and Winchfield.
Although engineers managed to replace damaged track by early afternoon and all
stations were reopened, delays persisted well into the evening.

The IRA's last attack on a railway line was in October, when a device exploded
beside the track a half mile from Reading station, Berkshire.

The blast, which damaged a signal box and left an 18in crater beside the track,
caused major disruption to services between Paddington and the West of England.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1993 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              238 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Standard (London)

                          December 15, 1993, Wednesday

(1)Major and Irish Premier sign historic Ulster pact (2)Gunmen challenged to lay
down arms and talk

BYLINE: Peter Oborne

SECTION: Pg. 1, 2

LENGTH: 1320 words


JOHN MAJOR and Irish premier Albert Reynolds emerged side by side from No 10
today and challenged the IRA gunmen to lay down their arms.

Standing in front of the Downing Street Christmas tree, Mr Major declared that
'the door was open' for the IRA to come to the negotiating table.

Minutes before, the two leaders agreed the historic Anglo-Irish accord that
opened the breath-taking hope of an end to 25 years of murderous terrorism in
Ulster.

Mr Major, holding in his hand the document that could hold the key to the almost
unbelievable prospect of peace, threw down the gauntlet to the terrorists by
assuring them they would be welcome back into the political fold if they laid
down their arms.

He said: 'Our message is clear and it is simple: there is no future in violence.
There is a fair and democratic future for all those who wish to enter the
political process. The declaration embodies our common view that there is an
opportunity to end violence for good in Northern Ireland.'

Mr Reynolds said: 'This is a historic opportunity for peace. We hope that
everybody will grasp it so that we can all make a new beginning.'

The two leaders took 40 minutes to reach agreement on their joint communique,
emerging 10 minutes late for the planned photocall outside No 10.

Making a statement to the Commons this afternoon, Mr Major reassured the
unionists that they had a 'rock solid' guarantee to keep Northern Ireland in the
union so long as the majority wanted it.

Reacting to the declaration for the first time, Ulster Unionist leader James
Molyneaux gave what observers saw as the endorsement Mr Major sought.

Though he labelled it 'a tortuously worded statement with many contradictions',
he asked for - and got - reassurances from the Prime Minister about Ulster's
continued role in the union.

Earlier, at a Downing Street Press conference, Mr Major put a timetable on the
quest for peace, saying: 'If the Provisional IRA will end and renounce violence
for good, the British Government is prepared to enter into preliminary dialogue
with Sinn Fein within three months.'

His words opened up the prospect of the traditional IRA Christmas ceasefire
lasting well into the New Year and leading to 'talks about talks' between
Government officals and Sinn Fein as soon as March.

The Prime Minister called on gunmen on each side of Ulster's religious divide to
'listen to the voices of their people'.

If the gunmen refused to respond to the declaration, he said, it would show that
'they prefer violence for its own sake because they are now offered a democratic
alternative'.

There was no immediate response from the organisation at which the declaration
was most aimed - the IRA.

But for all the relief that Mr Major and Mr Reynolds had at last managed to come
together for their momentous accord, there was a grim awareness that this was
the 'easy bit' and that a long and gruelling battle lay ahead to persuade
extremists on both sides to abandon violence and come to the negotiating table.

It was the end of the first stage of the long and gruelling peace process that
began back in February when the IRA leadership sent a cryptic message to the
British Government saying 'the conflict is over'.

Today's joint declaration, seven pages long and stretching to 12 long
paragraphs, is as notable for what it does not contain as for what it does.

There is no change to the constitutional status of Ulster; no weakening of UK
sovereignty over Ulster unless the people of Northern Ireland want it.  Mr Major
has not yielded to pressure from Ireland to recognise the 'value', or even the
'legitimacy', of a united Ireland - a key point in securing the support of the
unionists.

There is no timetable for the attainment of a united Ireland or even any
recognition that it might ever happen. And, another key point for the unionists,
there is no hint of any power-sharing with the South.

But there is the passionate agreement between Dublin and London 'that the most
urgent and important issue facing the people of Ireland, North and South, and
the British and Irish governments together, is to remove the causes of conflict,
to overcome the legacy of history and to heal the divisions that have resulted'.

On the British side, there is the reaffirmation that Britain has 'no selfish
strategic or economic interest in Northern Ireland'.

Mr Major will go on both Ulster and national television tonight in a rare
special broadcast to explain the accord and challenge the gunmen to abandon
arms.

The vital question is now how the joint accord would be received in Northern
Ireland. Extremists on both sides - not just the IRA but also the loyalist
paramilitaries - have to be persuaded to forsake violence.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC:  John Major with Irish Premier Albert Reynolds in Downing Street today
as they announced the historic Ulster agreement. 'Our message is clear and i is
simple: there is no future in violence,' Mr Major declared

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1993 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              239 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               December 15, 1993

Clerkess tells trial of letter bomb blast

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 481 words


A CLERKESS yesterday told the High Court in Aberdeen of her terror as a letter
bomb exploded in her hand while she opened the morning mail at her work.

Angela Whitcombe, 19, an employee of Anglian Water, said she had been opening a
padded envelope when a device inside it had "gone bang in my hand". She was very
frightened but her only injury was a bruised nail.

Miss Whitcombe was giving evidence at the trial of Andrew McIntosh, who is
charged with embarking on a hoax bomb and letter bomb campaign in a bid to
further the cause of the Scottish National Liberation Army.

He is also alleged to have attempted to overthrow the Government in Scotland, or
to have tried to coerce the Government in Britain to set up a separate
Government in Scotland.

Mr McIntosh, 38, denies 18 separate charges, including the letter bomb allegedly
sent to Anglian Water headquarters in Huntingdon, Cambridgeshire. He also denies
sending two other letter bombs on the same day, to the Scottish Office in
Edinburgh, and Dounreay Atomic Plant in Caithness.

He is alleged to have sent hoax mortar bombs to four oil company headquarters in
Aberdeen, and to have placed devices in Glasgow, Edinburgh, and Dundee.

The court heard from a colleague of Miss Whitcombe that Scots had demonstrated
outside the Anglian Water building the Friday before the explosion.

Nicola Kane said she thought they were telling Anglian water to "mind their own
business" as far as the privatisation of Scottish water was concerned.

A bomb disposal officer from RAF Wittering, who examined the letter bomb at
Anglian Water, said it had only partly functioned.

Advocate-depute Michael O'Grady asked the man, whose identity was not revealed
to the court, what the potential for injury from such a device would have been
if it had gone off properly.

He replied: "If the Jiffy Bag was strong enough and if all the hot gas was
forced out one opening, that would have caused quite severe burns, possibly
damaging the eyes and even perforation of the eardrum."

He agreed the device was "potentially dangerous and damaging but not lethal".

Earlier another bomb disposal officer described four devices found outside oil
company buildings in Aberdeen in March as the best hoax bombs he had seen on the
UK mainland.

The devices consisted of imitation mortars inside scaffolding tubes. Timer
devices were taped to the outside and wires were used to hold the mortars in
place.

The tubes were placed on wooden stakes and were pointing towards the office
buildings.

He believed they had been constructed by someone who knew what he was doing.

He carried out controlled explosions on two of the devices, near Shell's
building at Rubislaw, and BP at Dyce. Two other devices, found later in the day
at offices owned by Elf and Conoco, were dismantled.

The trial continues.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1993 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              240 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          December 15, 1993, Wednesday

Declaration of peace for Ireland

BYLINE: DAVID MCKITTRICK and DONALD MACINTYRE

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Page 1

LENGTH: 676 words


THE BRITISH and Irish governments will today unveil a historic joint ''peace
declaration'' which they believe holds the potential for bringing a quarter of a
century of violence to a close.

The joint declaration will recognise the right of the people of the North and
South of Ireland to self-determination - a key condition for the ending of IRA
violence. Balancing that will be a strong emphasis on Northern Ireland remaining
part of the United Kingdom for so long as a majority there wish.

The Irish government is to acknowledge formally that it would be wrong to
attempt to impose a united Ireland.

John Major and Albert Reynolds will seal the deal at a summit in London this
morning - their third meeting within two weeks. The Prime Minister will make a
statement in the Commons this afternoon while the Taoiseach will report to the
Dail.

Both governments believe the declaration stands a realistic chance of meeting
the concerns of the IRA and Sinn Fein. It is understood it bears some
resemblance to the Hume-Adams peace proposals, though there is no guarantee that
it will cause the IRA to lay down its arms. Sinn Fein said last night that it
would study the declaration and measure it against the substance of those
proposals.

In today's declaration, the British government will indicate that a united
Ireland could come into being if that is the wish of the people in both North
and South. The two parts would exercise their right to self-determination
respectively - that is, separately - by agreement and on the basis of freely
given consent. London will emphasise its determination to uphold the democratic
wishes of the people of Northern Ireland.

The Irish government is to add an acknowledgement that Irish history shows there
can be no stability in any system of government that is rejected by some section
of its people.

British and Irish sources said some final details had to be worked out but it
was already being assumed that the 11am Downing Street summit will take little
more than an hour. A rare prime ministerial broadcast has not been ruled out for
tonight.

The final negotiations between London and Dublin were still under way when the
Prime Minister was at Buckingham Palace for his weekly audience with the Queen.
Mr Reynolds' agreement to the draft ended a dramatic day in which he and Mr
Major had twice spoken by telephone to clear stumbling blocks which had emerged
in negotiations - and which caused Dublin yesterday to adopt a cautious approach
towards the prospect of an agreement.

The declaration will announce the setting up of a forum, to be organised by the
Irish government, to which Sinn Fein will be invited once it becomes evident the
IRA has laid down its arms. That is a dilution of an Irish government proposal
for a convention with which the British government was to be associated.

It is understood that both Unionist and nationalist leaders have been briefed.
The Ulster Unionist leader, James Molyneaux is known to have reservations about
the development but has apparently indicated that he will not denounce it.

Denunciation is, however, expected from Ian Paisley, and possibly from some
members of Mr Molyneaux's party who may see more dangers in the document than he
does.

The declaration contains a reference to Articles 2 and 3 of the Irish
constitution, whose removal Unionists have demanded for some years. It is made
clear, however, that the Irish government would consider removing those only as
part of a far-reaching overall settlement.

In spite of Irish pressure, Britain has not included any statements on the value
of legitimacy or Irish unity.

THE DECLARATION WILL INCLUDE:

Recognition of the right of the people of Ireland to self-determination;

Northern Ireland should remain part of the United Kingdom so long as a majority
there wish it;

A new all-Ireland forum to include Sinn Fein;

Removal of Articles 2 and 3 from the Irish constitution once an overall
settlement is agreed.

Mayhew offered to go, page 2


LOAD-DATE: December 17, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1993 Independent Print Ltd

                              241 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Daily Mail (London)

                          December 16, 1993, Thursday

Pressure to release the bombers could spoil deal

BYLINE: Peter Burden

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 467 words


ONE stumbling block to peace talks would be the likely demand by Sinn Fein for
the release of prisoners convicted of IRA outrages on the mainland.

Sixty IRA terrorists are currently serving jail sentences in Britain. Sinn Fein
claims they are 'politicial prisoners'.

Security chiefs believe that, whatever the political discussions, killers and
bomb planters should serve their sentences in full.

Many face a recommended 30 years in prison and it is unlikely the Government
would agree to releasing the men and women of violence early.  Such a stand
could be the major sticking point in any agreement.

Time and again, jailed terrorists have boasted a unanimous and sustained belief
that they will never serve their full terms of imprisonment and will be
released, always 'in the near future', in a Governmental 'deal'.

Among the IRA 'lifers' are the Balcombe Street four - Harry Duggan, Hugh
Docherty, Edward Butler and Martin O'Connell - arrested after a London siege in
December 1975.

Gilbert McNamee, responsible for the Hyde Park bomb in July 1982, got life after
being charged in 1986 following the terror campaign which included the Harrods
bombing.

The jailed terrorists also include Patrick MaGee, responsible for the attempted
murder of Margaret Thatcher and her Cabinet at Brighton's Grand Hotel in October
1984.

His gang aimed to place a number of long-delay timebombs all over the country.
They were arrested in Glasgow in July 1985. MaGee and four others were sentenced
to life a year later.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1993 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              242 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               December 17, 1993

STRUGGLING, DIVIDED BAND LOOKING FOR SPECTACULAR MAINLAND ATTACK TO BOOST MORALE
OF ITS GUNMEN;
Owen Bowcott and Richard Norton-Taylor trace the compelling need for explosives

BYLINE: OWEN BOWCOTT AND RICHARD NORTON-TAYLOR

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 380 words


A HIJACKED car raced down the Grosvenor Road out of West Belfast late in the
autumn night, screeched to a halt in front of an army checkpoint and its
occupants opened up with machine-gun fire.

The bullets sent police and soldiers scurrying for cover as the car wheeled
round and headed back into the darkness. It was an attack typical of many recent
operations by the Irish National Liberation Army - reckless but ultimately
ineffective.

In the past three years the organisation has killed five people, one of them a
former member who was alleged to have been a police informer.

For a long time the INLA has been attempting to reorganise its splintered ranks
and relaunch a campaign to rival the violence it wreaked in the early 1980s.

Always the smaller of the republican paramilitary groupings, it was formed out
of a split in the ranks of the Official IRA from those who claimed they were
socialists and wanted to continue the violence.

In 1979 an INLA car bomb killed Airey Neave, the Conservative Northern Ireland
spokesman, while several INLA members died during the H-blocks hunger strike in
1981. The following year 11 soldiers and six civilians were killed by a bomb
left at a disco in the Droppin Well Inn in Ballykelly, County Derry.

But the organisation suffered severe setbacks through supergrass trials in the
mid-1980s and descended into a vicious internal feud in 1987 that saw the
organisation break into three factions.

Since the dissolution of the Irish People's Liberation Organisation last year,
one of the breakaway groups formed in 1987, the INLA has begun to reform itself
and recruit new members. Crucial to the revival of its campaign has been the
need to obtain explosives and the theft of material from a quarry in Somerset
would have boosted its paramilitary profile.

An unidentified MI5 officer said in a pre-trial witness statement that Hugh
"Cueball" Torney, the INLA's chief of staff, told the MI5 informer, Patrick
Daly, in December last year that he was in a hurry to mount an operation in
Britain "to counter IRA domination of the British press through their mainland
campaign".

He and another MI5 agent said INLA believed it had to mount a spectacular attack
on the mainland to boost its morale.


LOAD-DATE: December 17, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              243 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               December 17, 1993

IN BLOOD RED HANDS;
The real test of the Irish accord is whether it can end terrorist violence by
both sides

BYLINE: JOHN COLE

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGE; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1202 words


ONLY TWO serious questions arise from the Major-Reynolds declaration. All the
rest is diplomatic verbiage, distant from the realities of Northern Ireland. But
these are in deadly earnest, because the answers will bring either peace or
continued bloodshed. The first question is whether the IRA will end its
terrorist campaign. The second is whether the Protestant paramilitaries will end
- or else escalate - theirs.

I have no inside knowledge of the thinking of either organisation but my
suspicion is that the IRA will only give up if it already wanted to do so, even
before the two prime ministers got down to work.  In other words, if the message
"The conflict is over" represented reality: that a significant part of the IRA
leadership, having grown old in the struggle, wants to stop it.

The Provisionals deny that any such message had been sent: a week ago Gerry
Adams called it a lie and said: "Our commitment to the struggle is firm and
undaunted. The British know that from their intelligence services. They know it
from the reality of the situation."

Rival realities present themselves. The Whitehall one would have to be right if
there is to be peace. The IRA would have to be content with a decent-sized
figleaf. For the Downing Street Declaration, however much it may rile Unionists,
does not give a prospect of a united Ireland which any serious terrorist could
rely on. The cheerleaders for the Downing Street Declaration point out that such
inter-governmental documents are inevitably woolly, since they represent
competing aspirations, of governments and party politicians, as well as
terrorists. What is less well understood is that the issues are both less
complex, but more intractable than they think. They concern, simply, the meaning
of self-determination.

We cloud judgment if we do not realise that the problem faced by John Major and
Albert Reynolds, and so mind-bogglingly fudged in the famous Paragraph 4, is
precisely the problem faced by Lloyd George 70 years ago. The only solution he
could find was to accept the "self-determination" for independence of the South,
and the "self-determination" for continued membership of the United Kingdom of
those parts of Ulster that had consistently voted for it.

There has been much talk of "squaring circles" this time round, but partition
was Lloyd George's way of squaring the circle. Modern politicians and observers
confuse themselves, and us, by using the term "self-determination" purely in a
nationalist context ("The whole island of Ireland") and adopting the term
"consent", which is really a synonym, to describe self-determination for the
70-year-old state of Northern Ireland. That is what the modern Irish problem has
always been about: which of those units is entitled to self-determination?

That word "entitled" is a sickener too. Because it raises the unspoken issue of
Thursday in Downing Street. Politicians in London especially, and Dublin to only
a decreasingly lesser extent, do not spend every waking hour thinking about
Ulster. So for their brief, unhappy hour on this stage, they can maintain the
charade that "terrorism has achieved nothing". But does anyone seriously think
there would have been a Major-Reynolds declaration, an Anglo-Irish Agreement, or
a Sunningdale without IRA violence? And - as Irish nationalists would add, going
further back in history - does anyone think there would have been a separate
Northern Ireland without the Unionist threat of insurrection in 1912?

In lands with divided national loyalties, self-determination is not a mere
United Nations legalism, but a recognition that governments, which like to pose
as "sovereign powers", can never permanently prevail against an unwilling
people. That dictum slices both ways in Ireland, which is what makes the problem
so difficult. But not unique, as Yugoslavia, Cyprus, and soon perhaps the Baltic
States painfully remind us.

It is this which makes Paragraph 4 futile. Correction: it will not be futile if
the IRA leadership uses it as an occasion for calling off violence. But in terms
of the political future, it gives them little, and for ordinary, peaceful
politicians, offers no kind of blueprint.

It leaves Irish nationalists with a prospect of competing referendums, North and
South, which will reveal, to the surprise of absolutely nobody, that there are
conflicting aspirations in the two areas. And according to the Declaration, the
Northern one is to prevail. Of course, Unionists fear that nationalists will add
the two results together, and get the answer they first thought of. Some will,
but apart from playing well in Boston, Mass., it is hard to see where that
leads.

Nor does experience breed confidence that referendums will succeed in their
purposes of clarifying political realities. The last referendum conducted by
Britain in Northern Ireland, the so-called Border Poll of 1973, was boycotted by
nationalists at the urging of the SDLP. Whitehall has declined to repeat the
experiment, however much Unionists would like it. The ancient Irish weapon of
boycott is available to either side, as Unionism's abstention from Anglo-Irish
structures demonstrates.

Perhaps the most tempting proposition for the Provisionals lies not in Paragraph
4, but in the offer of a place at the conference table if they give up violence.
Some SDLP members may have a hard political fight ahead if nationalist voters
prove grateful to Sinn Fein for its part in restoring peace.

But if we take existing voting figures, Sinn Fein's voice at the conference
table would be a modest one - slightly louder than the Alliance Party's, but
nothing like as important as those of Messrs Hume, Paisley or Molyneaux. That is
the logic of the ballot-box. What gives Sinn Fein unique political significance
is its alliance with terrorism.

It is a big step for physical force republicans to abandon their principal
weapon. I hope they do so, for violence will not achieve the unity they aim for.
At best, from their point of view, it might eventually cause British ennui and
disengagement, followed by two nasty sectarian states in Ireland.

All this leave John Major and Albert Reynolds in the hands of the IRA and the
UFF/UVF. That is the nasty reality when the forces of the democratic state
concede that they cannot prevail against terrorism. Law and order becomes
privatised, whether at the level of punishment shootings or by this most deadly
way of influencing the political process.

That leaves the issue of Loyalist violence, about which few predictions are
safe. Its original nature is reactive, and political logic does not suggest the
Protestant paramilitaries can risk becoming involved in direct conflict with the
police and army, since that would alienate the ghettoes from which they come.
But it is a truism that every sentence inserted in the Declaration to entice the
IRA, to please nationalists, or to ingratiate the British Government with world
opinion is a hazard when it comes to ending Loyalist violence. If the IRA stops,
I think such an end is possible. But that may be a hope rather than a judgment.

John Cole is a former political editor of the BBC


LOAD-DATE: December 17, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              244 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                           December 17, 1993, Friday

Ulster gunmen on the back foot

BYLINE: Michael Evans, Defence Correspondent

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 479 words


THE LONG WAR THE war between the security forces and the IRA has become more
sophisticated as each side improves its techniques and counter-techniques.

While most of the IRA godfathers have evaded long jail sentences, the police and
security forces have achieved significant successes against bombers and other
IRA activists.

The large number of IRA members languishing in jail may have been a factor when
Sinn Fein and IRA leaders showed interest in pursuing peace contacts with
government representatives as far back as 1990.

More than 1,000 IRA and other republican members are in jail, mostly in Northern
Ireland. Another 30 suspected IRA terrorists are on remand awaiting trial.

As one security official in Belfast said: ''There are more IRA members in prison
than outside.'' Since 1969 when the present troubles began, about 350 IRA
operatives have been killed, although there has never been a shortage of
volunteers to fill the dead men's shoes.

There are still up to 300 principal activists including bombers, bomb-makers and
gunmen, although membership of the IRA is probably about 1,000, when people who
keep safe houses or store explosives are counted.

The police and intelligence services in Ulster and on the mainland have made
many arrests in the past 14 months that have helped the battle against the IRA.
Since October last year more than 20 members have been arrested and charged in
Britain. The number partly reflects the high level of terrorist activity in the
United Kingdom in that time.

A special unit in Belfast consisting of representatives from Customs, Inland
Revenue, the Northern Ireland Office, the Treasury, and other government
departments, is also beginning to make inroads into IRA funding.  Most of the
money required for continuing their campaign, totalling several million pounds a
year, is raised from crime or legitimate business investments.

The authorities are attempting to delve into IRA business activities, believed
to include real estate and restaurants.

The IRA moved into legitimate businesses in about 1986 when it became clear that
aid from abroad was drying up. Noraid, the American fund-raising organisation,
still provides money, but it has to declare its offerings to the US Inland
Revenue Service.

The security authorities have also captured huge quantities of arms and
explosives in recent years. Much of the equipment was home-made, but it has
included AK47 Kalashnikovs supplied by Libya in the 1980s and large quantities
of Semtex explosive.

One concern is that even if the Sinn Fein-IRA leadership agrees to a ceasefire,
disaffected members could switch their loyalties and their guns to one of the
breakaway republican organisations.

These include the Irish National Liberation Army (INLA) and the Republican Sinn
Fein (RSF), which broke from the provisional IRA in 1986.

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1993 Times Newspapers Limited

                              245 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               December 18, 1993

CS gas cartridges found in flat, terrorist trial told

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 396 words


AN ALLEGED terrorist had cartridges filled with banned CS riot gas at his home,
the High Court in Aberdeen was told yesterday.

They were found, the court was told, when police searched Andrew McIntosh's flat
in Aberdeen earlier this year.

The search was authorised because police suspected Mr McIntosh was involved in
sending letter bombs to various addresses in Britain.

Mr McIntosh, 38, of George Street, Aberdeen, denies attempting to further the
aims of the Scottish National Liberation Army through a hoax bomb and letter
bomb campaign.

Sergeant Malcolm Chisholm, a firearms expert with Strathclyde police, told the
court that four 9mm cartridges taken from Mr McIntosh's flat.

The court heard McIntosh had a licence for the pistol, but Sergeant Chisholm
said CS gas cartridges were "prohibited ammunition".

Advocate-depute Michael O'Grady asked Sergeant Chisholm if CS gas had a
legitimate use.

"In this country, no. You cannot buy this type of cartridge in this country,
except on the black market."

He said CS gas cartridges were legal in some European countries and the United
States, where they were used for self defence.

"If you are attacked you fire this and you incapacitate your attacker," he
explained. But he agreed that the gas could also be used for hostile purposes.

Sergeant Chisholm added that a person would need written permission from the
Secretary of State for Scotland before they could legally possess CS gas
cartridges.

He added that it was highly unlikely such permission would be given to members
of the public.

"Can you think of a legitimate use for these kind of cartridges," asked Mr
O'Grady.

"None whatsoever," replied Sergeant Chisholm.

Mr McIntosh is charged with conspiring to further the cause of the SNLA.

He denies obtaining firearms and explosives with the intention of endangering
life and causing explosions.

He is alleged to have placed mortar devices at four oil company headquarters in
Aberdeen in March.

He also denies sending letter bombs to the Dounreay Atomic Plant in Caithness,
the Scottish Office in Edinburgh, and the headquarters of Anglian Water in
Huntingdon, Cambridgeshire.

The device alleged to have been sent to Anglian Water is said to have blown up
in the hands of a female employee.

The trial, before Lord Morison, continues.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1993 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              246 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           December 19, 1993, Sunday

Britain devious - Adams

BYLINE: STEPHEN CASTLE, Political Editor

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Page 1

LENGTH: 393 words


THE Sinn Fein president, Gerry Adams, has given his first detailed response to
the Anglo-Irish peace declaration and attacked the two governments, while not
ruling out a cessation of IRA violence.

In an article in the Sunday Tribune in Dublin, Mr Adams listed one of his most
significant complaints about the position of the British Government: that it
will not help to persuade the Unionists in Northern Ireland to accept a change
in the status of the province.

Mr Adams said: ''The British hold the power to keep the Unionists locked in a
negative mindset for ever or abandon them to their fate, or persuade them, to
help them along the road to an agreement with the rest of the people of Ireland.
British ministers have stated repeatedly over the past few weeks that they will
not join the ranks of the persuaders? Why not?''

The Sinn Fein president accused the British of being ''devious and mischievous
in its approach'' and Dublin of practising the ''politics of illusion''.

Republicans have also studied closely comments made by John Major in the Commons
after last week's joint declaration, in which he stressed his commitment to the
Union.

But while he rebutted the idea that the Republicans cannot afford to reject the
joint declaration, Mr Adams did not rule out the option of renouncing violence
and coming to the negotiating table. That will encourage the two governments.

Mr Adams said the Republicans' task was ''to reflect how far the declaration
advances the peace process'' and that clarification of some aspects from Dublin
was necessary. He also confirmed that a considered response will not be made
until after Christmas.

In a separate development Martin McGuinness, a senior member of Sinn Fein, said
that the Republican movement might initiate a nationwide consultation exercise.
Disussions with Cardinal Cahal Daly and Archbishop Robin Eames could be part of
widespread private talks they want to hold as they assess the declaration, he
said.

John Hume, the leader of the predominantly nationalist Social, Democratic and
Labour Party, who is to hold talks shortly with Mr Adams, said in Belfast: ''I
think the initial reaction to this agreement has been one of the most positive
that I have ever known in terms of cross-community support.''

Inside Story, pages 17,18

Leading article, page 22


LOAD-DATE: December 19, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1993 Independent Print Ltd

                              247 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                           December 19, 1993, Sunday

Lockerbie

BYLINE: David Leppard, Home Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 1320 words


FIVE years after a terrorist bomb destroyed a PanAm jumbo jet over Lockerbie,
killing 270 people, the question of who carried out the attack has dramatically
resurfaced. Powerful new evidence has emerged to challenge the official British
and American version that Libya alone was involved.

A Swiss businessman who gave Scottish police the vital evidence they needed to
blame Colonel Gadaffi has changed his story. He told British investigators last
month that the timer that triggered the bomb may not have been supplied to Libya
after all.

Even more disturbing, a second key witness says investigators were told this
three years ago.

Suspicions that Syria and Iran were also behind the attack have been boosted by
the witness, who says his original statement used by the West to shift blame for
the terrorist attack to Gadaffi was fundamentally flawed.

The prosecution case against Libya which prompted London and Washington to renew
ties with Iran and Syria and impose sanctions against Libya may now be on the
verge of collapse.

The allegations have surfaced on the eve of the anniversary memorial service in
London's Westminster Abbey. On Tuesday, in a ritual performed each year, the
names of the victims will be recited and a candle lit for each one. In
Washington, President Clinton will honour the memory of America's 144 dead from
the tragedy at a ceremony in the Arlington National cemetery.

The grief will be mingled with fresh anxiety that the mourners themselves have
been victims of an official cover-up.

The tangled trail began amid the carnage of a freezing December night in 1988. A
tiny fragment of circuit board, fused into the remains of a luggage pallet,
yielded the first clue. Fibres of scorched clothing linked to pieces of the bomb
provided a second.

The device consisted of 1lb of Semtex explosive concealed in a Toshiba radio
cassette player. It had been wrapped in a bundle of clothes bought by a
50-year-old Libyan man at a shop in Sliema, a resort on the island of Malta.

The bomb had been loaded into a brown Samsonite suitcase. Baggage loading lists
showed it had been slipped aboard a flight at Malta's Luqa international
airport. On arrival in Frankfurt the bag had been transferred on to the first
leg of PanAm flight 103 to London, destined for New York.

The tiny circuit board led police to Edwin Bollier, managing director of a small
electronics firm in Zurich, Switzerland. The Swiss businessman found himself a
reluctant witness after the police told him the timer that had triggered the
bomb had been made by his firm.

At first Bollier found the story hard to believe. Then he recognised the charred
remains of one of his ''Zero series'' timers in a picture produced by
detectives. He was certain it was among a batch he sent to the Libyan military
in 1985.

Bollier's claim was a stunning breakthrough. After interviewing 12,000 people in
54 countries, the Scots had finally uncovered a strand of forensic evidence
running from Scotland to Libya. It was a case prosecutors in Edinburgh thought
they could make stick.

In the same month George Bush, the American president, met Hafez al-Assad, the
Syrian leader, to discuss joint participation in the multinational taskforce
confronting Saddam Hussein in the Gulf.

A year later indictments were published in Britain and America charging two
suspected Libyan intelligence agents with murder. Sanctions against Tripoli
followed.

Douglas Hurd, the foreign secretary, told the Commons there was ''no evidence''
linking any government but Libya's to the atrocity. An American state department
spokesman said: ''This was a Libyan operation from start to finish.''

Such apparent certainties sat uneasily with many of the detectives involved in
the Lockerbie hunt. The American CIA had traced a wire transfer indicating that
up to $12m had been paid by the Iranian government to the Vienna bank account of
Ahmed Jibril, leader of a Syrian-based terrorist group.

At a champagne party in Damascus shortly after the bombing, Jibril was heard to
boast: ''The Americans will never know how I did it.'' Western intelligence
reckoned Jibril's gang had been commissioned by Iran to avengethe accidental
shooting down of an Iranian airbus over the Gulf in July 1988.

Jibril, it emerged, had activated a terrorist cell in Frankfurt aimed at bombing
Western airliners. When the unit was arrested two months before Lockerbie,
police found several Toshiba bombs with 1lb of Semtex inside.

One bomb had been placed inside a brown Samsonite suitcase which disappeared
after the arrests. Many at the Lockerbie police incident centre believed that
when Jibril's Frankfurt unit was exposed, the terrorist leader handed over his
operation to Libyan intelligence.

Few could understand the rush by the Foreign Office and State Department to let
Iran and Syria so completely off the hook. Suspicions that a secret deal had
been done hardened a few days later when Terry Waite and Thomas Sutherland, the
remaining Western hostages in Beirut, were unexpectedly released.

Despite the doubts, the complex case was still held together by a single strand
of apparently incontrovertible evidence: Bollier's claim that all his timers,
including the device recovered at Lockerbie, had gone to Libya.

But last week the Zurich manufacturer told The Sunday Times that after
re-examining his records, he has discovered that he gave some of his Zero series
timers to the East German defence department in Berlin.

As a result the file on the world's largest mass murder has been quietly
re-opened. German federal police have confirmed his new evidence after checking
defence department files in Berlin.

The East German secret police, the Stasi, had extensive contacts with the Jibril
gang in Frankfurt. ''I remember giving samples to the electronic office for the
sale of military equipment at the East German defence ministry,'' Bollier said
in a taped interview. ''We had only seven of the protoypes and two of them went
to Germany.''

He added: ''A British official came to my office recently and we told him the
whole story. He went through all my papers and took many notes. Possibly the
inquiry blaming Libya will change.''

Bollier said he had retracted his original evidence after Ulrich Lumpert, his
chief engineer, ''reminded'' him of a trip he made to Berlin in 1985 in which he
handed over the timers. Lumpert's testimony is equally compelling.  ''The first
two prototypes had to be produced quickly, and I had to finish them fast so that
Mr Bollier could take them to East Germany. That was in 1985,'' Lumpert has told
a BBC Radio 4 programme, Silence Over Lockerbie, to be broadcast on Tuesday.

In a disturbing twist to the affair, Lumpert claims he told investigators about
the East German connection when he was first questioned in 1990: ''I told the
police that I remembered that the first two had gone to East Berlin.  They wrote
down what I told them.''

The allegation raises fresh questions as to why such important evidence was
apparently ignored. Is this the smoking gun to prove an official cover-up?

Scottish police and prosecutors last week refused to comment. Norman McFadyen,
the chief crown prosecutor in charge of the case said this weekend: ''The
investigation is obviously open. We don't turn our backs on fresh evidence. But
I'm not going to say any more.''

For the relatives gathered at Westminster Abbey this week, the revelations will
only fuel their painful search for answers. Dr Jim Swire, their spokesman who
lost his 23-year-old daughter, Flora, in the bombing, has always suspected a
political cover-up.

''The whole Lockerbie scenario is a hypocrisy created for international
political convenience. It's a deliberate way of preventing the relatives getting
to the truth. The only way to resolve this now is to have a full international
inquiry.''

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  'Libya not alone'

                    Copyright 1993 Times Newspapers Limited

                              248 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           December 21, 1993, Tuesday

Ministers accused of cover-up on Lockerbie bomb; 'Vital evidence' disputes
Libyan involvement

BYLINE: JOHN ARLIDGE, Scotland Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 3

LENGTH: 364 words


A LABOUR MP accused Government ministers yesterday of misleading the Commons
over the Lockerbie bombing.

On the eve of the fifth anniversary of the terrorist attack, Tam Dalyell said
ministers' repeated assertions that Libya alone carried out the bombing, looked
''highly suspect'' after the disclosure that ''vital evidence'' challenging
Libya's role was uncovered three years ago.

Baroness Thatcher's recent denial that Libya carried out the attack, he added,
''strongly suggests that the Government has suppressed the facts in a bid to pin
the blame on Colonel Gadaffi and let Syria and Iran off the hook because the two
countries are now vital allies in the Middle East''.

When Britain and the US issued arrest warrants in November 1991 for the two
alleged Libyan intelligence agents accused of the bombing, officials insisted
that Libya alone was involved. But this week a key witness in the Lockerbie
investigation has said that he told British detectives in 1990 that the bomb's
timer, which investigators thought was made exclusively for Libya, had been more
widely available.

In a BBC Radio File on Four interview to be broadcast today, Ulrich Lumpert, who
was chief engineer at the Swiss firm that manufactured the timers, says: ''I
told the police that the first two had gone to East Berlin. They wrote down what
I told them.''

Mr Dalyell said: ''The case against the two Libyans hinges on the timers being
exclusively available to Tripoli. If Mr Lumpert told police three years ago that
identical timers could be obtained elsewhere - and there is no reason to doubt
what he says - it is inconceivable that the Government would not have known . .
.''

In her Downing Street Years memoirs, Lady Thatcher says that after US jets
bombed Tripoli in 1986 ''there was a marked decline in Libyan-sponsored
terrorism''. Mr Dalyell said: ''Mrs Thatcher says Libya did not carry out the
Lockerbie bombing. As the then head of the intelligence services she should
know. If you add her evidence to that of Mr Lumpert, ministers' statements begin
to ring rather hollow. It looks like a cover-up to protect strategic British and
American interests.''


LOAD-DATE: December 21, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1993 Independent Print Ltd

                              249 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               December 22, 1993

PRISONERS WHO COULD HOLD THE KEY TO ULSTER PEACE

BYLINE: OWEN BOWCOTT IN BELFAST

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 515 words


FATHER Dennis Faul, the Catholic priest who helped to end the prison hunger
strikes a decade ago, yesterday supported calls for the eventual release of
paramilitary prisoners.

The amnesty issue has brought a rift between Dublin and London less than a week
after the joint declaration on Northern Ireland was signed. The fate of the
prisoners will remain a crucial consideration in any peace negotiations.

There are thought to be about 100 former IRA men and women serving life
sentences. Many are serving relatively short terms for possession of weapons or
for allowing their homes to be used for storing explosives. Any amnesty
consideration would be complicated by the seriousness of the offence and public
reaction at the time it was committed.

There are more than 700 republicans in jails across the world, according to Sinn
Fein's Prisoner of War department. There are 450 in the H Blocks in the Maze,
150 in Belfast's Crumlin Road prison and 15 in Maghaberry. The figures do not
include those who have renounced their affiliation to the Provisional IRA.

In the Irish Republic almost all of the 60 republican inmates are in Portlaoise
jail, south-west of Dublin, including nine whose life sentences have been
commuted to 40-year terms. The release dates for Tommy Eccles, Brian McShane and
Pat McPhilips, who were in the same active service unit, have been set for 2024.

In England there are 29 republican prisoners. Last year the Home Office agreed
to transfer them to Northern Ireland jails after a campaign by their families,
who said they could rarely afford to visit them. None has been returned.

Six republicans are held in Europe in connection with IRA bombing campaigns
against British army bases, and three in the United States pending extradition
hearings.

Among those still in prison in Britain are the Balcombe Street Gang: Harry
Duggan, Hugh Docherty, Edward Butler and Martin O'Connell. They were convicted
in 1977 of a series of shootings including the killing of Ross McWhirter of the
Freedom Association. Despite admitting their part in the Guildford pub bombing,
they have not been charged in connection with it.

In the Maze is Brendan McFarlane, originally jailed for the bombing of a bar
frequented by loyalist paramilitaries. Five peopl e died.

Mr McFarlane, now 42, organised the Maze escape of 38 IRA men in 1983. He was
recaptured in Amsterdam, and only this year was it deemed safe for him to be
given a week's summer parole.

On the loyalist side, virtually all Ulster Volunteer Force and Ulster Defence
Association prisoners are in Northern Ireland.  A few were convicted in Scotland
of supplying arms and bomb-making material.

Michael Stone, the lone gunman who attacked republican mourners in Milltown
cemtery in 1988, is in the early years of his sentence.

At least three of the UVF Shankill Butchers gang, convicted of murdering 19
people between 1975 and 1979, are still in the Maze.

Fr Faul is convinced that unless such men are eventually freed then any
settlement would be endangered.


LOAD-DATE: December 22, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              250 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                          December 22, 1993, Wednesday

1993 - A SCARRED DIARY OF MAYHEM

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 792 words


Oil spills, holiday tragedies, attacks by Ulster terrorists and some of the
worst gales in years marked 1993 at home.

JANUARY ...A British woman was killed and a Royal Navy helicopter pilot
seriously injured when their sledge plunged into a ravine in the French alps
following New Year celebrations.  ...The Shetland Islands came close to
ecological disaster after an oil tanker carrying 85,000 tons broke up on rocks.
...Holidaymaker Nicola Jones, 18, was killed when a skier crashed into her in
the French Alps.  FEBRUARY ...Two Royal Marines died after being found
unconscious in a tent while on an "Arctic" training exercise in Norway.  ...A
helicopter airlift in the North Sea rescued 433 men from an accommodation rig
which broke free in bad weather from the oil platform it served.

MARCH ...Four teenagers died off the Dorset coast when their canoes filled with
water as they tried to help a teacher whose boat capsized.  ...Loyalist gunmen
claimed six Catholic victims inside 36 hours in Northern Ireland. In the worst
incident, four building workers were shot as they arrived for work on a house
renovation project. One was said later by the IRA to be one of its members.

APRIL ...A press photographer died and more than 40 people were injured as
bombers renewed their onslaught on the City of London with a huge explosion
which sent a mushroom cloud of black smoke hundreds of feet into the air. A ton
of explosives was used in the device planted in a tipper truck which went off
near the 52-storey NatWest Tower and the Hong Kong and Shanghai Bank. Two
hijacked mini-cabs were blown up 14 hours later in north London after their
drivers were ordered at gunpoint to drive to Downing Street and New Scotland
Yard. Roadblocks were later introduced to reduce the number of routes into the
City.

MAY ...An RAF Hercules transport aircraft crashed in the Scottish Highlands with
the loss of nine lives. The plane did not carry a black box flight recorder, nor
was there a Mayday call.

JUNE ...Nine people were burned to death after a British tanker was struck by a
cargo ship off the Belgian coast, sending sheets of flame 100 feet into the air.
The captain of the tanker praised the bravery of the Belgians who risked their
lives to save members of his crew.

JULY ...Two pilots were injured when two Russian fighters collided in mid-air at
an air show. The accident was watched by thousands of spectators at the Fairford
International Air Tattoo in Goucestershire, near Swindon.

AUGUST ...Three miners were killed and three others rescued after a roof
collapsed 2,000 feet underground at a Nottinghamshire colliery.

SEPTEMBER ...Loyalist terrorists murdered four people, including a prison
officer, in a five-day wave of violence in Northern Ireland.  ...Sixteen British
tourists who survived a fatal coach accident in France were caught up in a
second incident when the aircraft hired to fly them home crashed as the pilot
aborted take-off.

OCTOBER ...Sixty people were injured when London's worst civil violence since
the poll tax riots erupted at an anti-racist march in south London. Home
Secretary Michael Howard rejected calls to ban the British National Party as he
visited an inner city area ravaged by rising racial tension and violence.  ...A
wave of sectarian killings and shootings swept Belfast in the wake of an IRA
bombing in the Shankill Road which killed 10 people including women and
children. Among reprisal incidents, the Ulster Freedom Fighters killed two
workmen at a council depot, and two Catholic brothers aged 18 and 22 were shot
dead in front of their little sister. Loyalist gunmen left seven people dead in
a Halloween pub massacre at Greysteel, Co Londonderry. An RUC officer shot by
the IRA in Newry, Co Down, the same night died later in hospital - bringing to
24 the number of people murdered in one of the bloodiest weeks in Ulster's
troubled history.

NOVEMBER ...Twelve pupils and their female teacher died after the minibus they
were travelling in crashed into a motorway maintenance truck on the M40 near
Leamington Spa.  ...Ten people were killed in a tourist coach disaster in Kent.
The 53-seat coach carrying American tourists plunged down an embankment of the
M2 and overturned. The British driver was among the dead.  ...In France 17
people died and 49 were injured, including three Britons, when a British
driver's tanker caught fire engulfing dozens of cars on the Paris to Bordeaux
motorway.

DECEMBER ...The worst night of gales since 1987 left at least 13 dead. Most died
on the roads but wind-related accidents elsewhere claimed lives, including that
of a one woman struck by a falling shop sign.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1993 The Press Association Limited

                              251 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               December 23, 1993

'SNLA commander' caught after tip-off by 11-year-old boy

BYLINE: Graeme Smith

SECTION: Pg. 9

LENGTH: 995 words


ANDY McIntosh, "area commander of the Scottish National Liberation Army," was
outsmarted by an 11-year-old boy.

For all his precision planning which caused terror throughout Britain, McIntosh
is now in jail because of a blunder.

The man described as "an inconsequential loner" by acquaintances loaned his red
Nova car to two members of the extremist group Settler Watch for a trip up Royal
Deeside to pin offensive anti-English posters on trees and fences.

When the 11-year-old boy spotted German Sonja Vathjunker and Lynn Conway pinning
up posters he told his mother and the police were called to the scene.

The two women were arrested and subsequently fined. But more significantly, the
police now added McIntosh's name to their computer files.

McIntosh, a small, bespectacled courier for an Aberdeen oil service company,
came under close scrutiny from police officers who, since March 17, had been
trying to track down whoever was responsible for bomb hoaxes and sending letter
bombs.

On March 17, the Samaritans received an anonymous telephone call, using a code
word, saying there were explosive devices at the offices of Shell, BP, Elf
Enterprise, and Conoco.

Searches revealed four devices at Shell, BP, and Elf and the disruption caused
the buildings to be evacuated, the area sealed off, and traffic diverted. Large
numbers of police officers were involved and the bomb disposal squad was called
to deal with the devices.

Later the same day, a local newspaper received a telephone call, again using the
code word, to say that police had missed one device. A further search located a
fifth elaborate hoax device outside a Conoco building, hidden outside the area
searched by police.

No-one claimed responsibility and there was no apparent purpose for the devices.
At the time, police had no idea of the motive for the bombings.

Five days later a letter bomb arrived at the Water Restructuring Division of the
Scottish Office in Edinburgh. Although it did not detonate it was capable of
doing so.

On the same day an identical device was delivered to the United Kingdom Atomic
Energy Plant at Dounreay, Caithness, and the following day a third device to
Anglian Water plc, Huntingdon, Cambridgeshire -- which had been linked with the
privatisation of Scottish water.

In Huntingdon, the package was opened by a member of staff and it exploded
causing slight injury.

On May 10, eight days after McIntosh's name had first been brought to the
attention of police, but before he was put under surveillance, there was another
anonymous call to the Samaritans using the same code word and warning that
explosive devices had been left in Glasgow city centre.

Three hoax devices were found in post boxes. At the time, Scottish Secretary Ian
Lang was in the area where one device was discovered,

On the same day there were calls to the Samaritans in Edinburgh and Dundee and
seven further elaborate hoax devices were found in post boxes. Charges against
McIntosh, relating to the making of these telephone calls, were dropped.

One package was found three days later at the central parcel sorting office in
Portsmouth, where all unaddressed parcels are sent. It was opened and a similar
hoax device was found.

By this time McIntosh's background was being investigated and his strong
nationalist views became known. It was also discovered that he was not at work
on the days of the bomb hoaxes.

McIntosh was briefly a member of the Scottish National Party. Vathjunker and
Conway, who were among his few friends, were also members of the SNP but were
thrown out of the party following their convictions.

After leaving the SNP, McIntosh joined Siol nan Gaidheal, or Seed of the Gael,
but as it was not radical enough for him he once again moved on.

He lived, the court was told, in a world of fantasy, believing he was one of the
last warriors fighting to free Scotland from the shackles of the English.

The police, convinced that McIntosh was repsonsible for the bomb attacks, raided
his flat in George Street, near Aberdeen city centre, in the early hours of
August 28.

The raid may have been timed to precede the visit of senior Government figures
to the Offshore Europe Exhibition in Aberdeen a few days later.

In the flat police found a substantial armoury, including CS gas cartridges and
automatic weapons for which McIntosh had no licence.

McIntosh did have legitimate possession of some weapons and held firearms'
certificates for guns used for his hobby of shooting. However the Kalishnakov
police found could not have been used at the Peterhead Gun Club of which he was
a member. McIntosh was also a founder member of the Aberdeen Practical Shotgun
Club.

Members of Peterhead Gun Club found him quiet and introverted. Although outside
the club he bragged about his shooting prowess, claiming to be of international
standard, he never demonstrated that level of skill at the club.

"He never took part in any of the competitions, so it would be hard to say how
good he was," the club's secretary, Mr Neil McGregor, said. "He was a very quiet
guy. I would never have imagined him to be involved in anything like terrorism."

Officers also found Settler Watch Posters, SNLA posters, and such books as he
Urban Terrorists Cookbook in McIntosh's flat.

He undoubtedly had help with the attacks, as it would have been impossible to
have carried out some of the them on his own. However, he did not appear to have
a master plan, the offences were more a series of unco-ordinated attempts at
disruption.

McIntosh will "proudly reject, defy, and defeat" the British State and the
Scottish legal system according to self-styled SNLA leader Adam Busby.

However, the most rebellious thing he did publicly was to call some of his
colleagues "English bastards" -- until it was pointed out to him that it was an
"English bastard" who signed his time-sheets.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1993 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              252 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          December 23, 1993, Thursday

Scottish nationalist bomber gets 12 years

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 6

LENGTH: 208 words


A SCOTTISH nationalist terrorist was jailed for 12 years yesterday for trying to
further the cause of the Scottish National Liberation Army through a campaign of
bomb hoaxes and letter bombs.

There were gasps in the High Court in Aberdeen as the jury convicted Andrew
McIntosh, 38, a courier, of 11 charges, including conspiring to force the
Government to set up a separate government for Scotland.

The jury of eight men and seven women took two hours and 20 minutes to
unanimously find him guilty on 11 charges, including the conspiracy. /A The
court was told that he had planted eleborate hoax bombs outside four oil
industry offices in Aberdeen and letter bombs in postboxes in Glasgow, Edinburgh
and Dundee. Explosives experts told the court that the devices were so detailed
they thought they were real. One described them as the best hoax bombs seen in
Great Britain.

Police raided McIntosh's flat and found a collection of weapons alongside
anti-English and ''Free Scotland'' posters and literature.

The judge, Lord Morison, said: ''These activities have caused very serious
disruption in Scotland and very serious alarm.''

Earlier, the SNLA issued a statement saying that its ''violent struggle'' would
continue.


LOAD-DATE: December 23, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1993 Independent Print Ltd

                              253 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               December 24, 1993

Downing Street dismisses festive truce.  IRA promises only three days of peace

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 745 words


THE IRA last night called a Christmas ceasefire for 72 hours, a gesture
immediately dismissed by the Government.

It was described as a "distraction from the real issue".

A statement from the terrorists said simply: "As of midnight December 23, and
for the 72 hours thereafter, active service units of the IRA across the occupied
six counties will temporarily suspend military operations."

Downing Street said: "Christmas is the time for peace, but it should be a
lasting peace and not just a temporary lull in the killing."

Lasting peace hopes were further jolted when Sinn Fein spokesman Martin
McGuinness said his party would not ask the IRA to end its violence on the basis
of the Downing Street declaration.

Mr McGuinness said the declaration on its own "for all its grand phraseology",
would not solve the problems.

He said his party's "project for peace" was aimed at ending IRA violence but
added: "Unfortunately, at this point in time, the political situation hasn't
developed to a position where Sinn Fein can use its influence to end attacks on
British Crown forces."

The IRA leaders themselves were preparing to gather to discuss the Major
-Reynolds peace initiative.

Some were among 446 republican and loyalist terrorists released from prisons in
Northern Ireland for up to seven days Christmas leave. One hundred of them are
serving life.

During the break, some of the hard-line IRA men from the jails will be called to
top-level meetings as the IRA decides its response to the Downing Street
declaration.

It is expected the IRA chiefs from the prisons will tell the godfathers that an
amnesty, or at least early release, for convicted gunmen and bombers must be a
prerequisite for any permanent peace deal.

In his remarks, Mr McGuinness said the Downing Street declaration had to be
"backed up by actions" and he repeated the call by Sinn Fein president Gerry
Adams for unconditional talks with both Governments in London and Dublin.

In an interview with a local weekly newspaper in Londonderry, Mr McGuinness also
warned that if the British and Irish Governments introduced joint internment it
would "be a recipe for disaster" that would lead to another 25 years of
violence.

He went on to state that Sinn Fein would be prepared to accept there might not
be a united Ireland, providing British troops were withdrawn from the province.

The IRA statement, or Mr McGuinness's words, were likely to do little to please
Mr Major.

In the heart of republicanism in west Belfast on Wednesday, the Prime Minister
challenged Mr Adams to pick up the proffered gauntlet of peace and insisted
there was nothing more on offer than the Downing Street declaration.

Downing Street last night said: "This is another distraction from the real
issue. The people of Northern Ireland want a permanent end to violence, not a
temporary ceasefire.

"Both Governments made it clear in the joint declaration that the 'achievement
of peace must involve a permanent end to the use of, or support for,
paramilitary violence'.

"It is only after a permanent end to violence has been demonstrated that the
doors to normal democratic politics can open.

"Christmas is the time for peace, but it should be a lasting peace and not just
a temporary lull in the killing.

"The question for all involved in violence is: 'Will you stop violence now, for
good?' You have the best opportunity to do so for many years, and it will not
last for ever."

Irish Government sources said a formal comment on the IRA's 72-hour Christmas
ceasefire was not expected.

Among comments in Britain, Mr Roger Stott, Shadow Northern Ireland Minister,
said: "Let us hope the IRA make it (the ceasefire) permanent. Let us hope they
can sit down over the next 72 hours and think what would be the best New Year
present for Northern Ireland -- the Christmas ceasefire extended for ever."

For the Liberal Democrats, Northern Ireland spokesman Lord Holme said: "Any end
to the killing in Northern Ireland is always welcome.

"But most people will regard this as a piece of hollow hypocrisy in the face of
a genuine chance for peace if the IRA now do not grasp the opportunity before
them.

"Peace and goodwill are needed as the basis for permanent peace in Northern
Ireland which apply not just at Christmas but over the year."

Meanwhile, Mr Adams was last night reported to be ill and under pressure to take
a break.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1993 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              254 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               December 29, 1993

DISTRESS AND REDRESS;
Five years after Lockerbie, why is corporate responsibility for disasters still
unresolved?

BYLINE: PAMELA DIX

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGE; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 970 words


PUBLIC sympathy and support for victims of disasters and their families is
immediate, whether it is an act of terrorism like Lockerbie five years ago, or
an accident such as the Kegworth plane crash the following year, or the Herald
of Free Enterprise, off Zeebrugge in 1987. Politicians fall over each other in
their anxiety to say that such a terrible thing must not happen again.

Yet who stands accountable? What is done to see that the scenes of horror are
not repeated? Looking for answers to these questions spells misery for the
bereaved and survivors, compounding their loss.

In one major disaster after another, the investigation or public inquiry has
found that inadequate safety systems and their operation were to blame. Surely
those responsible have to account for the failures that led to such destruction
of life and property? Scandalously, those who could have prevented the disaster
are rarely made accountable.

The problems begin with the inquest. Virtually every disaster brings a verdict
of accidental death. The coroner's jury in the Zeebrugge case was a notable
exception, with a verdict of unlawful killing on 187 of the victims. This opened
the way for a case of corporate manslaughter against P&O European Ferries Ltd.
Yet the judge dismissed the case, ruling that the senior defendants could not be
held criminally liable, as there was no evidence that they had disregarded an
obvious risk.

The inquest following the Marchioness pleasure boat disaster on the Thames in
August 1989 is still incomplete. No satisfactory case could be constructed
against the owners of the dredger that collided with the boat.

Does the solution lie in the case for compensation from whatever company may
have contributed to the disaster? Compensation is a difficult moral issue - and
it cannot take away the pain. Paying out should at least teach corporations that
there is a heavy price if they take safety responsibilities too lightly.

What happens, though, is a trade-off between money and the truth. Victims'
families are encouraged to agree settlements out of court, on the understanding
that they do not reveal how much is paid out and without the company admitting
liability.  There is an unequal power struggle here, between the might of big
business and justice for the survivors and the dead.

There is a movement towards no-fault compensation in Britain, where the victim
does not have to prove liability in order to be compensated. This is fine in
principle but may discourage corporations from a responsible attitude, letting
them even further off the hook.

In the Lockerbie disaster (a deliberate act), if security systems - initially at
Frankfurt - had been adequate, and the international regulations to which
Britain is a signatory adhered to, 270 deaths might have been avoided. The
Sheriff Principal, presiding over the Scottish Fatal Accident Inquiry, found
that Lockerbie might have been prevented. In the US courts a jury brought in a
verdict of "wilful misconduct" against the airline in allowing a bomb to be
smuggled on board.  Yet the case has gone to appeal and, five years on,
relatives still await compensation.

And what of the massive financial cost to the taxpayer of the emergency service
operations? Except in a terrorist incident, where the government contributes,
these services foot the bill. Why should a negligent corporation get away with
dumping their financial responsibilities on services that are already stretched?

The only way to ensure sufficient care is taken by those in positions of
responsibility is to require them to justify their decisions in a court of law.
However, the basis of criminal law is an intention to inflict injury or harm. In
corporate responsibility cases the stumbling block is that disasters result from
crimes of omission, rather than an intent to harm.

The second problem is in 1990s management. The emphasis seems to be on finance
almost to the exclusion of all else. No self-respecting organisation would forgo
an annual accounting audit. If a director's financial dealings are found to be
incompetent or fraudulent, he may be forced to resign - if not prosecuted.

What is the way forward? Any deficiencies in the law can only be addressed by
legislation. There have been a number of private member's bills in this area -
all have failed. Government obligations must primarily be towards protecting the
interests of the individual rather than its own or those of the business
community.

The present safety culture encourages minimal compliance - rather than
commitment - to existing regulations. Safety audits should be mandatory, with an
understanding throughout a corporation, from top management down, that safety is
of central importance. Alongside the finance, personnel, marketing and other
board directors should be a director responsible for safety. Some companies have
introduced systems that anticipate creatively what can go wrong: this should be
the norm, not the exception.

Groups such as Disaster Action, a charity whose members are survivors or
bereaved through a disaster, strive to create an effective climate of safety
awareness. Yet until the public understands there is a great deal more to
disaster than the misery of the immediate aftermath, nothing will happen.
Effective prevention of possible future disasters can come about only through a
legal application of corporate accountability.

When the media move on, the bereaved and the survivors are left to keep the
issues alive. The most fitting tribute they can make to their dead is the
assurance that the circumstances could not be repeated. To date, few of them can
feel they have that assurance.

The author's brother, Peter Dix, was killed in the Lockerbie disaster on
December 21, 1988


LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              255 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                           December 31, 1993, Friday

1993

BYLINE: By John Young

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 3464 words


It was a year of frustration and disappointment in which hopes of an end to the
conflicts in Bosnia, the Middle East, Somalia and Northern Ireland were
awakened, only to be halted while the protagonists continued to trade insults.
In South Africa the structures of 45 years of apartheid were formally
dismantled, overshadowed by fears of anarchy and further bloodshed.

A worried world watched as President Yeltsin struggled to hold the remnants of
the Russian empire together. Vladimir Zhirinovsky, leader of the extreme right
Liberal Democrats, triumphed in his country's first free elections and promptly
displayed symptoms of xenophobia. In the United States Bill Clinton, the first
Democratic president to take office for 12 years, failed to impress his critics
and ended the year under a cloud of accusations of sexual and other
misdemeanours.

Atrocities in the former Yugoslavia continued to contradict claims that the
world had learnt any lessons from slaughter earlier in the century. President
Saddam Hussein of Iraq remained defiant, and the Chinese government threatened
to dismantle democratic structures when it regains Hong Kong.  There was talk of
an American pre-emptive strike against North Korea to ''take out'' its nuclear
capacity.

At home the Government lurched from embarrassment to crisis, its majority eroded
by crushing defeats in by-elections in the normally safe Conservative seats of
Newbury and Christchurch. In the local elections in May the party lost overall
control of all but one county council. Norman Lamont was sacked as Chancellor of
the Exchequer while the Education Secretary, John Patten, and Health Secretary,
Virginia Bottomley, were forced into U-turns and retractions.

The Maastricht treaty was eventually ratified as a step towards European unity
while popular opinion in most member states appeared to be increasingly hostile
to the concept. The European Single Market came into effect at the beginning of
the year, with no obvious benefits other than freedom for British drinkers to
nip across the Channel to stock up on cheap alcohol. The opening of the Channel
tunnel was, predictably, postponed.

After seven years of negotiations, the Uruguay Round of the General Agreement on
Tariffs and Trade was completed with relief rather than euphoria.

After Britain pulled out of the European exchange-rate mechanism, the economy
began to show signs of recovery, but countries such as Germany and Japan
remained deep in recession, damping export prospects. Lloyd's of London
announced reforms, but names still faced huge losses. Parliament voted to allow
limited Sunday shopping.

Gossip about sexual peccadilloes in high places provoked a debate on family
values, with much talk about unmarried mothers, drugs, Aids, unemployment and
homelessness. Meanwhile, the Church of England was in crisis after the General
Synod voted to allow the ordination of women. The Bishop of Durham caused
further outrage by disparaging the biblical story of Christmas. The Archdeacon
of York questioned the fitness of the Prince of Wales to succeed to the throne.
His wife tearfully announced that she was to restrict her future public
engagements, blaming the media for intolerable intrusions into her private life.
The Queen agreed to pay taxes on her private income and to allow Buckingham
Palace to be opened to the public for two months during the summer.

An earthquake in India claimed more than 10,000 lives, and 1,200 people died
when a ferry sank off the coast of Haiti. The financial districts of London and
New York were badly damaged by terrorist bombs. A bomb attack in Warrington,
Cheshire, killed boys aged 12 and three. The trial and conviction of two boys,
aged 11, for the abduction and murder of two-year-old James Bulger attracted
international attention.

A dispute over the future funding of three of London's internationally famous
orchestras ended in a compromise that left no one happy. The playwright David
Hare completed his acclaimed trilogy on the state of Britain. An artist who made
a concrete cast of the interior of a Victorian house won a prize for modern art.
The musical Crazy for You opened in London, proving that, while singing and
hoofing are as good as ever, they don't write songs like Gershwin today.

The Grand National, screened on television to a worldwide audience, ended in
fiasco after two false starts. Australia's cricketers convincingly retained the
Ashes, and England failed to qualify for next year's World Cup football finals,
but British athletes won notable victories in the world championships, and the
England rugby team defeated the New Zealand All Blacks for only the fourth time
this century.

Among those who died in 1993 were King Baudouin of the Belgians; Felix
Houphouet-Boigny, President of the Ivory Coast and Africa's longest-serving head
of state; Sir Robert Reid, former chairman of British Rail; the dancer Rudolf
Nureyev; the actresses Lillian Gish, Audrey Hepburn and Myrna Loy; the actors
Stewart Granger and Sam Wanamaker; writers Anthony Burgess, William Golding,
Dame Freya Stark, Jill Tweedie and Leslie Charteris; musicians Dizzy Gillespie,
Ivy Benson and Frank Zappa; sculptor Dame Elisabeth Frink; sportsmen Arthur
Ashe, Danny Blanchflower, James Hunt and Bobby Moore; and Professor C Northcote
Parkinson, the inventor of Parkinson's Law.

It was not a great year for humour. Mr Blobby, a ridiculous rotund spotted
figure who for some reason seemed to have captured the hearts and spending of
the nation, might be said to embody the spirit of the age.

JANUARY

1 Beacons greet start of the European Single Market 5 The oil tanker Braer runs
aground off Shetland Islands after losing power in storm

6 Rudolf Nureyev dies

11 Richard Branson wins Pounds 610,000 libel damages from British Airways after
attacks on his ''good faith''

13 Allied warplanes bomb Iraqi missile sites

Calcutt report on press conduct recommends new law of privacy

15 Salvatore Riina, Sicilian Mafia boss, arrested after 22 years on the run

19 IBM announces a loss of Pounds 3.3 billion in 1992, the world's worst ever

20 Bill Clinton sworn in as forty-second President of the United States

22 Eddie George chosen to succeed Robin Leigh-Pemberton as Governor of Bank of
England

26 Interest rate falls to 6 per cent, lowest since 1977

27 Rumours of an affair between John Major and Clare Latimer, a caterer,
published in New Statesman

MCC rebels meet in London to express no confidence in England selectors

FEBRUARY

2 Fifteen thousand jobs threatened by the collapse of truckmaker Leyland DAF

Unlawful death verdict at inquest on Rachel Nickell, killed while walking son on
Wimbledon Common

Queen threatens to sue The Sun for publishing her Christmas speech in advance.
She subsequently accepts Pounds 200,000 damages

4 House of Lords rules that Tony Bland, a victim of the Hillsborough disaster,
should be allowed to die

5 Lord King resigns as British Airways chairman

9 Government announces that Rosyth and Devonport dockyards will remain open

10 Lord Tebbit urges MPs to reject the ''foul abomination'' of the Maastricht
treaty

11 Queen agrees to pay tax on her private income

12 Inflation falls to 1.7 per cent, lowest for 25 years

14 Body of James Bulger, 2, found beside railway line two days after he was
abducted from a shopping centre in Bootle, Merseyside

16 Virginia Bottomley, Health Secretary, endorses proposal in Tomlinson report
that five London hospitals should close

17 UN suspends relief operations in Bosnia

Ferry sinks off Haiti coast. More than 1,200 die

18 Unemployment rises to more than three million

19 Pardons rejected for First World War servicemen executed for cowardice or
desertion

22 Two ten-year-old boys charged with the abduction and murder of James Bulger

23 Britain rejects US request for help in parachuting supplies into Bosnia

24 Duke of Westminster resigns from Conservative Party over leasehold reforms

Bobby Moore, captain of England football team that won World Cup in 1966, dies
of cancer

25 Jim Harris, chairman of London ambulance board, resigns after report into
computer failure

26 Three IRA bombs explode at gasworks in Warrington

World Trade Centre in New York damaged by bomb

28 Archbishop of Canterbury blames Conservative policies for fostering
delinquency

MARCH

2 Two men suspected of bomb at Harrods arrested

4 Prime Minister announces reforms to honours system

Barclays Bank announces loss of Pounds 242 million

5 Ben Johnson, Canadian athlete, banned for life after failing drugs test

Stolen paintings by Reynolds and Gainsborough discovered in bin liner

8 Government defeated on the Maastricht Bill by 214 votes to 292 Bishop of
Gloucester, Rt Rev Peter Ball, resigns after admitting gross indecency with a
novice monk aged 17

11 Peter Rawlins, chief executive of London Stock Exchange, resigns after
collapse of Taurus computerised dealing project

12 More than 200 people killed and 1,000 injured by car bombs in Bombay

14 Sixty-six people die in one of worst storms this century on US east coast

16 Norman Lamont, Chancellor of the Exchequer, announces in Budget the
imposition of VAT on domestic fuel bills. Tory backbenchers threaten revolt

18 Unemployment falls by 22,000, first decrease for nearly three years

20 Johnathan Ball, 3, killed by two IRA bombs in Warrington town centre.  Tim
Parry, 12, died in hospital five days later

21 President Yeltsin defies impeachment threat by Supreme Soviet

22 Four children die when canoes capsize during adventure training exercise off
Lyme Regis

24 President de Klerk admits that South Africa had nuclear weapons

25 Six whales trapped in Scapa Flow are guided to freedom

28 Ten thousand people attend Dublin peace rally

29 Michael Heseltine, the Trade President, promises to reprieve 13 mines listed
for closure

French fishermen blockade St Peter Port, Guernsey

30 Emma Thompson wins Oscar for best actress for part in Howards End

APRIL

1 Britain promises to commit Tornado aircraft to Nato operation to enforce the
exclusion zone over Bosnia

2 Cross-Europe ''day of action'' strike over jobs

3 Grand National declared void after two false starts

6 Unemployed man fined Pounds 1,200 for dropping litter

8 Senator Gordon Wilson's meeting with the IRA to persuade them to stop bombing
ends in failure

9 National Union of Teachers threatens two-year boycott of classroom tests

10 Chris Hani, black South African Communist leader, assassinated

13 Baroness Thatcher calls on the West to arm the Bosnian Muslims

17 Two Los Angeles policemen convicted of beating Rodney King, a black motorist

18 Pakistan government dismissed by president

Eamonn Martin, of Essex, wins London Marathon

19 Siege in Waco, Texas, ends with inferno killing 87 people, including David
Koresh, cult leader

21 Ann Wddecombe, MP, received into Roman Catholic Church in protest over vote
by Church of England's General Synod to allow women priests

24 City of London devastated by IRA bomb. Photographer killed, 47 injured and
damage initially estimated at Pounds 1 billion

26 Brian Clough announces retirement from football

29 The Observer announces takeover by The Guardian

Lloyd's proposes changes to end unlimited liability

30 Monica Seles stabbed by spectator during tennis match in Hamburg

Opening of Buckingham Palace to public announced

MAY

1 President Ranasinghe Premadasa of Sri Lanka killed by suicide bomber

2 Manchester United win Premier League

3 Viscount Linley engaged to Serena Stanhope

4 Sir Roy Watts, chairman of Thames Water, found dead in the river

5 Asil Nadir, chairman of Polly Peck, jumps bail and flees to northern Cyprus

6 Conservatives lose control of all but one county council in elections

7 Liberal Democrats' triumph in Newbury by-election ends 117 years of Tory
occupation

10 Fire in Bangkok toy factory kills 240 people

13 Promise to scrap income-related fines system after seven months

Beverly Allitt, a nurse, found guilty of murdering babies

Swan Hunter, Tyneside shipbuilder, put into receivership

17 Rebecca Stephens becomes first British woman to climb Everest

18 Danish referendum accepts Maastricht treaty

19 Three former Surrey detectives cleared of fabricating evidence against
Guildford Four

20 Queen Mother taken to hospital after fish bone lodges in her throat

Arsenal beat Sheffield Wednesday 2-1 in FA Cup final

23 Nuclear Electric wins British Steel Challenge round-the-world yacht race

25 Bank of England sued by BCCI liquidators

27 Norman Lamont dismissed as Chancellor

JUNE

2 Seventy-three football fans jailed in Norway as England lose 2-0

John Patten, Education Secretary, hissed at head teachers' conference

Commander-in-Chief wins the Derby

4 Landslip sends clifftop hotel into sea at Scarborough

7 Woody Allen loses custody fight with Mia Farrow and is ordered to pay costs of
$1 million

Graham Gooch given out in Test for handling the ball

8 Marquess of Blandford arrested for non-payment of maintenance to wife

9 England football team lose 2-0 to United States

11 Hundreds left homeless by floods in North Wales

13 Twenty killed in Somalia when Pakistani UN troops fire into crowd

14 Terry Venables loses High Court battle against Alan Sugar for control of
Tottenham Hotspur

James Hunt, former racing driver, dies of heart attack

21 Michael Heseltine has heart attack in Venice

24 Michael Mates resigns as defence minister after disclosure of his links with
Asil Nadir

25 Far-right mob storms South African constitutional talks

27 US forces attack Iraq with cruise missiles after plot to assassinate George
Bush is disclosed

28 Sir Patrick Mayhew, Northern Ireland Secretary, apologises for ''flippant''
comment on IRA grenade attack in Belfast

29 Michael Mates in row with Speaker over allegations about Serious Fraud Squad

JULY

2 Forty people die in arson attack on hotel in Turkey by Islamic fundamentalists
protesting against Salman Rushdie's Satanic Verses

3 Exclusion zone set up around City of London to reduce risk of bomb attacks

Steffi Graf wins women's tennis title at Wimbledon

4 Pete Sampras wins men's tennis title at Wimbledon

6 Report by Royal Commission on Criminal Justice proposes abolition of
defendants' automatic right to trial by jury

Forty unpublished poems by T.S.Eliot come to light

Anti-nuclear protesters arrested in Buckingham Palace grounds

7 John Major and Clare Latimer each accept Pounds 1,001 damages from New
Statesman

8 Raine Spencer marries Count Jean-Francois de Chambrun

Michael Sams given four life sentences for murder of Julie Dart and kidnapping
of Stephanie Slater

12 Two journalists murdered in Mogadishu after Somalis killed in US gunship
attack

13 Eighty killed and 167 missing in Japan earthquake

14 Bomb-carrying IRA suspect arrested at bus stop in north London

15 Armed robbers escape with Pounds 7 million gems from Hatton Garden

Jurassic Park opens in London

18 Greg Norman wins Open golf championship

19 Ian Botham retires from first-class cricket

20 Karyn Smith and Patricia Cahill pardoned for drug smuggling in Thailand

23 Government wins confidence vote enabling Maastricht treaty to be ratified

Roman artifacts stolen from British Museum

25 Ten killed and 53 injured by gunmen in attack on church in Cape Town

27 Kenneth Baker found guilty of contempt of court in deportation case while
Home Secretary

28 Michael Atherton succeeds Graham Gooch as England captain after Australia
retain Ashes

29 Conservatives lose Christchurch by-election to Liberal Democrats in record
swing

30 Lord Rees-Mogg fails in High Court action to prevent Maastricht ratification

AUGUST

1 England women cricketers defeat New Zealand in World Cup final

Joy Gardner, a Jamaican, dies in hospital after police attempt to deport her

2 Maastricht treaty ratified

9 Ted Dexter resigns as chairman of England cricket selectors

11 Operation Irma launched to fly 41 hospital patients out of Sarajevo

12 Three air cadets killed in RAF helicopter crash in Snowdonia

15 Linford Christie wins 100 metres at world athletic championships

18 Three miners killed in rock fall at Bilsthorpe colliery

19 Sally Gunnell sets new 400 metres hurdles record in world championships

20 Colin Jackson does same in 110 metres hurdles

23 Police raid Michael Jackson's homes after allegations of child abuse

26 Disclosure of blunders in cancer tests at Royal Orthopaedic Hospital,
Birmingham

SEPTEMBER

6 Driver of train that jumped rails at Maidstone is three times over BR drink
limit

Six people killed when lorry crashes into houses at Sowerby

8 Nineteen killed and 22 injured by gunmen near Johannesburg

9 Israel and PLO agree to recognise each other's legitimacy

10 Twenty-five police hurt in anti-racism rally in east London

13 Yitzhak Rabin and Yassir Arafat sign peace accord at the White House

16 British National Party (BNP) wins its first local council seat in Millwall,
east London

19 Thirty-three arrests after anti-Nazi demonstration in east London

21 President Yeltsin dissolves Russian parliament and announces that he is
taking control

22 At least 40 die when train plunges into swamp in Alabama

23 Sydney selected to stage 2000 Olympics

29 John Smith wins mandate at Labour Party conference to abolish unions' block
vote

30 Earthquake in western India kills more than 10,000

OCTOBER

1 Lennox Lewis retains WBC heavyweight title against Frank Bruno

3 President Yeltsin declares state of emergency in Russia after worst political
violence since 1917 revolution 4 Communist hardliners in Russia surrender after
revolt

5 Five IRA bombs explode in north London

12 Germany is last country to ratify Maastricht treaty

13 England's World Cup hopes effectively ended by 2-0 defeat by Holland.  More
than 1,000 fans arrested by Dutch police

15 President de Klerk and Nelson Mandela awarded Nobel peace prize

16 Violence at anti-Nazi rally near BNP's headquarters in southeast London

21 PC Patrick Dunne shot dead in Clapham, south London

22 Tiny Rowland and Mohamed Al-Fayed declare

peace in their battle for Harrods

23 Nine people killed and more than 50 injured by IRA bomb in Shankill Road,
Belfast

31 Seven shot dead and ten injured by Ulster Freedom Fighters in Catholic pub
near Londonderry

NOVEMBER

1 Trial begins of two boys accused of James Bulger's murder

2 Fires in southern California destroy homes of stars

4 Elton John wins Pounds 350,000 libel damages from Sunday Mirror

5 Civil servants stage one-day strike over ''market testing''

8 Daily Mirror withdraws from Press Complaints Commission after being censured
for pictures of Princess of Wales in gym. It agreed to rejoin two days later

10 Ten tourists killed and 36 injured in coach crash on M2

11 Laura Davies, 5, who underwent two multiple-organ transplants, dies in
hospital in America after her ventilator is switched off

18 Eleven children and teacher killed when minibus crashes on M40

22 Two Department of Transport inspectors shot dead at garage in Stockport while
investigating stolen MoT certificates

23 Graham Taylor resigns as England football manager

24 Robert Thompson and Jon Venables, 11, convicted of murder of James Bulger

Power cut on London Underground strands 21,000 commuters

27 England rugby team beat All Blacks 15-9

DECEMBER

1 Ferranti calls in receivers

2 Pablo Escobar, Colombian drug baron, shot dead

3 Princess of Wales announces withdrawal from public life

6 Marquess of Bristol jailed for drug offences

7 Archdeacon of York questions whether Prince of Wales is fit to be king

8 Parliament votes to allow limited Sunday trading

Baroness Thatcher tells the Scott enquiry that there was no conspiracy to supply
arms to Iraq

9 Three British prisoners released by Iraq after Sir Edward Heath meets
President Saddam Hussein

10 Nelson Mandela and President de Klerk presented with Nobel peace prize in
Oslo

Twelve die in gales across Britain

13 First free elections in Russia a victory for the far right

The spaceship Endeavour completes 11-day mission to repair Hubble telescope

15 John Major and Albert Reynolds issue joint accord on peace in Northern
Ireland

Gatt trade accord signed after seven years' negotiation

16 Premium bonds to create a new millionaire every month

19 Bishop of Durham denies biblical story of Christmas

21 Vladimir Zhirinovsky, Russia's far-right leader, warns West to keep out

22 Hillary Clinton denounces infidelity allegations against her husband as
''trash for cash''.

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1993 Times Newspapers Limited

                              256 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            January 3, 1994, Monday

McGuinness sets a puzzle for Sinn Fein; David McKittrick examines the problems
posed by republican leader's statement

BYLINE: DAVID MCKITTRICK

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 2

LENGTH: 974 words


FOR SEVERAL weeks now, since John Major and Albert Reynolds produced the Downing
Street peace declaration, the key republican buzzword has been
''clarification''.

It quickly became clear that the declaration had not hit the jackpot and would
not bring about an early cessation of IRA violence. But it was also evident that
the document was a substantial one which had given the republican movement much
food for thought.

Sinn Fein kicked for touch by saying it was ambiguous and required
clarification, preferably by dialogue between itself and the British and Irish
governments. The idea was to gain time and reduce the status of the declaration
from a definitive position to the opening bid in a process of negotiation.

The republicans have since hammered away on this point, hoping to relieve some
of the pressure on themselves by portraying John Major as being unreasonable in
refusing to clarify crucial parts of a complex and ambiguous document.

Yesterday, however, it was Martin McGuinness of Sinn Fein who made statements,
in a Dublin newspaper interview which called out for clarification. Mr
McGuinness shook off some of the soft-focus rhetoric which has of late
characterised republican pronouncements and got back to what seemed to be
republican basics.

In contrast to the recent emphasis on agreement and respect for the views of
others, he declared: ''Anything short of a decision by the British government
that they are leaving this country would be unacceptable. The time period would
be up for discussion but anything short of that would personally to me be
totally unacceptable. Those people trying to suggest that we are trying to bring
people to accept objectives less than we originally set out are sadly
mistaken.''

Mr McGuinness then went further and discussed time-scales for a British
withdrawal in a way which republican leaders have deliberately avoided in recent
years. Asked ''What sort of time-scale would you be talking about?'' he replied:
''Our position remains what it has been in the past, that the British should be
out of here in the lifetime of a parliament, within five years.

''Obviously we are pragmatists, we are level-headed and responsible. We are not
saying the British have to be out of here next week . . . and if someone was to
say to us that even five years is difficult, it might take six or seven, then we
are prepared to look at that.

''I'm sure there are other republicans who, if they were told it would take
eight years, then they would look at that and say, well that is not a problem.''
The import of these words seemed to be that Sinn Fein had never deviated from,
or had suddenly regressed to, its traditional position that there would be no
lasting peace in Ireland until its old ''Brits Out'' aim had been achieved. This
seemed to confound the arguments of observers who believed the republican
movement had genuinely shifted its position.

In much of the rest of the lengthy interview Mr McGuinness stayed fairly close
to the party line, calling for clarification of the declaration. When he used
the words ''worthless'' and ''totally unacceptable'' he was careful to indicate
that he was referring not to the declaration but to comments made in the Commons
by John Major. He did not welcome the declaration, but nor did he reject it.

But his remarks on a timetable for withdrawal were a clear departure from the
norm. Taken together with the recent killing of a British soldier and the wave
of firebombings which caused millions of pounds worth of damage in Belfast, they
raised the question of whether the IRA had ever been really serious about its
''peace process''.

By late afternoon yesterday there were clear signs that Sinn Fein believed the
wrong image was being projected. Mr McGuinness issued a fax saying some media
reports had misleadingly suggested Sinn Fein had rejected the declaration: he
did not mention timetables, and he did not say he had been misquoted.

Later, a senior Sinn Fein source sought to smooth the harshness of Mr
McGuinness's words. This source, the republican equivalent of Downing Street's
Gus O'Donnell, said the interview had contained nothing dramatically new. As far
as the declaration went, ''we haven't said yes, we haven't said no''.

On the question of timetables, he said republicans had a particular view of the
type of long-term settlement which would be necessary. They had sought to move
away from a position of putting timescales on this process: ''We get into
deadlines and timetables once we get into discussion.''

But had Mr McGuinness not introduced it? ''He was responding to a question and
he gave four different times, quite clearly indicating a willingness to be
pragmatic on the issue.

''Eight years - could be 10, could be 15, let's not get too bogged down in
timetables. We're not and we don't intend to. How pragmatic is a matter for
discussion; how long we're talking about is a matter for discussion.''

This gloss puts a different perspective on Mr McGuinness's blunt comments, and
attempts to restore to the Sinn Fein position some of the same ambiguity which,
the republicans complain, is problematic in the Downing Street declaration.

Ultimately, however, one or both sides will have to move to clear up the
ambiguities between two irreconcilable concepts. Mr McGuinness wants Britain to
declare when it will leave Northern Ireland; Britain says it will leave only
when a majority wants it to.

One observer summed it up: ''If consent is meaningful you can't have a
timetable. If you have a timetable you're not talking about consent.''

The need now is to clarify whether Mr McGuinness's statements represent Sinn
Fein's preferred outcome, or whether they are the party's non-negotiable
position.

Leading article, page 11

(Photograph omitted)


LOAD-DATE: January 03, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1994 Independent Print Ltd

                              257 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Standard (London)

                            January 4, 1994, Tuesday

Major throws down new challenge to Gerry Adams

BYLINE: Peter Oborne,Robert Rodwell

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 480 words


JOHN MAJOR today accused Sinn Fein president Gerry Adams of sitting on the fence
as pressure mounted on an embattled IRA leadership to lay down its arms and come
to the negotiating table.

The Prime Minister declared that the IRA's repeated requests for 'clarification'
were an 'increasingly desperate attempt to avoid facing up to the clear choice
that confronts them'.

Mr Major, writing in a Belfast newspaper, said: 'The onus is on them.  They must
choose whether they have the courage to end violence and enter into democratic
politics'.  Mr Major went out of his way to reassure unionists that Britain was
not intent on dissolving the union.

'I know there has been fear and suspicion that these talks involve giving the
South a direct role in the internal affairs of Northern Ireland. They do not.
The interests of all communities were fully recognised and protected.'

Meanwhile, SDLP leader John Hume said today that an end to IRA violence would be
'one of the greatest acts of moral courage of this century'.

He added that the British and Irish governments should also be prepared to use
lines of communication to clarify the Downing Street peace declaration for Sinn
Fein.

His deputy, Seamus Mallon, however, attacked the IRA high command for putting
out contradictory statements.

He believed these were deliberately designed 'to confuse those who want to
accelerate the peace movement'.

A small blast, apparently caused by a letter bomb, went off today at Sinn Fein's
Dublin HQ. No one was hurt. Experts were later investigating a second suspect
device.

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              258 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            January 4, 1994, Tuesday

Adams sticks to hard republican line; Unionist alarm at use of 'Provo-speak' by
Reynolds launches a day of hints and scares

BYLINE: DAVID MCKITTRICK and PATRICIA WYNN DAVIES

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Page 1

LENGTH: 448 words


GERRY ADAMS, the Sinn Fein president, last night made a hardline re- statement
of republican policy, describing the partition of Ireland as a political failure
which could not create conditions for peace.

In a speech to party activists in west Belfast, the republican leader paid one
compliment to the Downing Street peace declaration, saying that it contained for
the first time a British recognition of the Irish people's right to
self-determination.

But, in a tone which brought little comfort to those who believe Sinn Fein has
recently softened its line, he went on to make eight separate denunciations of
partition. He said Britain had no right to dictate how self- determination could
be exercised.

He introduced a new concept of ''maximum consent'', which appeared to mean a
recognition of limited rights for Unionists. But he insisted that partition and
what he described as the loyalist veto - by which he appeared to mean the right
of Unionists to stay out of a united Ireland - were a recipe for further
conflict.

It was the latest in a round of public exchanges in the Ulster peace process,
which earlier had seen John Major accusing Sinn Fein of using increasingly
desperate delaying tactics ''to avoid facing up to the clear choice that
confronts them''.

His accusation, in an article in a the Belfast Newsletter, a Protestant
newspaper, follows close upon moves by Downing Street yesterday to avert a row
with Dublin over a call by the Taoiseach, Albert Reynolds, for
''demilitarisation'' of the conflict.

Mr Major declined to join Unionists in condemning Mr Reynolds for using the
words ''demilitarisation'' and ''persuaders'', both terms generally associated
with Sinn Fein. But the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland, Sir Patrick
Mayhew, quietly repeated that the Government would not seek to persuade
Unionists of the merits of a united Ireland.

The Prime Minister continued trying to reassure Unionists with his Newsletter
article, in which he said he would never be a ''persuader''.

Mr Reynolds addressed himself to the republican community by declaring: ''The
peace declaration . . . makes clear that both governments and both communities
will become persuaders for a new agreement on the future of the whole island.
The time has come to start the process of demilitarisation of the northern
conflict.''

Unionists denounced his words as ''Provo-speak''.

However, as Downing Street acknowledged, the Taoiseach was clearly using the
word ''demilitarisation'' to signify not British withdrawal but a run-down of
British Army activity on the streets in the event of a cessation of IRA
violence.

Leading article, page 13


LOAD-DATE: January 04, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1994 Independent Print Ltd

                              259 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                           January 15, 1994, Saturday

Spring holds Italian hopes for second Renaissance

BYLINE: John Phillips

SECTION: Overseas news

LENGTH: 683 words


ITALY'S spring general election, which President Scalfaro is poised to call
tomorrow, promises a second Renaissance for the country and for dynamic Italian
competition with Germany in Europe as the millennium ends.

Signor Scalfaro had consultations yesterday before dissolving parliament after
Carlo Azeglio Ciampi, the Prime Minister, offered to resign on Thursday. Signor
Ciampi is expected to remain at the Palazzo Chigi, either as head of a
government with full powers or in a caretaker capacity, until the election.

The eight months of his transition government brought a new electoral law
introducing a mainly first-past-the-post system that provides the basis for a
''second republic''. He also began an ambitious privatisation programme intended
to rid Italy of its corporatist heritage from Fascism, built on by successive
governments in the Cold War, of assuring political survival by promising state
jobs and handouts to voters.

The start of the ''Clean Hands'' corruption scandal nearly two years ago swept
away the political class revolving around the Christian Democrat Party that
ruled postwar Italy until Signor Ciampi took office. In the latest development,
police yesterday arrested Mauro Giallombardo, a former personal assistant to
Bettino Craxi, the former Socialist Prime Minister. Italian magistrates believe
that he was a key collector of illegal party funds, allegedly for Signor Craxi.
He is also wanted by Belgian magistrates investigating allegations of bribery in
a helicopter deal involving the Italian Agusta company.

Commentators believe that, if the election passes off smoothly, the country's
dolce rivoluzione (sweet revolution), its buoyant economy and the strong
European spirit of most Italians could in the medium term produce the strongest
Italy since the Risorgimento. In the view of many at the Foreign Office in
London, Italy would then become a more important ally for Britain than ever.
Vojtech Mastny, professor of international relations at Johns Hopkins University
in Bologna, said that, considering the depth of the political crisis, ''the
Italian people have proved remarkably mature, committed and involved in the
issues. The economy is basically in good shape, if it can be liberated from the
burdens imposed by the public sector.''

Pundits also now dismiss past fears that Italy might disintegrate under pressure
from Umberto Bossi, the secessionist Lombardy League leader. ''The League has
made its point, most importantly about the importance of municipal and regional
politics rather than national politics,'' Professor Mastny said.  ''The League
has sent its message ... beyond that, it has little positive or attractive to
say ... the League has passed its peak.''

The ten weeks before the election, expected in late March, are uncharted waters
for Italy. A big Mafia or terrorist attack could disrupt the democratic process.
But Cosa Nostra is in disarray after the arrest last January of Salvatore
''Toto'' Riina, the alleged boss of bosses. Italian democracy has rolled with
punches such as the assassination in 1992 of Judge Giovanni Falcone in Palermo
and the ''cultural terrorism'' against the Uffizi gallery in Florence last year.

Observers agree that the battle to create the strong nation-state envisaged in
the Risorgimento will not be over after the polls. Much needs to be done and,
politically, the future is still deeply uncertain. The state needs to restore
the authority it has lost through scandal. New politicians of vision are thin on
the ground and the programme of the Democratic Party of the Left, formerly the
Communist Party, which, with its allies, is expected to win the election remains
unclear. But, as a senior Rome diplomat said: ''If the Italians succeed, the
country is set to rival Germany as an industrial and political power.''

In the view of Corriere della Sera, ''the future can be called revolution,
reform and renewal. Courage, decisiveness and prudence are needed and, above all
that, love of liberty and justice that makes up contemporary democratic
patriotism.''

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1994 Times Newspapers Limited

                              260 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                January 17, 1994

Troop shortages 'prompted secret talks with Sinn Fein'

BYLINE: Ian Bruce,Defence Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 672 words


BRITAIN opened secret negotiations with Sinn Fein to end terrorist violence in
Northern Ireland largely because of Government embarrassment over shortage of
troops to maintain peace in the province, it was claimed last night.

Douglas Robson, secretary of the Save the Gordon Highlanders campaign, says
moves to bring the Provisional IRA to the negotiating table were based almost
completely on the need to end a military commitment the UK can no longer uphold
and which is producing overstretch among front line units.

He said: "We are convinced that Government policy on Northern Ireland is aimed
at getting rid of the military burden rather than being a genuine move to bring
peace. But it appears that they are counting their chickens before they are
hatched.

"The Government's cocksure approach to the Army's manpower problem does not
stand up to detailed scrutiny. They have promised to extend the period between
emergency tours of duty -- when troops are deployed away from their families for
months at a time -- to a minimum 24 months, and to an eventual 29 months by
1996.

"But the only way the Defence Ministry could live up to that promise -- a
promise made in Parliament last year -- is to end large-scale commitment to
Northern Ireland. It is glaringly obvious that the Government stance is based on
that becoming a fact. Ireland is the sole area from which sufficient numbers
could be made available to ease the strain elsewhere.

"Five of the 12 regular Army battalions currently serving there have been hauled
out of Germany on emergency tours. Of those five, one is an artillery regiment
and another is an armoured regiment.

"The men of these two units are not infantry, and their primary role does not
equip them for the kind of soldiering required in Ulster."

The Gordons are due to amalgamate with the Queen's Own Highlanders in September
as part of the Treasury-driven cutbacks outlined two years ago in the
Government's Options for Change policy.

Defence Secretary Malcolm Rifkind acknowledged the manpower crisis affecting
Britain's shrinking Army early last year by cancelling a similar shotgun
marriage of the King's Own Scottish Borderers with the Royal Scots.

Now the Gordons and the QoH are to step up their own campaign for a reprieve.
More than 200 MPs and peers have been invited to a reception at Westminster
tomorrow to hear details of how overstretch is affecting the forces. The
reception is to be sponsored by George Kynoch, Conservative MP for Kincardine
and Deeside.

Members of all-party Defence Select Committee committee, which has been
consistently critical of Government since the Options scheme to slash Army
numbers from 156,000 to 119,000 by 1997, are expected to attend the reception.

Since the policy was introduced, two extra battalions have been sent to Northern
Ireland, and more than 2000 men deployed as UN peacekeepers to Bosnia.

But campaigners are facing an uphill struggle. General Sir Peter Inge, chief of
the general staff, is known to oppose moves "to save capbadges" as he has
described all campaigns so far, despite the shortage of infantry for a growing
number of tasks worldwide.

According to the Government's own figures, based on a 30-month emergency tour
plot, the Army currently needs 48.5 battalions to cover its commitments in
Northern Ireland, Bosnia, Cyprus, and the Falkland Islands, excluding service in
Hong Kong and Belize. By next year, it will have only 40 battalions available.

Meanwhile, shortage of cash has forced 3 Commando Brigade, Royal Marines, to
curtail its normal winter warfare training. Normally, all three commando
battalions and their engineer and support units exercise in Norway during
January and February.

This year, only one commando battalion will go abroad, while the rest of the
brigade is to conduct training in Scotland.

' Government policy on Northern Ireland is aimed at getting rid of the military
burden rather than being a genuine move to bring peace '

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              261 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                            January 17, 1994, Monday

SEVEN QUIZZED AFTER TERRORIST BOMB ATTACK FOILED

BYLINE:  Deric Henderson, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 414 words


Seven men were being questioned tonight after police and troops foiled a major
IRA bomb attack on a village police station in Northern ireland near the border
with the Republic.  They were arrested in raids after terrorists abandoned a
deadly 15Olb Mark 15 mortar near a security checkpoint a mile outside Clogher in
Co Tyrone.  The bomb was primed and ready for firing from a trailer being towed
by a car, but the driver stopped and ran off across fields when he spotted
security forces ahead.  Police believe the target was their station in Clogher
which was hit before by a so-called Barrack Buster bomb. Two RUC officers shot
dead by the IRA just before Christmas in the neighbouring village of
Fivemiletown were based there.  The Mark 15, one of the Provisionals' most
powerful bombs, has been used time and again with devastating affect. Four
police and military installations were badly damaged in attacks between March
and December last year.  Just hours after the latest bombing bid, the seven men
- thought to be from the Tyrone area - were taken in for questioning by
detectives at Gough Barracks, Armagh.  Meanwhile Ulster Secretary Sir Patrick
Mayhew has dismissed a so-called "Doomsday" plan which loyalist paramilitaries
say they have drawn up should Britain pull out of Northern Ireland.  The UDA
claims the scenario would involve "surrendering" parts of Northern Ireland where
nationalists are in the majority and the "ethnic cleansing" of Catholics in
areas where they were in a minority. Social history lecturer and peace
campaigner Dr Liam Kennedy of Queen's University, Belfast claimed the plans were
based on research he carried out eight years ago. He accused the paramilitaries
of manipulating his book - "Two Ulsters - A case for Repartition", published in
l986 - for violent ends.  The UDA plan is strikingly similar to political
options and maps he produced at the time.  Dr Kennedy said: "What surprises me
is that so many people have been taken in by it and that the media world should
carry these kind of statements without subjecting them to at least preliminary
scrutiny." The Rev Ian Paisley, leader of the Democratic Unionists, said the UDA
plan was the result of the Downing Street peace declaration, which he claimed
had strengtened the IRA's position.  He said: "The British government has brough
about a situation of instability and fear in the whole community. If we hadn't
had their declaration we would not have had this document."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1994 The Press Association Limited

                              262 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Daily Mail (London)

                                January 18, 1994

The Left gives Sinn Fein a Commons coup

BYLINE: John Deans

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 707 words


LABOUR Left-wingers gave IRA sympathisers a propaganda coup yesterday by
inviting them to speak at the House of Commons.

Sinn Fein chairman Tom Hartley and Joan O'Connor, a Dublin official for the
party, addressed a news conference at which they contradicted the Government's
account of contacts between the two sides.

Sitting alongside them in the packed committee room were Left-wing MPs Anthony
Wedgwood Benn, who arranged the meeting, and Jeremy Corbyn.

Senior Ministers dismissed the event as a publicity stunt. But Lady Olga
Maitland, secretary of the Conservative parliamentary Northern Ireland
Committee, went along to accuse the two Labour MPs and the Sinn Fein officials
of insulting the relatives of Commons members murdered by terrorists.

She rounded on Mr Hartley for displaying 'cynical hypocrisy' and outrageous
audacity in 'coming to the seat of democracy'.

Unionist MP David Trimble later accused the Left-wingers of having 'abused their
privileges to give a platform to a squalid terrorist gang'.

Mr Benn justified the visit on the grounds that a settlement will come to Ulster
only if the Nationalist case is given a full hearing.

'If we are to have peace, there must be a free flow of information both ways,'
he added.

Denouncing the Government for banning Sinn Fein President Gerry Adams from
Britain and for maintaining the ban on broadcasting the words of Sinn Fein
representatives, the former Cabinet Minister said: 'Maybe one day there will be
the opportunity for Mr Adams to come here and put his case.'

Mr Hartley produced a file of documents which he claimed showed that a line of
communication between London and his organisation was activated by the British
in mid-1990, resulting in 'protracted contact'.

According the the Government, the earliest contacts were in early 1993, and were
instigated by the Nationalists.

Mr Hartley went on to press the Government for clarification over the Downing
Street declaration, warning that without it, the hopes of a peace agreement
would collapse.

Government officials yesterday repeated Mr Major's long-standing invitation to
Sinn Fein to take part in preliminary peace discussions, but only after the IRA
has renounced violence.

In Ulster, seven men were being questioned by police over an aborted mortar bomb
attack on the security forces in Clogher, County Tyrone.

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              263 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                           January 20, 1994, Thursday

Britain moves to revive all-party talks on Ulster

BYLINE: By Philip Webster, Political Editor, and Nicholas Watt

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 656 words


BRITAIN is to breathe fresh life into its efforts to secure a settlement with
Northern Ireland's political parties and give a clear warning to the IRA that it
cannot wait forever for a response to the Anglo-Irish peace initiative.

A new phase in the attempt to revive the all-party talks that foundered in 1992
is about to be launched by Sir Patrick Mayhew, the Northern Ireland Secretary,
and his deputy Michael Ancram, who has been exploring common ground between the
parties.

Ministers are expected to make plain over the next two days that the talks are
moving from an exploratory to a more substantive stage. John Major has indicated
that he has a package of proposals, including an elected assembly, to put to
Ulster politicians when they return to round-table talks. ''We are moving from
exploration to agenda-setting, '' a British official said last night.

The clear intention is to signal to Sinn Fein and the IRA that they do not hold
a veto on moves towards a settlement in Ulster and that Britain is prepared to
move on without them if necessary.

Hopes that the agreement signed by Albert Reynolds and Mr Major will still
encourage a breakthrough have not died, but ministers have decided to give a
fresh impetus to the separate constitutional talks process.

The position remains that if the IRA proves that it has abandoned violence for
good it could later, probably after three months, be allowed into exploratory
talks.

London was pleased by the warning from Dick Spring, the Irish Foreign Minister,
at the weekend that the IRA would not be allowed to frustrate the demands for
peace and that it was possible to leave an ''empty chair'' at the table for
those who were engaged in violence.

The Ulster Unionists, however, have reacted angrily to any suggestion that the
inter-party talks could include an ''empty chair'' for Sinn Fein.

James Molyneaux, their leader, said: ''The so-called empty chair theory is
unacceptable. Sinn Fein has had an offer of exploratory talks if the IRA
violence ends and there is no question of the constitutional parties sitting
around waiting for them. The Government has been consulting with the democratic
parties since last year and it should increase the momentum and get on with
restoring accountable democracy here.''

The view of British ministers is that Sinn Fein has had long enough to reflect
on the Downing Street declaration, and that it is ''playing politics'' in its
constant demands for clarification from the British Government.

The determination to press on with the efforts to revive the all-party talks
process is likely to be spelt out in a Commons debate tomorrow and possibly in a
speech by Sir Patrick tonight. Northern Ireland questions in the Commons this
afternoon will provide a further focus for questions on the talks process.

Mr Ancram has held talks over the past few days with leaders of the Ulster
Unionist and Alliance parties. On Monday he is expected to see John Hume, the
Leader of the SDLP, who is fighting hard to keep the London-Dublin initiative
going.

In spite of his avowed opposition to the London-Dublin initiative, British
officials have not given up hope that the Rev Ian Paisley, Leader of the
Democratic Unionists, could be encouraged to return to the talks process.

A radio interview with Gerry Adams, the Sinn Fein president, will go on air in
Dublin today for the first time since the republic lifted its broadcasting ban
on Sinn Fein last week. In a pre-recorded interview Mr Adams says that the Irish
people still have the right to use violence, and he repeats his demand for Mr
Major to clarify last month's Anglo-Irish declaration.

He says that he wants peace and a demilitarisation in Northern Ireland and
denies that Sinn Fein is stringing along the peace process. ''If the British
Government give us clarification we can then start coming back with definitive
responses,'' he says.

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1994 Times Newspapers Limited

                              264 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                          January 26, 1994, Wednesday

'Rather hard' on George Galloway

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 308 words


From Dr Julian Lewis

Sir, During the run-up to the last general election, I compiled and published
details of the political track records of Labour MPs, including George Galloway.
In early day motions in the House of Commons he had, inter alia:

Condemned the SAS shooting of IRA bombers on Gibraltar as ''tantamount to
capital punishment without trial'' and ''an act of terrorism'' (early day motion
799, March 1988).

Reaffirmed support for the then Soviet-backed Marxist regime in Angola (edm
1323, July 1988).

Congratulated Cuba on the 30th anniversary of Castro's Communist revolution and
on its ''great achievements'' in health, education, welfare and ''cultural and
artistic liberation'' (edm 242, January 1989).

Applauded the efforts of the people of the then Marxist Nicaragua ''to achieve
self-determination, peace and prosperity'' (edm 261, January 1989).

Criticised the refusal to allow the vice-president of the then Communist regime
in Afghanistan, installed following the Soviet invasion, to visit Britain,
whereas ''terrorist and rebel elements have been officially invited to the
United Kingdom'' (edm 448, February 1989).

Supported the withdrawal of American servicemen from South Korea because they
''constitute a threat'' to Communist North Korea (edm 908, May 1989).

Supported the Communist Morning Star ''in its campaign to raise Pounds 150,000
to enable it to survive'' (edm 179, February 1990).

It therefore seems rather hard on Mr Galloway to be ''severely reprimanded'' by
the Labour whips for praising Saddam Hussein (report, January 21) when he has
been allowed to propagate equally obnoxious causes, so often and for so long,
with complete impunity.

Yours faithfully,

JULIAN LEWIS

(Deputy Director),

Conservative Research Department,

32 Smith Square, Westminster, SW1.

January 21.

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1994 Times Newspapers Limited

                              265 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            January 28, 1994, Friday

Three shot dead in renewal of violence

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 3

LENGTH: 310 words


THREE men were shot dead yesterday in Northern Ireland's first sectarian murders
of the year.

John Desmond Doherty, 51, was asleep in bed in a house in Belfast when he was
shot in the head and died instantly. The loyalist Ulster Freedom Fighters later
claimed responsibility.

The second victim, later named as Cormac McDermott, an electrician in his 30s,
was shot dead in Ballymena, Co Antrim. A woman, believed to be his wife, was
admitted to hospital with gunshot wounds.

The third man was shot dead at the High Trees garage in Donaghadee, Co Down.

In Londonderry, a man was seriously injured in a mortar bomb explosion in the
town centre.

Firebomb explosions at three central London stores yesterday, said by Scotland
Yard to be the work of the IRA, were the first terrorist bombs to explode in
Britain since the Downing Street declaration in December, writes James Cusick.

The message appears to be that the terrorist campaign, although scaled down in
both Britain and Northern Ireland, is not over. The Oxford Street stores of
Mothercare, C & A, and a small independent luggage store, were all damaged by
fire as incendiary devices exploded in the early hours of yesterday morning.

Scotland Yard said it had received no specific warning of the attacks, but Sally
Collinson, of the Oxford Street Association, said stores had received warnings a
couple of days ago.

After forensic science examination, a Scotland Yard spokeswoman said the fires
had been caused by devices ''clearly attributable to the Provisional IRA''.

The devices, in stores within 400 yards of each other, exploded in succession
beginning at 3.25am. The Mothercare and C&A stores incurred only minor damage.

A C&A spokesman said the device had been concealed in a clothing area. The
luggage store sustained greater damage. There were no injuries.


LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1994 Independent Print Ltd

                              266 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                January 29, 1994

Adams in pledge to disband the IRA

BYLINE: John Cooney

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 731 words


From JOHN COONEY

in Dublin

SINN FEIN leader Gerry Adams last night offered the strongest hope yet for
peace, pledging his priority was "to see an end of the IRA".

Just hours after the Northern Ireland Secretary Sir Patrick Mayhew said he
believed there could still be a positive response by the IRA to the Downing
Street declaration, the man who leads its political wing said he was prepared to
go "the extra mile".

An end to the violence was now his personal and political priority and he added:
"I am willing to seek to persuade the IRA to make a definitive decision on the
conduct of its campaign."

Mr Adams said he was now actively engaged in developing an unarmed strategy.

Britain and Ireland had earlier added to the peace momentum by taking the
pressure off Sinn Fein when they ruled out a deadline for a positive response
from the IRA to the London-Dublin declaration.

At the end of the first meeting of British and Irish Ministers since the
publication of the Downing Street peace declaration six weeks ago, both Sir
Patrick Mayhew, Northern Ireland Secretary, and Mr Dick Spring, the Irish
Republic's Foreign Minister, decided not to fix the deadline despite the
escalation of violence this week in Northern Ireland by loyalist paramilitaries.

Sir Patrick also appeared to offer greater scope than before for, at least, a
form of clarification for the republicans of the December 15 document signed by
Mr Major and his Irish counterpart Albert Reynolds.

He emphasised: "We will continue to make clear what the document does and does
not do. We continue to make speeches that do just that."

As the pressure for a response from Sinn Fein was easing, it was increasing from
another, powerful source. The US Government effectively refused Mr Adams a visa
to visit a New York conference.

A statement in Washington said the White House would consider his application
only if he publicly renounced violence and threw his support behind the Downing
Street peace declaration. The US consul-general in Belfast met Mr Adams to
outline these conditions in order to be granted the visa.

Although at that point Mr Adams did not renounce the use of IRA violence, the
tone of his remarks last night were the most conciliatory since Mr Major and Mr
Reynolds signed the peace initiative.

Sinn Fein, he said, was committed to a peace settlement.

"I am concerned, I am indeed anxious to be persuaded that the Downing Street
declaration can provide a basis for us. And even if this is not the case, even
if there is a gap between what is required and what is on offer then we should
all move to bridge that gap. I am persuaded to go the extra mile."

Mr Adams added: "I want to see an end to all violence and an end to this
conflict. I do not advocate violence. It is my personal and political priority
to see an end of the IRA and an end to other organisations involved in armed
actions.

"This means an end to the British Army presence and the disbandment of the IRA.
It means an end to loyalist death squads. In other words a demilitarisation of
the situation.

"I am willing to seek to persuade the IRA to make a definitive decision on the
conduct of its campaign. I have said on a number of occasions my willingness to
go to the IRA with a proposition when such a proposition is forthcoming from the
peace process."

At the same time, the first of four Sinn Fein "peace commission" hearings to
gauge reaction to the London-Dublin statement within the republican movement was
being held in Londonderry.

Meanwhile at separate news conferences, Sir Patrick and Mr Spring expressed
renewed hope of a positive response for peace. Sir Patrick, however, expressed
some irritation and impatience at Sinn Fein's repeated demands for clarification
of the Downing Street declaration. "We ought to get away from dancing on the
head of a pin," he said.

Attention should be focused on the constitutional principles and political
realities which were relevant to Northern Ireland, he added, conceding that both
governments would make clear through further speeches what the declaration does
and does not do.

"I am not aware of any particular part of the document that we have been asked
to clarify," he said.

He said a letter sent by Mr Adams to Mr Major amounted to a request for
negotiation rather than clarification.

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Mr Dick Spring and Sir Patrick Mayhew agree a joint approach at Inveagh
House, Dublin.Picture: MARTIN McCULLOUGH/PA

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              267 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            January 31, 1994, Monday

Store firebombs 'planted by IRA'

BYLINE: TERRY KIRBY, Crime Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 5

LENGTH: 264 words


TWO firebombs discovered in Oxford Street, central London, at the weekend are
believed to have been planted by the IRA, Scotland Yard said yesterday.

Anti-terrorist branch detectives believe the two incendiary devices found in a
linen and bedding shop on Saturday evening were planted after the series of
firebombs which were discovered in three other shops on Thursday and Friday.

Scotland Yard say all stores in the area should be on the lookout for IRA
bombers and the devices - which are often concealed in soft furnishings or
clothes. But officers said the public should not assume that the terrorists will
avoid other forms of attack. The incendiaries are the first IRA attacks in
Britain since last month's Downing Street declaration on the future of Ireland.
The first of the two latest firebombs were discovered on Saturday evening after
the shop, Nightingales, had closed. Police were called and during a search a
second incendiary ignited, causing a small fire. Part of Oxford Street was
closed for a time.

Last Thursday morning, small firebombs ignited in C & A, Mothercare and
Silverdale, a travel goods shop, causing some damage. On Friday morning, another
ignited in C & A and, later in the day, a further device was discovered and
defused in Mothercare. Police believe all were planted together, probably late
on Wednesday.

The outlawed loyalist Ulster Freedom Fighters yesterday claimed responsibility
for planting firebombs in Dublin stores. Devices in cigarette packets were
discovered in two shops near O'Connell Street on Saturday night.


LOAD-DATE: January 31, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1994 Independent Print Ltd

                              268 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                February 1, 1994

ADAMS BANKING ON US SENTIMENT;
The Irish influence is declining in US politics and the Sinn Fein leader will
offer a passing interest, writes Simon Tisdall in New York

BYLINE: SIMON TISDALL

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 879 words


FOR Gerry Adams, the Sinn Fein president, the United States represents a crucial
political platform and a piggy bank for the Irish republican cause.

For many among the 44 million Americans who claim Irish descent, Mr Adams
represents both the ancient romance and modern tragedy of an Ireland which few
of them have visited and even fewer understand.

The strict conditions attached to Mr Adams's activities during his 48-hour stay
include a ban on fund-raising. But the mere fact of his presence on American
soil after a 20-year ban and the rejection of eight previous visa requests
amounts to an enormous boost for Sinn Fein and, by association, for the
Provisional IRA.

The visit goes some way towards bestowing political respectability on an
organisation which prevous American administrations have consistently linked to
terrorist activity.

Irish-American leaders, notably the Kennedy clan, pushed hard for the visit.
President Clinton was left in no doubt by the Massachusetts Senator Ted Kennedy
and the New York Senator Patrick Moynihan that their support for his proposed
health care and welfare reforms depended in no small measure on his decision.

That both Democratic senators face potentially difficult re-election battles
this November was another factor that Mr Clinton could not lightly ignore.

In announcing the decision, however, the White House insisted that it was not
politically driven. The official line is that Mr Clinton hopes the visit "will
encourage Mr Adams to make peace and help bring an end to the tragic cycle of
violence that has plagued the people of Northern Ireland for so long".

It was a "carrot" designed to bolster last month's Anglo-Irish declaration, a
Clinton aide said.

Since John Kennedy, American presidents from Richard Nixon and Ronald Reagan to
the incumbent have touted their Irish roots for electoral effect - but done
little in practical terms to speed a settlement.

In 1992, Mr Clinton promised to appoint a special envoy to Northern Ireland
while campaigning in the New York primary. He later backed away from the pledge
- under British pressure, but also because it was simply not a priority.

At a Washington banquet in March last year, Mr Clinton told the visiting Irish
Prime Minister, Albert Reynolds: "On St Patrick's Day, we're all Irish, or wish
we were.

"I am actually part Irish myself and I've often been accused of having a certain
gift for blarney."

Yet in the US, too much loose talk about Ireland has long been part of the
problem, not part of the solution. Mr Adams would do well not to over-estimate
the influence of the Irish-American lobby on the Clinton White House.

Except at election time, and then only in the north-eastern cities, the Northern
Ireland question has but peripheral importance on the American political scene.
In this, there is more than a hint of hypocrisy.

The violence in Northern Ireland and Great Britain is only sporadically reported
here, and often inaccurately.

A pervasive terminological confusion reigns about the distinctions between the
United Kingdom, Great Britain, Ulster, and England. A similar difficulty applies
to the word "terrorist". Some newspapers prefer "guerrillas" or even
"freedom-fighters" in describing the IRA. Others stick to the more neutral
"gunmen".

The clout of Irish-American politicians and their constituency has been in
steady decline since the Kennedy era. That decline was symbolised most recently
by the death of Tip O'Neill, a Boston Irish machine politician who became
Speaker of the House of Representatives and was ever a close friend to Dublin.

The current successor of that famous son of Tammany Hall is Democrat Tom Foley,
another Irish-American. Mr Foley, however, pressed hard last week against
issuing the visa, rating the integrity of US policy on combating terrorism above
the symbolism of an Adams visit.

Every March, America continues noisily to salute its Irish heritage. In Chicago,
the river is dyed green, and so is the beer.  In Boston and New York, the pipe
bands march and the rhetoric waxes fiery. Any Englishman who has stood in an
Irish bar on such occasions can testify to both the passionate feelings and the
stupefying ignorance of present-day Ireland, to which many Irish-Americans are
prey.

But the St Patrick's Day rituals in America are now more an ethnic festival, a
chance for lachrymose indulgence in nostalgia, guilt and whiskey, than a potent
display of political muscle.

The modern reality is an America of rapidly changing demographics in which the
black Americans of the northern cities, the Hispanics of Florida, Texas, the
south-west and southern California, and, increasingly, the Asian-Americans, have
their own, stronger claims on political office and the national agenda than do
the Irish.

Nearly 150 years after the potato famines forced millions into American exile,
and 70 years after Irish independence, the ties with the "old country" are
visibly fraying.

Mr Adams will no doubt use his American landfall to enlarge the republican
platform and enrich its piggy bank. But America's attention span is short, and
the impact of the visit - whether positive or negative - may prove to be even
shorter.


LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              269 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                           February 1, 1994, Tuesday

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 489 words


POLITICS Major: Right wingers pressing for a Cabinet reshuffle were given short
shrift by the Prime Minister who told them he chose the Cabinet. A meeting
between Mr Major and Tory hardline right-wingers has been deferred.  Nightlead
by 1900.

INDUSTRY Rover: The Prime Minister clashed with Labour leader John Smith over
the £800 million BMW takeover of Rover. Union officials met the new German
bosses today and were given most of the assurances they wanted on job security.
Nightlead by 1900.

CRIME Caribbean: A gruesome riddle remained unsolved as police continued to
probe the savage murders of two British yacht crewmen and the couple sailing
with them in the Caribbean. Scotland Yard detectives joined local police probing
the killings. Nightlead by 1845.

ULSTER Adams: Sinn Fein leader Gerry Adams is addressing a peace conference in
New York on the second day of his visit to the US. In Northern Ireland,
terrorists launched a mortar bomb attack on troops. Conference opens about 1830
UK time. Adams expected to speak mid-evening UK time. We are seeking an advance.
Nightleads as appropriate.

ROYAL Princess: The Princess of Wales met Aids sufferers today in a private
visit to a hospice to open a pioneering family care centre. The princess stayed
for two hours at the Mildmay Mission Hospital, east London, touring the unit and
chatting to patients. Story 1741.

TRANSPORT Flights: Revised night flying restrictions covering Heathrow, Gatwick
and Stansted come into force on March 27. Story by 1930.

DEFENCE Bosnia: Labour claimed leaked documents proved the Government is the
most miserly of all countries in paying United Nations money to troops serving
in Bosnia. In file 1638.

EDUCATION Truancy: New truancy report guidelines for schools were published by
the Department for Education. In file from 1145.

CRIME Nickell: Colin Stagg, accused of the murder of Rachel Nickell on Wimbledon
Common, was sent for trial at the Old Bailey. In file from 1518.

INDUSTRY Coal: Miners fear a fresh round of pit closures following meetings
starting to review the future of British Coal's remaining 22 working collieries.
Substitute in file 1645. There will NOT be a nightlead.

CRIME Children: Police investigating paedophile activities seized thousands of
photographs and videos of children in raids throughout Britain. No further
developments expected so unlikely to be a nightlead.

ECONOMY Bank: Bank of England Governor Eddie George underlined his desire for
greater independence from Government control but only if the Bank's policy
objective of price stability commanded widespread support. In file 1625 undfer
2100 embargo.

COURTS Beauty: Battling beauty queen convicted of punching a teenage rival and
her mother after a competition. Lead in file 1321.

DEATH MP: Jo Richardson, veteran left-wing Labour MP for Barking died after a
long illness. She was 70.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1994 The Press Association Limited

                              270 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                February 2, 1994

ADAMS SEIZES INITIATIVE IN US;
Clinton rebuffs Sinn Fein chief's call for America to assume peace-making role

BYLINE: SIMON TISDALL IN NEW YORK AND MICHAEL WHITE

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 993 words


The verdicts

"A key figure in the world's longest running guerrilla war" Larry King, CNN

"An Irish statesman and former political prisoner" Congressman Pete King

"Articulate and enigmatic . . . the central figure in one of the most

promising but delicate peace initiatives in years" New York Times

"He is a master of ambiguity" Douglas Hurd

"All the evasions of Sinn Fein will be utterly and completely hollow until they
end violence" John Major

THE PRESIDENT of Sinn Fein, Gerry Adams, building on what is fast becoming a
public relations disaster for John Major's government, demanded in New York
yesterday that Britain should grasp an historic opportunity and issue a new,
unequivocal, and all-inclusive "proposition for peace".

Armed with such a proposition, Mr Adams suggested, he would personally undertake
to persuade the IRA to declare a definitive ceasefire and to bring the bloodshed
in Northern Ireland to a close.

He also said: "The US government can play a significant and positive role in
encouraging the peace process by helping to create a climate which moves the
situation on."

But early today there were signs that British pressure exerted behind the scenes
on the White House was beginning to have an effect when Mr Adams's call met a
rebuff from President Clinton. He declared: "The people who have to resolve this
are the Irish and the British."

The president also said Sinn Fein should support the peace initiative of the
British and Irish prime ministers. The US vice-president, Al Gore, issued a
statement after talks in Washington with the Foreign Secretary, Douglas Hurd,
calling on all parties in the conflict to embrace the historic opportunity
offered by the declaration.

Mr Adams, at a conference in New York last night, said: "There is an urgent need
to break the current deadlock and move on towards a negotiated settlement. It is
clear that the British Government have used all their influence to impede any
progress . . . Sinn Fein will seek to overcome any obstacles and to be
resourceful in how we encourage and develop the peace process."

He repeated his call for clarification of the Downing Street declaration. His
long speech, by turns conciliatory and caustic, failed to address directly the
question of stopping IRA violence in Northern Ireland and mainland Britain.

But he maintained that, if the Government agreed to open up the declaration for
modification by all the parties to the conflict, he had it in his power to stop
the killing and bring about an IRA ceasefire.

After the conference, Mr Adams said that Sinn Fein would pursue any proposal
that might break the stalemate. "I want to go to the IRA with a proposition from
Britain that will enable it to end its campaign.

"Whatever they are prepared to put to me, I'm prepared to take to the IRA. Why
doesn't the British Government call the IRA's bluff?"

If London and Dublin could agree on a proposition that backed Irish
self-determination, gave a general timeframe for a settlement, and provided
guarantees for the Unionists, "I can sell that to every republican in Ireland."

In seemingly endless, high-profile national television and radio appearances
yesterday, the dapper 46-year-old Sinn Fein leader portrayed the British
Government as opposed to freedom of speech.

Alarmed British officials in the UShave reportedly, and belatedly, begun
contacting television stations and newspaper editors in an attempt to publicise
their own point of view.

They noted that Mr Adams has still not unambiguously renounced violence, nor yet
specifically called on the IRA to stop the killing.

After meeting members of the US Congress yesterday morning, Mr Adams - flanked
by three congressmen and expressing thanks for the support of more than 40
others - told the American cameras that Britain, and British newspapers, did not
tell the truth about Northern Ireland.

Sinn Fein, the IRA's political wing, was committed to a negotiated settlement,
wanted an "immediate, unconditional dialogue" with Britain, and was determined
to "take the gun out of Irish politics".

But for the peace process to move forward, he said, Mr Major must be prepared to
resume direct talks and discuss new ideas with Sinn Fein.

"I am anxious to get a proposition I can put to the IRA, to move us towards
demilitarisation of the conflict. The ball is very much in Britain's court."

In Whitehall, ministers and officials gritted their teeth in frustration at Mr
Adams' publicity success, but mixed a challenge of "deeds not words" to the Sinn
Fein leader with a clear determination not to fall out with the Clinton
administration on the Northern Ireland question.

Privately, backbench Tory MPs were fuming. In the Commons, the Prime Minister
reminded MPs: "There has been no commitment by Mr Adams or the Provisional
movement to end violence for good . . . Without it, all the words, all the
prevarications, all the evasions . . . will be utterly and completely hollow".

His officials continued to stress how helpful Washington had been over the
Anglo-Irish peace initiative and that Mr Hurd was in Washington to restate
Britain's case.

Mr Adams's apparent success in portraying himself to Americans as a key player
in any Northern Ireland settlement has been facilitated by the Unionist boycott
of yesterday's one-day peace conference.

The other participants, John Hume, leader of the SDLP, and John Alderdice,
leader of the Alliance, have had difficulty in making their voices heard.

Congressmen who spoke out in support of Mr Adams yesterday included the New York
politicians Pete King, Carolyn Maloney, and Bob Menendez, a member of the House
foreign affairs committee. They were expected to be joined at the conference by
Senator Ted Kennedy and other leading Irish-Americans.

Media welcome, page 3; Notebook, page 14; Fintan O'Toole, page 20; Leader
comment, page 21

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              271 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           February 3, 1994, Thursday

Leading Article: Back to reality for Adams

SECTION: COMMENT PAGE; Page 19

LENGTH: 491 words


THE VISIT by Gerry Adams to New York was always likely to be something of a
propaganda coup for the president of Sinn Fein. The Americans identify, at least
subliminally, with an image of Ireland as

a victim of British colonialism. Irish-Americans have long been schooled in an
apocalyptic tale encompassing 800 years of national struggle against a
supposedly sadistic oppressor.

The histories of the two countries are entwined. The American War of
Independence prompted Britain to grant ''Grattan's'' shortlived Irish parliament
virtual independence in 1782 to appease those preaching Hibernian revolution.
Woodrow Wilson's support for small nations bolstered the cause of Irish
nationalism after the First World War. And now the successful passage of Bill
Clinton's domestic reforms depends on legislative support from the politically
powerful Irish lobby.

This long-standing relationship helps to explain the sympathetic and uncritical
hearing that Mr Adams has enjoyed from the US media. He was allowed to portray
himself as a martyr. Little effort was taken by interviewers to explain the
slightness of his electoral support or the nature of IRA violence.

Britain's cause was hardly helped by the broadcasting ban on Sinn Fein, which
seems ever more ridiculous and counter-productive and should be dropped with as
much haste as is respectable. American enthusiasm for giving Mr Adams a voice
was fuelled by the broadcasting ban which runs so contrary to the US
constitutional guarantee of free speech.

But Douglas Hurd, who whistled in the wind in America against the statements
made by Mr Adams, should not be too down-hearted, and the Prime Minister ought
to keep his powder dry. By over-reacting, they have magnified the importance of
the visit. A dignified silence would have been a better way to deal with what
will be a passing wonder for the American media.

The Sinn Fein leader may have walked the American stage virtually unchallenged,
but the British government won an important concession from the US
administration to reward its forbearance. President Clinton announced that his
electoral pledge to despatch a peace envoy to Northern Ireland had been
superseded by the Downing Street declaration. John Major need no longer worry
that Washington will interfere in negotiations which the Government prefers to
see confined to these islands.

For all the posturing before his Irish-American supporters, President Clinton
has little interest in being caught in the mire of Anglo- Irish affairs. He is
too involved in pursuing his health reforms to be bothered trying to resolve
such apparently intractable problems. The future of Northern Ireland will be
decided not on Larry King's chat show but by the two communities within Northern
Ireland in concert with the governments of the Irish Republic and the United
Kingdom. This is the reality that Mr Adams must now face after the euphoria of
his trip.


LOAD-DATE: February 03, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1994 Independent Print Ltd

                              272 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                February 8, 1994

BYLINE: Jack Webster

SECTION: Pg. 14

LENGTH: 874 words


IF the American people have regained some composure after their emotional
surrender to Mr Gerry Adams, they should take themselves to an exhibition of
sculpture which is doing the rounds in the state of New Jersey.

Such a visit would not be out of place. For there they will set eyes upon a
collection of nude women, larger-than-life figures, reminding them with all the
powerful eloquence of silence what a price there is to pay for terrorism.

Those sculptures are the creations of distinguished American artist Suse
Lowenstein, whose 21-year-old son Alexander was one of the Syracuse University
students dispatched to his death over Lockerbie in December, 1988.

Those youngsters were going home for Christmas, after a visit to London, when
terrorists wreaked havoc not only upon the lives of 270 victims of PanAm flight
103 but on thousands of relatives and friends.

When I later met those devastated families in Boston, Suse Lowenstein was
channelling her grief into sculpture, depicting the mother figure at the moment
she heard the news of Lockerbie.

When other women heard of it, they asked if they could join in. One by one they
stepped on to Suse's posing platform, relived that worst moment of their lives
and allowed their bodies to fall into the postures they assumed when the
nightmare of Lockerbie struck.

Suse froze those poignant moments. Some screamed. Some begged their God. Some
just wept or prayed or curled into a ball, while others raised their fists in
anger. Rather than cringe, let us just accept that, for those heartbroken women,
it was a therapeutic release and comfort, perhaps best suited to the American
temperament.

Artistically, it is a moving piece of work, growing towards 100 figures,
stopping traffic in its tracks when displayed in a public park and drawing
visitors with slow steps and stunned stares.

When last I met those Lockerbie relatives I was deeply impressed by their
stature as human beings. They had been through hell but had emerged as special
people.

Yet at that Boston gathering, attended by a member of Senator Edward Kennedy's
office, I heard a conversation which shocked me. On a day of calls to the White
House to bring the Lockerbie bombers to justice, one man mentioned his habit of
giving to the collection boxes for Northern Ireland, which you find in pubs all
over the States.

Did he know what he was saying? Money for Ireland . . . to kill young soldiers
from places like Lockerbie . . . with guns, bombs, and bullets bought from whom?
From Colonel Gaddafi of course -- who is said to use that money to finance such
acts of terrorism as . . . the scenario didn't bear completing. My heart bled
for the naivety of the great American people. They mean well but their ignorance
of situations like Ulster is frightening.

Those same thoughts arose again last week when Irish eyes in America were not
only smiling but dancing with delight as they lionised Gerry Adams in his
publicity romp across the breadth of American television. Poor old Bill Clinton,
who should really have stuck to his saxophone, mediocre player though he is, had
been well and truly duped again. As if Hillary wasn't enough of a trial, he had
found himself snookered once more by the Irish question.

Having courted the Irish vote to reach the White House, then backtracked on
realising the stupidity, not to mention impertinence, of promising an envoy to
sort out Ulster, he felt he owed them one -- and granted a visa to Gerry Adams
to visit New York last week.

It soon emerged, of course, that behind it all were those barons of Congress,
Edward Kennedy and Patrick Moynihan. The President needs support for his health
plan -- and there are mid-term elections coming up. So, as the New York Daily
News headline put it: Clinton Caves To IRA.

Mr Adams is able to present himself as the dove of peace, knowing that the
gullible can always be seduced by sloganeering at the expense of fact and
reason.

Intriguingly, he declares that we are now in the final stages of the armed
struggle. How does he know? Having publicly distanced himself all those years
from the violent men, does he really have control of the situation after all?

And what about the violent men on the other side, now so convinced that IRA
terrorism has paid off that they are sure to vent new anger on John Major? Will
they lay down their arms? Once again, I'll believe the peace in Northern Ireland
when I see it.

As the Irish bandwagon rolled, it was left to British journalist Peter Hitchens
to go on American TV to confront former New York mayor Ed Koch. Recalling last
year's terrorist attack on the World Trade Centre in Manhattan, Hitchens asked a
pertinent question: "How would you feel if the people who blew up the centre set
up a political wing and its leader went to Britain and addressed an ecstatic
meeting of his compatriots and raised money for the cause? And then the money
was used to buy bullets and bombs to kill innocent people on your streets?"

As the collection tins rattled at the weekend, I wonder if the more thoughtful
Americans managed to cast an eye on Suse Lowenstein's sculptures, dedicated
"with deep love to all victims of terrorism".

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              273 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                           February 8, 1994, Tuesday

00 THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 10

SECTION: TTD

LENGTH: 803 words


01 HTVWALES 02 12.20 HTV NEWS AND WEATHER 02 12.30 ITN LUNCHTIME NEWS (T) 03
Followed by Weather.  02 12.55 EMMERDALE 03 Vic gets into trouble. Shown
Tuesday. (R) (T) 02 1.25 HOME AND AWAY 03 Michael helps Adam launch his new
business venture. (T) 02 1.55 A COUNTRY PRACTICE 03 Cris finds the perfect
babysitter. (S) 02 2.20 TV WEEKLY 03 News and reports from the small-screen
world. (S) 02 2.50 THE YOUNG DOCTORS 03 Will Mike Newman's behaviour force Helen
to remove him from the Albert?  02 3.20 ITN NEWS HEADLINES (T) 02 3.25 HTV NEWS
02 3.30 CHILDREN'S ITV 03 starting with Allsorts. Jiffy remembers his holidays.
(S) 02 3.40 TOTS TV 03 Tilly makes breakfast for the Tots. (S) 02 3.50 GARFIELD
AND FRIENDS 03 Animated fun with the fat feline.  02 4.10 WOLF IT 03 Comedy
capers with the mischievous wolves. (S) (T) 02 4.40 FUN HOUSE 03 Messy game show
for younger viewers. (T) 02 5.10 HOME AND AWAY 03 Michael helps Adam launch his
new business venture. (T) 02 5.40 ITN EARLY EVENING NEWS (T) 03 Followed by
Weather.  02 6.00 WALES AT SIX (T) 03 Followed by Weather.  02 6.30 SPECIAL
REPORT 03 Fly-on-the-wall documentary providing an insight into the racial
violence which blights the lives of many black Britons.  02 7.00 EMMERDALE 03
The villagers turn out to celebrate Turner and Shirley's wedding. Frank is
forced to accept the truth. (T) 02 7.30 WALES THIS WEEK 03 In-depth current
affairs reports.  02 8.00 THE BILL 03 Page arrests a woman thought to belong to
a gang of professional shoplifters, but it appears her motives for stealing are
more personal. (T) 02 8.30 MINDER 03 Arthur and Ray venture into the glamorous
world of corporate hospitality.  Starring George Cole and Gary Webster. (S) (T)
02 9.30 SCOTLAND YARD 03 The high-security operation surrounding the annual
ceremony of Trooping the Colour, where the Royal Family, Prime Minister and
1,500 soldiers are open to terrorist attack. (T) 02 10.00 NEWS AT TEN (T) 03
Followed by Weather.  02 10.30 HTV NEWS AND WEATHER 02 10.40 FACE VALUE 03 A
profile of singer and voice trainer Frankie Armstrong, who made her name as a
member of the folk movement which swept Britain in the early 1960s. (R) 02 11.10
WALES AND WESTMINSTER 03 The week's major political issues. Followed by HTV
Crimestoppers.  02 11.40 PRISONER: CELL BLOCK H 03 Meg wins her case against
Peter Wright. Followed by ITN News Headlines.  02 12.35 BODIES OF EVIDENCE 03
Ryan and Nora realise their true feelings for each other when they investigate a
suspicious death.  02 1.30 SUPERSTARS OF WRESTLING 03 Grappling ringside action.
Followed by ITN News Headlines.  02 2.10 AMERICA'S TOP 10 03 Chart hits from the
USA. (S) 02 2.40 FILM: THE SPANIARD'S CURSE (1958) 03 A man wrongly convicted of
murder invokes an ancient and sinister curse on those responsible for sentencing
him. When two mysterious deaths follow, the daughter of the judge involved in
the case decides to investigate. Thriller, starring Tony Wright, Susan Beaumont
and Michael Hordern.  02 3.55 JOBFINDER 03 Vacancies and courses.  02 4.25 NIGHT
SHIFT 03 People who work through the night.  02 4.30 CUE THE MUSIC 03 The Damned
in concert at the Town and Country Club. (S) 00 FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 11 02 5.30 ITN
MORNING NEWS 02 6.00 GMTV 03 Magazine, including film reviews and sports news.
02 9.25 WIN, LOSE OR DRAW 03 Comedy game show. (S) 02 9.55 HTV NEWS 02 10.00 THE
TIME, THE PLACE 03 Topical debate.  02 10.35 THIS MORNING 03 American approaches
to home decoration, and a look at the latest buys.  02 12.20 HTV NEWS AND
WEATHER 02 12.30 ITN LUNCHTIME NEWS 03 Followed by Weather.  02 12.55 CORONATION
STREET 03 Derek has a surprise for Mavis. Shown Wednesday. (R) (T) 02 1.25 HOME
AND AWAY 03 Bobby is furious when she discovers most Summer Bay residents know
about Greg's reconciliation attempts. (T) 02 1.55 WISH YOU WERE HERE?  03 Judith
Chalmers visits Australia's Kakadu Park and Alison Holloway goes sightseeing in
Weston-Super-Mare. Plus, a report from Stockholm. (R) (S) 02 2.20 ART WORKS 03
The importance of strong sunlight. Followed by HTV Crimestoppers.  02 2.50 TAKE
THE HIGH ROAD 03 Eddie doesn't approve when Sheila makes a phone call.  02 3.20
ITN NEWS HEADLINES 02 3.25 HTV NEWS 02 3.30 CHILDREN'S ITV 03 starting with The
Magic House. Light-hearted stories and songs.  02 3.45 CARTOON TIME 03 Foghorn
Leghorn and Tweety Pie in an animated double bill. (R) 02 3.55 ZZZAP!  03
Real-life comic-strip capers.  02 4.15 THE DREAMSTONE 03 Urpgor's rich and
powerful aunt pays a visit. (S) 02 4.40 JUST US 03 Grandma makes plans for
Katie's education after she does well in her exams.  (S) (T)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1994 The Press Association Limited

                              274 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               February 11, 1994

Anti-terrorism laws face European test

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 342 words


THE European Court is being asked to rule on whether Britain's anti-terrorism
legislation complies with European Union law on free movement of workers.

By a majority, the Court of Appeal yesterday decided to refer the case of
Irishman John Gallagher after dismissing his challenge under domestic law to a
September 1991 order excluding him from the UK.

Mr Gallagher, 34, who was jailed for three years in Ireland in 1983 for being in
possession of two rifles for unlawful purposes, made several visits to England
looking for work and eventually obtained a job in London in April 1990.

The order was made on the basis that the Home Office was satisfied he "is or has
been concerned in the commission, preparation or instigation of acts of
terrorism connected with the affairs of Northern Ireland".

Mr Gallagher agreed to removal to the Republic because of domestic pressures,
but did object to the Home Secretary and requested an interview with his
nominated adviser.

The Home Office reconsidered the matter after Mr Gallagher's interview at the
British Embassy in Dublin, but refused to revoke the order.

Yesterday, Lord Justice Farquharson, sitting with Lords Justices Steyn and
Hirst, rejected Mr Gallagher's claim that he was unable to meet the case against
him because he was denied details of the grounds for making the exclusion order.

Mr Gallagher's claim that he was entitled to know the name of the nominated
adviser was also dismissed.

However, two of the Judges ruled that Europe should consider whether the Home
Office was in breach of a European directive requiring the taking of an opinion
from an independent competent authority before expelling someone.

Mr Gallagher's solicitor, Mr Stephen Grosz, said later: "This case will be an
important test of Britain's anti-terrorism laws.

"Individual liberties are severely circumscribed by the Prevention of Terrorism
Act. This is the first time that the European Court has been asked to set out
the guarantees of human rights in European law."

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              275 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          February 19, 1994, Saturday

Cardinal talks of IRA 'dilemma'

BYLINE: DAVID MCKITTRICK, Ireland Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 2

LENGTH: 535 words


THE CATHOLIC primate of all- Ireland, Cardinal Cahal Daly, spoke yesterday of
the dilemma facing the IRA and Sinn Fein in formulating their response to the
Downing Street declaration, as violence in the province continued unabated.

Three workers were shot by loyalist gunmen outside Sinn Fein's headquarters in
west Belfast, in the wake of the murder of an RUC man in an IRA rocket attack
and the critical wounding of a Catholic man in front of his four grandchildren.
The escalating violence is casting a shadow over today's London meeting between
John Major and the Albert Reynolds, the Republic's Prime Minister, as they
continue to seek a definitive republican response to the declaration.

Cardinal Daly said undue delay in providing a reply was highly dangerous, but
added that the current debate within republicanism was one of the most positive
and hopeful developments for many years.

As one of the strongest clerical opponents of the IRA, Dr Daly's plea for peace
is in itself unlikely to influence the minds of republican leaders. But his
commentary on their options amounts to the clearest public airing yet of the
considerations which will determine their decision. Although most of the public
indications from the republicans have tended towards the negative, Dr Daly said
he believed a significant number were sincerely committed to ''bringing the
movement round to the peace option''.

The desire for peace in the wider community, including the grassroots republican
community was overwhelming, he said, adding: ''There is a widespread conviction
that republicans have now, as never before, an opportunity for peace with
honour, and that there will never be a better opportunity.''

Dr Daly said the reaction of the American media to the recent visit by Gerry
Adams, the Sinn Fein president, had been based almost entirely on the hope and
promise of his delivering peace. This attitude would, he argued, change
radically if peace was not delivered: ''Not only the American administration but
almost the entire Irish-American community are emphatically insistent on the
need for peace, and for peace now.''

Rejecting the Downing Street declaration would mean the republicans cutting
themselves off definitively from Irish nationalist opinion and forfeiting
American and international sympathy, the Cardinal said. ''They would have
nowhere to go, no political future, no place in the shaping of a future for
Ireland, no hope of any access ever to any political dialogue or to any sharing
of political power.

''I can understand some of the concerns of republicans. They are suspicious;
they feel they cannot trust Britain; they feel they cannot trust the Unionists.
History makes their suspicions inevitable, but history changes peoples and their
relationships.''

Dr Daly said any fair-minded person would agree the present British government
had made significant movement towards recognising the legitimacy of Irish
republicanism and accepting the principle of self-determination for the people
of Ireland. The aim of a united Ireland was legitimate and noble, but could only
be pursued by peaceful means and this could only effectively begin once violence
ended.


LOAD-DATE: February 19, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1994 Independent Print Ltd

                              276 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           February 20, 1994, Sunday

IRA suspected over store firebombs

BYLINE: By STEPHEN WARD

SECTION: BRITAIN PAGE; Page 3

LENGTH: 329 words


TERRORIST firebomb attacks in central London yesterday bore the hallmarks of the
IRA, according to Scotland Yard.

Devices exploded without warning in seven shops, including Liberty in Regent
Street, in the early hours, causing thousands of pounds-worth of damage but no
injuries. An unexploded device was found at lunchtime.

Much of central London was sealed off, and anti-terrorist officers were called
in to supervise a search. By 9am police barriers were taken down and roads
re-opened.

No group has admitted responsibility for the bombs, which were thought to be
timed to coincide with yesterday's visit to London by the Irish Prime Minister,
Albert Reynolds.

Last week a Royal Ulster Constabulary officer was killed by a rocket attack on
his Land Rover, the first fatality from IRA violence this year. Two colleagues
in the vehicle were injured. Earlier that night, in east Belfast, a soldier was
seriously injured in an IRA attack.

In yesterday's London firebombs, a newsagent's in Great Cumberland Place, near
Marble Arch, was gutted by fire. The other premises largely escaped with water
damage from sprinkler systems.

The first alert came late on Friday, when police were called to the Going for a
Song record shop in Charing Cross Road. Officers found an incendiary device,
which was defused - but another exploded at the shop at about 2.30am.

An hour later, a series of fires started. From 3.30am for 20 minutes, fire
alarms and sprinkler systems were triggered in the Top Shop and Hennes stores in
Oxford Circus, Burton in New Oxford Street and Regent Street, and a shop and
office block at Great Cumberland Place.

The device that failed to go off was at a Mister Byrite menswear store in Oxford
Street.

A team of 30 firefighters tackled the Great Cumberland Place blaze, which gutted
the newsagent's on the ground floor. At all the other stores, automatic
sprinkler systems put out the fires before they could take hold.


LOAD-DATE: February 20, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1994 Independent Print Ltd

                              277 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                           February 20, 1994, Sunday

REYNOLDS URGES GRASSROOTS IRA TO SUPPORT PEACE

SECTION: THE OBSERVER NEWS PAGE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1134 words


ALBERT Reynolds, the Irish Prime Minister, said yesterday a large majority of
Provisional IRA members would have to back the peace process if it was to
endure.

But he warned that the continuing campaign of violence was being carried out by
paramilitaries trying to destroy the peace process. Mr Reynolds and John Major
met at No 10 Downing Street yesterday after terrorists firebombed seven stores
in Oxford Street, London. A further device failed to go off.

Police said the early morning attacks, which caused thousands of pounds of
damage, bore all the hallmarks of the IRA. No warnings were given and no one
admitted responsibility.

The two prime ministers agreed that proposals tabled by Sir Patrick Mayhew, the
Northern Ireland Secretary, for advancing the three-strand talks - between the
parties of Ulster; North and South; and between the two governments - should now
be considered in detail.

That review will take place before the next inter-governmental conference on 10
March, but Dublin sources warned yesterday that Irish officials would not accept
a package that deferred to Unionist demands for a devolution of Westminster
power without meeting Social Democratic and Labour Party grievances.

Although the two prime ministers spoke of useful and cordial talks, that
lingering Dublin suspicion flavoured the meeting.

Earlier, Mr Reynolds said in a BBC radio interview that there was growing
support among IRA activists for December's Anglo-Irish joint declaration.

But he added: 'A slim majority is not the result that will be acceptable among
the Republican movement. Nobody wants a split in that movement again; a split in
the 1970s brought us the last 25 years of violence.'

The size of that task was put in perspective by the revelation that government
security advisers believe there could be 1,500 active IRA members in Northern
Ireland, compared with previous estimates, which put the number at no more than
500.

The attacks brought the number of terrorist incidents since the Ulster Peace
declaration was signed on 15 December to 63 - almost one a day. Fifty-seven have
been in Northern Ireland and six in Britain. Three civilians and a soldier have
been killed, and 27 civilians, five soldiers and four policemen injured.  The
estimated cost of damage to property is just under pounds 12 million.

In yesterday's attacks, a newsagents' shop near Marble Arch was gutted. Thirty
firefighters fought the blaze. By mid-morning the only clue to the shop's
identity was a tray of burnt Yorkie bars and a charred fridge.

At the other stores automatic sprinklers extinguished the fires.

Police were first called to the Going for a Song record store in Charing Cross
Road. Officers defused one incendiary device but a second one exploded at the
store around 2.30am. Four more attacks followed: at the Top Shop and Hennes
stores in Oxford Circus, Burtons in New Oxford Street and Regent Street, and at
a shop and office block at Great Cumberland Place.

Another fire broke out at Liberty in Regent Street at 5.30am and a device which
had failed to go off was found at a Mister Byrite menswear store in Oxford
Street at lunchtime.

Chris Michael said the fire in Great Cumberland Place started just before
3.45am. 'Within a matter of minutes, the shop was engulfed in flames.'

A large area of central London was sealed off for several hours. But there was
no sign yesterday that the fires had deterred shoppers and tourists. Kim
Daniels, managing director of Selfridges and president of the Oxford Street
Traders' Association, said terrorist incidents were 'something we are having to
learn to live with'.

Meanwhile, senior security sources fear that the threat to life in Northern
Ireland is worse than at any time in the past four years.

The IRA is going all out to kill members of the police and Army while Loyalists
have extended their range of targets from front-line SDLP figures to lesser
known party members.

In areas such as Newtownards and North Belfast, Catholic families spoke last
week of 'real fear' because of the escalation in Loyalist violence.

A week before Sinn Fein's annual conference, a senior Republican said: 'In a
sense we're neither accepting or rejecting the Declaration without clarification
from the British. We're in limbo.'

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              278 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                           February 20, 1994, Sunday

90 THAT'S THE MURDER TOLL SO FAR IN BRITAIN;
BRITAINS MURDER TOTAL THIS YEAR RISES TO 90

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 534 words


THERE were seven murders in Britain this week, bringing the year's toll so far
to 90.

Yesterday, a mini-cab driver was being questioned by murder squad detectives
after ploughing into two men on a footpath.

One man was killed after being dragged for 200 yards.

The horror happened in Sheldon, Birmingham, following an argument about late
-night fares.

The victim was later named as Richard Davis, 30, a married man from the
Sparkhill area of the city. He was the father of a seven-year-old boy.

The injured man has been named as Andrew McCaffer, 29, also from Sheldon. He is
seriously ill with multiple fractures.

Other murder victims were: SUNDAY: Derek Jameson, 45, died from head injuries
after an attack in Liverpool. Jobless Mark McGill, 28, charged with murder.

The body of Edward Ingle, 56, found at his home in Tranent, East Lothian.
Rosalie Blake charged with murder.

MONDAY: Rochdale shopkeeper James Chadwick, 52, charged with the murder of Paul
Heap, who died from stab wounds.

Heap and another man, who is in hospital with stab wounds, had gone into the
shop to demand money.

WEDNESDAY: John Whitelaw, 53, stabbed at home in Woking, Surrey. Man charged
with murder.

THURSDAY: Brian Jeffrey found dead at his home in Rosemount Street, Glasgow.
Man, aged 30, charged with murder.

RUC officer William Beacom, a father of three, died in a rocket attack on a Land
Rover in Belfast. The IRA claimed responsibility for the ambush.


LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DEAD: RUC's Beacom

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 1994 MGN Ltd.

                              279 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               February 22, 1994

Claim on Northern Ireland denied

SECTION: Pg. 9

LENGTH: 322 words


GOVERNMENT representatives had never been authorised to tell the IRA and Sinn
Fein that Britain intended to withdraw from Northern Ireland, Sir Patrick Mayhew
said yesterday.

The Northern Ireland Secretary was speaking in advance of a BBC TV programme
last night which claimed a Government representative told Sinn Fein member
Martin McGuinness last year that Britain had a long-term intent to pull out.

Panorama claimed a civil servant made the comments during an unauthorised secret
meeting with Sinn Fein three days after the Warrington bombing.

Sir Patrick has admitted an unauthorised meeting took place, but refused
yesterday to reveal what had been said.

Speaking in Northern Ireland, Sir Patrick said: "Nobody has ever been authorised
to say on behalf of the British Government that the British Government intends
to withdraw from Northern Ireland."

He said it had been stated time and time again that the future of Northern
Ireland depended on the wishes of the people living in the province, as had been
restated in the Downing Street declaration.

Sinn Fein alleged to BBC reporter Peter Taylor that the unofficial Government
representative conceded that the "island of Ireland would be as one".

The Rev. Ian Paisley, leader of theDemocratic Unionist Party, reacted with anger
to the claim.

He said it proved the Downing Street declaration was the first step on the road
to a British withdrawal.

He said he was seeking a meeting with the Prime Minister to accuse him of
deception over the weekend meeting with Irish Premier Albert Reynolds in London.

Meanwhile, the IRA bombing of London will continue if the declaration does not
bring peace, Sinn Fein's former publicity director told Panorama.

Danny Morrison, now in jail, was interviewed in his cell in the Maze prison, and
said it was inevitable the violence would continue if there was no resolution to
the conflict.

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              280 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               February 25, 1994

DUBLIN JUDGE FREES TERROR DEATH SUSPECT;
Extradition refusal puts pressure on Anglo-Irish accord

BYLINE: JOE JOYCE IN DUBLIN

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 553 words


THE high court in Dublin yesterday released a man wanted for the murder of an
army recruiting sergeant on the grounds that the killing was a political offence
and that he might not get a fair trial in Britain because of lurid and
sensational newspaper reports.

The release of Joseph Magee put extradition back in the centre of Anglo-Irish
relations. Mr Magee, aged 27, of Armagh, is wanted for the murder of Sergeant
Michael Newman, who was shot dead by three men in a car park in Derby in April
1992. The Irish National Liberation Army claimed responsibilty for the killing.

Mr Justice Fergus Flood granted his appeal against extradition on the grounds
that the offence was political under the republic's extradition law and that
lurid and sensational newspaper publicity meant he may not get a fair trial.

Newspapers had referred to him as a "gun psycho", "an animal" and "a suicide
cowboy" and published photographs of him, the judge said.

The decision was condemned by Unionist and Conservative politicians and strained
the united front presented by the British and Irish governments since the
Downing Street declaration in December.

Peter Robinson, deputy leader of the Democratic Unionist Party, said the British
Government continued to make concessions to Dublin without getting anything in
return. "Those who carry out the most dastardly offences in the United Kingdom
are treated as if they have not committed evil acts of terrorism when they come
before the courts in the Irish Republic."

Andrew Hunter, chairman of the Conservative back bench committee on Northern
Ireland, said the decision was out of keeping with the spirit of the
declaration. "Where is the clampdown on terrorism [Albert] Reynolds promised?"

Derbyshire police described the decision as "extremely disappointing", and a
spokesman for the Attorney General, Sir Nicholas Lyell, said he would be
studying its implications.

The Irish government made no comment, though this week it finally began amending
its extradition law to close off some of the "political offence" loopholes. The
existing law prevents those charged with crimes involving automatic weapons from
claiming political motivation. Several cases have exposed loopholes which
allowed those accused of possessing, though not using, firearms and explosives
to claim the political exclusion.

The justice minister, Maire Geoghegan-Quinn, moved in the Dail this week to
prevent those facing extradition on such grounds from claiming political
motivation.

Lawyers for Mr Magee had argued at his appeal hearing last month that there was
no evidence that automatic weapons were used to kill Sergeant Newman.

The prosecution maintained that the INLA was clearly a terrorist organisation
and the murder part of a pattern of terrorist acts. They also contested a claim
that a jury would be prejudiced by publicity.

Mr Magee was arrested in Limerick in January last year for refusing to give his
name.

After his release, he described the decision as "a great relief" and claimed he
would never have received a fair trial in England.

A second man wanted for the murder of Sgt Newman is in custody in the Republic
awaiting extradition proceedings. Anthony "Fanta" Gorman is due to appear before
Dublin district court next month.

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              281 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           February 25, 1994, Friday

Ulster players circle around peace; As Albert Reynolds urges Sinn Fein to adopt
a policy of non-coercion of Ulster's Protestants at its conference in Dublin
this weekend, David McKittrick reports on the unprecedented republican debate
which could decide whether Ireland is to have peace or continuing conflict

BYLINE: DAVID McKITTRICK

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 8

LENGTH: 1125 words


THERE have been many negative noises from the republican camp about the
declaration which John Major and the Taoiseach, Albert Reynolds, produced in
Downing Street 10 days before Christmas. Sinn Fein has spelt out alleged
shortcomings and ambiguities, and demanded clarification.

The IRA has not called a ceasefire. The campaign of violence goes on, although
on a noticeably more limited basis: it is clear the declaration will not in
itself be enough to end IRA violence.

This situation has led some Unionist politicians and some newspapers to conclude
that the exercise has been fruitless, that it is pointless to wait any further
for the republicans, and that the game should move on without them.

This approach may be based on an over-simplification of a particularly complex
and delicate situation. It is true that on a tactical level the republican
movement has made many gains in recent weeks. It has successfully slowed the
game down to its own pace, so that the intense immediate pressure of December
has eased.

Having achieved that, it has also made some significant advances, most
strikingly through Gerry Adams's success in New York. The Irish government has
adopted a more conciliatory approach to Sinn Fein, not objecting to the Adams
visa and relaxing a 20-year ban to allow him to be heard on Irish television.
And for the first time an Irish prime minister, in writing to Mr Adams to
clarify the declaration, has communicated directly with the leader of Sinn Fein.

Mr Adams is the man of the moment and Sinn Fein very much flavour of the month:
camera crews from all over the world will be at the party ard-fheis (annual
conference) in Dublin this weekend, even though the republicans have made it
clear no definitive response will emerge there.

All this has appalled many observers in Britain, but many constitutional
nationalists view these events from a very different perspective. This is based
on the observation that any recent republican gains have been made by political
means rather than by violence, and based also on the belief that those gains are
conditional.

The welcome extended to Mr Adams from the Americans and the softer line from
Dublin both spring from the belief that the Sinn Fein president is in the
business of becoming a peacemaker. The corollary is that there will be no second
welcome from the US administration, or from the Dublin government, should the
IRA campaign resume at full blast.

At the same time, the theory runs, Mr Adams's recent experiences could have
highly beneficial longterm effects through allaying one of the republicans'
central worries. Their concern is that an ending of violence would render Sinn
Fein impotent and leave a friendless republican community prey to ostracisation
and discrimination by an unreconstructed Unionism.

Recent events may go some way towards demonstrating to republicans that they
would not lose all clout by giving up the gun. There is evidence that the
British government too has lately softened its line: the original badgering of
Sinn Fein for a response has been replaced by a less strident tone.

The choice facing the republicans is a difficult one. The declaration stands as
a formidable statement of consensus between the British and Irish governments:
the principle of Irish self-determination is enshrined there, but is intertwined
with the need to obtain Protestant consent for Irish unity.

The declaration has been accompanied by public assurances that Sinn Fein is
guaranteed entry into the political processes. Opinion polls in the Republic
show widespread approval for it, and near- unanimity that the IRA should stop
its violence and allow Sinn Fein to come to the conference table. The general
feeling in the south is that all of this amounts to a reasonable offer which is,
quite probably, the best republicans can ever expect. The hope is that
republicans will come to accept that fighting on would be futile, and would lead
only to an isolation deeper than anything they have experienced so far. They
would be seen to be refusing a bridge into politics, and adopting an
impossiblist position based on a denial of the Unionist community's rights.

No one doubts they have the military capacity to keep up the campaign. But the
hope is that the republican leadership would explain to grassroots militants
that another few years of violence is not going to lead to outright victory.

The assumption, or the hope, within both governments and elsewhere, is that
Gerry Adams may be the republican leader with the foresight to realise this, the
courage to spell it out, and the skill to lead the republican community into
politics. A great deal, including much of the declaration, has been built on
this calculation.

The precise decision-making processes within the republican movement remain a
mystery to almost everyone, for these are organisations which are skilled at
concealment and, indeed, deception. But it is beyond question that republicans
know they have reached a defining moment.

The army council of the IRA and the executive of Sinn Fein will be crucial in
reaching decisions, but neither operates in a vacuum. The republican leaders are
well aware of the currents within the movement, and aware too that the world is
changing around them. With so many factors to be taken into account, any attempt
to forecast precisely what they will decide would be foolhardy. But there are
signs they will indicate that they do not regard the declaration, on its own, as
the basis for peace. They would go on, however, to indicate that they want to
continue with what they call the peace process.

This could lead to something of a stand-off, with the British government
refusing to negotiate while violence continues and the IRA refusing to halt
without clarification. But neither London nor Dublin are likely to close the
door on the peace process while their analysis continues to be that Mr Adams and
others are genuinely interested in a political path.

This could be a recipe for a long- drawn-out period in which all the players
circle warily, each nervous about taking the initiative but each anxious to keep
the process alive. This could go on for months - even years - and in the
meantime it seems inevitable that more people are doomed to die as the violence
goes on. Many difficulties and dangers clearly lie ahead. But many believe a new
phase has opened, and one does not have to be a mindless optimist to hope that
we may be witnessing the beginning of the end of the violence.

James Molyneaux, Ulster Unionist Party leader, will present a ''Blueprint for
Stability'' next Monday detailing his party's proposals to bring peace to the
province.

(Photograph omitted)


LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1994 Independent Print Ltd

                              282 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                            March 9, 1994, Wednesday

A law to the IRA's liking

BYLINE: Simon Jenkins

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 1425 words


Today the Tories will again fill the Aye lobby to renew an Act which has failed
in its purpose and curtails our liberty

Who cares about the renewal of the Prevention of Terrorism (Temporary
Provisions) Act? Nobody really. The Act has not prevented terrorism, nor is it
temporary. Introduced in 1974 in the wake of the Guildford and Birmingham pub
bombings, it has failed. The Act was supposed to last just six months.  Today it
has merged into the grey edifice of Tory centralism. Parliament dutifully renews
the Act each year. Today's will be its twentieth renewal.

For the past ten years, Labour has voted against the Prevention of Terrorism
Act. This is despite a compromise offered by the Labour leader John Smith and
rejected by the Prime Minister. I am glad the compromise failed. Labour should
continue to oppose the Act, and ministers should be forced publicly onto the
defensive. The Act is a squalid, illiberal measure, a discredit to Britain. As
Niebuhr said, our capacity for justice may make democracy possible but ''our
inclination to injustice makes democracy necessary''.

The Act now has a life of its own. It has been amended and reinforced and
renamed. ''Temporary'' has become ''Supplemental Temporary'' and even
''Supplemental Temporary Continuance''. It outlaws to no purpose various
terrorist bodies that simply change their names. Its most draconian measures are
those curtailing freedom of movement within the United Kingdom and limiting the
rights of people being interrogated. A ''suspect'' can be confined to Ulster
without hearing or appeal. Likewise a person against whom no charges are
contemplated can be held in solitary confinement without reference to any court
for seven days. While such a person can consult a lawyer, the right to do so in
private is also suspended.

The best that can be said for the Act is that it appears to be in decline.
Perhaps its more outrageous abuses may decline also. The ministerial order to
stop Gerry Adams coming to London last October hardly met the requirement that
exclusion is used only against those ''travelling to this country to plan a
terrorist act''. A plan to hold a politically embarrassing press conference is
not usually considered grounds for internal exile in a free country.

There is wide doubt even within Whitehall and certainly in Ulster about these
exclusion orders. Only five new orders have been granted in

the past two years. The Government's independent monitor, Lord Colville, has
advocated that they be dropped. Yet 81 unconvicted people are still banned from
travelling from one part of Britain to another. As Home Secretary, Kenneth
Clarke last year declared that all 81 had ''been involved in terrorism''. Who
says? No evidence has been produced and no court has condemned them. This
off-hand ministerial justice is practised in no other European state. Yet Tory
MPs will pass it on the nod.

The detention without trial measure is even more controversial. It breaches
Article 5(3) of the European Convention on Human Rights, that every arrested
person ''shall be brought promptly before a judge'' or other judicial officer.
The British Government accepts the Convention. It has therefore excused itself
from Article 5(3) on the ground that it is in

the grip of a ''public

emergency'', a poor comment on Britain's claim to political stability.  Normally
this requires the declaration of a state of emergency. The present Cabinet has
not yet come to that pass. Yet such banana-republic responses are a gift to such
as Gerry Adams in his propaganda campaign in America recently.  Detention
without trial blots Britain's book in every human rights forum.

Baroness Thatcher has asserted that the Act has ''stopped hundreds of deaths''.
But many other anti-terrorist laws might do this, or actually have done. Mr
Clarke admitted last year that detention without trial is basically about
gathering intelligence. The police can shake down any Irishman they choose,
either for 24 hours at a port without reason given, or for two-plus-five days on
the say-so of the Home Secretary. Most detainees are never charged. Although 145
were held last year, charges were brought in just 30 cases. As the monitoring
group Liberty points out, all could have been held under other Acts. Those
eventually convicted were mostly minor Irish criminals, drug-pushers and social
security fraudsters.

On this basis, the Home Secretary might as well bring in a Prevention of Crime
(Temporary Provisions) Act to meet the national crime wave, of which he talks so
fondly. Every known rapist, fraudster and contract killer could be rounded up
and held without trial on his orders. They could be held, Pinochet-style, in
Wembley Stadium. The Home Secretary would merely tell Parliament that he is
forestalling ''hundreds of crimes'' and deride any critic as ''soft on crime''.
Dictatorships dance down this road with a light heart, but surely not a land
where ''Freedom slowly broadens down From precedent to precedent''?

The 1974 Labour Cabinet was deeply sceptical of this Act. To give such powers to
the police and ministers was, Lord Jenkins agreed, ''unprecedented in
peacetime''. The Guildford and Birmingham interrogations justified that
scepticism. Lord Jenkins has since admitted he would have been ''horrified to
have been told at the time that (the Act) would still be law 20 years later''.
Equally sceptical have been Lord Whitelaw, Lord Joseph and Enoch Powell. But
they all trooped into the Aye lobby. The rule of law has little chance against
the monster of Big Security.

Labour is clearly in a bind. I sense that John Smith and his home affairs
spokesman, Tony Blair, would like the Act off the statute book. Mr Blair would
at least like an independent review of its usefulness. Yet Labour dare not be
seen as ''soft on terrorism'', a taunt that Tory ministers happily hurl across
the Commons each year when it comes up for renewal.

The Government sees no need to give an inch. Last year Mr Clarke saw the Act no
longer as a necessary evil, but as an everyday aspect of modern policing, a
legislative bobby's truncheon. He was not dismayed by what Lord Whitelaw once
called this ''inroad into the civil liberties of which we are justly proud''.
Indeed he seemed proud of the inroad. Every successful conviction vindicated the
need for the Act. Every criticism of the Act was a vote for terrorism. If the
police had a good year, it was because of the Act; if a bad year, it should be
strengthened.

The Prevention of Terrorism Act should be repealed. If Acts of Parliament could
beat the IRA, that organisation would have died and gone to hell long ago.
Already the Police and Criminal Evidence Act is to be amended and toughened,
taking aboard some features of the PTA. In Ulster it is supplemented by the
Northern Ireland Emergency Provisions Act, a whale of an Act with shoals of
attendant executive orders. Lord Colville and others have called for an end to
exclusion orders. The police have ample powers of arrest. If they want to hold a
suspect longer than two days which is hardly ever then they can ask a judge. To
claim that this is caving in to terrorism is ludicrous.

The IRA has played cleverly on the ministerial love of power. Each year it goads
the Government into a new acknowledgment of its menace. Downing Street is
defaced with barricades. Party conferences are granted a level of protection
normally seen only at Mafia show-trials. The police are given dangerous powers
to suborn detainees. British justice is polluted with ''unsafe convictions''.
The British Government is made a laughing-stock by its censorship of IRA voices
on television. These are not the measures of a Government confident in its
ability to face down terrorism. It suggests that someone has only to murmur
''terrorism'' for a minister to jump out of his skin.

The objective of the IRA is not to kill or bomb. Those are merely its means. The
objective is to undermine faith in the judicial system, to discredit the
institutions of government and to goad ministers to publicise its cause with
illiberal acts. It is currently having some success. The defence against such
terrorism is simply not to be terrorised. It is to uphold the rule of law
against all provocation. Britain should be able to resist the IRA poison without
polluting the due process of its law. And John Major should tear down the ''IRA
memorial gates'' to Downing Street. Any self-respecting terrorist can lob a bomb
over the top of them. One already has.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1994 Times Newspapers Limited

                              283 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 10, 1994

ATTACK 'DOES NOT SIGNAL REJECTION OF PEACE PROCESS'

BYLINE: DAVID SHARROCK IN BELFAST AND PATRICK WINTOUR

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 443 words


SENIOR ministers insisted that last night's mortar bomb attack - the first
significant IRA mainland operation since the Downing Street declaration was
signed three months ago - did not necessarily mean the IRA had decided to reject
the declaration and exclude itself from the peace process.

The view was shared by some Social Democratic and Labour Party MPs with Sinn
Fein contacts.

But whatever the political motives for the attack, it demonstrated the IRA's
continuing ability to switch military tactics in order to stay one step ahead of
the security forces.

Seamus Mallon, the SDLP deputy leader, said the mortar attack was not just a
message to the British government, but also a lethal message from hard-liners
within the IRA to warn off the doves within the organisation as the debate over
the Downing Street declaration was crystalising.

However, the attack could either have been the work of a rogue faction opposed
to the declaration, or it might have been ordered by the Provisional leadership
as part of a twin-track strategy running alongside Mr Adams's repeated pleas to
the Government to "clarify" aspects of the declaration.

As recently as Monday, Mr Adams hinted that the declaration had not yet been
rejected.

The most plausible explanation for the recent change in tactics is that the
republican movement's leadership has been fearful of derailing the current
period of peace brokering, while at the same time maintaining a sufficient
momentum to satisfy hardliners that they have not gone soft.

But there have been a number of reports that a faction within the IRA's supreme
body, the Army Council, has been agitating to resume large-scale attacks in
England. It apparently wants to send a message that the declaration is not
enough.

Either way, the strike shows that the IRA has the capacity to mount large scale
operations in England.

Yesterday's attack will almost certainly have involved IRA members based in
Britain using equipment stored on the mainland.

The IRA's strategy has altered since last autumn. Gone for the moment are the
large-scale commercial bombings of Protestant towns in Northern Ireland and the
"spectaculars" aimed at paralysing London. In their place has been the drip-drip
incendiary bombing campaign.

The security forces have, if anything, been targeted more ruthlessly than last
year. Constable William Beacom, a community RUC policeman, was murdered by a
hand-held improvised rocket fired at his armoured Land-Rover as it patrolled the
Catholic Markets district of Belfast on February 17. A number of soldiers have
also been injured in similar attacks.


LOAD-DATE: March 10, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              284 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            March 10, 1994, Thursday

IRA bombs on runway as jets land; Mortar attack at Heathrow - New campaign fear
- Terrorism Act renewed in Commons

BYLINE: STEVE BOGGAN, DAVID CONNETT, DAVID MCKITTRICK and RICHARD BRENNAN

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Page 1

LENGTH: 857 words


PASSENGER jets were allowed to land on a runway for 31 minutes after it was hit
by two of five mortar bombs launched by the IRA at Heathrow last night.

Despite being given a one-hour warning that bombs would explode at the airport,
police did not close Heathrow's northern runway even after it was targeted by
mortar bombs that failed to go off.

Commander David Tucker, head of Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist branch, gave no
reason for the delay last night but Michael Howard, the Home Secretary, said he
would receive a report ''to see what lessons can be learnt''.

A British Airways jet to Copenhagen used the runway just two minutes before the
attack was launched from the car park of the Forte Excelsior Hotel, about 400
metres away, at 5.57pm. Aircraft continued to take off every five minutes until
6.28pm.

No one was injured in the attack involving mortar bombs which were described by
police as ''home made'' devices. However, flights were disrupted and Terminal
One was closed as bomb disposal experts searched for the three remaining devices
- all of which failed to explode. The hunt continued into the early hours today.

Commander Tucker said no aircraft had been in the area at the time and added:
''If the mortars had exploded they would have caused very considerable damage.''
He refused to say why the north runway had stayed open so long.

Almost an hour before the attack, unspecific coded warnings were telephoned to
six news organisations and the Heathrow switchboard. Mike Roberts, Heathrow's
managing director, said it would have been impossible to clear the airport. ''We
receive thousands of calls a year. We have 20,000 people working here and if we
had cleared the area . . . possibly some of the evacuees would have been sent to
the Excelsior Hotel an evacuation point as the attack was taking place.''

News of the bombing was broken to the House of Commons by Mr Howard as MPs
debated the annual renewal of the Prevention of Terrorism Act. He was quick to
use the incident to highlight differences between Labour and the Tories over
provisions in the Act.

After the renewal vote, which was passed by 86 votes, he said: ''If it was meant
to send a signal to the House of Commons, I think it is a pity that the House of
Commons was unable to give a united response because the Labour Party did not
come into the lobby with us to support the renewal of the Prevention of
Terrorism Act.''

The attack was launched from the open hatchback of a red Nissan Micra car in the
Excelsior car park close to the A4 Bath Road on the outskirts of west London.
The force of the launch, from five 6ft-long tubes, caused about 10 vehicles
parked near by to catch fire.

The incident will be viewed not just as an expression of republican displeasure
at the renewal of the Act but also, and more importantly, as an attempt to
demand political concessions from the Government. It will give added
significance to Anglo- Irish talks due to be held at Downing Street today.

As the most ''spectacular'' IRA incident in Britain since the signing of the
Downing Street declaration in December, it was apparently designed to signal the
IRA's rejection of that specific initiative. At the same time, the clear message
from the republicans is that they remain interested in a long-term ''peace
process''. Their immediate demand is for a resumption of private contacts with
the Government.

Security sources in Northern Ireland have recently indicated that they would not
be surprised by a rise in the level of IRA violence, on both sides of the Irish
Sea, after the comparative lull of recent months.

The IRA has used mortar bombs only sparingly in Britain since such attacks
require a great deal of planning and preparation. It takes some time to prepare
a vehicle for use in this way, as well as reconnaissances to work out the angles
and distances. The weapon is also notoriously inaccurate. None the less, when
attacks take place terrorists are assured of considerable publicity.

Tom Roche, of Sky Television, said the station received its warning at 5.05pm
from a man with an Irish accent. ''He said 'I won't be repeating this warning'.
He then gave a recognised codeword and went on to say 'In one hour's time a
large number of bombs will go off in Heathrow airport. Clear all runways. Stop
all flights'.''

Despite the warning, the runways were kept open until after the incident. The
north runway was closed at 6.40pm for police to search the area. Heathrow's two
main runways are alternated for take-offs and landings during the day to
equalise the amount of noise in the local areas.

Police had recently received intelligence warnings about a possible terrorist
attack this week. Patrol activity was stepped up in and around central London on
Tuesday night with more vehicles stopped and searched and drivers questioned.

The increased activity continued yesterday. In one incident police halted a
tipper lorry going along the Mall towards Buckingham Palace. The driver was
questioned.

IRA campaign restarts, page 2

Inside Parliament, page 10

(Photograph omitted)


LOAD-DATE: March 10, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1994 Independent Print Ltd

                              285 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            March 10, 1994, Thursday

Intelligence services expected an attack

BYLINE: COLIN BROWN, Chief Political Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 2

LENGTH: 526 words


SENIOR Home Office sources last night said they believed the mortar attack on
Heathrow airport was timed to coincide with the vote on the renewal of
anti-terrorist legislation at the House of Commons.

Michael Howard, the Home Secretary, was about to wind up the debate at 6.40pm
when he was told about the attack in a note from his officials. Intelligence
services, led by MI5, are believed to have been expecting an attack.

Security around Westminster has been stepped up since the failure by Sinn Fein
to accept the peace deal in the Downing Street declaration. Mr Howard said he
was very concerned about the breach of security at Heathrow. ''We have been
improving the operations that we have been putting into place to counter the
terrorist threat, but we have always known that it is impossible to have any
kind of guarantee that we would be able to stop and thwart all their evil
deeds,'' he said. ''I am very concerned about this attack and I will be getting
reports.''

The Anglo-Irish talks in London today will go ahead in spite of the bombing,
Downing Street confirmed. Sir Patrick Mayhew, the Secretary of State for
Northern Ireland will meet Irish ministers to discuss further progress on the
Downing Street declaration. Ministers will reaffirm their determination to press
ahead with the political peace process in the absence of a response by Sinn
Fein.

A Dublin source said: ''What happened tonight makes it more vital than ever to
build on what the Downing Street declaration achieved. We will not be thrown off
course in the joint bid for peace by this incident.''

The Home Secretary told the Commons of the attack minutes before it voted to
renew the Prevention of Terrorism Act by 328 votes to 242 - a majority of 86. Mr
Howard urged MPs to give their riposte to the IRA by continuing the powers,
introduced under Labour in 1974 after the Birmingham pub bombings.

Liberal Democrat and Ulster Unionist MPs voted with the Tories, but Labour -
after the row over the leaked talks between John Smith and John Major - voted
against the powers. Labour had sought a return to the bipartisan approach, which
ended a decade ago, by removing from the PTA the right to detain suspects
without charge for seven days and powers to exclude alleged terrorists from the
mainland of Britain.

In an acrimonious debate, Mr Howard warned Labour the police believed the powers
were necessary. But Tony Blair, the shadow Home Secretary, calling for an
independent review, said the powers breached civil liberties.

Mr Howard used the mortar attack to criticise Labour for opposing the PTA. ''If
it was meant to send a signal to the House of Commons, it's a pity that the
House was unable to give a united response. But the majority in favour of the
renewal of the powers was a big majority. So if this was a signal from the
terrorists, they got their answer from the Commons,'' he said on Channel 4
minutes after the vote.

Mr Howard also assured Labour MPs that neither himself nor his aides were the
source of the leak of the secret talks between the Labour leader and the Prime
Minister.

Inside Parliament, page 10


LOAD-DATE: March 10, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1994 Independent Print Ltd

                              286 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            March 10, 1994, Thursday

IRA intent on rebuilding campaign; Attack was timed to coinicide with MPs'
debate, writes David McKittrick

BYLINE: DAVID MCKITTRICK

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 2

LENGTH: 512 words


THE Heathrow mortar attack will be seen as the most emphatic confirmation yet
that the IRA is unimpressed with December's Downing Street declaration and may
be intent on building its campaign back up to previous levels.

Republicans have always been critical of the Prevention of Terrorism Act and the
timing of the airport attack will be seen as a sign of their displeasure at the
law. But the main messages are that the violence is to go on and that the
Government should reopen its channels of communications to the republicans.

The timing was unusual in that the IRA rarely tries to synchronise its attacks
with specific political events. This may be a sign that the organisation will in
future attempt to tailor its activities more closely to the political moves of
Sinn Fein, its political wing.

A few hours before the airport attack, Tom Hartley, the Sinn Fein chairman, had
issued a statement portraying the Government's intention to renew the PTA as a
missed opportunity in what he called the peace process. He declared: ''The
development of a peace process requires good faith on all sides and a
willingness to explore new avenues of debate.''

Mr Hartley said the Government could have signalled its goodwill by scrapping or
amending the PTA, adding that such gestures ''would have signalled a
determination to move the discussion on to a different plane''.

It is not known whether that last word was intended as a deliberate pun with
reference to Heathrow. It is clear, though, that the republicans want to keep
the peace process alive as a long-term exercise and that they are seeking some
conciliatory move from the Government.

Since December the level of IRA activity in Britain has been low, while in
Northern Ireland it has moved away from large-scale bombings and concentrated on
attacks on the security forces.

The mortar attack on 10 Downing Street in February 1991 demonstrated the
weapon's capacity for staging high-profile attacks on prestige targets. Mortar
attacks happen by the dozen in Northern Ireland, but are rare in Britain.

The home-made devices are assembled in secret factories in the Irish Republic
and then smuggled into the north or across to England. The use of timing devices
means IRA members have time to get clear before the actual attack.

But the devices are notoriously inaccurate. In military terms mortars are an
''area weapon'', designed to scatter missiles over a given district rather than
to achieve pinpoint accuracy. The IRA uses a range of home-made weapons, which
it has sought to improve over the years: the Army calls the current version the
''Mark 12''.

The weapon has been a feature of the IRA's campaign in Northern Ireland since
the early 1970s. One caused the greatest single loss of life ever sustained by
the RUC, when a missile hit and demolished a crowded police canteen, killing
nine police officers, in Newry, Co Down in 1985. The IRA has never, however,
succeeded in repeating that blow, largely due to the unpredictability of the
weapon.

(Photograph omitted)


LOAD-DATE: March 10, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1994 Independent Print Ltd

                              287 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                            March 10, 1994, Thursday

HEATHROW ATTACK WILL NOT STOP SEARCH FOR PEACE - MAJOR

BYLINE:  Grania Langdon-Down, Trevor Mason and Peter Woodman, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 2104 words


The IRA mortar bomb blitz on Heathrow Airport will not be allowed to derail the
search for peace in Ulster, John Major pledged today.  The attack raised fears
that the terrorists were planning a new campaign against soft targets on the
mainland.  The four mortars packed with high explosives were fired by a timing
device from the back of a stolen car left in a nearby hotel car park and could
have caused severe damage if they had detonated on impact.  The IRA claimed
responsibility for the attack as police angrily rejected criticism that they
allowed planes to continue taking off and landing for 40 minutes after the first
reports of the incident.  Metropolitan Police Commissioner Paul Condon said he
"totally endorsed" the decision not to close the airport and warned of the
danger of playing into the hands of the terrorists by letting them disrupt
normal life and undermine confidence in police and emergency services.  Unlike
unexploded bombs, if the mortars did not go off on impact they posed very little
danger and could be run over without exploding, he added.  The timing of the
attack on Wednesday evening - as Parliament debated renewing the Prevention of
Terrorism Act and on the eve of Anglo-Irish peace talks in London - was seen as
a stark message from IRA hardliners that they are determined to continue their
terror campaign.  Mr Major told the Commons: "With the attacks they have made,
both in Northern Ireland and Heathrow yesterday, they have demonstrated again
their disregard for human life and for the opinion of both sides of the
community." But he added: "It will make no difference whatever to the search for
peace in Northern Ireland." And Irish premier Albert Reynolds - who signed the
Downing Street Declaration with Mr Major on December 15 - hit out at the IRA's
"foolish and criminally irresponsible" attack on the airport and warned its
political wing Sinn Fein that it was time to choose between war and peace.
Security force sources in Belfast had warned their counterparts in London that
at least two IRA active service units were believed to have set up in safe
houses in England and were planning to use long-range mortars and possibly the
newly-developed horizontal mortar, which has claimed several lives in Northern
Ireland.  Just 24 hours before the Heathrow attack, the security forces also
warned of possible assassination bids against prominent political figures in
Britain.  The big piece missing from the intelligence jigsaw was the IRA's hit
list of targets.

The British Air Line Pilots Association called for a full-scale inquiry into why
flights had continued after the start of the mortar attack with no fewer than 23
planes taking off during the 40 minutes before the northern runway was closed.
But Mr Condon said that after 25 years' experience of terrorism in Northern
Ireland it was clear police could "minimise" the risk but not neutralise it.
"If life is to go on there has to be some maturity about this debate," he said.
"I personally defend the decisions taken last night." He said there were
hundreds of threats made in the capital and that many included coded warnings.
It was important the terrorists did not panic people.  "If the suggestion is we
close down Heathrow totally every time we get a coded warning, then you will be
playing into the hands of the terrorists giving them the opportunity to close
down our transport system whenever they like." Anti-terrorist squad commander
David Tucker said there was no damage to the runway and none of the shells hit
sections used by aircraft.  "Therefore, there was no danger at any time of an
aircraft running over the debris before the runway was closed.  "We were very
lucky none of the four did detonate. We don't know why they didn't. There were
very clear traces of explosive material being spilled on to the runway." Mr
Tucker said eight coded warning were made to six news organisations, three to
one newspaper, between 5.07pm and 5.16pm warning of bombs in the terminal and on
runways.  The anti-terrorist squad, Heathrow police and the British Airport
Authority had discussed the situation and decided not to close Heathrow, Mr
Tucker told a news conference.  He refused to go into detail, but said previous
terrorist attacks where people were evacuated led to large numbers of people
being taken into danger.  A search was being carried out when at 5.57pm they
received the first report of a vehicle on fire in the Excelsior Hotel car park.
The fire had become an inferno, affecting at least six cars, and initially
preventing police getting close.  Within 10 minutes, officers had spotted the
mortar base in the back of the red Nissan Micra, stolen on Saturday from
Kilburn, north-west London.  They found five tubes in the car - the fifth was
intended either to break the rear glass just before the mortars were fired, or
to provide an incendiary mechanism to destroy the car afterwards.  The car's
index number was A274 TGK, but these were then changed for false plates A568
MTM, the genuine number of a similar existing vehicle.  Mr Tucker urged anyone
who saw the car between Saturday and last night to ring the anti-terrorist
hotline on 0800 789321.

Mr Condon said today he "totally endorsed" the decision not to evacuate Heathrow
after six coded bomb warnings.  He warned: "We are in danger of playing into the
hands of the terrorists and giving them the prize they want - which is to
totally disrupt normal life and undermine confidence in the police and emergency
services." He said a "well-oiled operation to search the runways and terminals
was put into action immediately. Evacuating the 20,000 people at the airport
could have put them in greater danger as one of the points could have been the
Excelsior Hotel." It appeared the mortars fired at the airport were "viable
devices containing high explosives".  He said four mortars were fired, probably
by a timing device, from the back of a red Nissan Micra car parked in the
Excelsior Hotel car park.  None of them exploded. The two which landed on the
runway made a slight scratch which would go unnoticed to an untrained eye.  He
said that unlike unexploded bombs, if the mortars did not go off on impact they
posed very little danger and could be run over without exploding.

Mr Condon said the mortars appeared to use earlier technology than those used in
the Downing Street attack.  "They were Mark 6 PIRA mortars first seen around
1984 and in their terms used quite old technology.  "The technology of mortars
is well known to us. They are fired and they go off or they don't. They fragment
on impact and we have no experience of them being viable devices if they don't
go off." He said: "We have been on a state of high alert for the obvious
connection of the (Commons) debate on the prevention of terrorism and the peace
declaration and its future. There has been a lot of police activity in central
London." But it would be "sheer speculation" to say the attack heralded the
start of a new mainland campaign.  After 25 years' experience of terrorism in
Northern Ireland it was clear police can "minimise the risk - we don't
neutralise it.  "If life is to go on there has to be some maturity about this
debate.  "I personally defend the decisions taken last night." He said there
were hundreds of threats made in the capital, many including coded warnings. It
was important the terrorists did not panic people.  "If the suggestion is we
close down Heathrow totally every time we get a coded warning, then you will be
playing into the hands of the terrorists giving them the opportunity to close
down our transport system whenever they like."

Cabinet minister John Patten said the attack showed there were still those
within the IRA with "murderous intent". The attack was the work of "pathological
killers", he said.  "But it is important not to let the Downing Street Agreement
be derailed," said the Education Secretary. "It's a time for cool heads."
Aviation expert David Learmount said today that the attack had little chance of
being successful.  Mr Learmount, operations and safety editor of Flight
International magazine, said the terrorists were using "inaccurate equipment and
had too little time to operate in." It was unlikely that "massive resources"
would now be thrown at Heathrow as there was a limit to how much could be done
to protect "such a huge target." He added: "Precautions in the future will
probably come down to police and the public being more vigilant. For example,
people using car parks at the Heathrow hotels are far more likely to be alert
from now on."

Heathrow Airport Limited said later in a statement that "no mortars were found
on the main part of the runway and therefore there was no danger of aircraft
passing over the debris prior to the runway closing".

Anti-terrorist squad commander David Tucker today defended the decision not to
close Heathrow Airport last night after eight coded warning made to six news
organisations warning of bombs in the terminal and on runways.  Mr Tucker said
the calls, three to one newspaper, were made between 5.07pm and 5.16pm.  They
were fairly general, but amounted to a warning that there were "bombs all over
Heathrow, bombs in the terminals and on the runway and so the airport should be
totally closed down".  He told a news conference the anti-terrorist squad,
Heathrow police and the British Airport Authority had discussed the situation
and decided not to close Heathrow.  He refused to go into detail but said
previous terrorist attacks where people were evacuated led to large numbers of
people being taken into danger.  "There is a dishonesty about the people making
these calls and we have to be careful about reacting in the way they have said
to do." He said a search was being carried out when at 5.57pm they received the
first report of a fire in a car in the Excelsior Hotel car park. The fire had
become an inferno, affecting at least six cars, and initially preventing police
getting close.

Within 10 minutes police were able close in and saw a mortar base in the back of
the car - which was stolen on Saturday night from Kilburn, north-west London.
At that stage they had received no reports of any impact of mortar shells and
they started considering which direction such shells might have gone.  At 6.35pm
the decision was made to close the north runway, which took about five minutes.
A search of the runway in the dark revealed two 18-inch long, 60mm diameter
cylinders with fins at the end.  They were intact on the runway.  A third shell
was found fairly quickly on grass nearby. Fragments were also found which were
believed to have been from a fourth mortar shell.  Police found five tubes in
the back of the red Nissan Micra, whose paint was stripped off in the fierce
heat.  The fifth tube was either intended to break the rear glass just before
the mortars were fired, or to provide an incendiary mechanism to destroy the car
afterwards.  He belived they were set off by a timing device. The car was left
in the car park within an hour-and-a-half of 5pm.  They were studying closed
circuit TV film of the area, but as yet had no reports of anyone being seen
leaving the car.

Mr Tucker said there was no damage to the runway and no shell hit the main part
of it used by aircraft.  "Therefore there was no danger at any time of an
aircraft running over the debris before the runway was closed." The maximum
distance for such a shell was up to 1,000 yards. These travelled 700 to 800
yards.  "We were very lucky none of the four did detonate. We don't know why
they didn't. There were very clear traces of explosive material being spilled
onto the runway - there was Semtex." It was impossible to say if the terrorists
were aiming at a particular flight. It had to be assumed they knew they could
have hit a plane.  "I am happy that the judgments made were made in all
circumstances with the benefit of the knowledge we had." It was understandable
the pilots' union was concerned, but police and airport authorities were already
reviewing events.  He warned against making the delay in closing the runway a
central issue. People should look at the "totality of events".  Mr Tucker said
the car used by the terrorists was stolen late Saturday evening. Its index
number was A274 TGK, but these were then changed for false plates A568 MTM, the
genuine number of a similar existing vehicle.  He said anyone who saw the car
between Saturday and last night - it would have been taken to a workshop or
garage for the mortars to be fitted - should ring the anti-terrorist hotline on
0800 789321.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1994 The Press Association Limited

                              288 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                            March 10, 1994, Thursday

Talks in London go ahead after ministers refuse to be deflected

BYLINE: By Jill Sherman, Nicholas Watt and Robert Morgan

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 676 words


JOHN Major's Ulster peace initiative faced its sternest test last night when the
IRA sent an unequivocal message that the Downing Street Declaration falls far
short of republican demands.

While the Heathrow mortar attacks have not killed off the peace initiative, the
IRA was making clear that there can be no progress until the Government grants
concessions demanded by Gerry Adams, the Sinn Fein president. The British
Government will, however, come under mounting pressure from MPs today to
withdraw its offer of talks to republican leaders and initiate a new security
crackdown.

The mortar attack was clearly timed to dominate today's Anglo-Irish conference
in London. IRA leaders, who are acutely aware of the dramatic impact of an
assault on the mainland, would have wanted to undermine the meeting because
London and Dublin will discuss the resumption of the inter-party talks on
Northern Ireland without Sinn Fein.

Ministers last night emphasised that, while they deplored the attack, they were
determined that it would not blow the peace talks off course. Sir Patrick
Mayhew, the Northern Ireland Secretary, condemned the assault but said the
declaration would stand.

''It is deeply cynical for any organisation to claim serious interests in the
clarification of the joint declaration while permitting or justifying an attack
on a major airport,'' he said. ''The declaration is a declaration for democracy
and against violence and it will stand.''

Michael Howard, the Home Secretary, delivered the same message. ''We will not be
deflected or blown off course by the terrorists. We are determined to stick to
our principles,'' he said.

However, Mr Major came under pressure to take a tougher line by hardline
Unionists last night who said the IRA attack proved their case that Britain
should not attempt to do deals with terrorists. The Rev Ian Paisley, the leader
of the Democratic Unionists, said: ''It is a very good propaganda exercise on
behalf of the IRA to show that they can strike at the United Kingdom's leading
airport.

''It shows the fallacy of the Downing Street declaration. You cannot buy off
terrorists. The IRA need to realise that they are not going to get what they
want.''

Ken Maginnis, security spokesman for the Ulster Unionists, also said that his
party is growing increasingly impatient with the Government. ''I am not prepared
and my party is not prepared to tolerate a do-nothing policy by the Government
while the IRA make up their mind to enter the peace process. The IRA does not
want to enter the peace process.''

In Belfast the attack was seen as the IRA's clearest signal that their violent
campaign on the mainland and Northern Ireland will not stop until they have won
significant concessions from last December's Downing Street declaration.
Republicans, however, indicated that the attacks did not amount to a rejection
of the declaration and Sinn Fein insisted it was still serious about peace. The
assault was a continuation of the mainland campaign and highlighted the
obstacles ahead.

Rita O'Hare, the party's publicity director, said: ''Sinn Fein are still hopeful
that the process will carry on and that a basis for peace can be found.''

Mr Howard told MPs of the attack shortly before they agreed by a majority of 86
to renew the Prevention of Terrorism Act, with Labour voting against.  During
the Commons debate Mr Howard bitterly attacked Labour for its failure to support
the Government. Any party that would strip the police of what they regarded as
vital ammunition to fight terrorism was not fit to govern, he said.

He called on Opposition MPs to show unity in the fight against terrorism.
''There can be no more appropriate moment for displaying that unity than in the
aftermath of the attack which I have just announced,'' he said.

Mr Howard said that he was concerned that such an incident could occur but
added: ''We have always known it is impossible to have any kind of guarantee
that we will be able to stop and thwart all their evil deeds.''

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1994 Times Newspapers Limited

                              289 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                            March 10, 1994, Thursday

Yard launches urgent review of security at airport

BYLINE: By Stewart Tendler and Harvey Elliott

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 598 words


THE POLICE.  SCOTLAND Yard will start an urgent security review at Heathrow
today after terrorists exploited a serious weakness in one of the world's
largest airports.

Security within the passenger terminals has been stepped up over recent years,
with checks on passenger baggage and cargo carried in aircraft holds, but the
security of the airport has been comparatively lax.

It is still possible for private motorists to drive around the perimeter road of
Heathrow within a few yards of the main runways. With so many passengers
constantly on the move through the airport it is virtually impossible to provide
total security. Heathrow is, in effect, a large town.  Privately, security
chiefs have feared an attack such as last night's and had drawn up a detailed
plan for dealing with any terrorist action directed at the airport. Officers
regularly patrol the miles of roads within the airport conurbation.

Faced with the prospect of car bombs, the airport has banned parking outside
terminals. Controls have been introduced to prevent spectators outside the
perimeter fence getting a clear view of aircraft.

Planners at Heathrow have clearly been aware of the risk of guided missiles or
shots being aimed at aircraft. The runways are shielded from view by thick, high
fencing so that a terrorist would find it difficult to aim at an aircraft on the
ground.

The IRA reconnaissance unit, who must have studied Heathrow's security
arrangements, realised that mortar bombs could simply be lobbed over the fence.

One security expert admitted last night within hours of the attack that no
public space as large as Heathrow could possibly be completely sealed.

Paul Condon, Commissioner of the Metropolitan Police, and his officers will now
have to consider whether they can monitor the areas beyond the perimeter.  A
string of hotels and parking spaces runs alongside the airport. There are also
small industrial plants and main roads. Cargo areas and workshops could also be
within range of sections of the airport.

Other main UK airports will have to review their security. Many of the old civic
airports such as Heathrow pre-date the era of the modern terrorist and there is
no way any sort of cordon sanitaire could be built between airport facilities
and the surrounding countryside.

It is only in Northern Ireland, where Aldergrove airport has been rebuilt over
the years, that planners have been able to install extensive security
arrangements without dealing with wide perimeter development.

At Heathrow, regular exercises are held involving local police, fire service and
units of specially trained bomb disposal teams. An annual exercise carried out
to satisfy requirements of the Civil Aviation Authority usually involves
enacting all the measures required to deal with a major crash or a terrorist
attack on the airport.

The airport was previously the subject of one IRA attack in April 1984, when a
bomb in Terminal 2 injured 14 people. Security was tightened at all Britain's
airports after the Lockerbie disaster in December 1988.

Since the early 1970s, the airport has been patrolled during periods of high
risk by armoured units from cavalry regiments based at Heathrow. They were on
duty during the Gulf War, for example, and the sight of Scimitar armoured cars
patrolling the perimeter roads and parked by terminals has become a fact of
life. The lessons learnt at Heathrow will also be studied by international
airports round the world. Administrators and police now co-operate extensively
in handling the menace of terrorism.

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1994 Times Newspapers Limited

                              290 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 March 11, 1994

Terrorists attack Heathrow again

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 675 words


HEATHROW came under mortar fire again last night, the second attack on the
airport within 36 hours.

A number of incendiaries were fired in the vicinity of Terminal Four but it
appeared none had detonated. Damage appeared to be minimal.

Heathrow spokeswoman Anita Newcourt said that it looked like the "same as last
night (when the IRA launched a mortar attack). Some incendiaries have been
fired. There has been very little damage."

The attack took place only hours after Sinn Fein leader Gerry Adams had warned
that the "conflict was ongoing" and there would be "some spectaculars to remind
the outside world".

London Ambulance Service said there were no reports of any injuries.

A spokesman said they received reports of an incident involving three incendiary
devices and two suspicious packages at Terminal Four.

A spokesman said the service was alerted at 12.11am when it was told of "an act
of aggression" at Heathrow.

Five ambulances, two paramedic units and a command unit have been sent to the
airport. Four fire engines were also standing by.

There were reports of three unexploded mortars lying in the car park at Terminal
Four.

A spokeswoman for Hilton Hotel at Heathrow said police telephoned the hotel
shortly after midnight asking them to check the roof for anything suspicious.
She said nothing was found.

Terminal Four was evacuated as a full-scale alert went into operation.

Dozens of police were sealing off the terminal and closing roads in the
vicinity.

The southern runway was closed down, but the northern runway remained open.

Security services were alerted shortly after midnight when there were reports of
a "bang or thud" close to the terminal.

A Scotland Yard spokesman said there was no indication there were any warnings.

The latest alert comes after the IRA fired four mortars packed with high
explosives at the airport on Wednesday evening from the back of a stolen car
left in a hotel car park. They did not detonate.

Security force sources in Belfast had warned their counterparts in London that
at least two IRA active service units were believed to have set up in safe
houses in England and were planning to use long-range mortars and possibly the
newly-developed horizontal mortar, which has claimed several lives in Northern
Ireland.

Meanwhile police and airport officials defended their decision not to close
Heathrow on Wednesday evening -- although eight coded warnings of the impending
IRA attack had been received by six news organisations.

Mortar bombs, shot from a hotel car park and probably launched by a timing
device, were said by airport officials quoted by Reuter to have missed an Air
France flight by just minutes. The runway affected remained open for 44 minutes.

The mortar shells failed to explode but even tiny shards of flying shrapnel
could have caused a catastrophe. Semtex was found on the runway.

The IRA, admitting responsibility for the attack in a statement to the media in
Dublin, claimed it had given specific warnings nearly an hour before the attack.

The operation had been carefully prepared. The Nissan Micra from which the bombs
were launched was stolen in Kilburn on Saturday night. Genuine number plates
from a similar car were used. The car was set alight after the attack, creating
an inferno in the hotel car park.

Commander David Tucker, head of Britain's anti-terrorist police, told a news
conference: "We were very lucky none of the four (mortars) did detonate. We
don't know why they didn't. There were very clear traces of explosive material
being spilled on to the runway."

The British Airline Pilots Association demanded a full-scale inquiry. Its
general secretary, Mr Chris Darke, said he was "alarmed" that no fewer than 23
planes had taken off during the 44 minutes before the runway had been closed.
It was "intolerable" that lives had been put at risk.

Five tubes had been found in the back of the Nissan, whose paint had been
stripped off in the fierce heat.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: The launch pad: the burnt-out Nissan Micra used by the IRA reveals the
tubes used to fire the mortars.Picture: PA

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              291 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                             March 11, 1994, Friday

IRA launches second attack on Heathrow

BYLINE: By Stewart Tendler and Philip Webster

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 873 words


THE IRA launched a second mortar attack on Heathrow airport early today.

An airport spokeswoman said that three bombs had been fired from the area of the
Hilton Hotel to the south of the airport but had not exploded. There were no
reports of casualties. An aircraft had taken off from the southern runway half
an hour before.

She said: ''At seven minutes past midnight there was the sound of bangs or metal
landing on the airside near Terminal Four. Officers from the anti-terrorist
squad examined a metal object. There does not seem to have been a detonation or
any structural damage. The southern runway was closed three minutes after the
attack but the northern runway remained open.'' The CAA said that an area where
aircraft turn was also closed.

A spokeswoman for the Hilton said police telephoned asking them to check the
roof. Nothing was found. Police later found a mortar shell on the apron near
Terminal Four.

Again coded warnings were issued but the police and BAA officials decided to
keep the airport open. Like the calls before Wednesday's attack the IRA did not
give any specific warnings, leaving officials faced with the decision of whether
they should risk continuing operations.

This second attack in 24 hours will intensify calls from Conservative MPs for a
crack-down on the terrorists. It will also be taken by many Tories as
confirmation that Sinn Fein has no intention of responding positively to the
Downing Street declaration.

After the first Heathrow attack Britain and Ireland had vowed to continue the
search for peace in Ulster in the face of a chilling warning from Gerry Adams of
further ''spectacular'' IRA attacks on the mainland.

The leaders of both countries declared that they would not be knocked off
course. But the view in London and Dublin was that Sinn Fein and its military
wing had put themselves outside the peace process, even though the declaration
holding out the offer of talks will remain in play.

After a long meeting of the Anglo-Irish conference in London last night, Dick
Spring, the Irish Foreign Minister, said that the credit of Sinn Fein was
''running very low, if not totally expired''. Perhaps they were sending a
message to both governments that they were not interested, he said. He spoke
angrily of ''an act of depravity'' and a ''wanton disregard for life''.

In stark contrast to the moderate image projected on his visit to New York last
month Mr Adams, the Sinn Fein president, backed the IRA's campaign of terror. He
told a Dublin radio station: ''I think (the Heathrow attack) is unfortunately a
reminder that the core issues haven't been removed ... Every so often there will
be something spectacular to remind the outside world (that) the tragic signs of
conflict are ongoing.''

He refused to condemn or condone the Heathrow bombing and said that he wanted to
end violence from all sides. His comments were a signal to the IRA that it has
his support, while indicating to London and Dublin that he wants to keep the
peace process alive. They were also designed to scotch rumours that the
republican movement is split between doves and hawks.

His remarks were condemned by Mr Spring. It was ''absolutely deplorable'' if Mr
Adams was talking about spectacular events such as the Heathrow attack.  That
was not the way to progress. The vast majority of people in the north and south
had not no respect for that view.

Sir Patrick Mayhew, the Northern Ireland Secretary, told a dinner in London: ''I
deeply resent and reject the tone and content of what he is reported to have
said. The gloating character of that observation seems to me to be quite
despicable and a remark of profound cynicism.''

Both governments delivered withering onslaughts against the IRA. The Cabinet
decided yesterday that the declaration must remain the cornerstone of government
policy but ministers accept that its aims have suffered a blow.

They see little hope of Sinn Fein being in a position to join the talks process
but they want to use the declaration and the goodwill it created between the two
governments to give renewed impetus to the ''three-strand'' process that
foundered in 1992.

John Major told the Commons: ''With the attacks they have made, both in Northern
Ireland and Heathrow yesterday, they have demonstrated again their disregard for
human life and for the opinion of both sides of the community.  It will make no
difference whatever to the search for peace in Northern Ireland.''

The IRA yesterday condemned the police for failing to clear the airport after it
had sent coded warnings nearly an hour before.

Last night police were hunting throughout London for the garage or lock-up where
they believe the mortar equipment was mounted on the Nissan car.  Originally
registered as A274 TGK, the car was stolen in Kilburn on Saturday night. The
bombers then put on plate A568 MTM copied from a similar car.  Detectives are
also examining hotel security film.

The IRA last night admitted shooting and killing an off-duty RUC officer as he
sat with his wife in the bar of a crowded Belfast greyhound stadium.  Constable
Jackie Hagan, 33, from Doagh, Co Antrim, who had two young children, was a
greyhound breeder.

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1994 Times Newspapers Limited

                              292 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                             March 11, 1994, Friday

Republicans see violence and talk as path to victory

BYLINE: By Michael Evans, Defence Correspondent

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 608 words


IRA STRATEGY.  THE IRA mortar attack on Heathrow airport was not just a warning
to the Government timed to coincide with the Commons debate on the renewal of
the Prevention of Terrorism Act and yesterday's Anglo-Irish conference in
London.

Sinn Fein and IRA leaders appear to have convinced themselves that the two
massive City of London bombs at Bishopsgate last year and the Baltic Exchange in
1992, causing about Pounds 1 billion of damage, helped directly to persuade the
Government to pursue a more positive approach towards ending terrorism.

The IRA would see the mortar attack on Heathrow a natural development of its
bomb-and-talk strategy and it provides a clear indication that more could
follow.

The IRA knows that it is not winning the terrorist war but it is not losing it
either. Although the IRA has gained no political advantage in 20 years, it still
seems to believe, perhaps more now than ever before, that the bomb can change
political and public opinion.

The IRA has operated according to a complex logic since its leaders first began
peace overtures to the Government, as the mortar attack illustrates.

The attack came as no surprise to Britain's security forces who had been on
alert since known IRA ''players'' left their customary haunts in Northern
Ireland and in the Irish Republic in recent weeks. It was intended as one of the
IRA's ''spectaculars'', like the mortar bombing of Downing Street in 1991 and
the explosions in the City of London.

At first, the security authorities were not clear whether the launching of four
mortar bombs was part of an agreed plan devised by the seven-man Provisional IRA
army council to increase pressure on the Government to improve the Downing
Street declaration, announced in December, in its favour; or whether it was the
work of an active service unit no longer supporting the peace moves.

Sinn Fein, the IRA's political wing, was offered a place at the negotiating
table with the Government within three months if the terrorists laid down arms
and renounced violence.

One instant interpretation was that the Heathrow mortar attack amounted to a
firm rebuff from IRA elements disillusioned with the Government's refusal to
offer more concessions. However, the notion of a split in the IRA ranks, while
not to be ruled out, fails to take into account the twisted logic of the
terrorists.

It is thought far more likely that the Heathrow attack was sanctioned in Belfast
or Dublin by the IRA's top strategy body, and was not the work of a maverick
unit acting unilaterally.

One of the reasons why Sinn Fein is suing for peace is that it has been out of
the mainstream of politics for a generation. Its leaders see the Rev Ian
Paisley, Leader of the Democratic Unionist Party, in the Commons and realise
that he is getting across his views to MPs and to voters. Sinn Fein does not
have that privilege.

After being shunned and denounced for so many years, its perception of the real
world is unpredictable.

A ''spectacular'', even a failed one like the Heathrow mortar attack, appears to
have a double-edged message: that the IRA is still a force to be reckoned with
something never doubted by the security authorities, although occasionally by
politicians; and that the gunmen and bombers hold the cards in any peace
process.

Despite the new peace agenda, supported by the IRA army council, the active
service units on the mainland are not under orders to cease operations. These
units will be expected to continue carrying out attacks either in Northern
Ireland or on the mainland until the army council issues a specific directive to
stop.

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1994 Times Newspapers Limited

                              293 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Daily Mail (London)

                                 March 12, 1994

Now the iron fist, says Major

BYLINE: John Deans

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 827 words


JOHN MAJOR promised no let-up in the war on Irish terrorism last night as Gerry
Adams warned: the conflict continues.

The Premier pledged 'intensive efforts' would continue to combat the gunmen and
bombers, in a statement agreed with his Irish counterpart Albert Reynolds.

He said there was 'nothing the men of violence can do to deflect us' from the
Downing Street peace initiative. 'Those who use and support violence for
political ends are making a grave miscalculation,' he added.

'We shall maintain the course we set in the joint declaration because it is the
right course and the course the peoples of our countries support.

'We shall continue with reinforced vigour and determination our efforts to make
peaceful political progress in Northern Ireland.'

But Mr Adams left little doubt of his contempt for the peace process, glorying
in the latest murders in Ulster and stressing the propaganda value of the
airport attacks.

'What happened at Heathrow received international attention which would not have
been accorded to the killing of an RUC man. It is the type of reminder that this
conflict is going on,' said the Sinn Fein leader.

Furious Tory MPs believe the time has come for a far more vigorous security
crackdown both on mainland Britain and in Northern Ireland.

Former Cabinet minister David Mellor demanded a specialist Anti-Terrorist Force
- staffed by MI5, police and military experts - and charged with catching the
IRA bomb teams.

He claimed the rate of arrests remained 'miserably low' and declared: 'Public
confidence in the forces of law and order will be severely shaken if we continue
in failing to clear up these terrorist offences.'

And citing the continued refusal of the Dublin courts to authorise the
extradition of terror suspects, he added: 'The impression in Britain is that
there is still a safe haven for terrorists in the Republic. Both John Major and
Albert Reynolds are going to have to give the impression that every rigour,
vigour and level of resources will be brought to bear on stamping out terrorism
on both sides.'

Wolverhampton South West Tory MP Nick Budgen said the Government should not
invite the IRA to join the peace talks, adding: 'The IRA ought to be treated as
criminals and not as people who have a legitimate right to negotiate about the
constitutional arrangements in Northern Ireland.'

Even Seamus Mallon of the Roman Catholic SDLP was dismissive of peace hopes.
'There is a section within the IRA who simply are not going to stop,' he warned.

But Foreign Secretary Douglas Hurd insisted the door should be left open to Sinn
Fein to abandon violence and join peace talks. 'Everyone can take part in that
process, except those who are practising violence, he said.

At Westminster, Speaker Betty Boothroyd was confronted with all-party demands
for an emergency statement from Home Secretary Michael Howard following the
Heathrow attacks - but Mr Howard did not comply.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              294 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 March 12, 1994

Dublin loses patience with Adams IRA faces Heathrow backlash

BYLINE: Geoffrey Parkhouse, Political Editor

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 804 words


THE IRA was warned last night: end violence now or face an unprecedented
onslaught by the British and Irish security services.

In a dramatic joint statement, Mr Major and his Irish counterpart Albert
Reynolds indicated that after renewed terrorism of mortar attacks and killings
they are losing patience with Sinn Fein leader Gerry Adams.

They warned, after a telephone conversation, that "those who use and support
violence for political ends are making a grave miscalculation". They vowed that
their police and security forces "will continue their intensive efforts to deal
with terrorism which have delivered notable successes in both jurisdictions".

They reaffirmed that the joint declaration of last December is not for
negotiation. "There is nothing the men of violence can do to deflect us from
it.''

The cynical attitude of Mr Adams to the Heathrow mortar attacks, which he called
"spectaculars", has appalled the politicians and hardened opinion in Dublin
against the IRA.

"We shall continue with reinforced vigour and determination our efforts to make
peaceful political progress, in consultation with the constitutional political
parties in Northern Ireland," the statement said.

"We shall also carry forward the close co-operation on security matters which
have developed between our two countries."

The two nations are maintaining tight secrecy on the intensified security co
-operation which was promised in the joint declaration if Sinn Fein failed to
abandon violence and commit itself to a democratic solution. Both London and
Dublin now believe Mr Adams is stringing them along because he cannot deliver
the whole of the IRA high command.

Mr Major and Mr Reynolds intend to capitalise on world opinion against the IRA
while preparing to intensify security co-operation to bring the terrorists to
book. Dublin now believes that recent opinion polls in Ireland indicate that the
public will support this move, which has always proved politically difficult in
the past.

There is no sign yet that the two Governments are seriously considering a system
of internment to operate on both sides of the border. They are still holding the
door open to the IRA to renounce violence and enter discussions, even at this
late stage.

Foreign Secretary Douglas Hurd said on BBC radio yesterday: "The Downing Street
declaration isn't a bargaining document. It is a statement by the British and
Irish Governments that the future of Northern Ireland is going to be settled by
consent, by the wishes of the people who live there. Everyone can take part in
that process, except those who are practising violence."

The Heathrow mortar attacks have united Tory MP and Unionist Nick Budgeon and
Irish nationalist Seamus Mallon, deputy leader of the SDLP, both of whom urged
tougher action against the IRA yesterday.

Mr Budgeon said: "The IRA should now be treated as criminals and not as people
who have the right to negotiate.''

Mr Mallon reflected the view that Mr Adams cannot deliver an end to the violence
that has cost 3000 lives over the past 20 years. "I believe that there is a
section of the IRA who simply are not going to stop," he said. "Mr Major should
continue the search for peace and not allow ourselves to be deterred by waiting
for the IRA."

He accused the Sinn Fein president of "appalling hypocrisy" for publicly
supporting peace while privately supporting terrorism.

Mr Mallon said the only mandate in Ireland was the demand of 92% of the
population demanding peace, and ridiculed a reference by the Sinn Fein leader to
violence being the "reality of life".

"He's brought it home to another widow and family -- the reality of death as
dispensed by the IRA -- an organisation with which he has close links and which
he absolutely refuses to condemn," Mr Mallon said.

"There's a growing hypocrisy -- not just in Britain but the whole of Ireland --
about an organisation which talks peace in the morning and causes acts like this
in the afternoon."

Labour also threw its weight behind Government policy on Northern Ireland after
the Heathrow attacks. The party's Northern Ireland spokesman, Mr Kevin McNamara,
said it fully supported the Downing Street Declaration, the UK-Irish Agreement,
and the three-strand talks as the only way to bring peace with justice.

Earlier the Irish Foreign Minister, Mr Dick Spring, and the Northern Ireland
Secretary, Sir Patrick Mayhew, condemned Mr Adams, indicating that unless he can
deliver now, he will be given no more time. "We are not going to be put off
course by these despicable acts in which they have engaged in the past 48
hours," Mr Spring said on Irish television. "I have to say that Mr Adams's
remarks are absolutely outrageous in terms of what the two Governments are
trying to do."

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: "They're quite safe ...it's the work of an actor."

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              295 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             March 13, 1994, Sunday

Mortar attack may hit Forte

BYLINE: WILLIAM KAY and HELEN KAY

SECTION: BUSINESS ON SUNDAY NEWS PAGE; Page 2

LENGTH: 291 words


THE CITY is braced for fallout in Forte and BAA shares after the second mortar
attack at Heathrow Airport last Thursday night. A number of brokers have
downgraded shares in the two groups, as fears grow of an IRA campaign against
tourist targets.

Forte, Britain's biggest hotelier, is likely to suffer particularly if nervous
tourists decide to stay away from the capital. It has a strong London presence
with prestigious hotels like the Waldorf, Grosvenor House and Hyde Park Hotel
which are particularly attractive to Americans. This is also the key period for
booking rooms for the summertime. However, US tourists have proved very jittery
about coming to Europe after terrorist incidents in previous years.

BAA, the former British Airports Authority, runs Heathrow, Gatwick, Stansted and
four other airports around the country. It collects a fee as every plane lands
on its tarmac, as well as a slice of the lucrative traffic in duty-free goods
and bureaux de change.

Shares in Forte fell 9p to 255p on Friday as fears spread throughout the
investment community. BAA dipped 10p to 994p as analysts calculated how much the
company would have to add to its pounds 100m-a-year security bill.

The British Tourist Authority has also expressed concern about the possible
impact. On Friday it contacted its offices in mainland Europe, the US and Far
East to monitor sentiment. ''There was quite a lot of media coverage but they
haven't yet had any calls from worried consumers or trade organisations,'' said
a spokeswoman.

However, the BTA is readying itself for further ''spectaculars'' in line with
Republican threats. Any attacks may have a dramatic impact on one of Britain's
biggest industries.

(Photograph omitted)


LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1994 Independent Print Ltd

                              296 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                             March 13, 1994, Sunday

POLICE GUARD ON INVASION BY THE STARS;
ARMED POLICE TO GUARD THE BAFTA AWARDS IN BELFAST

BYLINE: John Moore

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 374 words


ARMED police will be on guard today for Northern Ireland's biggest-ever invasion
of showbiz stars.

And, as the terrorist killing spiral begins again,security chiefs are determined
that nothing will happen to spoil their stay.

The celebrities are all starring in tonight's BAFTA Production Awards at the
Grand Opera House in Belfast, being screened throughout Britain on BBC 2.

The show will be hosted by top Belfast-born actor Kenneth Branagh and actress
Amanda Donohue of TV's LA Law.

Among other showbiz VIPs present will be Hollywood star Alison Doody, film chief
Lord Attenborough, producer David Puttnam, and TV stars Patrick Malahide of
Middlemarch, Milo O'Shea, and Jimmy Ellis. Also on the stage at the Grand Opera
House, itself a target of at least two IRA bomb attacks, will be comedian Frank
Carson and former Beiruit hostage Brian Keenan.

A BBC spokeswoman said: "This is the greatest invasion of stars Northern Ireland
has seen. They've come here to pay tribute to men and women who have made them
famous.

Another source said: "Every security precaution will be taken to ensure the
night goes off without a hitch."


LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 1994 MGN Ltd.

                              297 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                             March 13, 1994, Sunday

TOURIST INDUSTRY COUNTS THE COST OF TERROR

BYLINE:  Peter Woodman, Press Association Travel Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 312 words


Tourism chiefs were today considering just how bad an effect the third terrorist
attack on Heathrow Airport in five days will have on overseas visitor numbers.
Last year Britain welcomed a record 19 million tourists from abroad who also
spent a record amount in this country, well over £8 billion. Although American
numbers were slightly down on the previous year, visitors from America represent
a large and high-spending slice of this overseas visitor market.  Many of these
Americans arrive in Britain via Heathrow and reports of repeated terrorist
attacks on the airport are bound to have some effect on USA visitor figures.
The Americans are regarded very much as "fairweather" travellers in that they
are liable to desert possible trouble spots in droves.  Numbers of USA visitors
to the UK dipped, for example, after Colonel Gaddafi threatened retaliation on
Britain after airstrikes on Tripoli were made by Americans from UK bases in
April 1986.  American tourism also dropped sharply during and after the Gulf War
in 1991 although the fall was partly due to the continuing effects of the
recession in the USA.  The British Tourist Authority has already confidently
expressed the belief that overseas tourism numbers should reach a fresh record
high in 1994. But this estimation might have to be revised if terrorists
continually target airports.  Today's third attack merely underlines the views
often expressed in the last few days that total security of a major
international airport like Heathrow is impossible.  Despite really tight
security and increased vigilance imposed after the first incident on Wednesday
night, terorists have been able to strike for a second and third time.  Heathrow
officials and police are now torn between trying to step up security and at the
same time attempting to keep the airport running reasonably normally.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1994 The Press Association Limited

                              298 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             March 13, 1994, Sunday

Major urged to bring back internment

BYLINE: Andrew Grice and Liam Clarke

SECTION: Sport

LENGTH: 751 words


THE government is facing a backbench revolt over its refusal to launch a
crackdown against the IRA in the wake of the mortar attacks at Heathrow airport.

Senior Tory MPs, including leaders of the 1922 committee of Tory backbenchers,
want John Major to regain the initiative by carrying out the government's threat
to bring in fresh anti-terrorism measures.

Douglas Hurd, the foreign secretary, and Albert Reynolds, the Irish prime
minister, warned in December that there would be a crackdown if the IRA rejected
the Downing Street declaration agreed by London and Dublin.

But there are signs that the Irish government is resisting British demands for
tougher cross-border security measures. Requests for military helicopters to be
allowed greater freedom to cross the border in anti-terrorist operations have
been rejected because of the political sensitivity. Britain also wants more
Irish security forces deployed close to the border.

Senior Tories believe last week's attacks at Heathrow amount to an IRA rejection
of the declaration. They say the two governments must act quickly to show their
threat was not an empty one.

Andrew Hunter, MP for Basingstoke and chairman of the Tory backbench Northern
Ireland committee, said Dublin should honour its commitment by allowing the
internment of suspected IRA terrorists on both sides of the border. ''We could
then round up three-quarters of the IRA before breakfast,'' he said.

His comments reflect mounting impatience among Conservative MPs. Bill Cash, the
Tory MP for Stafford, said: ''I don't think the joint declaration has made any
difference at all. There must now be a security crackdown.''

Backbench opinion has been inflamed by talk by Gerry Adams, the Sinn Fein
president, of further ''spectaculars'' such as the Heathrow attack. He indicated
last week that the IRA believes it can win further concessions from the British
government by keeping up its terrorist campaign.

There is speculation in Ulster that the violence is part of a two-pronged tactic
by the IRA similar to previous ceasefire negotiations, which could lead to the
announcement in the early summer of an open-ended cessation to ''offensive
action'' while reserving the right to retaliate.

Sinn Fein sources said they would use any ceasefire to demand the British
government held negotiations in an atmosphere free of violence. If British
ministers refused or the IRA did not get the concessions it wanted, the IRA was
likely to restart the terror campaign and blame Britain.

Loyalist paramilitaries are also threatening renewed terrorist attacks. A senior
figure in the Ulster Volunteer Force said the declaration was dead.  ''The IRA
has declared it dead. There comes a time when enough is enough.  That time has
come. The UVF will step up its activities in all their guises,'' said one senior
source.

But British ministers insist there is already co-operation between security
forces north and south of the border. ''If there was a magic solution, we would
have already introduced it,'' one government source said.

The government is expected to reject proposals by Sir Hugh Annesley, chief
constable of the Royal Ulster Constabulary, for tougher measures including a new
offence under which people could be charged for refusing to account for their
movements to police. He also wants information from telephone tapping and
bugging to be made admissible in court.

The government position is supported by some senior Conservatives who accept
Adams's statements that there is debate within Sinn Fein and the IRA about the
declaration. ''I believe there are some who want to take part in the political
process,'' said Michael Mates, the former Northern Ireland minister. ''I am
prepared to believe that Gerry Adams is one of those. His problem is that he
cannot bring the hard men with him.''

This week the Irish government will reopen contacts with Sinn Fein to establish
whether the Heathrow attacks and last week's murder of an off-duty policeman
represent a final rejection of the declaration. ''As of now, it appears that
they (the IRA) can't deliver a ceasefire without splitting and they are not
prepared to split,'' one source said.

Dick Spring, the Irish foreign minister, yesterday told politicians in Ulster
they had an obligation to engage in discussions with London and Dublin. James
Molyneux, the Ulster Unionist leader, has said he would not be available for
talks at present.

Additional reporting by Iain Martin

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Heathrow IRA motar attack

                    Copyright 1994 Times Newspapers Limited

                              299 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             March 13, 1994, Sunday

Heavy armour and troops may be used to guard prime targets

BYLINE: David Leppard and Ian Burrell

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 640 words


ARMY tanks and troops could be deployed around Britain's main airports in a bid
to thwart the IRA's latest terrorist campaign.

Home Office, Ministry of Defence and security chiefs are meeting this weekend to
discuss ways of protecting airports from a third mortar attack following the two
incidents at Heathrow last week.

The final decision on to whether to bring in hundreds of troops and army tanks
will be made by Michael Howard, the home secretary, after reviewing the latest
intelligence. Officials on a top-secret Whitehall committee are understood to be
advising him on possible options, including transferring hundreds of police to
airport patrol duty.

The last time troops were used to patrol Heathrow was during the Gulf war in
1990 when the airport was thought a likely target for terrorists.

Security at all big airports including Heathrow, Gatwick, Birmingham, Manchester
and Glasgow has been increased since the mortar attacks. Armed police are taking
a high profile with increased security patrols around the perimeter.

Intelligence sources admit it is impossible to enforce a total exclusion around
the airports because mortars have a range of up to half a mile.

The latest moves come amid a terrorist scare yesterday near the home of Andrew
Hunter, chairman of the Conservative backbench committee on Northern Ireland.

Dozens of police sealed off the village of Wash Water, Berkshire, after four
shots were reportedly fired at the house. Police set up roadblocks and used
sniffer dogs and a helicopter to search for evidence of the attack in the
village of Wash Water, near Newbury.

Inspector Denis Evendon, of Thames Valley police, said the shots were heard by
police on routine patrol shortly after midnight. He said: ''Officers from the
Thames Valley police protection group were sent to the scene and the villages
around the VIP's home were sealed off while a search of the area was made.''

Yesterday Hunter said: ''Shots were fired in the vicinity of the house and there
has been an appropriate response by police.'' He denied rumours that Sir Patrick
Mayhew, the Northern Ireland secretary, had been a guest at his house at the
time of the incident.

The scare will increase the urgency of this weekend's security review.  MPs were
critical of the airport's security arrangements, particularly after it emerged
that the Queen was allowed to land on a return flight from the Caribbean less
than an hour after warnings of further terrorist attacks.

In the past two days new protective measures have been put into place.  Police
ordered the closure of the airport's observation gallery and blocked access to
car park rooftops that might provide terrorists with vantage points to plan or
launch further attacks.

Searches of the airport's 10-mile perimeter have been increased and mounted
police have been deployed to scour open land around the airport in a search for
other mortar launch sites after the second device was discovered concealed in a
copse.

At London City airport, security staff carried out extra boat patrols of the
Royal Docks and more sniffer dogs are being used to patrol perimeter fencing.

At Birmingham international airport, police will adopt a higher profile and
security patrols have been increased at Manchester, Glasgow, Edinburgh and
Aberdeen airports.

In the City of London, police at vehicle checkpoints were warned to be
especially vigilant to the possibility that terrorists might attempt a mortar
attack in the square mile.

Shopping areas were guarding against the possibility of a renewed IRA
fire-bombing campaign, but the manager of one London shopping centre said: ''If
terrorists are determined to attack the place they can get through. We can try
to control our perimeter, but how can you prevent a mortar attack from
outside?''

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Heathrow IRA motar attack

                    Copyright 1994 Times Newspapers Limited

                              300 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 March 14, 1994

Demand for talks to end the violence

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 267 words


THE IRA last night demanded new direct talks between Republicans and the
Government.

Just hours after accusing the police of gambling with peoples' lives over the
Heathrow airport mortar attacks, it said there had to be discussions if there
was any chance of an end to the violence.

In a statement released in Dublin, the IRA said: "The continued opportunity for
peace should not be squandered. There is an urgent need to re-focus attention
and to move the peace process forward."

Although the IRA has yet to make a definitive response to the Downing Street
Declaration reached between Mr Major and Irish Prime Minister Albert Reynolds
three months ago, this is as close as

it has come to acknowledg

ing that the agreement clear

ly is not enough to per

suade it to stop the campaign.

The bomb attacks at Heathrow effectively confirmed that, but the terrorists said
they were still interested in trying to reach a settlement with Britain.

The IRA said there was a responsibility on Britain to move from what it
described as "its current negative stance". The people of Britain and Ireland
deserved better, it claimed.

The statement said: "We, our supporters and activists have a vested interest in
achieving a just and lasting peace in Ireland. We are prepared to be flexible in
exploring the potential for peace. All concerned should leave no stone unturned.

"Our objectives which include the recognition and the exercise of the Irish
peoples right to national self-determination are well known. Our commitment and
our unity of purpose remain steadfast."

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              301 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             March 14, 1994, Monday

Heathrow: Flight chaos after IRA threats; Heathrow and Gatwick shut in new
alerts

BYLINE: ANDREW GLINIECKI, STEVE BOGGAN, JAMES CUSICK and DAVID MCKITTRICK

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Page 1

LENGTH: 988 words


BRITAIN'S two main airports were were brought to a standstill by security alerts
last night - hours after the IRA launched its third mortar attack on Heathrow in
five days.

Dozens of flights into Heathrow and Gatwick were diverted to other airports and
thousands of passengers were delayed during the alerts, which covered about
three hours. Scotland Yard called the scares a cynical attempt to frighten
passengers and cause confusion.

Passengers at both airports were moved to secure areas after coded bomb
warnings. Perimeter roads were closed and flights halted while security checks
were made. There were reports that some passengers at Heathrow spent the entire
alert in aircraft on the tarmac because of overcrowding in the terminal.

At Heathrow, the last flight in before the airport closed arrived at 7.33pm from
Geneva. Terminal 4 was sealed off for the second time in one day. A stretch of
the A4 next to the northern perimeter road was shut. A spokesman said: ''An
agreed security plan was put into effect.''

At Gatwick, Alan Munds, the airport's managing director, said both terminals
were closed and the runway shut at 7.15pm. Passengers leaving for cars or buses
were ushered inside the main terminal buildings at about 7.45pm. The British
Rail station at Gatwick was also closed.

Thirty-six flights bound for Heathrow and about 24 heading for Gatwick were
diverted to airports as far afield as Stansted, Southampton, Luton, Manchester,
Bournemouth, Bristol, Cardiff and Birmingham.

Heathrow reopened at 9.30pm and passengers were gradually allowed to continue
their journeys. Departing travellers were advised to check with their airlines.
The security alert at Gatwick ended with the airport being reopened at about
10pm after a thorough search by security services.

Two coded warnings were telephoned to Sky News - at about 7.10pm and 7.35pm. The
first caller said: ''There will be bombs in one hour's time at Heathrow and
Gatwick airports. Clear all runways and terminals of people.'' The second caller
repeated: ''Clear all runways.'' Both gave a code word. A police spokesman at
Gatwick said there had also been a warning through the media at 7pm.

The London airport alerts brought widespread chaos to domestic and international
flights, which had not returned to normal after four mortar bombs had been fired
yesterday morning at Heathrow, hitting the roof of a crowded terminal building
and missing empty passenger jets by less than 60 metres.

The IRA last night put out a statement admitting the first two mortar attacks at
Heathrow - last Wednesday afternoon and just after midnight on Friday morning -
and accusing the police of ignoring bomb warnings and putting people's lives at
risk.

In a statement issued in Dublin, it said: ''The luck of the British authorities
who are deliberately taking these calculated and cynical gambles with people's
lives will inevitably run out. Our coded warnings should be heeded.''

The IRA claimed the authorities failed to ''act appropriately'' when given what
it described as accurate advance warning of Wednesday's attack. The Provisionals
accused the Metropolitan Police Commissioner, Paul Condon, and the head of the
anti-terrorist branch, Commander David Tucker, of ''arrogant boasting'' and
claimed a six-hour warning of the attack at Terminal 4 had been totally ignored.

A few hours later, the IRA demanded new direct talks between Republicans and the
Government, saying there had to be discussions if there was any chance of an end
to the violence. It asserted that a continuing opportunity for peace existed,
and should not be squandered.

The police turned to the Army for help yesterday morning after the latest
Heathrow mortar attack. The embarrassment of senior anti-terrorism officers was
palpable when it emerged that the set of bombs had been launched by a mortar dug
just over a metre into ground already searched.

As a call went out to the Army for sophisticated metal detectors and thermal
imaging equipment, Mr Tucker warned of more attacks.

Mr Condonsaid there was no short-term prospect of soldiers patrolling the
airport. ''We are not facing audacious terrorists coming back night after
night,'' he said. ''They are cowards who have secreted more than one device and
slunk away in the middle of the night.''

He thought the mortars had probably been planted early last week and were being
launched by timing devices that would be looked for with the help of the
military equipment. For the third time in five days, the mortar bombs failed to
explode and no one was hurt. The attack was launched by timer shortly after 8am.
Coded warnings went to three news organisations between 6.19am and 6.41am,
leading to the closure of the southern runway.

Flights were about to resume when the bombs were launched from scrubland off
Bedfont Road on Heathrow's south-western perimeter. Three landed on an apron
where several jets were parked and the fourth hit the roof of Terminal 4 while
passengers were inside. They were moved out and the terminal closed. Terminal 4
reopened at about 2.30pm, only to shut again hours later.

''The mortar had been very carefully camouflaged and dug in to a distance of
3ft-4ft,'' said Mr Tucker. ''The extensive searching operation which took place
within that area failed to find the baseplate. We are now not just looking for
vehicles and mortar baseplates that are visible, but we have to consider the
means by which we can detect something in the ground in an area 10 miles long
and three-quarters of a mile wide.''

Asked why 12 Semtex-filled mortar bombs had so far failed to explode, Mr Tucker
said: ''There appears to be a persistent mechanical defect.'' He discounted the
idea that the IRA had not intended they should explode, saying all had been
''viable''.

(Photograph omitted)

Frustration at delays, page 2

Leading article, page 13


LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1994 Independent Print Ltd

                              302 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                             March 14, 1994, Monday

TIME RUNNING OUT FOR TERROR LAW LOOPHOLE

BYLINE:  Teilo Colley, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 790 words


The legal loophole which helped terrorist suspect Anthony "Fanta" Gorman fight
extradition to the UK is currently being closed.  The government in Dublin -
anxious to stop criticism that it is providing a safe haven for terrorists - has
moved to change the law on extradition.  The loophole was created by the
republic's 1987 Extradition Act, which was meant to implement the European
convention on the suppression of terrorism.  The convention stopped terrorists
from arguing that their crimes were "political offences" if they involved the
use of automatic weapons or explosives to endanger life.  But this enabled
lawyers to argue that offences involving non-automatic weapons were still
"political offences" and therefore exempt from extradition agreements.  The
loophole was also available to suspects wanted for possession of arms or
explosives where there was no charge of having intent to kill.  A review of the
law was launched following criticism after a Dublin Supreme Court ruling in 1991
which gave freedom to terror suspect Anthony Sloan, who was facing jail in
Northern Ireland for possession of firearms.  Under the Extradition (Amendment)
Bill 1994, approved by the Irish government in January, all crimes involving the
possession of weapons or explosives with criminal intent will be excluded from
the "political offences" category.  A spokeswoman for the justice department in
Dublin said today that the Bill is due to go before the Irish Senate next week.
When it becomes law, it will bring to an end a source of tension between London
and Dublin which has regularly soured relations. The most controversial case
involved the Irish Attorney-General's decision to allow the former priest
Patrick Ryan to go free on the grounds he would not receive a fair trial in
Britain because of the massive publicity his case had attracted in the British
press.

Ryan was wanted in connection with IRA terrorist attacks in Britain in the early
1970s, suspected of supplying bomb making equipment to the IRA and of having
contacts in Europe for fund raising and arms and explosive smuggling.  Following
his arrest in Brussels in June, 1988, Britain brought extradition proceedings,
alleging that he had under his control or possession 52 switches, timing devices
and radio equipment with intent to endanger life or cause serious injury.  But
the Belgians, fearing he might die in their custody after he went on hunger
strike, deported him to Dublin, where the Irish said he did not face any
charges.  Britain demanded his extradition but on December 13, 1988, but the
Attorney General refused to endorse the extradition warrant - a decision
described as an "insult to all of the people of this country", by then prime
minister Lady Thatcher.  Other controversial cases include:
    In April 1990, Owen Carron, a former Sinn Fein MP for Fermanagh South
Tyrone, won a two year legal battle to avoid being sent back to Ulster where he
was wanted for possession of an assault rifle, allegedly found in his car when
he was arrested near Enniskillen on December 19, 1985. Subsequently a man who
was in the vehicle with him was jailed for possessing the weapon.  Carron was
granted bail in January, 1986, but fled to the Republic where he was arrested by
the Irish police in Co Sligo in February 1988 and his extradition ordered by an
Irish District Court.  His appeal was rejected by the Irish High Court but he
won his case at the Supreme Court in Dublin, claiming the rifle was in his car
without his knowldege.  The court's five judges ruled unanimously that the
allegations against Carron were connected to a political offence carried out by
another man and under the terms of the Irish constitution this barred
extradition.
    In February, 1990, Dermot Finucane and James Pius-Clarke, two convicted IRA
terrorists recaptured in the Republic after escaping from the Maze Prison in
1983, were set free by the Supreme Court because of a "probable risk that if
they were returned to the Maze Prison they would be assaulted or injured by
prison staff".  Finucane, 30, from Andersontown, Belfast, was serving 18 years
for possessing firearms when he joined a mass break-out of 38 prisoners. One
prison officer was stabbed and died from a heart attack, while four others were
stabbed, two shot and 13 kicked or beaten.  Pius-Clarke, 34, from Letterkenny,
Co Donegal, was wanted in Northern Ireland to resume an 18 year sentence imposed
in June 1979 for the murder of an Ulster Defence Regiment soldier two years
earlier and to face charges connnected with the Maze escape.  The then Northern
Ireland Minister John Cope, responsible for security, described the ruling as a
deep insult to the Ulster prison service.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1994 The Press Association Limited

                              303 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                             March 14, 1994, Monday

'END TERROR OR NO TALKS' - STARK MESSAGE TO IRA

BYLINE:  Chris Moncrieff, Press Association Political Editor

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 1262 words


The Government today dramatically slammed the door on all overtures for talks
with the IRA until their campaign of terror is ended for good.  And a
transatlantic plea by SDLP leader John Hume for ministers to resume negotiations
with Sinn Fein met with a similar rebuff from Downing Street.  The message from
the British Government to the men of violence was stark and uncompromising in
the wake of the three terrorist mortar attacks on Heathrow Airport within the
space of five days and killings in Ulster.  Downing Street seemed to treat with
contempt Mr Hume's implied suggestion that it was in the IRA's favour that it
was not their intention to detonate any of the mortar bombs which rained into
Heathrow in the three attacks.  Mr Hume, who is in Boston, Massachusetts,
drumming up investment for Ulster, said: "It was their intention to demonstrate
to the British Government what they are capable of, so that if there is a total
cessation of violence they are not backing down or standing down from a position
of weakness, but from a position of strength." And he claimed that this was the
best opportunity for peace in 20 years.  But a senior Downing Street source
said: "It is deeply offensive to people in Ireland and in Britain that the IRA
should claim to be interested in peace while continuing to kill in cold blood
and to mount acts of terror." "This behaviour will only reinforce the
Government's resolve to stick with utter determination to the course which we
have chosen which has huge support. "We have not been waiting and we are not
waiting for the IRA in our efforts to achieve a lasting political settlement
which is acceptable to all the constitutional, democratic parties." New
top-level talks are planned between Dublin and London on security cooperation,
amid speculation that a crack-down is on the way.  The Government continues to
say that internment is not ruled out, but its imposition could - some believe -
destroy Albert Reynolds, the Irish Premier.  Meanwhile, Heathrow was recovering
from the chaos created by the third attack on Sunday, and compounded by a
security shut-down overnight - an alert which also closed down Gatwick for a
time.

The IRA itself also demanded new direct talks with the Government, insisting
there had to be discussions if there was to be any chance of an end to the
violence.  They said they were prepared to be flexible and positive, but the
lines of communication between the two sides would have to reopen.  But the
message from Downing Street was that there was absolutely no prospect of
resuming negotiations or contact under any kind of duress. The IRA overtures are
seen by the Government as a means of trying to force talks before any commitment
to end the violence.  The IRA came under attack from Mr Reynolds. "This multiple
attack on Heathrow and indeed the closure of Gatwick is in my view a gross
miscalculation by the IRA. It is not going to advance the peace process and it
is certainly not going to do anything to endear themselves to the general
public." Mr Reynolds, who was speaking in New York, was at one with John Major
in insisting that the Downing Street declaration was unaffected by this latest
IRA campaign.  In the Commons, some Tory MPs protested that the Home Secretary
Michael Howard was not making a statement.  David Wilshire, whose Spelthorne
constituency includes part of Heathrow, said: "Sunday's mortar took off from my
constituency and landed in it. My constituents therefore rightly expect me to
inform this House that the last thing they want is a knee-jerk over-reaction.
"The other thing they would want the House to know is that they have absolutely
no intention whatsoever of being bombed into submission by evil psychopaths."
And Terry Dicks (Hayes and Harlington) protested: "Now we have had three mortar
bomb attacks on Heathrow Airport, which is more or less in my constituency, and
yet I still cannot get the opportunity to get Home Secretary to appear in the
chamber to make a statement.  "It seems strange when the whole country is
talking about the busiest international airport in the world being under threat.
There are discussions taking place about the lack of security, which I don't
believe, in the Press and from Opposition MPs.  "And yet, as the MP with the
airport in his constituency, I have no way of raising it in this House and I
find that deplorable," Mr Dicks added.

And Defence Secretary Malcolm Rifkind faces renewed calls to put troops into
Heathrow.  Top Tory Sir Ivan Lawrence, chairman of the powerful all-party
Commons Select Committee on Home Affairs, warned that foreign travellers would
cancel visits to Britain unless they could be reassured about their safety.  He
discounted as "of no importance at all" any propaganda coup that might be won by
the IRA if police had a military back-up.  Sir Ivan said that travellers found
an army presence in many airports of the world. "They are reassured by that.
They feel safer when they know the army and the police are there.  "It is
supplementing the police. It is giving a signal to foreign travellers coming
here that they are being properly protected, otherwise they could be calling off
their visits," Sir Ivan told BBC Television.

Ireland's Deputy Prime Minister Dick Spring said tonight it had been made very
clear to the IRA that there was no possibility of its involvement in
negotiations in present circumstances.  The IRA had been told that if it ended
terrorism, the British and Irish governments would be "generous in their
response", he added.  But he said there had to be "an absolute renunciation of
the violence, an end to violence, and an acceptance that violence will not solve
the problems that we have on this island".  After recent incidents - "the
endangering of life at Heathrow, the murders in Belfast, it is time the IRA came
to their senses and put it to an end", said Mr Spring, who is also his country's
Foreign Minister and joint chairman - with Ulster Secretary Sir Patrick Mayhew -
of the Anglo-Irish Northern Ireland Conference.  Mr Spring said the IRA's
actions over the past few days appeared totally contradictory.  "On the one
hand, they are saying they are flexible, they want to look at the peace process.
"At the same time, they are insulting the intelligence of ordinary people by
bombing Heathrow airport, threatening innocent people in their daily lives. That
to me is a total contradiction.  "They have to end the violence, they have to
show willingness and an acceptance that the Downing Street declaration is the
best prospect for establishing peace on this island," he said.

and Mr Hume were involved in sharp exchanges on Channel Four News.  Mr Hume
repeated his call for talks with the IRA, saying: "If the IRA are bluffing, why
doesn't the Government call their bluff? If the IRA lay down their arms the
whole situation is transformed. If they don't they will be isolated." But Mr
Trimble told him: "We have had speech after speech. We were given false
prospects. You have offered another false prospect in these emotive terms. It
has been put to the test. You have been put to the test. Your statements of last
October have been put to the test and these have been shown to be wrong. Have
you been Mr Adams's dupe or his accomplice?" Clearly rattled, Mr Hume retorted:
"I have never, unlike certain Unionists, Mr Trimble, advocated violence in any
shape, form or fashion." And he repeated: "If you think they are bluffing, it
won't cost a life but it might save a lot of lives by calling their bluff."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1994 The Press Association Limited

                              304 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                             March 14, 1994, Monday

MPs CALL FOR TROOPS TO GUARD HEATHROW

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 271 words


Defence Secretary Malcolm Rifkind today faces renewed calls to put troops into
Heathrow in the wake of the third terrorist mortar attack on the airport within
five days.  Top Tory Sir Ivan Lawrence said today it was vital that foreign
travellers to Britain should feel they were being properly protected. Ministers
will be considering the possible grave implications of these attacks on
Britain's tourist industry.  And Tory MP Terry Dicks has said he will submit an
emergency question on the latest attack to Home Secretary Michael Howard in the
Commons today.  Sir Ivan, chairman of the powerful all-party Commons Select
Committee on Home Affairs, warned that foreign travellers would call off their
visits to Britain unless they could be reassured about their safety.  He
discounted as "of no importance at all" any propaganda coup that might be won by
the IRA if the authorities were compelled to supplement police protection with a
military presence.  Sir Ivan, speaking on BBC Breakfast News, said that
travellers found an army presence in many airports of the world.  "They are
reassured by that. They feel safer when they know the army and the police are
there." Sir Ivan rejected the view that introducing the military would be a sign
that the police had failed.  "It is supplementing the police. It is giving a
signal to foreign travllers coming here that they are being properly protected,
otherwise they could be calling off their visits," Sir Ivan said.  Mr Dicks,
whose Hayes and Harlington constituency includes part of the airport, said
troops should be brought into Heathrow "for a time, anyway".

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1994 The Press Association Limited

                              305 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                             March 14, 1994, Monday

Travel industry fears 'CNN effect'

BYLINE: Harvey Elliott and Ben Macintyre

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 439 words


FEARS were growing last night that the continuing IRA mortar attacks on Heathrow
airport could wreck the recovery in Britain's travel and tourism industry.

Airlines, hotels, theatres and tour operators will today be watching for signs
of mass cancellations by foreign visitors and British holidaymakers.

Nowhere will any trend be more carefully monitored than in North America, where
holidaymakers are notorious for the wholesale cancellation of travel plans at
the first hint of violence.

American travel agents are already predicting that their tourists will avoid
coming to Britain. ''We call it the CNN effect,'' said Shawn Flaherty, a
spokeswoman for the American Travel Industry Association in Washington.
''People see violence on television and then decide to go elsewhere.''

The first attack at Heathrow went largely unreported in America. The second
provoked a flurry of news reports pointing out that the airport is the port of
arrival for the vast majority of Americans visiting Britain.

Travel agents said yesterday that the third attack could persuade many American
travellers that Europe, and Britain in particular, is a dangerous holiday
destination.

In the wake of the New York World Trade Centre bombing trial and the recent
shooting on Brooklyn Bridge of a group of Jewish students by a Lebanese gunman,
Americans are acutely aware of the dangers of international terrorism. Athough
the mortar attacks caused no casualties, industry analysts predict that American
tourist traffic to the UK will slow markedly in the coming weeks.

Ms Flaherty compared the attacks on Heathrow to the situation in Egypt, where a
wave of terrorist attacks directed at foreign tourists by Islamic
fundamentalists has sharply reduced tourism. ''We may see the same sort of thing
happening to Britain now,'' she said.

International airlines rely heavily on income from American travellers and
around one third of British Airways' income comes from its services to 19 US
cities.

Tour operators throughout America have just launched a big British sales
campaign and were reporting a surge in enquiries and early bookings with short
breaks proving particularly popular.

The trend was so strong that many believed that the 1985 record number of 3.8
million visitors from North America would be surpassed.

The world's airlines are losing money at an alarming rate, and trans-Atlantic
traffic is particularly important for American airlines, which are among the
biggest losers. They had been encouraged by the recent upturn with strong
bookings. Now, they fear, those encouraging figures could slump.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1994 Times Newspapers Limited

                              306 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Daily Mail (London)

                                 March 15, 1994

Major urges blitz on terror 'haven';
BORDER SECURITY SUMMIT TO DEMAND ACTION BY EIRE

BYLINE: John Deans

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 720 words


JOHN MAJOR last night piled pressure on the Irish to act to stop the Republic
being a safe haven for the IRA.

In the aftermath of the Heathrow bomb attacks, he has ordered increased anti-
terrorist operations in mainland Britain and wants similar crackdown on the
Ulster border.

Senior officials will be sent to Dublin soon to discuss a cross-border security
blitz. Reintroducing selective internment may be on the agenda but action to
close off the Republic as a bolt hole for terrorists is believed to be the top
priority.

London wants Dublin to order the Irish police and Army to intensify co-operation
with security forces in Ulster and extend over-flying rights for military
helicopters 'chasing' IRA suspects heading over the border.

Officials made clear last night that the idea of reintroducing internment 'has
not been ruled out' although it is still regarded as worse than useless without
a similar move in the Republic.

And one ministerial source said last night: 'As things stand they just won't
agree to that.'

Nevertheless, Tory MP Andrew Hunter, chairman of his party's Northern Ireland
committee, urged the Government not to give up the idea. 'It would play havoc
with the command and communications structures of the IRA and seriously
undermine their military ability,' he said.

In the meantime, the Premier emphasised that he has no intention of negotiating
with Sinn Fein or the IRA until the violence ends.

Downing Street said it was 'deeply offensive' to the Irish and British people
for the IRA to claim to be interested in peace while they continued to murder
and mount acts of terror such as the Heathrow mortar bombings.

And it was stressed that such behaviour will 'only reinforce the Government's
resolve to stick to our chosen course, which has huge support.' This means that
the search for peace and a political settlement in Ulster will continue without
Sinn Fein, while action is taken to improve co-operation on security.

John Hume, the SDLP leader, said Government talks with the IRA's political wing
would form 'the best opportunity for peace for 20 years'.

At the same time the IRA demanded new direct talks with the Government,
insisting that discussions were needed if there was to be any chance of an end
to the violence.

It underlined its demand with a terror alert last night which closed Heathrow
and Gatwick for three hours.

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              307 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 15, 1994

BRITAIN WILL TALK PEACE, ADAMS INSISTS;
Heathrow mortars 'powder puff stuff'

BYLINE: DAVID SHARROCK IN BELFAST AND MICHAEL WHITE

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 521 words


GERRY Adams, president of Sinn Fein, was "in no doubt" last night that the
British government would eventually engage in dialogue despite its insistence to
the contrary.

As Unionist and Conservative politicians at Westminster urged the Government to
put new security measures at the top of its Anglo-Irish agenda, John Hume,
leader of the Social Democratic and Labour Party, was adamant that Sunday's
statement by the IRA - its first official comment on the Downing Street
declaration - warranted appointment of an official to "clarify" its meaning.

Mr Adams also called it "a positive reiteration of its commitment to reaching a
negotiated peace settlement". He said that if Whitehall was genuinely interested
in peace "they should recognise our rights as a political party, the validity of
our mandate and the rights of our electorate."

Downing St took a more dismissive stance, but did not shut the door. "There will
be no negotation with Sinn Fein before a permanent end to IRA violence. That is
the fundamental principle of the joint declaration," said one Major aide.

Mr Adams insisted there was no attempt being made to put conditions on talks.
"I have no doubt that Sinn Fein and the British government will be involved in
dialogue. The British have conceded this in principle. Unfortunately, they have
stalled on the conditions."

Calling once again for clarification of the declaration, he said it was not
required as a means of negotiation.  "Clarification is necessary so that we
properly explore how the peace process can be moved forward. It should be
provided on that basis."

Mr Hume clashed on Channel 4 News last night with the Ulster Unionist MP David
Trimble, who said "clarification in this situation means negotiation". He
accused Mr Hume of either being Mr Adams' dupe or accomplice.

Mr Adams's confidence that direct talks will resume was shared by Peter
Robinson, deputy leader of the hardline Democratic Unionist Party. "Of course
the Government are going to talk to the IRA again," he said, claiming that it
would be a "reward" for stopping the violence.

Mr Hume's claim in media interviews from the US yesterday that the IRA did not
intend any of the mortars it fired at Heathrow to explode was endorsed by a
senior RUC officer last night. He said: "In military terms this is powder puff
stuff and it is quite obvious what they are up to. What they are doing at
Heathrow is hinting at the potential."

Mr Hume, who wants the Government to reopen direct talks with Sinn Fein, said:
"It was their intention to demonstrate to the British government what they are
capable of, so that if there is a total cessation of violence they are not
backing down or standing down from a position of weakness, but from a position
of strength."

The Irish prime minister, Albert Reynolds, who is also in the United States to
attend a meeting at the White House on St Patrick's Day, said the IRA mortar
attacks were a gross miscalculation. "It's not going to advance the peace
process and it's certainly not going to do anything to endear themselves to the
general public."


LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              308 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 March 15, 1994

Pressure stepped up for resolve in Ireland

BYLINE: Geoffrey Parkhouse, Political Editor

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 937 words


THE Prime Minister is sending officials to Dublin to stiffen Irish resolve on
intensified security co-operation. At the same time, Mr Major is meeting Ulster
Unionists this week to try to reinvigorate constitutional discussions.

Yesterday at Westminster, pressure was building on the Tory benches for a clear
sign from Dublin that Premier Albert Reynolds would deliver his promise for all
-out security co-operation if the IRA refused to renounce violence.

The Heathrow campaign has convinced many that the IRA is not interested in
peace.

The Dublin courts released another terrorist suspect yesterday: Anthony Gorman,
sought for questioning in Britain over the shooting of an Army sergeant in 1992.
The Irish state offered no evidence against him and he was freed. A fellow
suspect, Joseph Magee, was released last month after an Irish Judge ruled that
his offence had been "political".

Both men had been wanted in connection with the murder of Sergeant Michael
Newman outside an Army recruiting office in Derby. The British Government cannot
interfere in Irish legal matters but it is to press the Irish Government to
hasten legislation to make the extradition of suspects easier.

Mr Major needs the promised security co-operation and he also needs to show that
the talks involving the democratically elected parties in Northern Ireland are
not stagnating. He is to have talks with the Rev. Ian Paisley this week and is
also expected to see Mr James Molyneaux, the Ulster Unionist leaders.

He will also need to talk to SDLP leader John Hume, who yesterday repeated his
view that the IRA can still be persuaded to renounce violence if it gets the
"clarification" on the December 15 London

-Dublin peace initiative.

However, yesterday Mr

Major again insisted he will have no truck with Sinn Fein, the IRA's political
wing, until violence has ceased permanently. A No. 10 spokesman said in the wake
of the Heathrow mortar attacks: "It is deeply offensive to people in Ireland and
in Britain that the IRA should claim to be interested in peace while continuing
to kill in cold blood and to mount acts of terror.

"This behaviour will only reinforce the Government's resolve to stick with utter
determination to the course which we have chosen which has huge support."

The IRA also came under attack from Mr Reynolds. "This multiple attack on
Heathrow and indeed the closure of Gatwick is in my view a gross miscalculation
by the IRA. It is not going to advance the peace process and it is certainly not
going to do anything to endear themselves to the general public."

Mr Reynolds, who was speaking in New York, was at one with Mr Major in insisting
that the Downing Street declaration was unaffected by this latest IRA campaign.

His deputy, Mr Dick Spring, said it had been made clear to the IRA there was no
possibility of its involvement in negotiations at present. There had to be "an
absolute renunciation of the violence, an end to violence, and an acceptance
that violence will not solve the problems that we have on this island".

In a statement released in Dublin, the IRA said it was prepared to be flexible
and positive, but the lines of communication between the two sides would have to
reopen.

Sinn Fein leader Gerry Adams called this a "positive reiteration of its
commitment to reaching a negotiated peace settlement".

He insisted that "clarification" is not a means of negotiation but is necessary
"so that we can properly explore how the peace process can be moved forward. It
should be provided on that basis."

Mr Adams was supported in this by Mr Hume, who insisted the IRA had not intended
to detonate any of the mortar bombs which had been fired into Heathrow three
times in the last six days. "It was their intention to demonstrate to the
British Government what they are capable of, so that if there is a total
cessation of violence they are not backing down or standing down from a position
of weakness, but a position of strength."

Mr Hume said that the peace process could be moved forward if the Prime Minister
agreed to Sinn Fein's request for clarification.

Shadow Northern Ireland Secretary Kevin McNamara also believes the IRA statement
is not a total rejection of the London-Dublin joint declaration which would
allow Sinn Fein a formal place at discussions within three months of a cessation
of violence.

He said he was gravely disappointed the IRA had not endorsed the joint
declaration and agreed to end the violence. "However, this is clearly not a
total rejection of the declaration and the Government must be prepared to offer
further clarification to Sinn Fein if that will help them accept its terms."

The Prime Minister believes the IRA has had all the clarification it needs to
cease violence from the speeches of himself, Northern Ireland Secretary Sir
Patrick Mayhew, and Mr Reynolds.

The focus now turns on whether London-Dublin security co-operation can produce
results quickly. This might help the Unionists to allay their suspicions that
not only the IRA but the Dublin Government is stringing Mr Major along.

Ulster Unionist MP John Taylor warned that what he called the "wave of hope"
after the December peace declaration is fading fast. He called for a tougher
security drive, declaring "the Government is elected to govern, not to dither".

Britain has been pressing for years for the Republic to allow the "hot pursuit"
of suspects fleeing across the border.

But neither government is yet seriously considering the reintroduction of
internment either side of the border.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Anthony Gorman gives a defiant wave after being freed in Dublin.
Picture: JOHN COGILL/Reuter

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              309 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            March 15, 1994, Tuesday

Airport Attacks: Major pressed to get tough over IRA terorism; Angry
Conservatives accuse Irish government of 'bad faith' as extradition plea fails

BYLINE: COLIN BROWN, Political Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 2 ?

LENGTH: 630 words


JOHN MAJOR will today face renewed calls for tougher action against IRA
terrorists, after the failure of an Irish court to extradite Anthony Gorman, who
is wanted in Britain for the shooting of an Army sergeant in 1992.

Tory MPs were infuriated by the release of Mr Gorman, 24, after the Irish state
offered no evidence. It came a week after the court freed Joseph Magee, who is
wanted in connection with the same killing outside an Army recruiting office at
Derby, on the grounds that the offence was 'political'.

The Irish government was accused of 'bad faith' by angry Conservative MPs, in
spite of legislation currently in the Dail, the Irish parliament, to close the
extradition loophole. The anger is expected to surface today during Prime
Minister's Questions in the Commons.

Both governments yesterday rejected an appeal by the IRA to clarify the Downing
Street Declaration. Downing Street said: 'There are to be no negotiations with
Sinn Fein before bringing an end to the IRA's violence. We regard that as a
fundamental principle of the Downing Street Declaration. It is deeply offensive
to people in Ireland and Britain that the IRA claim to be interested in peace
while continuing to kill in cold blood and mount acts of terror. This behaviour
will only reinforce the governments' resolve to stick with utter determination
to the course we have chosen, which has huge support.'

Albert Reynolds, the Irish Prime Minister, supported that message in the United
States, where he will be attending the St Patrick's Day celebrations. 'The
acceptance of the declaration is a matter for themselves (the IRA). If there are
some words in it they don't like or they cannot accept, that doesn't stop them
making a declaration of a cessation of violence and pursuing whatever aspects
they feel are not to their liking,' he said.

John Hume, leader of the Social Democractic and Labour Party, who held talks
with Gerry Adams, the Sinn Fein president, renewed his appeals to the two
governments to change their policy and agree to negotiate with the IRA-Sinn Fein
leaders. 'I believe this very strongly as someone who has been one of their
strongest opponents for 20 years, they are very serious about the peace
process,' he said.

'The British government has had secret discussions with them. Now peace is on
the table, no stone should be left unturned and they should meet Sinn Fein to
clarify it.'

But Ulster Unionists accused Mr Hume of being an 'apologist' for the IRA, a
charge that he strongly rejected. David Trimble, the Ulster Unionist MP for
Upper Bann, said: 'The Government has said they will not negotiate. If the
Government abandons that position, they are lost.'

The Prime Minister's Office said that further talks would be held between
officials of the two governments to improve cross-border security, which it is
believed will include overflights by British Army helicopters in 'hot pursuit'.

That was clearly directed at Conservative MPs, who have been protesting about
the use of the South as a 'safe haven' for IRA terrorists after carrying out
attacks in the North.

The Irish government insisted last night that it had fully co-operated in
improving security across the border.

Mr Reynolds has no intention of introducing internment in the South, which he
believes would give the IRA a propaganda coup to justify their continued use of
violence. Without the support from the South, British ministers believe
internment in the North would not be effective.

The Irish government is putting pressure on Britain to make progress at official
level on working up proposals for the government of Ulster, including
cross-border bodies and a locally-elected assembly as part of the three-strand
talks.

(Photograph omitted)


LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1994 Independent Print Ltd

                              310 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                            March 15, 1994, Tuesday

Blow to Major as Dublin court frees terror suspect

BYLINE: By Philip Webster, Political Editor

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 859 words


URGENT efforts by John Major to win improved co-operation from the Irish
Republic for a crackdown on the IRA both north and south of the border ran into
immediate trouble yesterday as another terrorist suspect walked free from a
Dublin court.

A new round of discussions between senior officials from both governments,
intended to intensify security measures, was signalled by Downing Street after
the weekend terror campaign against Heathrow airport and the IRA statement going
close to rejecting December's peace declaration. Mr Major again ruled out talks
with Sinn Fein until the IRA ends its violent campaign.

Even as British Government officials were disclosing that London would be
putting ''specific'' proposals to Dublin, a terrorist suspect wanted for
extradition to Britain in connection with the murder of a soldier was released.

Tory MPs reacted angrily when Anthony ''Fanta'' Gorman, 24, was freed after the
Irish State offered no evidence against him. The move, in a Dublin district
court, comes after the freeing last month of another man wanted by Scotland Yard
for the same killing, of Sergeant Michael Newman outside an army recruiting
office in Derby in 1992.

The first man to walk free, Joseph Magee, was allowed to go after an Irish High
Court judge ruled that his offence had a political motive, which barred his
extradition under the terms of the controversial written Irish constitution. The
judge also said that the Magee case had received prejudicial coverage in the
British press and that procedures followed during the extradition application in
a lower court had been defective.

Although the loophole which allowed him to fight extradition is being closed by
the Irish parliament, the decision was an embarrassment to both governments as
they try to present a united front against the IRA. Tory MPs have long
complained that Dublin has dragged its feet over the legislation needed to
counter charges that it is providing a safe haven for terrorists.

Downing Street said yesterday there had been substantial progress in
inter-government talks on improving security co-operation, and that Mr Major and
Albert Reynolds were agreed on the need to carry forward the security effort.
Further talks, on new measures, would be held as a matter of urgency.  Officials
declined to give details, and said it was unlikely they could ever be disclosed.

Lady Olga Maitland, secretary of the Tory Northern Ireland committee, described
the court decision as appalling. Andrew Hargreaves (Con, Birmingham, Hall
Green), said: ''Many at Westminster will find this episode extremely
disappointing'', and Sir Trevor Skeet, Tory MP for Bedfordshire North, said the
situation in Northern Ireland was becoming impossible.

''Many people who have been suspected of committing important crimes have been
escaping to the South, where the courts are refusing extradition to the United
Kingdom for a fair trial,'' he said. ''The situation is getting out of hand.''
Mr Major gave a tough response to the IRA call for more clarification of the
peace declaration. Downing Street reaffirmed that there would be no negotiations
with Sinn Fein until the IRA permanently ended its campaign of violence.

Officials said it was ''deeply offensive to people in Ireland and in Britain
that the IRA should claim to be interested in peace while continuing to kill in
cold blood and to mount acts of terror''.

Downing Street said: ''This behaviour will only reinforce the Government's
resolve to stick with utter determination to the course which we have chosen,
which has huge support. We have not been waiting, and we are not waiting, for
the IRA in our efforts to achieve a lasting political settlement.'' If anything,
the mortar attacks on Heathrow had strengthened the resolve not to have any
contact with Gerry Adams, Sinn Fein president, or any of his colleagues.

John Hume, Leader of the nationalist SDLP, called on the Government to enter
talks with Sinn Fein, and said the IRA did not intend to detonate the mortar
bombs fired into Heathrow. ''It was their intention to demonstrate to the
British Government what they are capable of,'' he said.

On Channel 4 News later he repeated his call, saying: ''If the IRA are bluffing,
why doesn't the Government call their bluff? If the IRA lay down their arms the
whole situation is transformed. If they don't, they will be isolated.''

But David Trimble (Ulster Unionist, Upper Bann) told him: ''You have offered
another false prospect in these emotive terms. It has been put to the test. Your
statements of last October have been put to the test, and these have been shown
to be wrong. Have you been Mr Adams's dupe or his accomplice?''

Mr Hume retorted: ''I have never, unlike certain Unionists, advocated violence
in any shape, form or fashion.''

Dick Spring, Ireland's Deputy Prime Minister, last night reaffirmed that it had
been made clear to the IRA that there was no possibility of its involvement in
negotiations in present circumstances. ''After endangering of life at Heathrow,
the murders in Belfast, it is time the IRA came to their senses,'' he said.

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1994 Times Newspapers Limited

                              311 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                           March 16, 1994, Wednesday

RUC CHIEF DISMISSES IRISH SECURITY LAPSE CLAIM

BYLINE:  Ian Graham, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 221 words


Co-operation between the police in both parts of Ireland is at an all-time high,
RUC Chief Constable Sir Hugh Annesley said today.  He dismissed any suggestion
that the police in the Irish Republic - the Garda - recently failed to follow
through RUC intelligence in respect of anticipated terrorist attacks in mainland
Britain. He said today's lead story in The Independent newspaper, headlined
"Ireland blamed for lapses of security", was "completely inaccurate" and could
not be allowed to go "unchallenged".  He said the Garda's success rate in
finding arms and explosives and making arrests had been first rate.
Interceptions of IRA weapons in the Irish Republic had been of crucial
importance to the well being of the security forces and general public in
Northern Ireland, he added.  The Independent claimed Ulster Unionist Party
leader James Molyneaux yesterday expressed RUC concerns about Garda security
lapses and a lack of co-operation on intelligence operations when he met John
Major in Downing Street.  Sir Hugh said: "The RUC has not made any complaint nor
is there any reason for doing so.  "On the contrary, the RUC is appreciative of
the co-operation it receives from the Garda and of the cordial and highly
professional relationship which exists between it and the Royal Ulster
Constabulary."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1994 The Press Association Limited

                              312 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            March 17, 1994, Thursday

Slaughter won't stop until they've won; Bleating about peace will only prolong
Northern Ireland's agony, warns Ruth Dudley Edwards

BYLINE: RUTH DUDLEY EDWARDS

SECTION: COMMENT PAGE; Page 22

LENGTH: 989 words


ON THE card from Dublin showing a dove squatting on the legend ''Peace on St
Patrick's Day'', my friend wrote: ''How sensible to limit expectations to one
day in the year.''

My friend is a realist. She knows that what Sinn Fein/IRA want is power, not
peace. It is a message that too many people in Ireland and Britain seem
incapable of grasping. Yet Provo apologists make it clear again and again.

Take Danny Morrison, originator of the slogan about the Armalite and the ballot
box. All observers of the present wishful thinking about peace processes would
do well to take note of the following paragraph from his novel, West Belfast.
The hero, John, successively a trade union official and IRA gunman, is - clearly
with the approval of his creator - of an unbending disposition. At some stage
someone suggests a measure of compromise. '' 'Ease the situation!' bellowed John
down the phone. 'We want it fuckin' resolved in our favour!' '' And that -
whatever the designer language of the Adams family - is what they mean.

Before someone protests that West Belfast appeared in 1989 and the Provos have
changed, consider the influential Mr Morrison's comments last month from prison.
If the Provos did not get what they wanted, he explained, ''the conflict'' would
continue until a change was brought about in British public opinion ''through
IRA pressure on business people in London''; this he helpfully clarified as
''bombs''. Contrast the slippery words of Mr Adams.

Eoghan Harris, an Irish journalist, media consultant and long-time expert on
Sinn Fein/IRA, some years ago summarised Provospeak: the hypothetical situation
was a mortar aimed at a barracks accidentally killing scores of young children.

''Look, we're really sorry/never meant to kill the kids/meant to kill the
RUC/Why? - Because it's a war/in a war bad things happen/ we're sorry/look at
Dresden/the Paras set out to kill the kids on Bloody Sunday/we really are very
sorry/no peace until Brits are out/we're sorry/yes, it will happen again/as long
as the North is under British rule/sorry.''

Lately they have been polishing up their patter to apply to atrocities in
Britain. Wait for this when the mortars go off on their next spectacular.

''Not our fault/trying to move on the peace process/didn't mean to kill the
innocent/sorry /just and lasting peace/police cynically ignored our warning/have
to move the peace process forward/sorry/Sinn Fein commitment to peace
process/all we want is clarification/ sorry/British government's fault for being
negative.''

''What do they want?'' ask well-meaning hand-wringers in Britain. What can the
British government give them that will make them lay down their arms? I heard a
prize suggestion the other day on LBC, where Shane Patrick O'Doherty (a reformed
terrorist popular in radical-chic circles) was asked what gesture could turn the
IRA. A corporate act of penitence by the British government for the wrongs done
to Ireland in the past was his suggestion. That would certainly have the IRA
Army Council rolling in the aisles. Next they could request that the British and
Irish people put their corporate neck at a more convenient angle for the
jackboot.

What these people really want is to run the whole island of Ireland their way.
What the other lot want is to prevent them. ''Paramilitaries do not debate about
peace, but power,'' said Fr Denis Faul last week. Fr Faul, a man whose
nationalist credentials are no more in doubt than his courage, said: ''Peace for
them is a deceptive stalking bird, a word to blackmail governments and citizens
into concessions of power by the use of threats.''

Fr Faul, a pivotal force in bringing the IRA hunger strikes to an end, knows the
terrorists through and through. ''The people,'' he says, ''must have the courage
to give them no

support or succour or comfort; give them nothing.''

The IRA will not stop killing and give up their arms until they have won. Code
words such as ''national self-determination'', ''persuasion'' and ''no veto''
mean that Britain must agree to coerce the Unionists into a united Ireland in
the face of the opposition of 95 per cent of the people of Ireland. Killing will
go on in Britain and Ireland until Sinn Fein/IRA have achieved this or been put
out of business.

What has to be understood is that they are without compassion in their quest for
victory. The writer Sean O'Faolain looked back at his own state of mind during
the Irish civil war: ''I firmly believed in the dogma that had by now become the
last redoubt of the minority's resistance to the majority: that the people have
no right to do wrong. Like all idealists, I was fast becoming heartless,
humourless and pitiless.'' The Provos reached that point long ago; they are
sorry when a child is killed because it is bad PR.

It is to people such as Fr Faul and the spokesmen for Fait (Families Against
Intimidation and Terror) that we should be listening. Their prescription is
uncomfortable, but it is the only one that can work. Bleating about peace merely
prolongs the agony and leads to more suffering in the end. What is required is
the grim determination to defeat evil, however long the haul.

There should be no appeasement, no talks, no communications - private or public.
The governments must accept that negotiation with the terrorists in their two
islands is wrong as well as fruitless, that they must co-operate to root them
out and that they should draw on the practical experience of European partners
such as Italy and Spain.

''God made the Catholics; the Armalite made them equal,'' runs a piece of Provo
graffiti carved into the wood of a snug in the beautiful Crown bar in Belfast.
At present the Provos believe the mortar will give them power and the loyalist
terrorists believe only they can stop this happening. It is up to the two
governments to prove the killers wrong.

(Photograph omitted)


LOAD-DATE: March 17, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1994 Independent Print Ltd

                              313 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            March 17, 1994, Thursday

Mayhew to remain firm on Downing Street Declaration

BYLINE: COLIN BROWN, Chief Political Correspondent

SECTION: POLITICS & POLICY PAGE; Page 11

LENGTH: 290 words


SIR PATRICK MAYHEW, the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland, today will
reaffirm the Government's determination to press on with the Downing Street
Declaration, when he faces questions in the Commons for the first time since the
IRA mortar attacks on Heathrow.

The attacks led to Tory backbench demands on the Government to seize the
initiative from the terrorists.

Tory MPs said they had been urged by ministerial sources to ''back off and lower
the pressure'' on John Major over the IRA mainland campaign. However, they
privately remained concerned about security lapses, in spite of assurances
yesterday by the RUC.

Some senior Tory MPs are demanding evidence from Mr Major of cross-border
co-operation on security action against IRA terrorism.

Sir Hugh Annesley, Chief Constable of the RUC, denied Ulster Unionist
allegations, reported in yesterday's Independent, that the RUC was blaming
intelligence services in the Republic for recent lapses. He said: ''Any
suggestion that the Garda recently failed to follow through RUC intelligence in
respect of an anticipated terrorist attack in Great Britain is completely
without foundation. The RUC has not made any complaint nor is there any reason
for so doing. On the contrary, the RUC is appreciative of the co-operation it
receives from the Garda.''

Last night Dick Spring, the Irish foreign minister, welcomed Sir Hugh's
statement. He rejected any suggestion of a failure by the Irish police to co-
operate in preventing terrorist attacks in Britain.

He said there was excellent co-operation between forces north and south of the
border. The Irish government remained fully committed to the Downing Street
Declaration.

Slaughter won't stop, page 22


LOAD-DATE: March 17, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1994 Independent Print Ltd

                              314 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                            March 17, 1994, Thursday

Tourists defy the terror bombers

BYLINE: Marianne Curphey

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 546 words


OVERSEAS visitors to Britain remained defiant this week in the face of attacks
by the IRA at Heathrow airport.

Travel agents in the United States say there have been no mass cancellations
from tour groups. They had feared that millions of American tourists would alter
travel plans as they did after the outbreak of the Gulf War.

The British Tourist Authority's New York office said the attacks had a ''limited
impact'' on bookings. And the American Society of Travel Agents said that after
the bombing of the World Trade Centre in New York, people now recognised that
terrorists could strike anywhere and were more philosophical about the risks.

Nearly three million Americans visit the UK every year, earning Britain about
Pounds 1.6 billion in tourist revenue. Most pass through Heathrow.

Tour operators believe that holidaymakers from Europe are also unlikely to
cancel, because they are used to seeing news reports of IRA terrorist attacks.

Foreign tourists queuing outside the Tower of London this week were displaying a
British-style ''stiff upper lip'' response to terrorism. A couple from Michigan,
Alan Field, 57, and his wife Audrey, 54, flew into Heathrow on Saturday despite
the IRA mortars. Mr Field said: ''We knew about the previous attacks and we were
a little apprehensive but the chances of being involved in a terrorist attack
are very small.''

The couple did not know the name of Gerry Adams, the president of Sinn Fein.
Mrs Field said: ''Usually Northern Ireland only makes a paragraph in our
newspapers.''

Another couple, Teresa and Rob Gras, were due to arrive at Heathrow on Sunday
from Amsterdam but were diverted to Stansted and learnt of the mortar attacks on
the evening television news. Mr Gras, 43, said: ''We still would have come in
spite of the warnings. It is a chance you have to take.''

Josef Kobel, 36, and Manuela Forkel, 21, from Germany, had to wait for an hour
before their flight landed at Heathrow during Sunday's security alert.  Mr Kobel
said: ''We knew of the risks but decided not to let such things ruin our travel
plans.''

Some tour operators, though, warn that the travelling public is notoriously
fickle. JAC Travel, one of London's largest overseas tour operators, said that
if the IRA continued its campaign, the number of American visitors could drop by
half this year.

Michael Evans, sales director, said: ''If last Wednesday's attack had been a
one-off I think we would have had little to worry about.

''However, Americans are very jittery when going to regions they regard as
dangerous. We had hoped the market would recover in 1994 and until last week
numbers had been growing by more than 70 per cent.''

International airlines rely heavily on the income from American visitors and
about a third of British Airways' income derives from its services to 19
American cities.

On the average flight across the Atlantic, 60 per cent of seats are filled by
passengers from America and 40 per cent by those from from Britain. Last year
3.3 million people came to Britain from North America, of whom 2.8 million were
from the United States. Their impact on the British economy was significant they
spent Pounds 1.6 billion. Hopes had been high that far more would come this
year.

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1994 Times Newspapers Limited

                              315 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 18, 1994

REAL LIVES: THE VERY END OF EMPIRE;
From the smashed factories of Birmingham to the shattered ports of London and
Bristol, racism and fascism are breeding. Nigel Fountain visits the places where
economics translates into violence, and where unwelcome electoral surprises
threaten this spring

BYLINE: NIGEL FOUNTAIN

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN WEEKEND PAGE; Pg. T32

LENGTH: 3597 words


AT FIVE in the afternoon there are five drinkers in the vast Edwardian bar of
the Royal Pavilion, North Woolwich in the borough of Newham, east London.
Lingering over his pint, George tells me he isn't working at present because he
is going into hospital. Caught up in the IRA's Bishopsgate bombing, his left ear
is still damaged. A specialist will be looking at it on the following Monday.

When George was 13 he ran away from Ireland to Liverpool and got on the boats.
By 1959 it was the Queens - Elizabeth and Mary - out of Southampton, but after
three years came London, sailing from the Royal Docks, that expanse sliced out
of Newham 140 years ago. He was in catering, he explains, staring ahead -
looking after the officers.

He would come to the Pavilion on shore leave. "Family pub, friendly." Dusty
Springfield is singing out of the radio.  "Jam-packed." He glances around the
bar. North Woolwich is the end of the world. North of the Thames, the ferry
links it to proper south-of-the-Thames Woolwich - of which it was a part from
the 11th Century until 1963 - across the water. England is littered with
Industrial Decline theme parks, but the hinterland of the pierhead - south of
the A13 from the Canary Wharf spur, through the Isle of Dogs, Custom House, and
Silvertown to Beckton - is special. "Docklands," says retiring Isle of Dogs
Labour councillor Ted Johns, "stretches eight miles from the City of London.
From the Royal Mint, which doesn't make money anymore, to Beckton, where there
is a sewage farm."

North Woolwich pierhead is a few miles down from the Dogs. In grey twilight,
when the river is shit-coloured and the breeze whips up from the Gary Glitter
silver of the 1970s Thames Barrier, the location is freeze-framed in the 1940s.
So it is appropriate that one of the ferries is named after Ernest Bevin,
illegitimate Victorian country boy made good in Bristol, the dockers' KC,
founding general secretary of the Transport and General Workers' Union, the
wartime coalition's Minister of Labour, the Attlee Government's Foreign
Secretary, Churchill's "working class John Bull".

"They used to say Gladstone was at the Treasury from 1860 to 1930," he joked
once. "Well I'm going to be at the Ministry of Labour from 1940 to 1990." He
nearly made it. His version of industrial relations was the stuff of waistcoats
and Brylcreem, gents and players together in the old country with a big future;
a place where dockers got labour schemes rather than the lump. Bevinism survived
late empire into Harold Wilson's beer and sandwiches era, suffered severe injury
during the three-day week and finally expired in the Winter of Discontent. But
Bevin's ghost still stalks shattered docklands.

ON FEBRUARY 25, 1993, Ricky Lee and his (unrelated) friend Mark Lee from Custom
House, Newham, hired an East Ham mini-cab.  They had just been to West Ham
football ground to "pay respects" at the temporary shrine erected to Bobby
Moore. They told Fiaz Mirza the driver to take them to the Royal Albert Docks,
just north of the ferry. There they beat him up, robbed him, stuffed him in the
boot of his car. Mr Mirza briefly escaped, but the two men dumped the cab in the
dock and, after beating him, threw him into the water, and he died. Largely
through the evidence of Mark Lee's half-sister Diane and stepmother Lillian,
sickened by the murderers' jokes, the two were tried last September, and Mark
Lee jailed for 22 years and Ricky for life.

After testifying, Mrs Lee, a wheelchair-bound diabetic, tried to kill herself
with an insulin overdose. "Sometimes I wish I hadn't woken up in the morning,"
she said. "Other times I'm glad I'm alive, like when I read the letter from Mr
Mirza's relatives." The letter said Mrs Lee would certainly go to heaven. During
the trial, Mrs Mirza collapsed with a heart attack.  There is a lot of illness
in Newham.

"That part of Custom House is pretty horrific. I got my head bashed in, Fiaz
Mirza was killed," says Hossein Zahir of the Newham Monitoring Project. Zahir,
in his mid-20s, has the look, sound, style of the East End. His family were
refugees from Iran in the early 1980s. Last year Zahir was attacked by three men
with wrenches, hammers and a wheelbrace. Subsequently two of them, Lee and
Nicholas Pulham, were found guilty of affray. On the more serious charge of
unlawful wounding the jury acquitted the brothers. They were sentenced to 200
and 150 hours community service respectively.

For more than a decade the NMP has catalogued, coordinated and organised against
racism. Meanwhile, Newham police statistics showed a 100 per cent increase in
racially motivated crime between 1990 and 1991. There was a further 5.5 per cent
rise in 1992 to 525; in Custom House, the figures doubled - to 40 - in the same
period. Few doubt that the numbers are an underestimate. Stark statistics are a
Newham boom industry.

The place has always been different. Before the Royal Victoria Docks opened in
1855 - the Albert followed in 1880 - the area, outside the City boundaries and
thus not subject to metropolitan byelaws, was already the home of "offensive
trades" like chemical production. In 1915 a disused Silvertown caustic soda
plant was converted to TNT purification. In January 1917 the factory blew up.
Some 73 people died, 94 were seriously injured and 900 houses were damaged. The
explosion was heard 100 miles away, the fire raged for two days. In 1994,
Newham's official unemployment - 20 per cent - is the sixth-highest in the
country, and the true figure is probably closer to 27 per cent. Infant and child
mortality are the highest in east London, life expectancy is lower, and wages
well below the average for the metropolis and England.

Yet Newham is a birthplace of British Labourism; where Keir Hardie was elected
the first Labour MP in 1892; where Labour briefly won power in 1898 and took the
councils for good in 1919; where Daisy Parsons, a working class suffragette,
became the first woman mayor in the 1920s; where Will Thorne led the Beckton gas
workers' epic 1889 strike, and went on to become an MP from 1906 through to
1945. "That's the trouble round here," a local historian tells me. "Too many
politicians stay around too long. The old ones were interested in socialism. I
don't really know what the younger ones are there for."

One night in the Labour Club on the Romford Road, I ask a group of councillors
and a Custom House candidate what they are there for. Socialism, they say as
always, even if in the 1980s the party got caught up in trendy issues. "We've
got to convince the disaffected working class we are rediscovering our roots,"
says Mike Brown. "We concentrated on the fringe issues," says the Custom House
candidate for this May, Tony Bloom.

But it has all changed, I suggest. I think about entering south Newham that day
down Silvertown Way, once "the Road to the Empire": a staggering vista of high
clouds, blue sky and the grim magnificence of vast 1940s warehouse blocks with
their guts spewing out, and cranes and concrete and geometric spaces of water
and roadworks stretching into infinity. "OK," says Mike Brown, "it isn't like
the 1930s and you can't talk about a proletariat as was. You have to talk about
people's interests. So look at south Newham. There has been a lot of money spent
- and the social structure has been torn apart."

"It was - is - the London Docklands Development Corporation's version of
docklands," says Bloom. "Classic social engineering and resentment to go with
it. There isn't a secondary school south of the A13."

"Housing and nothing else," adds Brown. "No play school, no youth club. Small
industries were frowned on, so they left.  It's not surprising people who are
seen as visibly different are a target."

JUDY JORSLING is a councillor, a mother of four, black, and lives near the
ferry. "Yes," she agrees, "there is bitterness, but warmth too. People pull
together, they can forget colour, rally round."

"Not always," says someone on the edge of the group.

"No, not always," she agrees.

Last year, that September election day on the Isle of Dogs - in neighbouring
Tower Hamlets - had been special, they agree.  The "shame and the blame", the
Daily Mirror's "SIEG HEIL" day.

"That night a lot of people wouldn't go out," says Bloom."

"It was scary," says Chris Rackley. "I wouldn't have taken my family to vote
that night, not with skinheads standing round on corners. So how did the
Bangladeshis feel?"

That was why I was there, of course. Because six months ago Millwall ward, Isle
of Dogs, elected a British National Party councillor. And because this May,
London in general and Millwall in particular go to the local election polls. And
because that day too, across a swathe of the East End, parliamentary
by-elections threaten unwelcome surprises.

"Most racial violence," Zahir observes, "is nothing to do with the BNP. Sure
their activists are involved, but the people could be Labour, Liberal, Tory. In
Newham I could point to a number of families who are Labour voters or whatever,
not active fascists, who are much worse than the BNP in terms of violence. Of
course the BNP feeds on it. And when they won in Millwall, we had five or six
youngsters standing outside the house of one of the main victims round here
shouting 'one nil, BNP', and probably they didn't even know what the initials
stand for."

He shrugs. "You're not talking just about evil skinheads with swastikas on their
foreheads - OK, there are some sitting in squats sniffing a bit of glue - but
there are also people living in an incredibly impoverished environment. South of
the A13 there is nothing. You've got the LDDC messing around with these great
and glorious buildings and you've got squalor - extreme contradictions."

The BNP doesn't really matter, I suggest to the councillors, going through the
litany; they're fascists, bad guys, violent, horrible, but they are a symptom,
concentrations of pus, because arteries, veins, support systems are dying.
Everyone nods agreement. Maybe we're all letting ourselves off.

SOON after Millwall, another local by-election was bathed in its afterglow. The
BNP's rival fascists in the National Front got a fifth of the vote in a ward
election in Sandwell, north of Birmingham.  The day I visit there are snowstorms
on the M5, and I get lost near Smethwick. I remember then. Stupid, I had
forgotten the place. Peter Griffiths had been the common-man Conservative who
toppled lacklustre Labour grandee Patrick Gordon-Walker at Smethwick in the 1964
General Election.

Harold Wilson announced that Griffiths would be a "Parliamentary leper". The
Tories had been accused of running a racist campaign and the slogan "if you want
a nigger for a neighbour vote Labour" received much publicity. Griffiths, after
his blip of notoriety, was subsequently defeated and emigrated to Portsmouth
North and obscurity.

Paul Jackson is the Labour agent covering Sandwell. Last November, two days
after the Sandwell Racial Equality Centre had been vandalised and daubed with NF
slogans, the electorate of Princes End ward presented 20 per cent of their vote
to the NF, which beat the Liberal Democrats into fourth place. Princes End is a
white working class ward with fewer than 100 black voters.

Labour retained the seat with a handsome majority which they worked for, says
Jackson. In some Black Country areas, he adds, fascists always pop up. In
Princes End he suspected the votes had come from disaffected Tories. Tipton
Green was popular with the BNP in '89 when Labour ran a Sikh candidate, who lost
twice. The fascists are around now and will be next May, he suspects. Then
Jackson talks about the clutch of local Sikh councillors and the pubs in West
Bromwich, Smethwick and Wednesbury with Sikh, Hindu and West Indian landlords,
and how people take it for granted and get on with their dominoes.

He rubs his nose. "It's unemployment that's crippling people. Go into the
estates and it's 27 per cent. This area is heavy industry, and in the last 10
years two big foundries - Patent Shaft and F H Lloyd - have closed. Those places
employed highly skilled engineers, right? I was talking to a bloke yesterday,
used to bore barrels for Chieftain tanks, now he drives odds and ends for the
local authority, and he's lucky. Half the time we aren't talking about people
hit by this slump, we're talking about people who never recovered from 1981. The
Shaft site is derelict and Lloyd's is Ikea, and good luck to them.  But those
jobs don't compensate for 20,000 in the steel industry."

ON THE Dogs, the spot where dockers used to congregate and hope for daily work
has become a heritage site, complete with explanation and fine sepia photograph.
There is no monument to the unknown docker accepting his Eighties redundancy
cheque.  In Newham Public Library's splendid, cramped history department I scan
a map of the 1961 waterfront, the landscape of George's youthful seafaring;
Standard Telephone, Tate & Lyle, James Keiler & Sons Marmalade, Prince Regent
Tar Company . . .

The ferry arcs south across the river into Woolwich proper. At the turn of the
century the south side fronted the Dust Hole, a horrific Victorian slum. Now it
is pedestrian precincts, a high-rise car park with drunks, brand new
"permanently closed" lavatories, the old and magnificent Royal Arsenal Co-op's
Central Stores - "each for all and all for each" - now a local council office,
and 15 people huddling outside a day-rented shop. Inside hustlers are selling
Game Boys ("under pounds 5") Walkmans ("under pounds 1") Sega Game Gear ("under
pounds 10") to rationed groups of the poor with tenners. A television monitor
files faces and deters robbers; a teenager fails to sell me a fake charity
raffle card for pounds 1.50, and watching her vanish down an alley, I feel cheap
and mean.

This is deindustrialising Britain; this is what Bevin did not anticipate. A sign
points to Thamesmead, where Stanley Kubrick shot A Clockwork Orange. The
director is a man with a sardonic eye. He filmed Vietnam's Battle of Hue for
Full Metal Jacket at Beckton gas works. I descend into the Victorian foot tunnel
back under the Thames.

George paid pounds 45 a week for a room in Canning Town but, because they had
taken the slates off the roof and it was leaking, he has just moved to North
Woolwich. He finally came ashore on November 22, 1982 after he thumped the
captain who had called him something he didn't like. "I had to go up before a
committee," he says. "That was it. And now I couldn't go back, there's nothing
to go back to, is there?" So he went into security in Beckton, "old buildings
full of contamination" - furnaces, he confides improbably, left over from the
Great Plague.

ERNEST BEVIN was 13 when he quit farm labouring for casual work in Bristol. By
1910 he was a local full-timer with the Dockers Union that had been born out of
the great 1889 strike.

Haroon Saad, a doctor, is a Labour councillor representing a ward that takes in
St Paul's and the most concentrated poverty in Bristol which coexists alongside
1980s gentrification. "Drive in one way and the place is beautiful," he says as
we join City Road, BS2. "Come the other and it hits you."

Few people are on the streets because, says the doctor, people won't walk around
here when it gets dark and they aren't too keen in the daytime either. Racial
violence hasn't increased markedly in St Paul's but it has across Bristol.

"Twenty-nine cases in 1992, and 55 in 1993," he says. "Mind you, I suspect a lot
isn't reported. The majority of the cases are in the white areas, the outer
council estates and an increasing number of racial attacks on mixed marriages."
As Bristol struggles to upgrade housing, poorly housed black - and white -
families are moved on to the metropolitan perimeter. It is there, he suggests,
that violence flares.

No, he adds, there is neglible BNP activity in the city and yes, Newham's
Hossein Zahir is right; you don't need a card from the fascists to engage in
racist violence. "It's young people putting into action what their parents
think. We live in a racist environment." He pauses. "Look, I don't know of any
black councillor in a white, Labour-held ward." We had met in the council
building, a monument to enlightened Thirties corporatism and postwar recovery.
In its magnificent reception hall there is, among the paintings of great Bristol
ships, a splendid little model of a sailing vessel, the Seringapam. Such ships,
explains a note, traded particularly to "the west coast of Africa, the West
Indies and eastern America," where "Bristol had established particularly strong
trade links . . . which for a time maintained the port's position as the premier
British port outside London." The note doesn't mention the key side in that
infernal triangle, the source of the fortunes that built the Seringapams,
Bristol and the stately homes of old England - the slave business.

ON THE Isle of Dogs soon after the BNP won its election I talk to Luay, a Kenyan
sailor who settled there after leaving the sea, took a shortlived job in the
docks and is now out of work. Islanders, he says, generally didn't like
outsiders, black or white. "Now instead of the docks, I'm in the Dogs," he
smiles. "And there's too much time, for me, for them." Now he will never drink
on the island - too much trouble.

"They don't like anyone," says Ted Johns, a Labour councillor in the Sixties and
now a prime mover behind radical protest across three decades on the Dogs.
"It's true, it is the last Cockney village and the East End is a series of
distinct villages. They almost prided themselves there were no Jews in Poplar,
and that was under George Lansbury. People talk about the East End as a
melting-pot. That's easily said by apologists who don't want to do anything.
It's a boiling cauldron, and every group which arrives here has to fight its
corner. My grandfather, my mother's father, was London Irish. Soon as he moved
down to Limehouse he had bricks thrown through his window."

NOWADAYS, a recent Asian arrival told me, she got the stones, but phone calls as
well. Sometimes it was a recorded message.  "For your convenience and safety,
please leave the Isle of Dogs. For your convenience . . ."

"There's too much political correctness," a guy called Graham tells me in a pub
on the Dogs. "They don't mind being called Pakis, they call each other Pakis.
What I object to is when the school dinners had to be halal . . ."

We stare at each other.

"They built Batman's Gotham here at Canary Wharf and there was less public
consultation than there would be for building a fish shop in Cheltenham," says
Johns. "My father fought in Spain, and this is ironic really because where we
are now, things happen you can do nothing about. We live under Falangism. Then,
the day after a Nazi - who can't put two words together - was elected, the
streets were swarming with TV crews and Michael Howard. A month after, Tower
Hamlets gets a pounds 14 million cut from the Department of the Environment. Two
million of that was off the social budget for areas of high ethnic population.
One minute we've got this wonderful East End spirit, the next we're all
racists."

He lights another cigarette. "The BNP carried this area because they put forward
a radical solution - "the blacks caused it, it's their fault" - at least they
said something, whereas everybody else, including me to an extent, did not.
Labour has failed the people of this island, and I feel angry and ashamed about
that."

After the BNP victory came the recriminations, the Liberal Democrats'
investigation into the Tower Hamlets party and divisions within Labour. Briefly
Johns proposed to run as "East London People's Alliance candidate this May, thus
splitting the left vote. But because "the real issue is that we've got to beat
the fascists", he will back Labour, and return to community activism. "Maybe,"
he suggests, "it has finally struck home that beyond party politics there is
real politics.  There are real issues to fight about here. For years."

We go outside. It is a beautiful day. Johns's 1980 council house, among the last
built, is opposite a walled-off private development; the East End's Ossies and
Wessies. The view from the footpath is across the Thames to the palace at
Greenwich.  The route is a right of way, explains the councillor, but a wall got
built across it where the private housing began. They complained, but nothing
was done. "Then one night," he says, "there was this great wind that swept the
wall away. Amazing wasn't it? You can still see the bricks on the shore at low
tide."

AFTER Beckton's plague furnaces, and before the Royal Pavilion, George got a
security job at Canary Wharf. "I met one of the Canadian brothers who built it,
the Reichmanns."

It went broke, I say.

"Yeah. I called him Kojak because he looked like Yul Brynner. People would nick
everything. I found a forklift in a chip shop once. The owner offered me a
reward, but I wouldn't take it: 'That's my job,' I said. People hated me, I was
too tough.  I left when I had a bit of a problem with the company. They wanted
me to train up a replacement. Well, it wasn't right."

I leave George. Down the road where Standard Telegraph once was, British Telecom
International's spectacular white satellite dishes target west and south. Next
door, outside the Edwardian railway station museum, two steam boilers rust in
the rain.


LOAD-DATE: March 19, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              316 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                            March 19, 1994, Saturday

SECTION: WWW

LENGTH: 1270 words


Weather forecasts for 6 pm today to 6 pm tomorrow England and Wales will be
mainly dry at first with clear periods. However, cloudy weather with outbreaks
of rain will later reach the south-west and many parts of Wales, the Midlands
and southern England will become cloudy later. Northern and eastern counties
will remain mostly dry with sunny intervals. Northern Ireland will be mainly dry
with clear or sunny spells. Scotland will have clear or sunny intervals and
sleet or snow showers. Snow showers will be most frequent and heaviest in
northern Scotland, while in south and south-east Scotland it will be mostly dry
with more in the way of sunshine.  Outlook for the following 48 hours: Most
northern and eastern areas will start dry, bright and frosty but rain and warmer
weather in the south will spread to all parts District forecasts:
1,2,4,5,7,10,11. Mainly dry, frosty, clear or sunny intervals, but cloudy later.
Wind mostly westerly, light or moderate, max 9c (48f).  3,6,16,17,18. Mainly
dry, frost, clear or sunny periods, a few wintry showers. Wind west to
north-westerly, fresh or strong, max 7c (45f).  8,9. Mainly cloudy, outbreaks of
rain, especially later. Wind variable, light or moderate, max 10c (50f).
12,13,14,15,20,21,29. Clear or sunny spells, but with some wintry showers.
Frost, wind mainly westerly, moderate, locally fresh. Max 8c (46f).
19,22,23,24,27,28. Brief clear or sunny intervals, frost, frequent snow showers,
some heavy, wind mostly north-westerly, mainly light, becoming fresh to strong.
Max 4c (39f).  25,26. Clear or sunny intervals, scattered snow showers, locally
heavy. Wind west to north-westerly, moderate or fresh. Max 5c (41f).

An Algerian policeman who nodded off while on guard at the Moroccan ambassador's
residence in Algiers accidentally shot dead a colleague who woke him, a
diplomatic source said in Rabat today.  The policeman, asleep with his finger on
the trigger of his Kalashnikov assault rifle, awoke with a start and fearing an
attack shot his colleague by mistake, the source added.  "Surprised by the
sudden call and apparently afraid of a terrorist attack, the policeman
accidentally shot his colleague dead," the diplomat told Reuters by telephone.
The policeman was released after an investigation but was no longer employed at
the residence, the source added.

DENTAL CLEAN-UP FOR NOTRE-DAME Pioneering French restorers turned a dentist's
laser gun on the gnarled facade of Notre-Dame cathedral in Paris today at the
start of a three-year restoration of a monument eroded by pollution.  On
windswept scaffolding high above the capital, the gun's French creators said
their invention was likely to be used soon on the Parthenon in Athens, Venice
churches and other ancient monuments.  Demonstrating the tool on the 13th
century portals of the Paris landmark, a restorer fired an invisible infrared
beam at a shoulder-high statue of a woman clothed in drapery.  With a rattle
that sounded like a machine gun, a tiny red spot played on her figure, reducing
the accumulated grime to puffs of dust and leaving the sand-coloured stone
intact.

RHINO HORN PRINCESS FACES PRISON A Taiwan court sentenced a Bhutanese princess
to 10 months in prison today for attempting to smuggle 22 rhino horns into
Taiwan last year, state television said.  Princess Dekiy Wangchuck, 43, who is
free on bail, did not show up at the district court in the northern county of
Taoyuan for the sentencing. It was not immediately known if she would appeal
against the verdict.  She could have been sentenced to up to one year in prison
for violating the island's conservation laws. She was arrested last September
while trying to smuggle 31 lb of rhino horn and nine bears' gallbladders into
the island from Hong Kong in her luggage.

VLADIMIR THE FASCIST Calling Vladimir Zhirinovsky a fascist is no insult, a
local court in the Russian city of Vologda has ruled.  The newspaper Izvestia
said today that a court threw out a lawsuit filed by the head of the local
branch of Zhirinovsky's Liberal Democratic Party against an expert on German
history who called the party "pro-fascist." The historian, Yuri Nekrasov, also
compared Zhirinovsky's election campaign to that of Adolf Hitler's in 1933.
Meanwhile, a branch of the party in the Black Sea resort town of Anapa announced
plans to erect a statue of Zhirinovsky in front of a monument to Soviet founder
Vladimir Lenin, the Kubansky Courier newspaper reported.  Reuter/AP pes


A South African wildlife group today launched an appeal to the government and
foreign countries to stop the export of hundreds of thousands of monkeys yearly
for pharmaceutical and scientific experiments.  Bob Venter of the Vervet
Foundation said South African baboons and vervet monkeys were being decimated
because of growing international demand and that they should be protected by
strict conservation laws.  "Laws must be changed so that vervets and other
primates in South Africa become protected under the National Conservation Laws
and Ordinances," he told a news conference in Johannesburg.  He estimated there
was a £54 million industry in exporting more than 275,000 primates yearly from
South Africa, the majority of them vervets.  Many went to laboratories in
Britain, the United States, Germany, France and New Zealand to be used in
experiments.

RIGHT STOP FOR SEX PEST A Madrid bus driver, with the approval of his 20
passengers, took a little detour to the police station to drop off a man who had
been molesting several women, police said today.  One victim said she and her
father had set a trap for the 54-year-old man, who for three days running had
taken a seat behind her and caressed her buttocks.  When she changed seats he
did the same to two other female passengers. The man was released pending a
court appearance.  OLIVER NORTH PLANE CRASHES A plane chartered by US Senate
candidate Oliver North crashed today on the way to an airport to pick him up.
The pilot, a friend of North - key figure in the Iran-Contra scandal - was
killed. He was the only one on the twin-engine plane when it crashed while
trying to land at Winchester Regional airport in northwest Virginia.  The plane
came to rest about a quarter-mile from the airport in a front yard, scattering
North campaign posters around the wreckage. The craft, a Swearingen Merlin IIIA,
clipped some trees before going down, witnesses said.

SINKING SAVINGS The average Japanese family's savings fell last year for the
first time in 31 years - in an indication that the nation's prolonged economic
slump has finally begun hurting typical households.  The average family had
£96,800 in savings at the end of 1993, 2.5% less than a year earlier, the Prime
Minister's Office reported Friday.  It was the first decline in average
household savings since 1962, an official in the Prime Minister's Office said.
The typical family's nest egg had grown by 4.9 percent in 1992.  Japanese have
one of the highest saving rates in the world. In 1990 the average family saved
14.1% of its income, compared to 12.2% in France, 7.3% in the United States, and
4.9% in Britain, according to the Bank of Japan.

CUBA JET CRASH KILLS PILOTS Two Cuban air force pilots were killed when their
Soviet-built MiG-23 fighter crashed during a training flight ineastern Cuba, the
Armed Forces Ministry said today.  The plane, from a base at Holguin, crashed
yesterday while engaged in a complicated exercise, said a ministry statement
published by Granma, the official daily of the ruling Communist Party. Both
pilots were 30 years old.  Reuter/AP pes


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1994 The Press Association Limited

                              317 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                            March 19, 1994, Saturday

THAT WAS THE WEEK

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 698 words


Some of the headlines you may have missed while away on holiday or business.
Sunday March 13 - Saturday March 19 BRITAIN ...Defence Secretary Malcolm Rifkind
faced a barrage of new demands to put troops in and around Heathrow in the wake
of the third terrorist mortar attack on the airport in five days. Closure of
Heathrow and Gatwick by hoax warnings was followed by an IRA demand for new
talks between republicans an the Government, but the Government insisted there
would be no negotiations with Sinn Fein until the IRA end their campaign of
violence permanently.

...Sir Peter Harding, Chief of the Defence Staff, resigned after allegations of
an affair with the Spanish former wife of an ex-Tory defence minister. General
Sir Peter Inge was appointed in his place.

...A TV commercial poking fun at former Chancellor Norman Lamont's embarrassment
over alleged credit card bills was banned by TV watchdogs. The Visa Delta
advertisement featured another former Chancellor, Denis Healey, but did not
refer to Mr Lamont by name.

...Shoplifter Andrew Bray was jailed for five years for killing a schoolboy
supermarket worker who chased him. The sentence for the manslaughter of teenager
Jonathan Roberts is to be studied by the Attorney General to see if it should be
referred to the Court of Appeal as unduly lenient.

...Builder Frederick West was charged with the murder of a teenager who went
missing from her Worcester home nearly 20 years ago. The charge relates to the
discovery of a ninth set of human remains at West's Gloucester home.

...Two midwives who helped deliver a baby in a birthing pool after the mother
refused to get out of the water lost their appeal against disciplinary action.

...A childminder has the right to smack children in her care, a High Court judge
ruled in a test case.

...Veteran broadcaster Jack Hargreaves, former presenter of Southern
Television's Out of Town and How?, died from cancer, aged 82.

ECONOMY ...The Government was sent mixed signals about the economic recovery
with figures showing that unemployment started to fall again in February while
consumers cut back on spending ahead of April's tax rises.

...BT is to "sharply reduce" the number of its managers - and warned of
compulsory redundancies.

...Up to 600 jobs are to go at high street giants W H Smith as part of a major
management restructuring plan throughout the group's network of more than 500
stores.

...Plans for a £74 million ferry terminal between Britain and Ireland which is
expected to create 2,170 jobs on Merseyside were unveiled.

OVERSEAS ...UN military observers protected by Nato warplanes braved blistering
Serb artillery fire to get into the besieged Bosnian Muslim town of Maglaj, and
UN commander Lt General Sir Michael Rose flew into Tuzla aboard the first plane
to land there for almost two years.

...Prime Minister visited scenes of some of the most savage fighting during
Bosnia's bloody civil war, including Sarajevo and Vitez, and announced a £12
million package of immediate aid for Bosnia.

...The threat of closure hanging over the debt-laden Euro Disney theme park
appeared to have been lifted as a financial restructuring plan was revealed.

...A fiery collision between an oil tanker and a freighter in Istanbul's Black
Sea entrance to the Bosphorus killed 11 seamen and injured 28.

...Webster Hubbell, America's Associate Attorney-General and a former law
partner of First Lady Hillary Clinton, is to resign, Justice Department
officials said.

...Seven US airmen were killed off Kenya after their AC-130 plane crashed in
flames en route to Somalia.

...A massive search was going on for a British Army commando team missing for
almost two weeks in the dense jungles around South East Asia's highest peak.

SPORT ...Viv Richards brought the curtain down on a glorious cricketing career
when the former West Indies captain announced that he is retiring from all
competition and will pursue a job outside the game.

...A Welsh rugby fan climbed a ladder and stripped all the slates off his roof -
so he could sell them to go to Twickenham for the Grand Slam decider between
England and Wales.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1994 The Press Association Limited

                              318 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             March 21, 1994, Monday

Dublin tries to coax IRA towards a ceasefire

BYLINE: DAVID MCKITTRICK, Ireland Correspondent

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Page 1

LENGTH: 685 words


THE IRISH government has launched a potentially dramatic initiative by holding
out the prospect that it will respond positively to any IRA move towards a
temporary ceasefire.

Dublin wants to break the deadlock between the British government, which refuses
to negotiate with the IRA until it lays down its arms, and the republicans, who
hold out no prospect of an early permanent end to violence.

While Dublin remains adamant that there can be no actual negotiations with Sinn
Fein or the IRA before a permanent cessation, Dick Spring, the Irish Foreign
Minister, has declared: ''If they offer a temporary ceasefire we will want to
find a way of building on that without making any concessions to them.''

The initial reaction from Sinn Fein was one of interest, a senior spokesman
commenting: ''It is an opening up of the whole peace scenario and it is to be
welcomed, and it is to be explored and built upon.''

Until now Dublin, like London, has stipulated that what it wants from the IRA is
a complete end to its campaign. This is still clearly the ultimate objective,
but Dublin is lowering its sights.

Until very recently Irish ministers hoped for a positive response to the Downing
Street declaration and believed a total cessation could be in prospect. That
illusion was shattered by the Heathrow mortar attacks and other acts of IRA
violence, including the downing of a helicopter in south Armagh at the weekend.

Dublin ministers have clearly taken stock and accepted that peace is not
imminent. But they appear to be holding to the analysis that a substantial
section of the republican movement is genuinely interested in peace and is to be
encouraged.

The constitutional Irish nationalist establishment has invested much political
capital in the belief that Gerry Adams, the Sinn Fein president, is sincere in
saying he wants peace. Mr Adams has been taken at his word by the Irish
government, by John Hume, the SDLP leader, and by the Catholic primate of all
Ireland, Cardinal Cahal Daly.

But it is now accepted the path is longer and more tortuous than had been hoped,
as Mr Spring indicated in an interview with a new left-wing quarterly, New
Century. He spoke of a slow and painful process, adding: ''I see violence
withering away rather than being guillotined.''

There is a recent precedent for the idea of a temporary ceasefire. Last year the
IRA agreed, during the secret contacts with the British government, to halt
violence for 10 days to allow face-to-face talks with government officials, but
that did not happen.

The IRA is nervous about temporary ceasefires, believing its leaders in the
1970s were duped by Britain into downing their arms. But it is now intertwining
violence and political activity, and a tactical ceasefire cannot be ruled out.

The Democratic Unionist party deputy leader, Peter Robinson, claimed Mr Spring's
remarks signalled that Dublin was prepared to sit down with Sinn Fein if the IRA
announced a temporary ceasefire.

But Mr Spring told Irish radio that was not a right reading of his remarks. He
added: ''It doesn't look as though Sinn Fein-IRA are prepared to make the
ultimate decision to give up violence . . . . It looks like they are inching
away from violence in certain respects and that they may well be doing that over
a period of months.

''Now, if they were to declare a ceasefire then obviously the government would
want to build on that, and we would want to encourage . . . a permanent
cessation of violence, and we would welcome a ceasefire as a step in the right

direction.''

News of Mr Spring's interview came hours after an IRA mortar brought down an
army helicopter on Saturday night. Security at the joint army- RUC base in
Crossmaglen, south Armagh, is being reviewed. An RUC officer was seriously
injured but the three military crew were unhurt. The helicopter was hovering at
about 100 feet (30 metres) during landing manoeuvres when it was hit in the tail
by a mortar round fired from a tractor parked 150 yards away. It fell into the
base and caught fire.

Leading article, page 15


LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1994 Independent Print Ltd

                              319 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                             March 21, 1994, Monday

00 WEDNESDAY, MARCH 23

SECTION: TTD

LENGTH: 579 words


01 SCOTTISH 02 5.30 ITN MORNING NEWS 02 6.00 GMTV 03 Magazine, with medical
advice and TV previews. With Cybill Shepherd.  02 9.25 WIN, LOSE OR DRAW 03
Quick-draw game show. (S) 02 9.55 SCOTLAND TODAY 03 Followed by Morning Call
(T).  02 10.00 THE TIME, THE PLACE 03 Topical debate, hosted by John Stapleton.
02 10.35 THIS MORNING 03 Rosemary Conley presents beauty and exercise tips, and
Loyd Grossman finds out what Britain's top chefs cook in their own kitchens.  02
12.20 SCOTLAND TODAY 02 12.25 TELEFIOS 03 The main news stories in Gaelic.  02
12.30 ITN LUNCHTIME NEWS (T) 03 Followed by Weather.  02 12.55 SCOTLAND TODAY 02
1.20 CORONATION STREET 03 Derek and Norris test their sales pitch. Shown Monday.
(R) (T) 02 1.50 HOME AND AWAY 03 Kevin is forced to abseil down the local
lighthouse. (T) 02 2.25 SCOTTISH PARLIAMENTARY QUESTION TIME 03 Live debate on
Scottish issues from the House of Commons.  02 3.20 ITN NEWS HEADLINES (T) 02
3.25 SCOTLAND TODAY 02 3.30 CHILDREN'S ITV 03 starting with Tots TV. Tilly tells
a story about three mischievous imps.  (R) (S) 02 3.40 THE RIDDLERS 03 The
puppets visit Beamish where Mossop finds a large hole. (R) 02 3.50 THE
ADVENTURES OF GRADY GREENSPACE 03 Spike is hypnotised by a poacher.  02 4.05
SCOOBY DOO 03 A ferocious tiger attacks Shaggy. (R) 02 4.15 TERROR TOWERS 03
Plucky contestants from Exeter and Edinburgh take part in the spooky game show.
(S) 02 4.45 TINY TOON ADVENTURES 03 Crazy cartoon fun.  02 5.10 CHART BITE 03
New series. The best-selling singles.  02 5.40 ITN EARLY EVENING NEWS (T) 03
Followed by Weather.  02 6.00 HOME AND AWAY 03 Kevin is forced to abseil down
the local lighthouse. (T) 02 6.30 SCOTLAND TODAY 03 Followed by Weather.  02
7.00 MACHAIR 03 Fiona is furious with her mother, and Fionnlagh and Charlotte
reveal their relationship. (S) 02 7.30 CORONATION STREET 03 Bernard has
something to tell Emily, and Maud is burgled. Sarah Louise arrives home from
hospital, while Raquel leaves for her modelling job. (T) 02 8.00 FILM: THE JEWEL
OF THE NILE (1985) 03 Michael Douglas and Kathleen Turner reprise the roles they
created in Romancing the Stone, this time teaming up to search for a precious
gem in the Middle East. Action comedy sequel, also starring Danny DeVito and
Spiros Focas.  (T) 02 10.00 NEWS AT TEN (T) 03 Followed by Weather.  02 10.30 AN
APPEAL FOR FORMER YUGOSLAVIA 02 10.35 FILM: LOVERBOY (1989) 03 Comedy about a
student (Patrick Dempsey) who takes a job as a pizza delivery boy and gets
involved with several sexually frustrated Beverly Hills housewives. Also
starring Kate Jackson, Kirstie Alley, Carrie Fisher and Barbara Carrera. (S) 02
12.20 SCOTLAND TODAY AND WEATHER 03 Followed by Evening Call (T).  02 12.35
SCOTTISH PARLIAMENTARY QUESTION TIME 03 Live from the House of Commons. Shown
earlier. (R) 02 1.05 SPORT AM 03 International action highlights.  02 2.05 THE
ALBUM SHOW 03 Chart rundown, hosted by Lynn Parsons. (S) 02 3.05 AMERICA'S TOP
10 03 Music charts from USA. (S) 02 3.35 CINEMA, CINEMA, CINEMA 03 Movie news
and reviews. (R) 02 4.00 MOVIES, GAMES AND VIDEOS 03 Reviews of The House of
Spirits, starring Glenn Close and Meryl Streep, and the video release of Dennis.
(R) 02 4.30 SCOTTISH PASSPORT 03 Katie Wood travels to the Far East to see
what's on offer in Thailand, and Bryan Burnett referees the great
Glasgow-Edinburgh contest. (R) 02 5.00 SCOTTISH QUESTIONS 03 A look behind the
week's political headlines. (R) 02 5.25 SCOTLAND TODAY

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1994 The Press Association Limited

                              320 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                             March 27, 1994, Sunday

'SILENT TWIN' FREED

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 716 words


The surviving member of the "silent twins" - two sisters who spoke only to each
other and who were both jailed for arson - is enjoying her first taste of
freedom for 12 years.  June Gibbons, 30, has been discharged from a secure
psychiatric hospital in Wales where she had spent the past year and where her
sister, Jennifer, died.  The twins were sent to Broadmoor in 1982 after carrying
out a six-week spree of arson attacks on empty buildings.  They became known as
the "silent twins" at the age of three because of their pact to speak to no-one
but each other.  June is now living with her family in south Wales and is
planning to go to college and develop her writing skills.

NEWSMAN DIES Charles Chamberlain, an Associated Press newsman for 43 years, who
covered everything from sports to the Allied victory in the Secon World War, has
died in Osprey, Florida, of emphysema at the age of 77.  For decades,
Chamberlain's byline was a fixture on AP wires. He was best known for features
that, as one AP bureau chief once put it, "made people laugh a little or cry a
little".  "Charlie was the consummate professional, a highly respected writer
and editor," said Jim Wilson, AP chief of bureau in Chicago. "Even more
important than that, he was a gentleman."

GRIMEBUSTER Jet, star of TV's The Gladiators, will turn grimebuster next week
when he launches the Tidy Britain Clean-Up Challenge 1994 in Glasgow - by power
washing the city's George Square.

JULIE'S TRIBUTE Julie Andrews was alive with the sound of music again this
weekend as she recorded a tribute to composer Richard Rodgers.  She was back in
Britain recording a few of her favourite things from the Rodgers songbook,
including The Sound Of Music, My Funny Valentine and Edelweiss. The album is to
be released by Phillips later this year.  "It is lovely to be back in England
and especially to record such beautiful songs as these," she said at a studio in
Wembley.

CRISP BACKTRACK A teenage girl sent home from school because she refused to pick
up someone else's crisp bag is to be allowed back into class. Kerry Maguire, 15,
was ordered to pick up the discarded litter by John Strand, head of Thamesview
grant-maintained school in Gravesend, Kent.  She refused saying she had not
thrown it down, and was sent home.  Her father Bill, 44, said: "I had a meeting
with the head and governors and they told me I had to sign a piece of paper
saying Kerry has to obey all orders from teachers.  "I agreed with that, but I
have had written in a clause saying those orders must not include picking up
litter or rubbish." No-one at the school was available for comment.

ELEGANCE COMEBACK Declaring that elegance is making a comeback, international
fashion authorities have released their annual best-dressed lists in New York,
which included actors, socialites and a healthy dose of royalty.  The women
honoured for 1994 include actress Sharon Stone, talk show host Joan Rivers and
New York socialite Anne Bass.  The annual list, formulated by fashion consultant
Eleanor Lambert, has been issued every year since 1940.  European nobility,
which presumably has plenty of time to think about what to wear, was well
represented.  Princess Caroline of Monaco, Viscountess Linley and Harumi
Klossowski, daughter of painter Count Balthazar Klossowski, were on the list.

TRIAL DEATH One of five members of the same family awaiting trial after a series
of IRA bombings has died.  Building worker Bernard McNulty, 49, who was on bail,
was due to appear at the Old Bailey accused of withholding information about
terrorist attacks on Tyneside last year.  It is understood he died as a result
of a heart attack at his home in Falmouth Road, North Shields, Tyne and Wear.  A
Northumbria Police spokesman said the charge against him under the Prevention of
Terrorism Act "will obviously be withdrawn now".  Mr McNulty and four other
members of his family were charged after police investigations into IRA attacks
on a disused oil terminal at North Shields in April and June and a gas depot at
Gateshead, also in June.

TODAY'S BIRTHDAYS Lord Callaghan, former Labour Prime Minister, 82; Julian
Glover, actor, 59; Michael York, actor, 52; Maria Ewing, mezzo-soprano, 44;
Mstislav Rostropovich, cellist and conductor, 67.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1994 The Press Association Limited

                              321 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                           March 30, 1994, Wednesday

TOMORROW IN PARLIAMENT

SECTION: PARLIMENTARY NEWS

LENGTH: 1515 words


Commons: 9.30am Short backbench debates:
    Facilities for the disabled in Wales, opened by Gareth Wardle (Lab Gower).
    Channel Tunnel rail link voluntary purchase scheme - Sir John Stanley (C
Tonbridge and Malling).
    Treatment of asylum seekers in the UK - Jeremy Corbyn (Lab Islington N).
    Child Support Agency - Sir Fergus Montgomery (C Altrincham and Sale).
    Impact of water bills on the South West - Matthew Taylor (Lib Dem Truro).
    Role of the Commonwealth - Cyril Townsend (C Bexleyheath).
    Benefits of Greenwich Mean Time - Kate Hoey (Lab Vauxhall).
    Prevention of racism and anti-semitism - John Marshall (C Hendon S).
    Ministerial accountability to Parliament - Andrew MacKinlay (Lab Thurrock).
Lords: 11am
    National Parks Bill, committee stage. Lord Norrie (C) and junior environment
minister the Earl of Arran.
    Debate on merger of Countryside Commission and English Nature. Lord
Marlesford (C) and Lord Arran.  Both Houses rise tomorrow for the Easter break.
The Commons returns on Tuesday, April 12, and the Lords on Monday, April 11.

On the eve of a new show of force by students, French conservative Prime
Minister Edouard Balladur scrapped his plan to pay youth less than the minimum
wage.  Complete withdrawal of the plan, already suspended on Monday for a week
pending negotiations, was another retreat by Balladur on austerity policies amid
widespread demonstrations.  Farmers, airline employees and fishermen have also
forced concessions from Balladur since he came to power a year ago after
crushing the Socialists in legislative elections.  The youth wage plan, aimed at
fighting 25% youth unemployment, would allow employers to pay 80% of minimum
wage to people under 25 if at least 20% of the hours were spent on training.

MOSCOW BLAST One person was killed and five wounded when a bomb exploded in a
Zhiguli car parked less than a mile from President Boris Yeltsin's new Moscow
apartment, officials said.  The explosion was believed to be a criminal attack
rather than an act of political terrorism, news reports said.  Yeltsin's
official residence is in the Kremlin and he now lives with his family at the
presidential country house not far from Moscow. Yeltsin's family is supposed to
move into the Krylatskoye apartment soon.

DEMOCRAT DIES William Natcher, a Democrat who earned a place in the Guiness Book
of World Records for his unbroken string of 18,401 votes in the US Congress, has
died of heart failure at age 84.  His record 40-year string of consecutive floor
votes ended on March 3 when his failing health prevented him from reaching the
Capitol. A day earlier, he was wheeled onto the House floor on a hospital
trolley for what would be his final vote, hooked to oxygen and intravenous
tubes.  In 40 years on Capitol Hill, he never took a campaign contribution,
filmed a political advertisement or even hired a Press secretary. He gave
interviews once in a blue moon.

ROCKET DEAL India has signed a new agreement to buy rocket engines from Russia's
commercial space organisation after an earlier deal fell through under pressure
from the United States.  The original £220 million deal with Russia's
Glavkosmos, to buy two engines plus rocket technology, was suspended last
September after the US threatened sanctions against Russia saying the deal
breached arms technology controls.  The new deal, which does not include the
technology, is for seven engines to launch Indian satellites into orbit.
Reuter/AP rm

Pope John Paul will address the United Nations General Assembly in New York in
October during a three-day visit to the United States, Roman Catholic church
sources said.  They said the visit would also include stops in Baltimore and
Newark, New Jersey. It will be the Pope's sixth visit to the United States since
his election in 1978.  The Pope's address to the General Assembly will be on the
theme of the family, the sources said.

CYCLONE APPEAL Mozambique appealed for world help 1.5 million people left
homeless when Cyclone Nadia laid waste to the northern province of Nampula last
week.  Local reports said the known death toll was at least 34. The British
ambassador who was in the area when the cyclone struck said temporary shelters,
medicines and food were needed.  The British embassy said Britain was supplying
£250,000 worth of emergency medical supplies, building materials, electricity
generators and other equipment.

WARMING UP The United States said today it will scrap Cold War export controls
on shipments of most telecommunications equipment and computers to China and the
former Soviet bloc.  The move could mean billions of dollars in extra business
for US companies.  The move, which takes effect tomorrow, follows US agreement
with its allies to end the Cold War "Cocom" regime that placed strict limits on
exports to the West's former communist foes.

SHRINKING LAKE Global warming in the past three decades has dried up 90% of Lake
Chad, one of central Africa's most important sources of water, a Nigerian expert
said.  Water Resources Minister Issa Mohammed, speaking at an international
conference on the effects of climatic changes on energy development, said the
lake has shrunk from 10,400 square miles in 1962 to just 1,000 square miles.
The marshy, reed-filled lake also is in the direct line of the advancing Sahara
Desert. It provides a livelihood for several million fishermen and farmers in
Chad, Niger and Nigeria.

DEAD DOLPHINS Scores of dead dolphins have been washing up on Texas Gulf Coast
beaches, causing alarm among scientists.  They have ruled out that the dolphins
died after either becoming entangled in commercial fishing nets or from toxic
spills, but they have yet to determined the cause.  Reuter/AP

A star player from the Cuban national soccer team requested and was denied
asylum in Grand Cayman, and his whereabouts are now unknown, authorities said
today.  Immigration officials refused comment on whether Noel Arguelles was in
their custody, had been returned to his communist-ruled homeland or was still at
large in the Cayman Islands.  Goalkeeper Arguelles, in the Caymans for a series
of friendly matches, is a 14-year veteran of the Cuban national team, and has
reportedly been offered a multi-million pound contract to play in Europe.  He
tried to defect yesterday but was turned down by the government of the British
Caribbean territory.  Internal Security Minister Lem Hurlston said the request
for political asylum would not be honoured, and said he did not know where the
player was last night.

MUSLIM REBELS BLAMED FOR TRAIN BOMB A powerful bomb, said by police to be the
work of Muslim separatists, caused a passenger train to derail in southern
Thailand today, causing minor injuries to 10 passengers.  All 15 carriages
skewed off the rails against a hillside when the train, bound for the Malaysian
border town of Sungai Kolo, ran over and detonated the home-made bomb near Chana
in Songkhla province, police said.

PANCHO VILLA'S DAUGHTER DIES Micaela Villa, a daughter of Mexican revolutionary
hero General Francisco "Pancho" Villa, has died in in United States at age 83.
She died Sunday in the Robert Wood Johnson Health Centre in Plainfield, New
Jersey.  Micaela Villa was born in Chihuahua, and grew up in a hacienda given to
her father by the Mexican government. She married twice and had lived in the US
since 1973.


Former US Secretary of State Henry Kissinger said that the brand of fascism
popular in the 1920s and 1930s could resurface unless democracies learn to solve
their problems.  Kissinger made his remarks as he shared the stage with former
French President Valery Giscard d'Estaing in Paris marking the bicentennial of
L'Ecole Polytechnique, the international scientific academy in France.  The two
talked of the political climate in the world's democracies and noted that the
situation varies widely, and that not all are stable.  "A kind of Caesarism will
come out when problems aren't solved," Kissinger said, noting that people accept
dramatic changes in government after years of misery.  D'Estaing said people in
democracies that seem to work well have to accept that some nations may develop
democracies that differ from their values.

LEADING LADY Six years after The Players admitted its first woman member, the
prestigious New York theatre club has selected its first woman president:
British actress Lynn Redgrave.  "I want to be able to help spread the word that
live theatre is special," said Miss Redgrave, whose selection was announced
yesterday.  Miss Redgrave, from a distinguished theatrical family that includes
her late father, Sir Michael, and sister Vanessa is the club's 11th president
since it was founded by Shakespearean actor Edwin Booth in 1888.  For a century,
The Players was strictly a men's club until Helen Hayes joined in 1988. Current
members include Dixie Carter, James Earl Jones, Kevin Kline, Jack Lemmon,
Gregory Peck and Jason Robards.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1994 The Press Association Limited

                              322 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            March 31, 1994, Thursday

Ceasefire aims to cut pressure on Sinn Fein; Next week's truce may be seen as a
cynical ploy but it is a ground-breaking move for republicans. David McKittrick
reports

BYLINE: DAVID MCKITTRICK

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 2

LENGTH: 791 words


If past experience is anything to go by, next week's three-day ceasefire will be
both preceded and succeeded by waves of activity to make the point that the IRA
can turn violence on and off like a tap.

People may well die before it takes effect and after it has ended, as the
terrorists employ their cynical strategy of using killings and destruction to
advance their political aims. And the fact that it will last only 72 hours will
come as a blow to those optimists who had hoped for a much longer period.

The chief purpose behind it is to relieve the steadily mounting political
pressure on Sinn Fein and the IRA. Gerry Adams, president of Sinn Fein, was
lionised at the beginning of February when he visited the United States, and he
and his movement have been the focus of international media attention for months
on end.

The publicity and political gains were substantial, but they were dependent on
the assumption that Mr Adams was in the business of making peace. As the weeks
stretched into months, with Sinn Fein declining to respond one way or the other
to the Downing Street declaration, the sense of disillusion with Sinn Fein has
been palpable.

Then came the incidents of IRA violence. An off-duty detective was shot dead in
front of his wife in Belfast; Heathrow was peppered with mortar bombs; an army
helicopter was brought down by a mortar in Crossmaglen; and an SDLP
representative was beaten up, apparently by the IRA.

The republicans are engaged in a long game, in which they continually proclaim
their commitment to peace. But they are also clearly intent on using their
traditional and treasured weapon, violence, to advance their aims.

One of their recent objectives has been to make the point that the peace
process, as they define it, will be punctuated by incidents of IRA violence.

Events such as the Heathrow attacks were clearly intended to cause consternation
to the authorities, and they have obviously caused great worry. The IRA will
have seen that as an advance, but it will also be aware of the political price
it has paid for such acts.

More and more people were questioning the republicans' bona fides and sincerity
about seeking peace and sympathy was ebbing away; fewer people were accepting
the republican contention that the British government was holding up the peace
process.

Having played, and perhaps overplayed, its hand in terms of violent activity,
the organisation is now in the business of displaying its other face. Next
week's ceasefire is an attempt to shift some of the onus on to the British
government and to reassure the critics that the republican interest in peace is
genuine. It is a fair bet that the IRA envisages some months and even years of
using this type of hard cop-soft cop approach.

But having said that, it has broken an important psychological barrier by
declaring any ceasefire, even if it is to last only three days. While many
outside observers will be tempted to dismiss this with contempt as the most
cynical of gestures, the fact is that in republican terms it is a development of
near- historic proportions.

It was in the late 1970s that Gerry Adams, Martin McGuinness and other younger
northern elements wrested control of the republican movement away from the
southern- based old guard headed by Daithi O Conaill and Ruairi O Bradaigh.

That leadership's contacts with the British government had in 1974-75 produced a
ceasefire which, the northerners argued, was disastrous for the IRA. They said
Britain was not serious about reaching an agreement and was cleverly using the
ceasefire to demoralise and destroy the IRA.

Mr Adams has since said that the Government ''probably came as near at that time
to defeating the republican struggle than at any time during the last fourteen
years''. Having survived that period, it has for years been the received wisdom
within the IRA that ceasefires are extremely dangerous devices.

It has not declared any ceasefire since 1975, apart from the traditional
three-day stoppages for Christmas and an unannounced lull in activity last
September, when an important American delegation visited Belfast.

Last year the IRA agreed to a two-week ceasefire to facilitate face- to-face
talks between Sinn Fein leaders and British officials, but the idea was not
taken forward. That followed many months of contact with British officials, and
the offer was made in response to a British offer of talks.

Next week's ceasefire is apparently being staged on a unilateral basis, with no
guarantee of a British response. To the outside world this may seem like the
tiniest of steps, but to republicans it has the status of an important
ground-breaking move.

(Photograph omitted)


LOAD-DATE: March 31, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1994 Independent Print Ltd

                              323 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                            March 31, 1994, Thursday

Fair compensation for the victims of violent crime

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 351 words


From Mr Robert Maclennan, MP for Caithness and Sutherland (Liberal Democrat)

Sir, The Home Secretary has been given the opportunity to rethink his proposals
for the compensation of the victims of violent crime by the decision to allow
judicial review proceedings to be brought against him by the TUC (report, March
23).

This is not altered by last night's government majority against Liberal Democrat
and Labour amendments to the Criminal Justice Bill (report, March 29) which, had
they been approved, could have sunk the proposals. The Home Secretary should
immediately start a process of consultation.

The White Paper, ''Compensating Victims of Violent Crime'', published in
December 1993, asserts that compensation from the public purse is provided
because ''the public (feels) a sense of responsibility for ... the innocent
victim''.

The public, however, has not been consulted by the Government about the
non-statutory scheme which it intended to introduce on April 1. That scheme
proposed a tariff of compensation unrelated to the circumstances of particular
victims.

In Northern Ireland, by contrast, where a scheme is already on a statutory
footing, the Government has announced that it will consult the public about its
future.

If that consultation is meaningful, it may well result in the continuance there
of a scheme to compensate victims of crime according to common law principles,
which takes proper account of their individual circumstances, such as loss of
earnings, age and occupation.

If the Government persists with the tariff scheme in Great Britain, the victim
of an IRA bomb in Belfast might receive a fair award, whereas the same victim
injured by an IRA bomb in Bootle could only look for a standard sum.

It is to be hoped that the Home Secretary will now take the opportunity,
following consultation, of enacting a fair scheme of compensation for the
victims of crime in Great Britain which reflects the principles of common law.

Yours sincerely,

ROBERT MACLENNAN

(Liberal Democrat spokesman

on home affairs),

House of Commons.

March 29.

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1994 Times Newspapers Limited

                              324 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 April 2, 1994

Irish political tide turns against IRA's three-day peace

BYLINE: John Cooney

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 668 words


Dublin.

THE leaders of the Irish Republic's three main opposition parties made a united
demand to the IRA for peace yesterday, while church leaders appeared split on
the motives for its ceasefire.

As security forces went on full alert against a feared Easter terrorist
offensive ahead of the three-day truce due to start next Tuesday, controversy
continued over the move.

The suspension of violence was not an appropriate response to the overwhelming
desire for peace among the Irish people, according to a statement signed by Fine
Gael leader and former Cabinet Minister John Bruton, Mary Harney of the
Progressive Democrats, and the Democratic Left's Proinsias De Rossa.

All three supported the Downing Street Declaration when it was issued on
December 15 but say they are deeply worried the momentum for peace has slowed
significantly.

The three leaders have requested a meeting with Prime Minister Albert Reynolds
and Foreign Minister Dick Spring to discuss a collective approach to the stalled
peace process.

A radical new departure from politicians in the Republic is needed which will
restore momentum to the process, the statement added. Mr Bruton said the efforts
of Mr Reynolds over 23 months to persuade the IRA to end its violence had failed
and it was time for the British and Irish Governments to talk to the
constitutional parties in the two parts of Ireland who supported peace.

The statement suggests the best way which the republican movement could
celebrate the 1916 Easter Rising would be to repeat the words of Padraic Pearse
to the rebels, "lay down your arms lest you bring too much suffering on your
people".

The division of opinion among church leaders in Ireland emerged less than 24
hours after Mr Major denounced the ceasefire as a "self-serving and cynical" bid
to deceive the gullible.

Cardinal Cahal Daly, Roman Catholic Primate of All-Ireland, said the truce was a
sincere move and should not be "rubbished".

Archbishop of Armagh, Dr Robin Eames, the Protestant Church of Ireland's Primate
of All-Ireland, said the Christian Easter "does not speak of a short, temporary
peace".

Their comments came as children from Warrington, Cheshire, arrived in Northern
Ireland for Easter as part of an attempt to forge links with the

province a year after IRA bombings claimed the lives of two youngsters in the
town.

Cardinal Daly expressed his views on BBC Radio 4's Today programme. He said he
believed this was a "sincere" move on the part of the IRA.

Asked whether he agreed with Mr Major's reaction to it, the cardinal said: "I am
afraid respectfully I would not agree that this is a cynical exercise on the
part of the IRA."

Unionist politicians, meanwhile, reacted angrily to claims by a former Irish
Foreign Minister that Britain had decided to pull out of the North and had
already begun the process.

Mr Peter Barry, a chief architect of the 1985 UK-Irish agreement, told the Cork
Examiner newspaper that Britain now regarded Northern Ireland as financially
draining, strategically redundant, and internationally embarrassing.

Democratic Unionist deputy leader Peter Robinson said: "Let me make it clear to
Mr Barry that, irrespective of the intentions of the British Government,
Northern Ireland will not be in his all-Ireland Republic."

DUP leader the Rev. Ian Paisley announced he is to visit the United States to
"tell the truth" about Northern Ireland.

His trip seems designed to counter the effects of the visit earlier this year by
Sinn Fein leader Gerry Adams. He will be addressing the National Committee on
American Foreign Policy, which caused controversy when it invited Mr Adams to
New York.

A policeman was recovering in hospital yesterday after an IRA rocket and gun
attack on his security base. The officer was in a guard house at the front of
the base in Garvagh, County Londonderry, when it was hit by a rocket fired from
a passing car.

Several shots were also fired.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              325 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 April 4, 1994

McGuinness denies being former IRA chief of staff

BYLINE: John Cooney

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 735 words


YESTERDAY'S denial by Sinn Fein vice president Martin McGuinness that he is a
former chief of staff of the IRA clashes with the views put forward by leading
security experts, who insist that he led the terrorist organisation in the late
1970s.

According to Brendan O'Brien, author of The Long War, Mr McGuinness replaced the
late Seamus Twomey as chief of staff in late 1977 when The Thumper Twomey was
arrested by police in Dublin.

Twomey was in possession of a "staff report" containing valuable intelligence
about a new cell system which aimed to reorganise the IRA into a tighter and
leaner army capable of sustaining its war against Britain after the demoralising
impact of the 1975 ceasefire.

This IRA blueprint was drawn up by Mr McGuinness with Gerry Adams, then a
prisoner in Long Kesh, and Ivor Bell.

The three belonged to the northern command of the IRA and took over the
leadership of the republican movement with the new strategy based on "the
Armalite in one hand and the ballot box in the other".

In their book on the IRA, Patrick Bishop and Eamon Mallie quote Mr McGuinness as
saying that if army command changes had not taken place in the short term after
the 1975 ceasefire, then the IRA would have been defeated by the British Army.

While accepting that Mr Adams and Mr McGuinness have concentrated on building up
Sinn Fein as a political movement since the early 1980s, Mr O'Brien claims that
the two rejoined the IRA's Army Council after December 1983 when the IRA killed
a policeman and a soldier in the Irish Republic, and caused havoc in London with
a bomb at Harrod's store, which killed eight Christmas shoppers and injured 80
people.

According to Mr O'Brien, the impact of these events was so negative on the IRA
campaign that Mr Adams and Mr McGuinness rejoined the Army Council "to steady
things".

Of significance in the present context of Sinn Fein demands for direct contacts
with the British Government to clarify the Downing Street peace declaration is
the fact that Mr McGuinness last year met British Government officials during
secret talks held after the Warrington IRA bomb killed two young boys.

These talks were broken off by Prime Minister John Major when he became
dependent last July on the votes of the Ulster Unionists at Westminster to
secure the passage of the Maastricht Treaty on European Union.

The publication of the exchanges by Sinn Fein last November was embarrassing to
Mr Major and the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland, Sir Patrick Mayhew,
both of whom have refused to reopen communications channels with Sinn Fein.

Mr McGuinness said yesterday that direct talks could be initiated by the British
Government with Sinn Fein without breach of principle on Mr Major's part.

Significantly, too, Mr McGuinness and Mr Adams were among a six-member
delegation of IRA leaders at the 1972 meeting in London with British Ministers,
including William Whitelaw, then Secretary of State for Northern Ireland.

The IRA demands, which were later read out by Viscount Whitelaw in the House of
Commons, included a declaration of intent by Britain to pull out of Northern
Ireland by January 1, 1975.

The extended IRA ceasefire in 1975 in fact largely collapsed after the IRA
became distrustful of British intentions about withdrawal from Northern Ireland.

Mr McGuinness said yesterday that the lesson to be applied now from the 1975
experience was that the British Government was "deceitful" about its continued
presence in Northern Ireland, and that this made it important that the
republican movement obtained clarification from Mr Major about his Government's
future role in Northern Ireland.

Although the Irish Republic's former Foreign Minister, Mr Peter Barry, predicted
that Britain would leave Northern Ireland in phases over the next 25 years, and
Ulster Unionists claimed that Britain was intent on pulling out, Mr McGuinness
said he did not know if these were true, but hoped they would prove correct.

In an interview in January 1994, Mr McGuinness said that anything short of a
British Government decision to withdraw from Northern Ireland was worthless and
unacceptable.

At the Sinn Fein annual conference in February outside Dublin, Mr McGuinness
called on the British Government to declare that the Ulster Unionists no longer
had a veto over policy on Northern Ireland.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              326 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            April 7, 1994, Thursday

DIARY / Hurd enforces Kent no-fly zone

SECTION: COMMENT PAGE; Page 19

LENGTH: 788 words


AT THE eleventh hour, Douglas Hurd is trying to prevent the reopening of one of
Britain's most historic airfields because he fears it may be used for an aerial
attack by terrorists on nearby Chevening, his official country residence. Upon
learning last week that a Kent farmer, Timothy Barr-Smith, had gained both the
support of English Heritage and Sevenoaks development control officers to reopen
an airstrip built in 1909 at nearby Sundridge, the Foreign Office leapt into
action to intervene.

The FO's letter arrived just as Sevenoaks planners were due to meet to give a
decision on Barr- Smith's proposals. Its tone was unequivocal: ''On the grounds
that Chevening House is the residence of a cabinet minister, who, as a potential
terrorist target, is subject to a high security requirement,'' they wrote, ''the
close proximity of low flying aircraft due to the circuit crossing Chevening
Estate and the lack of air traffic control, constitute an unacceptable risk in
our view.''

The matter, unsurprisingly, has now been deferred and the Barr- Smith camp is
regrouping, presumably to consider how to deal with a latter-day von Richthofen.

Whatever happens, the airfield will remain part of wartime folklore. Used in the
Battle of Britain as a secret servicing base for Spitfires, it still houses the
country's earliest purpose-built aircraft hangars, used from 1910 to the end of
the First World War.

THANKS to the sterling services of a group of trainee builders from south
London, the last stages of restoring the love-nest of Nell Gwyn and Charles II,
Lauderdale House - a 16th-century north London manor badly damaged by fire in
1963 - are expected to be completed by the end of the century. Although most of
the house was reopened as an arts centre in 1978, the builders are still working
on the Long Gallery - scene of 17th- century bowls and skittles contests between
the Earl and Countess of Lauderdale - and need a further pounds 180,000 to
replace the gallery's elegant ceilings and panelling.

One of the attractions of the house is a window from which Nell Gwyn dangled her
young son, threatening to drop him - so the story goes - if the nervously
watching King refused to make him an Earl.

UNCHARITABLE ACTS

At the beginning of last year, the formidable Liberal Democrat peer Baroness
Seear was burgled for the 19th time, a sorry state of affairs for the chairman
of Apex Trust, a charity which provides work and training for ex-offenders. You
would have thought they would have let up by now, but

not so - during a recent stay in hospital, someone crept up to

her bedside table and stole her handbag.

ACCORDING to the first issue of NHS News - aimed at NHS managers - the volume of
paper from the centre is too great . . . and ''is sometimes too 'glossy' for its
purpose''. You can read the rest of the article on (extremely glossy) page five.

STAYIN' ALIVE

Disappointed by the cancellation of the band's sell-out European tour, fans of
the Bee Gees will have to accept that age may finally be catching up on their
heroes.

Barry Gibb - whose flares and white suits have excited millions of young girls -
is suffering from arthritis, which explains the presence of a glove while he
plays the guitar. The 47-year-old Bee Gee also has a heart problem, I'm told,
and has been told by doctors to take it easy.

It hasn't been a good six months. Last December, Wandsworth Council blocked
plans to decorate Battersea Power Station with 40ft models of the band, replete
with mammoth teeth. And this week a 6ft-wide gold record - presented to the Bee
Gees on Top of the Pops to mark their 100th million record sale - was stolen
from a van outside their record company's office.

A DAY LIKE THIS

7 April 1955 Julian Green writes in his diary: ''Someone asked me if he should
answer a rather low attack from a weekly magazine; I advised him to keep silent.
Silence is a wonderful weapon, but it has to be handled with great care. One
must know whom it is being used against, and what meaning it will assume in the
mind of whoever is answered in this way. There is an indignant silence, or a
wounded, disdainful, contemptuous, amused, sarcastic one, one that is full of
sorrowful reproach, or one that is pathetic, jeering, jovial, teasing, furious,
vengeful, etc, etc. But it always ends by being rightly interpreted, unless it
is the mysterious silence that leaves the opponent in doubt, and this last is
exasperating. Bossuet used it against the Protestant minister Jussieu, who
accused him of being father to several children, or it may have been the silence
of baffled rage, or that which we have all used and misused: the silence of
indifference.''


LOAD-DATE: April 07, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1994 Independent Print Ltd

                              327 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 8, 1994

BRITISH TEACH BEAT TO PLO BOBBIES

BYLINE: IAN BLACK, DIPLOMATIC EDITOR

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FOREIGN PAGE; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 501 words


NON-LETHAL riot control equipment and courses in community policing are
Britain's contribution to the Palestinian policemen who are about to start one
of the world's toughest beats as the Israeli army withdraws from Gaza and
Jericho.

With the deployment of the first officers awaiting the outcome of talks in Cairo
between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organisation, British officials
revealed that 20 senior commanders are to undergo training at Bramshill police
college in Hampshire.

The experience in Northern Ireland, interrogation techniques, treatment of
offenders, police accountability and human rights will be on the syllabus.

But in an area where law and order are in short supply and guns plentiful, the
main focus will inevitably be operations. The Palestinians will study the use of
minimum force in public disorder, and visit the Metropolitan Police riot control
training centre at Hounslow.

Britain will also supply 200 sets of body armour, shields, batons and helmets,
after a study mission to the occupied territories and PLO headquarters in Tunis
by Nottinghamshire's chief constable, Dan Crompton.

The police force is of enormous significance as the symbol of Palestinian
sovereignty in the liberated areas, and partly compensates for the limited scope
of the initial Israeli withdrawal after 27 years of occupation.

The police face the extremely difficult task of dealing with the continued
presence of armed Israeli settlers and the powerful Palestinian opposition to
Yasser Arafat.

The danger of internal opposition was underlined on Wednesday when eight Israeli
civilians were killed in a car bomb explosion claimed by the Hamas Islamic
resistance movement as retaliation for the massacre of 30 Palestinians in Hebron
in February.

Britain's modest aid is seen to fill a gap between needs and resources. A World
Bank study that costed administration for 1994 at $ 158 million, assumed a
police force of 15,000 men. But with actual contributions of $ 120 million, the
force is being scaled down to 10,000 men.

Nabil Sha'ath, a senior aide to Mr Arafat, overlooked the British promises when
he appealed this week for cash and equipment for the Palestinian police. "With
the exception of Norway, which has provided some cash and uniforms, and Greece
which has given a loan, nothing has come from the donors yet," he said.

But British officials said they were still waiting to hear from Tunis about who
would participate in the Bramshill courses - and complained that the PLO was
proving very disorganised.

Under last September's peace agreement, Israeli withdrawal and a handover to
Palestinian authorities should have been completed by April 13. But Israeli
officials doubt this can be met.

The two sides disagree about how the police should enter Gaza and Jericho. The
PLO wants the first batch of 300 officers to enter with arms and uniforms in a
blaze of publicity. Israel wants to arm them after they have arrived.


LOAD-DATE: April 8, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              328 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 April 9, 1994

Lost chance for peace

SECTION: Pg. 10

LENGTH: 450 words


THE joint initiative of the British and Irish Governments to end the terrorist
activities of the IRA has probably faded beyond recall. It did seem that there
was an initial chance of success but, in retrospect, it depended too much on
maintaining a momentum generated by the way in which public opinion responded so
favourably to the prospect of peace in both countries. Though Unionists were
generally more sceptical than others, there was a favourable movement of opinion
among their supporters too. The fact is that opinion everywhere in Ireland and
Great Britain has turned massively against political violence. That may not
deter the IRA, since it never suspended its activities; but even if it still
finds plenty of individuals willing to risk their own lives in taking others'
for political ends, there is every reason to believe that its basis of popular
support continues to shrink.

The original effort to promote peace came from the IRA itself. The two
Governments were right to respond to it; and in doing so they firmed up their
general agreement on how best to deal with the problem they both confront, if
from somewhat different historical and contemporary perspectives. Together they
should have reassured Protestant opinion in the north that the Union will not be
dissolved without majority consent within the context of Ulster, and not Ireland
as one. This veto has proved anathema to the IRA, but it is intrinsically sound
for those who want a genuine peace and not simply a transfer of terrorist
discontent. Sound too is Sir Patrick Mayhew's firm rejection of any step-by-step
advance into direct negotiation with armed terrorists under the guise of
"clarification". Unless and until the IRA abandon terrorism they cannot be seen
as political players. Apart from any other consideration, treating with them
while armed damages the standing, and possibly the appeal, of the genuinely
democratic and participative forces among pacific nationalists.

The IRA may have benefited from this whole episode (which coincided with a
propaganda coup in the US) but it was probably not a cynical exercise from the
start. An internal political struggle has taken place, and proponents of peace
within the Provisional IRA appear to have lost. A man like Mr Adams, whose role
is steeped in the ambivalence implied by the phrase "the bullet and the ballot
box", remains where he always was. Though more in the public eye than ever, his
clout within the IRA has been diminished (to whose benefit is not clear) as is
the implied difference between IRA killers and Sinn Fein talkers. Both have to
be endured, and the first outfaced and fought hard south and north, and in both
islands.

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              329 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 April 9, 1994

Experts discuss counselling for traumatised

BYLINE: Keith Bruce

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 362 words


A PSYCHIATRIST at Glasgow's Royal Hospital for Sick Children has been appointed
to co-ordinate counselling for children traumatised by the war in the former
Yugoslavia.

William Parry-Jones, professor of adolescent psychiatry, has been working with
Bosnian refugees in Britain and in Hungary and recently attended an initial
planning meeting for a programme of mental health treatment under the auspices
of Unicef, the World Health Organisation, and the US National Academy of
Science.

Speaking during a seminar in Glasgow's Southern General Hospital on counselling
for people who have been affected by traumatic incidents, Professor Parry-Jones
said that there was a tendency for over-reaction to the risk of psychological
effects of external events.

"Further down the line we have to decide what is a disorder and what is a normal
reaction to an extraordinary event," he said.

The seminar was organised by Strathclyde Regional Council and the four health
boards within its area. Local liaison teams have been set up involving health
professionals, social workers, and voluntary agencies to co-ordinate counselling
and support strategy in coping with disasters.

The seminar, which was the first to bring all the interested parties in the
region together, was addressed by a number of speakers with firsthand experience
of dealing with those affected by traumatic incidents.

They included Mr Phil Hynes, social work team leader in Warrington, who dealt
with the aftermath of the terrorist bomb attack there, and Dr Rafik Gardee, who
has been working with Bosnian refugees in Glasgow. Simon O'Laughlin, consultant
clinical psychologist at Kidderminster General Hospital, dealt with fellow
pupils of the children from Hagley School who died in the minibus crash on the
M40.

Professor Parry-Jones said there was a growing interest on a worldwide basis
into the psychological effects of terrorist attacks or transport disasters. He
praised the locally based initiative in Strathclyde.

The region's emergency planning officer, Mr Joe Graham, said that a proposal to
establish a national disaster squad had been considered and dismissed.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              330 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 April 12, 1994

Greek terrorists target Ark Royal

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 230 words


AN ABORTIVE attempt by Greek terrorists to hit the aircraft carrier Ark Royal
with anti-tank rockets could be linked to Britain's support for strikes against
the Bosnian Serbs.

It is believed the ultra-nationalist November 17 guerrilla group tried to hit
the 20,000-ton carrier with two 88mm rockets as it was docked in Piraeus near
Athens.

Home-made rocket launchers with rockets and automatic timers were found in a
field 200 yards from where the ship was docked, police said.

The search was launched after the guerrilla group called a radio station to say
it had tried to attack the ship, which left Piraeus early yesterday after a
week's maintenance.

Police said they thought the rockets aimed at the Ark Royal were set to go off
last week but rain had fouled the timers, thwarting the attack.

The guerrillas also claimed responsibility for a rocket attack on a US insurance
company and a time-bomb attack on a Dutch insurance company yesterday. The
blasts caused damage but no injuries.

Ark Royal and its sister ship Invincible have been alternating on six-month
tours of duty since January last year in the Adriatic as part of Nato's
operations to enforce the no-fly zone over Bosnia.

A Whitehall source said: "This group of terrorists is ultra-nationalist and, as
such, support the Serbs. The connection is not too difficult to make."

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              331 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            April 12, 1994, Tuesday

Rocket threat to 'Ark Royal'

BYLINE: DAVID CONNETT

SECTION: INTERNATIONAL NEWS PAGE; Page 11

LENGTH: 451 words


AN ATTACK on the aircraft carrier HMS Ark Royal was narrowly averted after
terrorist rocket launchers failed to fire because they were waterlogged, Greek
police said yesterday.

A left-wing terrorist group, November 17, later claimed responsibility for the
attempt on the Ark Royal as well as two separate attacks on American and Dutch
insurance companies in Athens.

The Ark Royal had been in Greece for a week-long maintenance visit before
returning to help enforce the United Nations embargo on Serbia. It left the port
of Piraeus near Athens yesterday unaware of the potentially disastrous attack,
Royal Navy officials said.

During the visit many Greeks toured the ship, which has a crew of 1,000 and
usually carries nine Harrier jump-jets and a dozen Sea King helicopters.

In a search police discovered home-made rocket launchers with rockets and
automatic timers in a field 200 yards from where the ship was docked. The search
was carried out after an Athens radio station received an anonymous call saying
the November 17 guerrilla group attempted to hit the 20,000-ton carrier with two
88mm rockets while it was in Piraeus.

Police said they thought the rockets were set to go off last week but rain had
fouled the timers, thwarting the attack.

The guerrillas also claimed responsibility for a rocket attack on the Alico
American Life Insurance company and a time-bomb attack on the Dutch Nationale
Netherlanden insurance company yesterday. The blasts caused damage but no
injuries.

November 17 is a small terrorist group opposed to foreign companies, the US
military presence in Greece and the country's membership of the European Union
and Nato. It has claimed responsibility for killing 19 people since first
appearing in 1975 when it shot dead the US CIA station chief, Richard Welch.
None of its members has been arrested.

In late 1990 and early 1991, the group attacked US and British business
interests to protest against the allied war effort against Iraq.

The group, described by the US State Department as one of Europe's deadliest and
most competent terrorist groups, resurfaced in January when it claimed
responsibility for the murder of the former head of Greece's National Bank,
Mihalis Vranopoulos.

The group carried out a raid on a Greek army depot in 1990, escaping with
3.5-inch anti-tank rockets which were used in nine separate attacks in 1991 on
central Athens streets.

The group takes its name from the day in 1973 when the then-ruling military
junta sent tanks to crush a student revolt in Athens.

Diplomats dismissed claims the targeting of the Ark Royal was linked to
Britain's support for strikes against the Bosnian Serbs.


LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1994 Independent Print Ltd

                              332 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Standard (London)

                                 April 15, 1994

UK offers to build a Palestinian Gaza Britain to aid Gaza under Palestinians

BYLINE: Joseph Finklestone

SECTION: Pg. 21

LENGTH: 440 words


BRITAIN has offered to build harbours, houses and hospitals in a Palestinian
Gaza.

The plan, worth hundreds of millions of pounds, would involve several large
British companies, including a number in London. It has been submitted by the
British Ambassador in Tunis to PLO leader Yasser Arafat.

Relations between the PLO and Britain are now said to be cordial.

Britain played an important role negotiating the agreement on principles reached
by Israel and the PLO in Oslo.

Britain has separately offered several million pounds to help build a sound
Palestinian infrastructure after self-rule, and British police officers are to
help train Palestinian police.

Withdrawal may come sooner than most expect. Reports last night from Cairo and
Tunis suggest an agreement could be reached by next week and Arafat's negotiator
Nabil Shaath is privately optimistic that an agreement is imminent.  This is
despite Wednesday's bus bombing which killed five Israelis and the bomb in the
coastal town of Hadera. On 6April, seven Israelis and a bomber were killed in
the northern town of Afula. Hamas' military wing claimed responsibility for both
attacks.

Rockets fired from Lebanon slammed into the Galilee panhandle in northern Israel
early today following Israeli shelling of Sidon yesterday, but there were no
injuries or damage, an Israeli army spokesman said.

No group immediately claimed responsibility.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Relatives grieve for Hadera bomb victim David Moyal

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              333 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 16, 1994

MAYHEW'S US TRIP HEALS ADAMS RIFT

BYLINE: SIMON TISDALL IN WASHINGTON

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 447 words


SIR Patrick Mayhew, the Northern Ireland Secretary, suggested yesterday that the
Clinton administration was now fully back in line with British policy on
Northern Ireland after the recent furore over its granting of a US visa to Gerry
Adams, the Sinn Fein leader.

Sir Patrick said senior US officials, including Warren Christopher, the
secretary of state, unequivocally supported Britain's insistence that the IRA
and Sinn Fein renounce violence as a precondition for talks.

He also implied that President Clinton's contentious idea of appointing a US
"peace envoy" to Northern Ireland has now finally been dropped.

Speaking in Washington after three days of meetings with administration
officials and leading congressmen, Sir Patrick said he was confident that any
damage to Anglo-American relations had been repaired.

"We received very warm support for the [Downing Street] Joint Declaration and
for what both the British and Irish governments have done since," Sir Patrick
said. "There is no support for anyone who fails to renounce violence. All that
has been understood."

Sir Patrick said he had talked frankly with many of the congressmen and senators
who successfully pressured Mr Clinton to allow Mr Adams to visit New York last
February, including Senator Edward Kennedy, Senator Patrick Moynihnan, and
Congressman Joe Kennedy.

"I found no indication of anything other than a sincere and strong sense of
disappointment, even anger, that this generous gesture, which was highly
controversial in America and within the administration, had just been devoured
without a response," Sir Patrick said, referring to Mr Adams's failure to
denounce IRA violence.

"I said the Adams visit was a mistake, and I said we still think we're right .
. . There was a real sense [among the Americans] of having been let down by
Adams," Sir Patrick said.

He added that he believed that partly as a result of Mr Adams's equivocation,
Sinn Fein and the IRA were now more isolated than ever before from the vast
majority of the 40 million Irish-Americans.

Sir Patrick, who visited Boston and New York before travelling to Washington,
held official talks with Mr Christopher, Anthony Lake, the national security
adviser, Janet Reno, the attorney-general, and Louis Freeh, the FBI director.

He said he had encountered much congressional criticism of the Government's
broadcasting ban on Sinn Fein, which he said would continue. But no
administration officials, he said, resurrected the peace envoy idea.

He said Mr Freeh and Ms Reno had promised wholehearted US co-operation in
fighting terrorism and in expediting terrorist extraditions.


LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              334 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 April 16, 1994

Failed bomb IRA's 'most destructive'

SECTION: Pg. 9

LENGTH: 540 words


AN IRA bomb in the heart of London's busy West End could have killed or maimed
anyone within 200 metres -- but it failed to explode, the Old Bailey was told
yesterday.

It was less than a month before Christmas and the West End was packed with early
evening rush hour crowds, the jury heard.

The device, weighing nearly 1.5 tonnes, would have been "the most destructive
bomb" in an indiscriminate terrorist campaign in the capital launched over four
months between November 1992 and February the next year, said Mr John Bevan,
prosecuting.

He was opening the case on the third day of the trial of two Englishmen, Mr Jan
Taylor and Mr Patrick Hayes, who are accused of involvement in an IRA bombing
campaign in London.

Homemade explosive had been packed into a wooden box in the cargo area of a van
parked in Tottenham Court Road on December 1, 1992, said Mr Bevan.

Three booster tubes were buried inside, he added. The 1.45 tonnes of explosive
were primed to go off in the early evening. "That time of evening is very busy
for traffic and pedestrians," he said.

Anyone within 200 metres could have been killed or maimed. One of two detonators
went off but "mercifully" failed to set off the rest of the explosive.

"There can be no question of the purpose of this device," Mr Bevan said.

"A bomb of this size at this place at this time and without any genuine warning
-- had it gone off it would have been the most destructive of all bombs in this
case. It was early in the evening in the heart of the West End.

"According to experts a bomb of this size could easily have killed up to 200
metres in all directions," he added.

Mr Bevan said a "useless" coded warning was given in telephone calls that
claimed four large devices had been left between Tottenham Court Road and Oxford
Street, and in the Tottenham Court Road area between Oxford Street and Euston
Road.

The warnings were telephoned to a news agency and the London Dockland
Development Corporation.

"The warning was so vague covering a wide area as to be useless, except as a
means of causing confusion. Any reasonable inference was that the intention was
to set off a large and destructive bomb so that anyone in the vicinity was
likely to be killed or injured," he added.

A bunch of keys was allegedly found in Mr Hayes's flat in Stoke Newington, north
London after his arrest.

When they were tried on the Transit van, one operated the driver's and rear
door, one operated the driver's and passenger's door, and two operated the
ignition, the prosecution said.

Mr Taylor, 51, of Stepney, London, and Mr Hayes, 41, of Stoke Newington, are
accused of taking part in the Harrods litter bin blast, a second bomb on the
London-Ramsgate train, and possession of Semtex and ammonium nitrate explosives
and firearms.

Mr Hayes alone is charged with plotting to cause explosions at Canary Wharf in
London's Docklands, Tottenham Court Road, and a car park at Woodside Park
Underground station.

Not guilty pleas have been entered on all charges.

The jury also heard that a booby trap device attached to another van bomb
destined to explode at Canary Wharf was unique in mainland Britain.

The trial continues.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              335 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 April 16, 1994

Terrorists with tunnel vision

BYLINE: Richard Clutterbuck

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1076 words


Richard Clutterbuck examines the threat to the Channel Tunnel from terrorist
attack

THE Channel Tunnel's attraction for terrorists will be mainly a psychological
one -- especially in the first months after it is opened -- in that its sudden
closure would be front-page news. Physically it is far less vulnerable than
Heathrow Airport or the London Underground. Throughout its length it is bored a
minimum of 19 metres below the seabed through a wide seam of chalk marl, which
is impermeable to water apart from minor fissures. After a major explosion, or
even an earthquake, the chalk marl would slump back into place and stop the sea
coming in.

Two kinds of terrorist are most likely to try to grab this news: the IRA and
religious fundamentalists, especially Islamic. A series of hoax calls is likely
and could be just as disruptive as an actual bomb. British Transport Police have
become adept at judging whether a call is a hoax or for real. In the peak two
years of 1991 and 1992, they received over 4000 bomb threats to British Rail and
the London Underground; they closed parts of the system on only 72 (2%) of these
occasions and on 25 of these they were right -- with 14 bombs and 11 incendiary
devices. Following the other 98% of threats, traffic was not interrupted.

In Italy, where terrorists did explode two bombs in express trains in the long
tunnel south of Bologna in 1974 and 1984, casualties were local (12 and 15
killed respectively). By contrast, a bomb in the station waiting room at Bologna
in 1980 killed 85.

Internationally organised crime poses a far greater threat to West European
society -- and probably, through gang violence, to life -- than terrorism.
Since the collapse of the police states in Eastern Europe cross-border crime has
vastly increased, especially the smuggling of drugs, illegal immigrants,
prostitutes, stolen cars, counterfeit currency and -- growing ominously --
weapons stolen and sold from the arsenals of disbanding Warsaw Pact armies.

Britain, fortunately, is not such a prime target for these crimes as Germany and
France and cross-channel crime will, if anything, remain easier through the
ferries than through the Channel Tunnel.

All the cars, caravans, coaches, and trucks using the tunnel will pass through a
single shuttle terminal at each end -- at Folkestone (Cheriton) and Calais
(Coquelles) -- in contrast to the dispersed ferry berths at Folkestone, Dover
East and West, and all the other south and east coast ports from Plymouth to
Hull. Driving on and off the shuttle is similar to driving on and off a ferry.

Security checks at shuttle traffic are done before loading. Thus vehicles bound
for England will first pass through French exit controls at Coquelles, including
selective searches, then immediately through British customs, immigration and
police checks, in which the officers have the same powers of search and arrest
as if they were on British soil. On arrival at Cheriton, vehicles can drive
straight off on to the motorway.

If anything happens inside the tunnel itself -- an accident, a derailment, a
fire or a bomb -- passengers can be disembarked simultaneously from any point in
the train because there is a platform running the full length of the tunnel. The
north and south-running tunnels are separate, so an accident is extremely
unlikely. Between the two running tunnels there is a service tunnel through
which buses, firetenders, ambulances, etc. can reach any point from one or the
other end within 15 minutes.

The air in the service tunnel is at higher pressure than in the running tunnels
so smoke in the affected tunnel will be gradually cleared and will not pass
through the cross tunnels to the service tunnel or to the other running tunnel.
Also, in the event of a serious fire, the cross tunnels can be sealed by fire
doors.

The same running tunnels carry the express trains from London to Paris and
Brussels, other through trains between cities throughout Britain and the
Continent, and freight trains. At peak times, a shuttle or a through train will
be slotted into the running tunnels each way every three minutes -- later every
two minutes. Should any driver's concentration lapse, the brakes will be applied
automatically if his train begins to close the distance from the train in front.

On the through trains, any necessary police, customs, or immigration checks will
normally be done on the move, as they always have been on cross-frontier trains
on the Continent. On leaving Paris, for example, French officials will work
along the train, followed by British officials, before the train reaches
Waterloo. Dogs have been used for detecting explosives and drugs more regularly
on the Continent than on British trains, which have not hitherto crossed
frontiers, but the British will be able to use dogs if they wish -- probably the
best means of detection.

Freight trains may present the most difficult problems regarding drugs and other
contraband, as well as illegal immigrants concealed in cargo containers or
boxes. This problem will, however, differ very little from that already
presented by heavy goods vehicles using the ferries or the shuttle. The types of
search now used for selected vehicles at the ferry ports and terminals, with
enhanced X-ray, vapour detectors, and dogs, can be adapted to check railway
freight if necessary.

So is the tunnel safe? In the general context, it is probably the safest tunnel
in Europe; it is not an easy or attractive target for bombers or hijackers; but
during 1994, Eurotunnel and BR may have to brace themselves to deal with
publicity-seeking disruption -- especially hoax calls.

Danger to travellers should be minimal: the IRA are unlikely to risk mass
casualties because they know that these are counterproductive; religious
fanatics have shown themselves to be more bloodthirsty but the tunnel is an
unlikely target for them. The main security effort will need to be directed to
combatting internationally organised crime, including trafficking in illegal
immigrants, drugs and guns.

* Dr Richard Clutterbuck's The Channel Tunnel: Security and Safety Measures is
published by RISCT, 136 Baker Street, London W1M 1FH, (071-224 2659). Price £10
plus p&p.

' It is not an easy or attractive target for bombers or hijackers, but
Eurotunnel and BR may have to brace themselves to deal with hoax calls '

Picture: MARTYN HAYHOW/PA

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              336 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 20, 1994

ANGLO-IRISH RAIDS TARGET IRA FUNDS

BYLINE: DAVID SHARROCK IN BELFAST, DUNCAN CAMPBELL, AND JOE JOYCE IN DUBLIN

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 383 words


POLICE throughout Great Britain and on both sides of the Irish border yesterday
launched one of the biggest joint anti-IRA operations mounted. More than 40
searches were carried out in what was planned as an attack on the funding of the
IRA at its sources.

The operation, codenamed Madronna, is likely to be seen as putting the squeeze
on the IRA at a crucial stage of the peace process, but police said the raids
were a result of 12 months of intelligence-gathering and were not part of a
political agenda.

By last night, 41 searches had been carried out, eight in north-west England, 14
in Surrey and London, eight in Northern Ireland and 11 in the Irish Republic.
But a key target is believed to have escaped the net.

"During the searches a substantial quantity of drugs, stolen property, cash and
stolen financial instruments were recovered," said a statement issued jointly by
Scotland Yard and the Royal Ulster Constabulary. "Computers and a large quantity
of documents were seized with a view to expert examination and analysis." Four
arrests were made in the Irish Republic and four in the London area.

Security sources said operations had been directed at two figures in the
republican movement, one the chief of the IRA's southern command and the other a
Dublin businessman alleged to be a senior IRA paymaster. Several houses in
Dundalk and Dublin were searched by armed detectives who want to question the
businessman about his alleged involvement in bankrolling terrorist activity. But
it is believed the target recently left the country.

The co-ordinated operation followed intensive investigations. Apart from the
Metropolitan Police, officers from Lancashire, Surrey, Merseyside and the Irish
Garda took part.

Paul Condon, the Commissioner of the Metropolitan Police, said the operation was
an indication of the determination to hit the IRA in the same way as other
countries dealt with organised crime.

Loyalist and republican paramilitaries are estimated to raise between pounds 6
million and pounds 10 million a year from crime to finance their operations.

Sir Patrick Mayhew, the Northern Ireland Secretary, said tougher legislation was
on the way which would allow access to accoun ts of companies suspected of
having terrorist links.


LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              337 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                            April 21, 1994, Thursday

BBC1 IRELAND

SECTION: TTV

LENGTH: 885 words


FRIDAY, APRIL 22 9.30pm: ANDERSON ON THE BOX. Guests include singer Nana
Mouskouri, actress Paula Wilcox, and Country and Western singer Mike Cash.

RTE 2 SUNDAY, APRIL 24 1.30pm: HEAD TO TOE.  2.00pm: FILM: OTHELLO.  4.40pm:
SCIENCE AND SOCIETY.  5.00pm: FAIR CITY.

BBC1 IRELAND SUNDAY, APRIL 24 9.05pm: THE BELFAST TELEGRAPH ENTERTAINMENT MEDIA
AND ARTS AWARDS.  10.10pm: SUNDAY NIGHT CLIVE.  10.55pm: MASTERMIND.  11.25pm:
EVERYMAN.  12.05am: INSIDE ULSTER NEWS.  12.10am: CLOSE.

RADIO 5 MONDAY, APRIL 25 7.35pm: GOOD FOR A QUOTE. Pat Murphy traces the career
of Ron Atkinson 8.05pm: SIX-O-SIX. Britain's premier phone-in for football fans.
Put your point to David Mellor on 0345 909 693.  10.00pm: NEWS TALK.

CARLTON MONDAY, APRIL 25 10.40pm: SPORT IN QUESTION. Delete all details and
insert: Ian St John, Jimmy Greaves and guests West Indies cricket captain Clive
Lloyd, boxing promoter Mickey Duff and ex-Spurs footballer Alan Mullery answer
sporting queries posed by members of the studio audience.

CARLTON/CTV/MERIDIAN WEDNESDAY, APRIL 27 1.30am: HOLLYWOOD REPORT. Richard
Jobson attends a child star reunion, investigates the effects of Nirvana
frontman Kurt Cobain's death on America and talks to Ice-T about his latest film
role.

CARLTON THURSDAY, APRIL 28 10.45pm: THE FROST PROGRAMME. Sir David Frost is
joined by actress Joanna Lumley.

SKY MOVIES SATURDAY, APRIL 23 8.00pm: FILM: PATRIOT GAMES. (1992) Premiere. An
ex-CIA agent on holiday in London prevents an IRA attack, killing one of the
terrorists, only to become a target himself when the dead man's brother seeks
revenge. Political thriller, starring Harrison Ford, Anne Archer, Patrick
Bergin, Thora Birch and Sean Bean.  (Please note correct detail) (Repeated at
1.20am)

SCOTTISH MONDAY, APRIL 25 10.30pm: SCOTTISH WOMEN. Kate Adams delves into the
places where women dare to be tattooed and pierced.

EUROSPORT MONDAY, APRIL 25 3.00pm: LIVE ICE HOCKEY. Quirky magazine, featuring
surfing from the Pipeline Masters on the north shore of Oahu, Hawaii. Derek Hoe,
Jerry Lopez and Kelly Slater are among the world's top wave-riders competing in
this well-established event. (Please note detail)

BBC1/ NOT BBC1 IRELAND MONDAY, APRIL 25 11.10pm: FILM 94 WITH BARRY NORMAN.
Please note correct spelling of Daniel Day Lewis.

BBC1 IRELAND MONDAY, APRIL 25 11.40pm: FILM 94 WITH BARRY NORMAN. Please note
correct spelling of Daniel Day Lewis.

RADIO 4 TUESDAY, APRIL 26 6.30pm: NO COMMITMENTS. Please note this programme is
a repeat.  11.30pm: (FM) FOUR CORNERS. Please note this programme is a repeat.

EUROSPORT TUESDAY, APRIL 26 8.00am: ARTISTIC GYMNASTICS.  10.00am:
EQUESTRIANISM.  11.00am: SOCCER.

RADIO 4 WEDNESDAY, APRIL 27 8.45pm: WHO SINGS THE HERO? Please note this
programme is a repeat.  11.00pm: MURDER MOST FOUL. Please note this programme is
a repeat.

EUROSPORT WEDNESDAY, APRIL 27 8.00am: ARTISTIC GYMNASTICS.  10.00am: ATHLETICS.
The Paris Marathon.  11.00am: EUROFUN. Then as billed until: 10.30pm: SOCCER.
The first leg of the UEFA Cup Final. Italy's Inter Milan take on Casino Salzburg
of Austria as the two teams compete to succeed last year's winners Juventus.
(Please note detail)

EUROSPORT THURSDAY, APRIL 28 11.00am: SOCCER. Inter Milan v Casino Salzburg in
the UEFA Cup Final first leg.  (Please note detail) 10.00pm: BOXING. Delete all
details and insert: An all-American double bill features world-ranked Aaron
Davis against Tony Marshall in a junior middleweight contest, and Franck
Toledo's junior featherweight clash with Hector Acero-Sanchez. (Please note this
programme is a repeat)

RADIO 4 FRIDAY, APRIL 29 2.00pm: CLASSIC SERIAL: THE MAYOR OF CASTERBRIDGE.
Please note this programme is a repeat.

ITV/NOT CARLTON/CENTRAL/CTV/MERIDIAN/SCOTTISH FRIDAY, APRIL 22 1.05am: WHALE ON.
Guests include Ilene Rosenzweig, author of the controversial I Hate Madonna
Handbook, Keith Chegwin, and marine biologist Vassili Papastavrou. Plus, music
by The Government.

CARLTON FRIDAY, APRIL 22 12.40am: WHALE ON. Guests include Ilene Rosenzweig,
author of the controversial I Hate Madonna Handbook, Keith Chegwin, and marine
biologist Vassili Papastavrou. Plus, music by The Government.

CENTRAL FRIDAY, APRIL 22 12.35am: WHALE ON. Guests include Ilene Rosenzweig,
author of the controversial I Hate Madonna Handbook, Keith Chegwin, and marine
biologist Vassili Papastavrou. Plus, music by The Government.

CTV/MERIDIAN FRIDAY, APRIL 22 12.55am: WHALE ON. Guests include Ilene
Rosenzweig, author of the controversial I Hate Madonna Handbook, Keith Chegwin,
and marine biologist Vassili Papastavrou. Plus, music by The Government.

SCOTTISH FRIDAY, APRIL 22 2.20pm: KIRSTY. A Page Three Girl, a prostitute and a
male stripper discuss the issue of 'selling their bodies'. Plus, a look at toy
boy and toy girl relationships - do they work? Presented by Kirsty Young.
2.45am: WHALE ON. Guests include Ilene Rosenzweig, author of the controversial I
Hate Madonna Handbook, Keith Chegwin, and marine biologist Vassili Papastavrou.
Plus, music by The Government.

RADIO 1 FRIDAY, APRIL 22 2.00pm: MARK GOODIER IN THE AFTERNOON.  4.00pm: CLAIRE
STURGESS.  7.00pm: PETE TONG'S ESSENTIAL SELECTION.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1994 The Press Association Limited

                              338 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             April 22, 1994, Friday

Birmingham pub bomb case closed

BYLINE: JASON BENNETTO Home Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 5

LENGTH: 336 words


POLICE investigating the 1974 Birmingham pub bombings that killed 21 people and
led to one of Britain's gravest miscarriages of justice announced yesterday that
the case was closed and that no one was ever likely to be prosecuted for the
murders.

The decision followed a three-year inquiry by West Midlands police into the
worst IRA atrocity on the UK mainland.

The six Irishmen wrongly convicted of the bombings, who served 16 years in
prison before being released in 1991, yesterday called for a public inquiry into
the case to stop continuing ''innuendos'' that they were really guilty and had
only been freed on a technicality. Chris Mullin, the Labour MP who campaigned
for the Birmingham Six, added that the police had missed their chance to
prosecute the guilty men, whom he claims were known to the authorities for many
years.

Announcing the results of the inquiry, the Chief Constable of the West Midlands,
Ron Hadfield, said: ''The file so far as we are concerned is now closed . . . We
have done everything we could possibly have done to bring the perpetrators to
justice.'' The Director of Public Prosecutions had concluded that the inquiry
had found ''insufficient evidence to support any further criminal proceedings''.

Reminded that three years ago he emphasised the Six were innocent, he said:
''They were innocent so far as the courts are concerned and I stand by that
statement.''

The Court of Appeal released the Six and quashed their convictions for taking
part in the IRA attack after ''grave doubt'' was cast on police and the forensic
science evidence.

Mr Mullin has claimed that he met members of the four- strong terrorist team,
all now living in Ireland, who admitted their role in the murders. ''All four of
those responsible for the bombings passed through the custody of the West
Midlands police in the year afterwards . . . but it was always unlikely that 20
years after the event sufficient evidence could be found to bring the real
culprits to court.''


LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1994 Independent Print Ltd

                              339 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 29, 1994
                              Correction Appended

UK TELLS IRAN TO END IRA CONTACTS

BYLINE: RICHARD NORTON-TAYLOR, IAN BLACK AND OWEN BOWCOTT

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 479 words


BRITAIN issued a stern public warning to Iran yesterday to halt contacts with
the IRA after MI6 amassed evidence of a clandestine relationship seen in London
as a threat that had to be nipped in the bud.

Iran's charge d'affaires, Gholamreza Ansari, was summoned to see Foreign Office
minister Douglas Hogg and told that the activities must stop. Mr Ansari denied
any wrongdoing and said Iran opposed all forms of terrorism.

No details were released of the nature of the alleged secret contact, but
meetings were said to have taken place in Paris and the Hague. There was no
evidence, however, of any money or weapons being delivered.

After the stiff, 10-minute dressing-down, a Foreign Office spokesman said: "We
are convinced that there have been contacts between Iranian intelligence and the
IRA. We take the gravest view of any contact which might assist or encourage
terrorism." Whitehall's departure from its customary refusal to comment on
intelligence matters was explained by the political sensitivity of the fight
against the IRA.

The contacts with the IRA were said to have been orchestrated by Amirhossein
Taghavi, the shadowy head of the west European section of Tehran's ministry of
intelligence, a key target for MI6 and other Western spy agencies.

Whitehall officials said the move was designed to strangle any operational
relationship at birth. "There's more information about contacts than substance,"
conceded one well-placed source. "We regard this move as more pre-emptive than
anything else."

Yesterday's protest was prompted by foreign press reports, especially one in a
Greek newspaper this week, naming Mr Taghavi as co-ordinating links with the IRA
as well as the Greek November 17 terrorist movement. Athens is regarded by MI6
as an important vantage point for the Middle East.

The British move coincides with increased activity by the security and
intelligence services in Britain and Ireland against the IRA, which is believed
to be seeking new sources of funds. Iran is high on Britain's Middle East watch
list because of the nature of the regime and also because of the threat to kill
Salman Rushdie, author of The Satanic Verses.

At a press conference in his embassy, Mr Ansari said: "Iran has always strongly
condemned any terrorist action in any place, in any form or any time.

"There is absolutely no contact between the intelligence services of our country
and the Provisional IRA. We naturally understand that any such contact would
produce a feeling of revulsion in the UK, but as there is none there is no need
for alarm or criticism."

British sources said the contacts could have led to much more ambitious plans:
"We don't think they were taking lessons in drinking Guinness or trying to
convert the IRA to Shia Islam," said one.

Alarm bells ring over IRA links with Iran, page 3


LOAD-DATE: April 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: May 18, 1994

CORRECTION:

Salman Rushdie's award for the best Booker Prize-winning novel of the last 25
years was conferred for Midnight's Children, not The Satanic Verses as reported
in the Guardian on April 29.

                   Copyright 1994 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              340 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 April 29, 1994

Police chief sees no respite as sectarian killings rekindle fear

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 577 words


NORTHERN Ireland braced itself for more terrorist violence last night after
warnings that the level of slaughter was likely to intensify.

There have been nine killings by republican and loyalist groups in eight days
and Chief Constable Sir Hugh Annesley issued a gloomy prediction on what lay
ahead.

"I don't see anybody stepping back from what they are doing at the moment. It
will remain broadly as it is, indeed it may escalate," he said.

He also predicted a renewed IRA bombing campaign on mainland Britain. They
wanted "spectaculars", he said.

He held out some hope, given time. He believed the Downing Street Declaration,
signed by Britain and Ireland in December, could be the beginning of the end of
the past 25 years of terrorism.

"I personally believe that the Downing Street Declaration is indicative of the
beginning of the crest towards the end.

"I don't believe that, for example, in three years all violence will stop. But I
believe in looking at intelligence patterns, looking at the reaction of the
community throughout Northern Ireland, looking at the expressions that people
have had enough -- I find it difficult to believe that the level of violence we
have now will continue after two-and-a-half to three years."

But even then, if terrorism stopped in its present form, the streets would not
be safe. The republican and loyalist groups would turn to organised crime,
intimidation, extortion, and drugs.

He said the London-Dublin agreement was a watershed and the IRA was left in a
cul-de-sac and wondering where to go next.

The only way out for the IRA was to stop the violence and enter the political
field, he said. There was little doubt that if it did, loyalist violence would
tail off.

But he said it was clear now that loyalist groups were not just reacting to the
IRA attacks. They were running their own campaigns.

Politicians and church leaders on all sides called for a halt to the killing
which this week rose to a level not seen for six months.

The latest victim was shot dead just before midnight last night at Salters
Grange in Armagh. Police said the man was outside his house, either getting into
or out of a car, when gunmen struck.

The eighth victim was named last night as Jim Brown, 47, a Roman Catholic
father-of-three from north Belfast.

The former docker was shot dead behind the counter of the newsagent's he opened
with his redundancy money a few years ago. The Ulster Volunteer Force shot him.

His murder came hours after the Ulster Freedom Fighters shot dead a 25-year-old
Roman Catholic in west Belfast.

Liam Thompson, a single man from the Whiterock area of west Belfast, was killed
on the "peace line" which separates rival estates.

The shooting was in revenge for the Irish National Liberation Army's murder of
Protestant fishing tackle shop owner Gerry Evans, 43. Mr Evans's son-in-law was
injured in the attack on Wednesday in their shop in Glengormley, County Antrim.

That murder was, in turn, thought to be retaliation for the killing by the
Ulster Freedom Fighters of father-of-five Joe McCloskey, 52, who died late on
Tuesday when gunmen walked into his north Belfast home and shot him as he
watched television.

The cycle was started on Sunday when the IRA shot two Protestant men in Garvagh,
County Londonderry, as they sat talking in their cars.

At least 10 people are being questioned about the series of killings.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              341 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 30, 1994

EUROPE ALERTED AS MI6 ACTS TO STYMIE IRAN'S IRA CONTACTS

BYLINE: IAN BLACK DIPLOMATIC EDITOR

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 297 words


BRITAIN is to continue keeping a close watch on Iranian intelligence activities
in Europe to ensure that secret contacts with the IRA - vehemently denied by
Tehran - come to an end.

Officals said that MI6, which treats Iran's Ministry of Intelligence Services as
a key target, will maintain surveillance after the Foreign Office publicly
warned Iran that clandestine links with the IRA would not be tolerated.

Britain's charge d'affaires in Tehran, Jeffrey James, was called into the
Iranian foreign ministry overnight to be told Iran rejected the British claims
about secret meetings in European capitals as "utterly false".

But the denials impressed no-one: "The chances of the Iranians turning round and
saying 'it's a fair cop' were never really very strong," said one official. "The
proof of the pudding is in the eating. We will remain vigilant."

British officials insisted that Thursday's warning to Iran was pre-emptive and
based on concrete evidence of meetings but without any specific knowledge of the
supply of weapons or money to the IRA.

"We don't want to open up new fronts with the Iranians, but this is something we
can't ignore," said one well-placed source. "If one weren't concerned about the
main terrorist threat to Britain then we might have acted differently. But we
wouldn't look very good if it all blew up and we hadn't done anything about it."

Britain has already briefed its European Union partners, the European
Commission, the United States, Canada and Japan - seen in London and Washington
as too friendly with Tehran - on the issue.

In Northern Ireland there were calls for sanctions against Iran. David Trimble,
Ulster Unionist MP for Upper Bann, said: "Merely slapping their wrists isn't
going to be enough."


LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              342 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                            April 30, 1994, Saturday

BRITAIN ACCUSED OF HARBOURING ANTI-IRANIAN TERRORISTS

BYLINE:  Chris Moncrieff, Political Editor, PA News

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 352 words


Britain today fiercely denied accusations of harbouring anti-Iranian terrorist
organisations as the bitter war of words between London and Tehran rages on
unabated.  Relations between the two countries now stand at their lowest ebb
following Britain's protest to Iran for allegedly supplying the Provisional IRA
with cash or arms.  Tehran formally denied that and hit back today with new
allegations claiming that Britain was sheltering terrorist organisations working
against the Iranian Government.  The Tehran Times said that Britain had no right
to question Iran's adherence to international conventions against aiding
terrorists.  "Western powers, Britain among them, cannot plead ignorance when it
comes to the terrorist nature of anti-Iranian groups they harbour in the West,"
the newspaper said.  But a Foreign Office spokesman said: "The Government denies
any contact of any kind with the Mujahideen e-Khalq group. Opposition groups
from any country are free to operate in the United Kingdom within the law.  "If
they break the law they will be prosecuted. If the Iranian have evidence of
illegal activity they should let us have sight of it." Earlier this week,
Foreign Office Minister of State Douglas Hogg summoned the Iran charge
d'affaires Gholamdsreza Ansari to give him a dressing down about Iran's alleged
involvmenet with the Provisional IRA.  Afterwards, Iran flatly denied this
allegation, although Britain remains convinced that there were such links.  Thje
paper says that the British protest about the IRA was "a smokescreen to hide the
fact that Western-based anti-Iranian terrorists are providing material and
personnel to the Iraq-based terrorists to attack targets inside the Islamic
republic".

Britain's relations with Iran have been in a state of turbulence ever since the
late Ayatollah Khomeini passed sentence of death (a "fatwa") on author Salman
Rushdie in 1989 for alleged blasphemy in his novel The Satanic Verses. This was
a call to Muslims the world over to kill him.  The sentence has never been
lifted and Rushdie has been forced into hiding ever since.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1994 The Press Association Limited

                              343 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                            April 30, 1994, Saturday

TEHRAN CLAIMS BRITAIN AIDS 'ANTI-IRANIAN TERRORISTS'

SECTION: OOO

LENGTH: 286 words


Iran's turbulent relationship with Britain worsened today when an influential
Tehran daily newspaper accused London of sheltering "anti-Iranian terrorists".
The editorial broadside by the Tehran Times, which usually reflects Iranian
foreign ministry policy, was in response to British allegations that Tehran was
funding the IRA. Excerpts from the editorial in the English-language Tehran
Times were reported by the official Islamic Republic News Agency, monitored in
Cyprus.  The Iranian counter-charge deepened a diplomatic rift which began in
February 1989, when the late Ayatollah Khomeini issued a fatwa calling on
Muslims the world over to kill novelist Salman Rushdie.  Khomeini claimed
Rushdie's satirical novel "The Satanic Verses" blasphemed Islam.  The Tehran
Times said Britain had no right to question Iran's adherence to international
conventions against aiding terrorists.  "Western powers, Britain among them,
cannot plead ignorance when it comes to the terrorist nature of anti-Iranian
groups they harbour in the West," the newspaper said.  The Foreign Office has
said Britain was "convinced" there were contacts between the IRA and Iranian
intelligence - and accusation the Iranian Foreign Ministry has called "totally
groundless".  The newspaper said the British protest was a "smoke-screen to hide
the fact that Western-based anti-Iranian terrorists are providing material and
personnel to the Iraqi-based terrorists to attack targets inside the Islamic
republic".  It did not name any particular dissident group.  Another newspaper,
the radical Jomhuri Eslami daily, called on Tehran to reduce diplomatic and
economic relations with London "to the lowest possible level".  AP mpd


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1994 The Press Association Limited

                              344 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                  May 5, 1994

Pledge on troop numbers keeps up pressure on IRA

BYLINE: Stephen Mcgregor, Parliamentary Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 819 words


ARMED Forces Minister Jeremy Hanley last night maintained the pressure on the
IRA over a possible peace settlement in Northern Ireland, with a pledge that
troops would stay in the Province as long as there was a terrorist threat.

He told the Commons, during a debate on the Army: "Force levels are kept under
continuous review, to ensure that they remain appropriate to the prevailing
level of terrorist threat. We are satisfied that the present force levels are
right.

"I can assure the House that we can and will maintain forces at the present
level for as long as the terrorists make it necessary."

The debate took place against the background of concern about cuts in armed
forces personnel.

However, Mr Hanley defended the Government's strategy, stating that the Defence
Costs Study was not aimed at reducing Britain's military capability or
commitments, and that its real aim was encapsulated in the alternative title of
Front Line First.

"We were confident that a radical review of our support and management
arrangements could produce the required savings without reducing our military
capability or effectiveness. The Defence Costs Study was intended to confirm
this and develop specific proposals. I believe it is now in sight of both
objectives."

The Minister paid tribute to the efforts of British troops serving in Bosnia.

He said: "Although we are today focusing on the Army contribution, let us not
forget the important role of the other Services in, for example, the
humanitarian airlift to Sarjevo, the provision of close air support, and the
naval operations in the Adriatic.

"The UK contribution to current UN operations in the former Yugoslavia is second
to none in terms of its professionalism, efficiency and effectiveness."

For the Opposition, Dr John Reid raised current "internecine warfare" in the
Tory Party.

He said rumours were ''sweeping the House" that Defence Secretary Malcolm
Rifkind might soon be replaced, and there was press speculation that his
replacement could be Treasury Chief Secretary Michael Portillo.

Dr Reid said such a move would be a sad day for the armed forces as Mr Portillo
was a "Treasury hyena who will pick over the bones of what's left of the defence
budget".

On Bosnia, he complained of a "failure of political leadership", adding: "At the
most fundamental level, the UN has failed to establish clear, achievable
objectives.

"The result has been an operation which has been for the most part hastily
improvised, with the UN responding to events rather than shaping them."

He repeated Labour's call for a defence review.The Prime Minister had changed
his mind on a number of issues before, he said, adding: "Why can't he, for the
sake of our men and women in the armed forces, change his mind on this one?"

He claimed the Government could be planning further defence cuts but was
delaying an announcement until July, after the local and European elections.

Tory former Armed Forces Minister Sir Archibald Hamilton (Epsom and Ewell) said
he had been "very unhappy" when two extra battalions were sent to Northern
Ireland in 1992.

He asked if the Governent had "any statistics in terms of terrorist incidents,
or what's happened in Northern Ireland, to prove that those two extra battalions
have actually achieved anything in military terms.

"Because I have yet to meet any general who doesn't want more troops for
whatever he happens to be doing.''

Tory Sir Nicholas Bonsor (Upminster), Defence Select Committee chairman, warned
against ending up with a front line that was "merely a thin red line with no
support and no replacement''.

He rejected calls for a defence review, insisting: "Certainty and continuity are
very important for our armed forces at the moment. One reason morale is low is
that we have had so many changes over such a short time."

The world was now a "very much more dangerous place" than it was five or six
years ago before the collapse of the

Sovet Union.

Tory former defence minister Sir Jerry Wiggin (Weston-super-Mare) said: "Morale
in the Army is unquestionably not at its height."

He said Britain had "no business" in Bosnia and warned that unless firm
decisions were made shortly "we could find ourselves in the same quagmire as the
Americans did in Vietnam".

* Just 16 of the 210 complaints made by the public against the armed forces in
Northern Ireland last year were upheld, according to a report out yesterday.

This 7.6% figure was "bound to create dissatisfaction among many observers",
said the report's author, David Hewitt, a Belfast solicitor and former Ireland
rugby international. However, making his first report in the role of Independent
Assessor of Military Complaints Procedure, he pointed out that only a fraction
of the millions of encounters troops have with the public each year lead to
complaints.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Jeremy Hanley:"We'll maintain forces"

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              345 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 6, 1994

GUARDIAN/LIBERATION CHANNEL TUNNEL SPECIAL: SAFETY: FIRE, FOOD AND QUAKES: A
PRECAUTIONARY TALE;
Half of Britain is uneasy about crossing the Channel below the seabed and rail
disasters grab the headlines, but Eurotunnel reckons it can get everybody out
from anywhere in the tunnel in just 90 minutes flat

BYLINE: REBECCA SMITHERS

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGE; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1302 words


The nightmare scenario - passengers trapped in a train in a tunnel deep under
the sea, menaced by fire or flood, miles from the nearest exit - is bound to
grab the box office. Many travellers may indeed never bring themselves to brave
the Channel Tunnel.

Yet the safety and protection of passengers has been the overriding objective in
the design of both the tunnel and of the complex new trains that will be running
through it.

The list of potential risks to passengers goes far beyond fire and flood,
including earthquakes, collisions or train derailmen t, accidents involving
potentially hazardous freight loads, power failures and, of course, the
unthinkable - acts of terrorism.

Contrary to popular belief, the sea does not present a real safety risk as the
tunnel is embedded so deeply into the seabed - at an average of 45 metres.

Eurotunnel claims it would take a huge earthquake to puncture the tunnel lining,
something on a scale unprecedented in the area. It is a myth that the British
Isles don't have earthquakes - once every century or so they have quite good
ones.

But notwithstanding, the fact that the tunnel runs under the cold Channel
waters, operating what will be the world's busiest railway system when it
reaches peak capacity sometime next century, presents a safety nightmare that is
incomparable to any other.

At its busiest, there could be as many as a dozen trains at once in each of the
two single-track railway tunnels, carrying thousands of passengers who would all
have to be evacuated in the event of a serious incident. At any one time they
could be up to 19 km from the open air or 25 km from the nearest escape portal.

All the safety measures implemented by Eurotunnel, and the way in which it is
operated, have had to be approved by the Inter-Governmental Commission (ICG) set
up under the Anglo-French treaty governing the tunnel.

Eurotunnel has had to show through numerous tests that, in the event of any
problems on trains, all passengers could be evacuated from the tunnel within 90
minutes of the alarm being raised.  Emergency services can be rushed in at 80
km/hour on special diesel-powered service vehicles.

Serious rail accidents in Britain always gain extensive media publicity. For
example the Clapham junction train collision in London in 1988, in which 35
people died and 500 were injured, and the Cannon Street station accident in
London, when two people died and 550 were injured. Trains, however, are
considered to be a relatively safe form of transport, and most serious railway
accidents have resulted from collision or derailment, involving two or even
three trains.

The risk of collision in the Channel has been significantly reduced by the
French and British governments' insistence on building two separate tunnels,
each with a single track.

Inside the tunnels, concrete routes on either side have been designed to hold up
the huge 6m high shuttle trains which will carry cars and other vehicles (their
tanks laden with petrol) and their drivers through the tunnel.

Eurotunnel has also taken steps to eliminate the main cause of rail collision -
driver error. Drivers of all types of train will have in front of them at all
times the distance of unoccupied track ahead of the train and the maximum safe
speed. But if any warnings are ignored - in case of driver illness, for example
- a hi-tech computer system called Automatic Train Protection will take over and
stop the train.

The tunnel's operator, Eurotunnel, admits that it has devoted much of its
attention to fire, which would probably result from a collision, or even an
electrical fault in a car or on board a shuttle.  Although Eurotunnel's research
has shown that the likelihood of such an incident on a stationary car is very
low, precautions have been taken to ensure that any incidents are detected and
dealt with very quickly.

There have been precedents, of course. For more than 30 years, for example,
people have travelled through the long Alpine railway tunnels while sitting in
their cars on open wagons. But there has never been a serious incident in any of
the world's numerous railway tunnels.

All passenger-carrying rolling stock entering the system - the intercontinental
trains designed for foot passengers as well as the shuttle trains - have been
constructed using fire-resistant materials which will not emit smoke or toxic
fumes when heated.

The main fire hazard on board passenger shuttles will, therefore, be more likely
to emanate from the vehicles on board the shuttle trains, rather than the trains
themselves. Drivers will be banned from smoking on the shuttle trains during the
35-minute journey through the tunnel, and from lifting bonnets to work on their
cars' engines. At the first sign of any dangerous hydrocarbon vapours, smoke or
flames will be detected automatically, triggering the evacuation warnings to
passengers.

It should take no longer than two minutes for car passengers and three minutes
for coach passengers to pass into the adjacent wagon. The trains are equipped
with hand-held fire extinguishers for the use of train crew and passengers, but
should any fire persist and become life-threatening, there is an automatic
discharge of Halon at a low concentration.

The basic principles governing safety of the shuttle trains also apply to the
through-trains, which will speed foot passengers directly from London to the
Continent through the Tunnel. These trains will not be carrying vehicles with
petrol tanks, but will be subject to the same strict safety rules. Each coach
has a fire barrier at both ends and a fire-resistant floor, making it possible
for passengers to be evacuated into adjacent coaches while the train travels out
of the tunnel and into an emergency siding. Each of the trains can be be split
into two independent half-trains, so that one half can be used to evacuate
passengers from the other, powered by one of the locomotives at each end.

Coaches are air-conditioned with sealed windows and external doors operated by
remote control. Unlike the shuttle trains, however, passengers will be able to
smoke on the trains and there will not be any restrictions when travelling
through the tunnel.

In the tunnel itself, a complex back-up service is designed to guarantee power
supplies from both the British and French power grids to maintain lighting and
communications, with standby diesel generators if all else fails. Overhead wires
supplying power to the trains are split into sections of only 1,200 metres
ensuring that, in the case of damage to wires, no more than one train is likely
to be stranded. A complex ventilation system is designed to supply fresh air in
the service tunnel as well as the two main tunnels. A web of radio and telephone
communications connect the control centres at the two terminals with tunnel
staff and train crews.

Overall, the evacuation strategy is to keep the trains moving wherever possible,
keeping their passengers on board in order to get them out of the tunnel as
quickly as possible. Any passengers stranded in the service tunnel would be
rescued by a train sent into the unaffected rail tunnel. "Major incident"
co-ordination centres, manned by the emergency services and Eurotunnel, have
been set up alongside the control centres at each of the two terminals. The
passengers, however, will be people. Psychological research by Professor David
Canter, from the University of Surrey, has revealed that when tested with real
alarm bells in a simulated emergency, passengers didn't file out in an orderly
manner as instructed. Instead, they just sat there, pretending nothing had
happened and hoping someone else would make the first move. The passengers,
incidentally, were British.


LOAD-DATE: May 6, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              346 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             May 10, 1994, Tuesday

French hold Algerian 'terrorist'

BYLINE: JULIAN NUNDY in Paris

SECTION: INTERNATIONAL NEWS PAGE; Page 14

LENGTH: 486 words


AN ALGERIAN caught transporting 13kg (29lb) of explosives, arms and radio
equipment from Germany will go before an anti-terrorist magistrate in Paris
today. The discovery fuels French fears that Algerian Islamic fundamentalists
are operating from Europe.

Abdel-Hakim Boutrif, 34, a French-born Algerian who lives near Paris, was
detained at a motorway toll-gate in the Meurthe-et-Moselle department near the
frontier with Germany on Friday evening. Customs found 129 100-gram
(three-and-a-half-ounce) sticks of explosives, 99 detonators, ammunition, three
automatic pistols, one automatic rifle, four night-sights, three scanners and
four two-way radios in his car, they said.

The news of Mr Boutrif's arrest came as the fundamentalist Islamic Salvation
Front (FIS), banned in Algeria, condemned the murder in Algiers on Sunday of a
French priest and a nun, and said the killings were a provocation. The deaths
brought to 34 the number of foreigners killed in Algeria since September.

The sources said Mr Boutrif, who had been transferred to Paris, would see an
examining magistrate of the prosecutor's office, which co-ordinates anti-
terrorist activities, today. They said police had ascertained it was the second
time he had made such a trip, and that he was planning to take the arms to
Algeria through Spain and Morocco.

Another two Algerian residents in France were charged with terrorist offences
after arms were found in their possession in March.

The French fear that violence in Algeria will spill into France, as thousands of
Algerians leave the former North African colony. Mr Boutrif's arrest will
bolster French politicians opposed to the Schengen treaty, which is due to
abolish frontier controls throughout the European Union. The treaty was signed
by all EU countries except Britain, Ireland and Denmark.

Last month, a French examining magistrate visited Britain to question Algerian
residents believed to have FIS connections. Roger Le Loire, the magistrate, and
French counter-espionage officers, interviewed seven Algerians, one of whom has
British nationality, and one Englishman, on British police premises. According
to reports in Paris, police in Britain refused requests from Mr Le Loire to
issue warrants to search their homes.

Sunday's shooting of Helene Saint-Raymond, 67, and Father Henri Verges, 64, in
the Algiers casbah prompted the French government to renew its appeal to French
residents in Algeria to leave the country.

In October, the Armed Islamic Group, an extremist group which had claimed
responsibility for kidnapping three French consular officials - who were later
released in a police raid - said foreigners would become a target.

The FIS, banned in Algeria since the government halted elections in January
1992, said in a statement issued in Bonn yesterday that killing religious
figures was contrary to the sharia, Islamic law.


LOAD-DATE: May 10, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1994 Independent Print Ltd

                              347 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                  May 14, 1994

Blast repairs completed

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 30 words


A fly-over at Staples Corner north-west London -- one of Britain's busiest road
junctions -- re-opened yesterday -- after being badly damaged by an IRA bomb in
April 1992.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              348 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                  May 14, 1994

Two IRA bombers jailed for 30 years

SECTION: Pg. 9

LENGTH: 627 words


TWO Englishmen were last night starting 30-year sentences for taking part in
potentially the most lethal IRA bombing campaign on mainland Britain.

Computer expert Patrick Hayes smirked when the Old Bailey jury found him guilty
of a series of terrorist offences which could have cost many lives.

Asked if he had anything to say in mitigation, he replied: "I am pleased with
everything I have done."

Hayes, 41, and 50-year-old former Army Corporal Jan Taylor were convicted of
taking part in an ''indiscriminate" bombing campaign, including the Harrods
litter bin explosion in which four people were injured.

Mr Justice Hidden told the pair: "You are both evil men whose business is
terror, death, and destruction. It is only by the greatest good fortune no lives
were lost.

"You both go about the business of terrorism with no thought for the lives and
limbs of members of the public and no concern for the massive destruction you
set out to unleash and the terror you seek to instil.

"The word remorse is not one you recognise."

Hayes and Taylor left the dock waving clenched fists and shouting "Up the RA"
(Republican Army) and a Gaelic slogan meaning "Our time will come".

The Judge had said that although Hayes, of Walford Road, Stoke Newington, north
London, had been convicted of more offences, he could not discriminate between
him and Taylor, of Adelia Grove, Stepney, east London, "on the scales of
wickedness".

The two men had been convicted of causing the Harrods explosion in January last
year and a blast on a train the following month, which led to massive damage.

They were also found guilty of possession of Semtex and other explosives and
firearms.

Hayes was additionally convicted of plotting to cause explosions at Canary
Wharf, Tottenham Court Road, and Woodside Park Tube station, all in London, in
1992.

Pleas of not guilty to all charges were entered after the pair refused to answer
the counts against them.

Neither man gave or called evidence during the trial but Hayes made a statement
from the dock to the jury.

In it, he said he was a member of the IRA and claimed: "The prosecution interest
lies in a conviction and not in justice or egalitarianism."

The jury had been told the men were caught by armed police who burst into Hayes'
flat after their photographs were published in a newspaper. Surrounded by a
substantial cache of guns, ammunition, and bomb-making equipment, they were
making "hurried attempts to cover their tracks".

Two shots were fired at police as officers broke through a window. On the floor
were two Kalashnikov rifles Taylor was trying to reach as he struggled with
police.

Police sources said yesterday both men had made a "quantum leap" from far-left
activists to senior, trusted IRA terrorists.

They were on Special Branch files dating back more than a decade as fringe
members of militant groups, such as Red Action.

Sources in Northern Ireland said the men had started off contacting the splinter
Irish Nationalist Liberation Army but became disillusioned, spending the next 10
years winning the trust of the IRA.

* Sinn Fein has sought further clarification of the Downing Street peace
declaration.

In a move fuelling hopes of a breakthrough in the search for a political
settlement in Northern Ireland, the IRA's political wing has submitted a
detailed list of questions to officials in Dublin, who have passed them on to
London.

Sir Patrick Mayhew, Northern Ireland Secretary, said yesterday: "It is clearly
in the public interest for people to know what these questions are. We shall
make them public with our comments within a matter of days once we have had an
opportunity to give them proper consideration."

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Patrick Hayes: computer expertJan Taylor: former corporal

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              349 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             May 14, 1994, Saturday

'Proud' IRA bombers jailed for 30 years; Police remain mystified why two
Englishmen, who had no apparent connections with Ireland, became terrorists.
Stephen Ward reports

BYLINE: STEPHEN WARD

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 5

LENGTH: 823 words


TWO ENGLISHMEN punched the air and shouted their unswerving support for the IRA
yesterday as they were sentenced to 30 years in prison for a series of horrific
London bombings. Sentencing the men at the Old Bailey, Mr Justice Hidden told
Jan Taylor, 51, a former British army corporal, and Patrick Hayes, 41, a
computer expert: ''You are both evil men whose business is terror, death and
destruction.''

Both men were convicted of causing the explosion outside Harrods in January 1993
in which four people were injured, and a blast on a Network SouthEast train the
following month, which led to massive damage. They were also found guilty of
possessing Semtex and other explosives, and firearms.

Hayes was also convicted of plotting to cause explosions at Canary Wharf,
Tottenham Court Road and Woodside Park tube station, all in London, in 1992.

They were caught after being filmed by a security camera as they planted the
Harrods bomb, and linked conclusively by a mass of scientific evidence to the
other crimes.

Pleas of not guilty to all charges had been entered after the pair refused to
answer the counts against them. The judge told them: ''It is only by the
greatest good fortune no lives were lost.''

Hayes told the court he had nothing to say in mitigation: ''I am proud of
everything I have done,'' he announced to the stunned court.

Hayes and Taylor were like no IRA terrorists the police had come across.
Intelligence and detective work had failed to pick up any trace of them as
suspects.

They had been missed because the authorities were looking for Irishmen. But the
two had no known connection with Ireland - there was not even a trace of an
attachment to the country through holidays and there are still huge gaps in
detectives' knowledge of the bombers' lives. Neither made any statements after
their arrests.

Police sources say they have no idea how or when either made the transition from
being ''weekend Socialist Workers'' in the 1970s to working for the IRA in the
1990s.

In Hayes's flat, police found literature associated with Red Action - a splinter
of the Socialist Workers' Party, founded in 1981 - and a copy of the Irish
Republican News, as well as anti-fascist material. Red Action has been vocal in
its support of the republican movement, but these were clues, not explanations.

The police have been aware since the 1980s that IRA recruits for mainland
campaigns in Britain are no longer exclusively young, working-class Catholics
from Northern Ireland.

More recently, recruits have been middle-class, or from southern Ireland, or
even only Irish by descent. But the common assumption underlying all
investigations had been that the IRA would not take two unknown Englishmen into
their confidence to this extent.

That appears, however, to be what happened, perhaps over a period of 10 years of
testing and proving themselves in tasks such as hiding a gun or delivering a
vehicle.

Hayes, 41, born in Willesden, north-west London, was divorced in 1988, and
neither his former wife nor his sons - aged 19, 18 and 12 - had anything
relevant to tell the police. He has a degree in business studies from what was
then Central London Polytechnic, and worked since 1983 as a computer programmer,
most recently for Daiwa, a Japanese company in east London.

He was made redundant in September 1992, just before the bombing campaign began.
None of his colleagues had anything useful to tell the police.

Taylor had worked since 1989 as a shelf-stacker at nights at the Tesco store in
Bethnal Green, east London. Between 1961 and 1973 he had served in the British
Army as a radio operator with the Royal Signals Corps, but never in Northern
Ireland. At his flat, the police later found a United Nations peace medal he had
been awarded after one tour of duty. On it he had written ''IRA''.

Nor do they know how Hayes and Taylor worked with the IRA. Warnings for all the
bombings gave the IRA codeword and were in an Irish accent. The ''bomb
factories'' at Hayes's flat and lock-up garage appeared to be bankrolled by the
IRA - there was what appeared to be an account book for items such as vans,
which were always paid for with cash.

Detectives also found a list of targets - public buildings, senior soldiers and
politicians - which suggested that Hayes at least had built a position of trust.
But they are still unsure how many other gang members got away.

Some of the men buying vans and cars used in the bombings had very different
descriptions from Hayes or Taylor. An Irishman, Patrick Kelly, 41, was jailed
for 25 years last year for driving a Volvo lorry containing a massive bomb,
which was stopped by police in Stoke Newington, north London, in November 1992,
just before the Canary Wharf bomb. Although he was tried separately, that lorry
has since been linked by scientific evidence to the Hayes bomb factory.

(Photographs omitted)


LOAD-DATE: May 23, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1994 Independent Print Ltd

                              350 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                              May 15, 1994, Sunday

TODDLER IN IRA CAR BLAST BATTLES FOR LIFE;
GIRL 3 CRITICAL AFTER IRA BOMB BLAST IN LURGAN

BYLINE: John Moore

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 560 words


A THREE-YEAR-OLD girl who was injured in an IRA bomb attack which killed her
father was fighting for her life last night.

Emma Anthony, who suffered two broken legs, was said to be "critical". She was
transferred to the Royal Victoria Hospital, Belfast, when her condition
deteriorated.

Her father Fred, 38, was killed and her mother Ann and nine-year-old brother
Gareth were also injured when the bomb exploded under the family car at Lurgan,
Co Armagh.

Mr Anthony worked as a cleaner at Lurgan RUC station.

As the tiny victim of the Provos battled for her life, hopes for peace in Ulster
last night hung on answers to a top-secret quiz.

Prime Minister John Major was considering his response to a list of questions
sent to him by Sinn Fein.

As he did so, President Clinton was being briefed on the last-ditch bid to make
the Downing Street peace declaration work.

He was told about Sinn Fein's questions by Irish Premier Albert Reynolds at a
hastily-convened summit in the United States. The questions concern
"clarification" sought by the IRA and Sinn Fein about parts of the Downing
Street declaration. The key questions, it's believed, involve: The timetable for
withdrawal of British troops in response to a three-month-long IRA ceasefire.

An amnesty for IRA prisoners in jails in Britain, the Republic and Northern
Ireland.

Surrender of the Provos' vast stock of arms and ammunition.

The starting date of direct talks between Downing Street and Sinn Fein.

DUP deputy leader Peter Robinson later branded the new contact between Sinn Fein
and the British Government as "a betrayal." And Ulster Unionist Party leader
James Molyneaux dismissed it as an IRA delaying tactic.


LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WRECKAGE: Police inspect the death-blast car

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 1994 MGN Ltd.

                              351 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Standard (London)

                                  May 16, 1994

Fears grow for child in car bomb attack

BYLINE: Robert Rodwell,Peter Oborne

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 534 words


THE condition of the three-year-old Ulster girl badly injured by a car bomb
which killed her father deteriorated today.

Emma Anthony was on the critical list at Belfast's Royal Hospital for Sick
Children. She has shrapnel lodged in her brain. Her father Fred, a Protestant,
was killed in the Friday blast.

Meanwhile, Ulster Secretary Sir Patrick Mayhew was poised to answer questions
today from Sinn Fein seeking clarification about the Anglo-Irish peace deal.

Unionists warned him not to get drawn into talks until Sinn Fein has agreed to a
permanent end to violence. But Mr Mayhew is prepared to publicly answer the
latest list of demands, probably by the end of this week - though officials
stressed that 'clarification' would stop short of negotiation.

Former Northern Ireland Minister Michael Mates said the British claim to
Northern Ireland should be on the table in any new political talks.

He said both the UK Government of Ireland Act and Articles Two and Three of the
Irish Constitution - both laying claim to Northern Ireland - would have to be up
for discussion.

The Tory MP saw no conflict between Britain's insistence it is a neutral
facilitator in the peace process while at the same time administering the
Government of Ireland Act. The death of a young Army private has brought the
toll from a Northern Ireland barracks blaze to four.

Adrian Rogers, 26, married with a baby son, died in hospital last night.  From
County Antrim, he was with the Royal Irish Regiment and had served for seven
years.

His three colleagues died in a fire which engulfed their sleeping quarters at
Magherafelt. Pte Rogers was severely burned and suffered smoke inhalation. There
was no terrorist involvement. The Army has promised a full inquiry amid claims
that soldiers had protested for years about over-crowding and the lack of proper
fire precautions.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              352 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Standard (London)

                                  May 16, 1994

The ten urgent questions Gerry Adams should answer;
Gerry Adams: Clarification

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 854 words


THE IRA has relayed to the British Government questions to which it requires
answers before considering further a peace initiative. These questions, says the
IRA, will assist the process of clarification of the British Government's
position. Has not, however, the time come for the British Government to send the
IRA a series of questions - clarification of where Mr Gerry Adams and the IRA
now stand? These are the 10 questions which require urgent answers.  If the IRA
is in favour of the peace process, why did the one and only IRA ceasefire since
the Downing Street Declaration over Easter last only three days?

Can Sinn Fein deliver? Is the IRA actually able to stop its people killing
civilians who work for the security forces or as policemen and British Army
soldiers? Is there any guarantee whatever that if Sinn Fein is invited to sit
down to talks that it will not be embarrassed by IRA members outside Belfast
carrying on killing on a freelance basis? If they do, how many killings do we
turn a blind eye to before we have to call off the talks?

Does the IRA have any control whatever over the terrorist activities of the
INLA? If it can't deliver on republican violence in general, what is the use of
including Sinn Fein in the talks at all?

The UDA, the Protestant paramilitaries, have promised that if the British
Government does any 'deal with the IRA', loyalist violence against Catholics
will escalate still further. The Democratic Unionists' Mr Peter Robinson has
said that it is a fallacy for the British Government to think that by 'buying
off' IRA terrorism they have resolved the problem of terrorism. If the number of
killings actually increases once Sinn Fein joins the peace process, except with
exclusively Catholic victims this time, where does that leave us?  Sinn Fein has
objected to the Unionist veto over any settlement in Northern Ireland. Has it
overlooked the Irish Republic's Supreme Court's pronouncement that the pursuit
of Irish unity, set down in the Irish constitution, is perfectly compatible with
the requirement that Unionists should consent to this?  What does Sinn Fein make
of the Irish prime minister's speech in which he said recently that 'conditions
do not exist at present for the establishment of a united Ireland by agreement,
though we still believe in its merits as a long-term solution'?

Mr Gerry Adams has said that he wants to call in question the Government of
Ireland Act 1920 which established partition in the first place. Is this wise?
In the summary that was added to the Act, there is an explanation that 'the Act
contemplates and affords every possibility for union between North and South.'
Should not Sinn Fein take up the idea?

What does Mr Adams make of the coincidence between the IRA's robust views on
law-and-order and those of The Sun newspaper? In particular the knee-capping of
some 16 alleged joyriders and drug-dealers the other week?

Two Northern Ireland Secretaries of State, including Mr Peter Brooke, have
already said that Britain has no selfish or strategic interest in maintaining
the Union with Northern Ireland; indeed Sir Patrick has pointed out in an
interview with a German magazine that the Union costs British taxpayers billions
of pounds a year. This being so, why does Sinn Fein want the British Government
to clarify its position on this one again?

The Downing Street declaration, signed by the Irish and British prime ministers,
has said that any settlement must be based 'on full respect for the rights and
identities of both traditions in Ireland' (i.e. Catholics and Protestants). Can
you say fairer than that?

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              353 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                  May 17, 1994

The police are demanding the right to fight back. It's gun law as police call
the shots

BYLINE: James Mckillop

SECTION: Pg. 15

LENGTH: 922 words


POLICE officers were predicting last night that we are now one step away from
the day when every policeman in the country will be entitled to carry a gun
openly and be entitled to draw and fire at will.

It was a move that was being greeted last night with enthusiasm by a large
number of policemen in London, regrettable though it may be. Others had grave
doubts.

Metropolitan Police Commissioner Paul Condon, who has brought about changes
accepted by the Home Office, did not dissent from the view that the day would
come when all police officers might be armed.

What happens in London today, will follow tomorrow in all other major cities,
was the theme being canvassed yesterday.

Terrorist attacks on British targets from the mid-seventies onwards, melded with
an upsurge in drug abuse and the resulting gang warfare, led to yesterday's
decision.

The ease of access to weapons for criminals and their willingness to fire them
when cornered is now seen to have brought about the inevitable.

Gone are the days when a Dixon of Dock Green could talk a criminal into handing
over his weapon. The police are now demanding the right to fight back and fight
back with superior firepower.

Britain is going down the American road, at a time President Clinton has begun a
campaign against the gun culture.

Before yesterday's announcement by Paul Condon there was already awesome police
firepower on the streets of London, though most of it was invisible.

The same is true up and down the country. But patrolling policemen have had
their guns locked in steel boxes which until now could only be opened on the
authority of a senior officer.

However, Mr Condon yesterday made it clear he wanted to make it obvious to the
public at large that police in London carry guns and they don't have to wait for
an order to fire them.

"The Home Secretary has never been reluctant to make any move that will protect
the police," an official declared, justifying yesterday's announcement.

Nevertheless it would appear that Mr Condon did not get it all his own way. It
seems the Home Secretary turned down suggestions that London bobby's should be
seen to be openly carrying sub-machine guns on the streets. He preferred to
restrict it to sidearms.

But sub-machine guns are not that unusual in London. They have been seen at
airports, especially Heathrow, and more recently in the City of London.

Those who live and work in London have become used to the increased police
firepower. The measures announced yesterday are unlikely to cause any additional
alarm.

IRA attacks in the City have led to gun-carrying police creating rolling road
blocks. In doing so the police may have been stretching the law, but it seems to
have worked. Terrorist activities in the City have come to a halt in the past 11
months.

This success may have encouraged Commissioner Condon to introduce his new high
-profile measures.

However, one City of London policeman, trained by Britain's special forces --
the SAS at Hereford and the SBS at Poole -- whom I spoke to yesterday only half
welcomed the news that more police may now be seen to be armed.

In the City officers on regular rolling-road block duty carry Steyer semi
-automatic machine guns and other officers visibly wear .38 Smith and Wesson
sidearms.

"If police officers are regularly seen to be carrying guns, then the shock value
will be lost," he said. "I have been highly trained to take out terrorists, and
fortunately since the corporation decided to block off the City last year there
have been no major incidents.

"But, my great fear is that the more police officers are seen to carry weapons
on the streets, the less the shock value will be to the public."

He pointed out that on any one day, there could be a royal visit within the City
of London, a high-security trial at the Old Bailey, and the general need just to
blockade the area from terrorism.

"In that one day there is a formidable amount of police firepower being
exercised in just one-square mile, and much of it is open to public view."

Displaying more police weaponry could destroy what has now been achieved, he
argued. The public will just regard armed police as commonplace.

However in the past decade 20 policemen have died and the rank and file have
been clamouring for increased powers to combat crime.

To date almost 1900 Scotland Yard policemen are authorised to carry arms out of
a force of 28,000.

There is a fear that if the numbers are increased, and officers can draw their
weapons without senior authority, then there is the danger that there could be
more incidents of innocent citizens being shot.

Incidents have occurredin London and allegations of this sort are not at all
uncommon in the US.

Is it a price the public are prepared to accept?

There are those who point out that no matter how much the firepower of the
police is increased, it is difficult to imagine that community officer P.C.
Patrick Dunne, gunned down earlier this year, would have felt comfortable
carrying a firearm. He would never have done so, was a general view.

Nor was it likely that a gun-carrying colleague would readily have been on hand
to save his life when he was attacked.

Yet it was Pc Dunne's death, amongst that of other officers, that encouraged the
Metropolitan Police commissioner to reach the decision announced yesterday.

It is a decision that could well lead to an increase in London's gun warfare.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: A copper learns how to handle a gun: London's example could be followed
by others

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              354 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                              May 22, 1994, Sunday

Family mourns its third Ulster victim

BYLINE: PETER VICTOR

SECTION: BRITAIN PAGE; Page 3

LENGTH: 1037 words


A SOLDIER aged 19 yesterday became the third member of his family to die at the
hands of IRA terrorists. Private Reginald McCollum, from Cookstown, Co Tyrone,
was abducted in the early hours of yesterday morning after he had been out for a
stag night with friends. He was interrogated before being shot dead by his
captors. Northern Ireland secretary Sir Patrick Mayhew immediately condemned the
killing and called on Sinn Fein leader Gerry Adams to join him in doing so.  Pte
McCollum's body was found dumped under a hedge in a field between two housing
estates in Armagh city. He had been in the Royal Irish Regiment for only 16
months. The regiment, which is part of the British Army, draws almost all of its
membership from the 60 per cent Protestant majority population in Northern
Ireland.

Pte McCollum was last seen at a chip shop in the city at 2.30am. His murder was
the IRA's first act of terrorism since the Government replied on Thursday to
Sinn Fein's 20 questions about the Downing Street Declaration.

Last March his brother Nigel, 25, was killed in a rocket attack as he carried
out maintenance work at a security force base at Keady, Co Armagh. Ten years ago
their grandmother, Lily McCollum, was killed by a booby trap bomb said to have
been meant for her brother, at that time a member of the security forces.

Sir Patrick reacted angrily to the latest killing. ''The IRA have killed again,
this time after interrogating their victim,'' he said. ''Is Mr Adams, who calls
for peace, now going to condemn these crimes? The IRA besmirch all they touch in
the cause of Irish nationalism, just as the Ulster Volunteer Force and Ulster
Freedom Fighters and their like besmirch the cause of Unionism.''

Seamus Mallon, the SDLP deputy leader and MP for Newry and Armagh, condemned Pte
McCollum's murder which he described as ''mindless and sectarian''.

A few miles from the murder scene, the funeral of Catholic teenager Shane
McArdle took place after he and a college friend were killed on Wednesday by
Loyalist terrorists in an Armagh taxi office.

Hundreds of mourners, including students and staff at the Armagh College of
Further Education, gathered for his funeral. Among them was a taxi driver
injured in the attack. Shane, 17, died 24 hours after the shooting. His friend
Gavin McShane, also 17, died instantly and was buried on Friday.

Just hours after the funeral the IRA held out the prospect of an end to the
tit-for-tat sectarian killing war being waged by Republican and Loyalist groups.

There was no mention of a ceasefire, but the IRA leadership said if Loyalist
groups stopped attacking nationalists they would review their position on
attacks on those they considered to be responsible.

A statement issued yesterday by the IRA leadership in Dublin said there were
some indications the Loyalist groups may be contemplating a halt in their
attacks on nationalists.

''The IRA wish to note that any such halt in murderous attacks against
nationalists would be a welcome development.

''Should those currently waging and directing the pro- British terror campaign
desist from their activity, then as a consequence we in the IRA would monitor
the situation and review our position on those responsible for this murder
campaign.''

Violence in Ulster has intensified following a wave of sectarian attacks in
recent weeks. On Friday night Loyalists in Belfast went on the rampage, police
officers were shot at and petrol bombs thrown. The RUC said shots were fired at
police in several areas of north and west Belfast. Officers came under automatic
gunfire in Sandy Row, near the city centre, and shots were fired in Ballysillan.
There were also reports of police coming under attack by petrol bombers in the
Loyalist Shankill Road area.

A bus was hijacked in the Donegall Road but later recovered by police, who made
two arrests and found a handgun. An RUC spokesman confirmed that two people were
being questioned last night.

The violence is believed to be linked to a series of arrests on Monday when RUC
detectives investigating the recent upsurge in Loyalist attacks arrested 20
suspects.

Last Friday John Adair, 30, from Hazelfield Street, off Belfast's Shankill Road,
appeared in court accused of directing acts of terror by the outlawed Protestant
paramilitary organisation, the Ulster Freedom Fighters. It was the first time
the charge had ever been used by police in Northern Ireland. Adair was remanded
in custody until 3 June.

Hours before the riots erupted, the head of the Anglican Church in Northern
Ireland, Archbishop Robin Eames, had warned of unrest. He told an international
conference in Armagh that Protestants felt increasingly that violence appeared
to work in achieving terrorist ends. He said: ''The question which I fear is now
being asked by many is this - does violence, the support of violence or an
ambivalent attitude to violence, actually pay off? This troubles me greatly.''

- Three-year-old IRA bomb victim Emma Anthony, three, who has been critically
ill in a coma since being injured in an IRA bombing which killed her father over
a week ago, woke from her coma yesterday and demanded her mother.

Hospital spokesman Gerry Carson said all staff were delighted by the
improvement: ''It's amazing, her condition has changed. She is off the
ventilator, she has improved and is described as stable. One of the first things
she said was 'I want my mummy'.''

- Irish government and Northern Ireland Office representatives will travel to
the border tomorrow for an event of unusual significance: the opening of a new
waterway linking the lakes of Fermanagh in the North with the Shannon river
system in the South.

For security reasons, precise details of the formal ceremonies and the
identities of those planning to attend them are being withheld until almost the
last minute. But to mark the opening of the Erne-Shannon waterway, one of the
longest in Europe, a Northern Ireland ceremony will be held at Corraquil Quay,
on the Woodford River (one of the connecting links), followed by a similar event
south of the border, probably at Ballyconnell.

(Photograph omitted)

Trobled border, Review


LOAD-DATE: May 22, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1994 Independent Print Ltd

                              355 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                              May 22, 1994, Sunday
                              Correction Appended

Living with it; Their farms straddle north and south, their activities are
monitored by security towers that listen and look. But people who live on the
border would rather stay than go

BYLINE: CAL MCCRYSTAL

SECTION: THE SUNDAY REVIEW PAGE; Page 7

LENGTH: 2867 words


ROY HARPUR'S border farm in Northern Ireland is overlooked by what he says is
''the busiest heliport in Western Europe'' - the British Army base on a mountain
called Slieve Gullion. There is another Army post on Camlough Mountain not far
away. This is the area of south Armagh known as ''bandit country''. Its
''capital'' is Crossmaglen, a market town that once attracted notoriety as a
cross- border cattle-smuggling centre (''. . . Crossmaglen / Where there are
more rogues than honest men''). Since the current round of Troubles broke out
more than 25 years ago, the town and the country around it have gained further
notoriety as a hotbed of IRA gunmen, a staging post for terrorists operating
from the Irish Republic, and as a death-trap for Brits.

It is not safe for the locals, either. On 6 May, for example, the IRA warned
Crossmaglen residents that they risked becoming casualties by not hurrying to
and from school with their children. The warnings, in letterbox leaflets, were
linked to IRA threats of further assaults on the heavily fortified security base
in Crossmaglen. A few days later, IRA men crossed from the Republic to launch
yet another rocket attack on the security post at Newtownbutler on the Fermanagh
border (no one was hurt).

Such incidents are repeated all along the 288 miles of the border, as are the
towering security posts in whose shadow they occur: grim reminders of continuing
efforts - local, national and international - to sedate a beast that has
symbolised violent discord for most of the century. The Irish border, a
dangerous, wriggling serpent with its head in one sea and its tail in another,
was created jointly by man and nature. It twists across the island from its
eastern origins in Carlingford Lough, flops through a second, freshwater lough -
Lough Erne - in the Ulster-Ireland midlands and, having almost reached the
Atlantic, turns sharply northward to plunge into Lough Foyle. It has been
attacked, defended, penetrated, temporarily severed, bombed and blocked with
monotonous regularity. It is both source and focus of intercommunal hatred,
destruction and paranoia. But attempts to slay it, or to move it elsewhere, have
failed.

Driving along it, you have to follow roads that are now in Northern Ireland and
then in the Republic. But there are few occasions when the security posts are
not visible, looming from the tops of rough mountains, or poking suddenly from
lower verdure around barns and farmhouses. They represent the latest in
electronic spying techniques. They look. They listen. Many local people on both
sides of the border are convinced they can pick up conversations between the
occupants of moving cars. Because they attempt to monitor terrorists, they are
frequently attacked.

Even in those rare, blissful periods between terrorist atrocities, the security
installations call for prudence. When the European Union banished customs posts
from the border recently, the military posts became even more crucial - and
alert.

For Protestants such as Roy Harpur, more or less isolated in their farmhouses,
the idea that border security might one day be scaled down is a frightening one.
He and his wife Elizabeth are both decent and forbearing, but they would not
feel confident of their safety without military protection. Last October, he
narrowly escaped death from an IRA bomb which destroyed the Gosford House Hotel
in the village of Markethill, where he and other local farmers were meeting.

''The bomb was in a Volvo estate in the car park,'' he said. ''We had 15 minutes
to get out. We had to leave our own cars there. I was phoning home from a
call-box down the road when the bomb went off. There was a crater where the
Volvo had been.

''When I look back over 25 years, I can't remember half of the terrible things
that have happened. I don't know what joy anyone could get out of it,
irrespective of their feelings. In 1976, there was a lot of unrest here, and I
got a call to get out of the house - it was a tit-for-tat for some Roman
Catholic neighbours who had been threatened by loyalists. That Sunday, three
Roman Catholics were murdered over the road. The next night the local IRA
murdered 10 Protestants on their way home in a minibus.

''At a recent Presbyterian wedding,'' says Harpur, ''I asked a guest from the
South what people down there thought of us up here. He said 80 per cent weren't
worried about what happens in Northern Ireland provided the trouble stays up
here. Before Christmas I thought we were heading for some sort of settlement.
But as a man said to me the other night, either the end of the world is
approaching or this country is on the brink of a religious revival.''

Harpur seems as open-minded as one could expect a border farmer surrounded by
danger to be. ''I always thought nothing could surpass the IRA in brutality,
until I met a policeman recently,'' he says. ''He described things that loyalist
extremists do to their victims. It seemed unbelievable. I didn't think those
calling themselves loyalists could behave like that.''

At the same time, he says, there is an ''unwritten rule'' among Protestant
farmers that they should avoid selling land to Catholics. To do so would be, in
Protestant eyes, to cede part of Northern Ireland to the South. ''I wouldn't say
I would never sell land to a Roman Catholic,'' he says. ''But I wouldn't like to
sell it to him. The decision isn't necessarily that of the man selling the farm.
The pressure would come from those around him - fellow Protestants who would
pull out all the stops to buy it themselves, rather than let it go to a Roman
Catholic. It's one of those unspoken things around here: Protestants don't wish
their land to go to Roman Catholics, and vice versa.''

I came across this ''rule'' elsewhere. When Fred Elliott and his two brothers
inherited their father's land at Belcoo in Fermanagh, one brother sold his third
and went to live in Enniskillen. ''We bought part of his share and rented the
rest of it from the company that owns it,'' Elliott says. This avoided the risk
that the land might go to a Catholic.

A sheep and cattle farmer, he is more ''balanced'' in his views than most border
Protestants. His wife Ena was born and raised in the Irish Republic, a
Protestant from Sligo. ''People are getting further away from the churches,'' he
says. ''The majority around us are Catholics. We get on very well with them. If
I wanted help with a sick calf in the middle of the night, it would be to them
that I'd go, just as they'd come to me for help.''

Elliott has been a victim of both the IRA and the Ulster Volunteer Force. ''The
IRA hijacked my car at the front gate, after hijacking a mobile shop to block a
road. Nobody knew if there was a bomb in it or not. We were held at gunpoint in
the house until it was dark. They then used the car to get away. It turned up in
Ballinamore just over the border. The UVF hijacked the same car, put a bomb in
it and made me drive down the road into the Republic. They'd timed the bomb to
go off after I'd parked the car at the Garda police station.

''On the way there, the car hit a bump on the road, and I heard something
rattling around in the boot. I knew something had been dislodged from the bomb,
but I kept going, because they were holding my family hostage. When I got to the
Garda station, I jumped out and yelled 'Bomb!' But it didn't go off. A bump in
the road had dislodged the timing device. The Irish Army carried out a
controlled explosion.''

He walks me to the front gate and talks about the pure spring water that fills
his well from a grassy escarpment in front of the farmhouse. He also talks about
peace. ''There's an awful lot to be said for it,'' he says. ''I was at a funeral
recently. A local man, Dessie Doherty, a Catholic, was shot dead in his sleep in
Belfast. He was a British Telecom engineer and good at his job. His brothers
farm in this locality, and I know them very well. The family mourning at the
funeral was awful; dreadful altogether. The day after he was shot you would have
known there was something wrong in this area. There was no work going on,
quieter than a Sunday. All activity ceased. There was this sense of revulsion .
. .'' Elliott feels so strongly that Northern Irish politicians have let the
community down that he now burns their literature as soon as it arrives.

Harry West, who lives on a hill overlooking Lower Lough Erne, was a minister in
the Unionist government at Stormont (which was suspended in favour of direct
Westminster rule in 1972). ''Many on the Protestant side have left their border
farms because they were being shot at,'' he says. ''A number moved to Scotland.
I went up to see a family in Newtownbutler because I heard they were in trouble.
Their farm backed on to a river which was the border at that point. Bullets had
lodged in the wall at the back door. They came from a thicket on the other side
of the river. It wasn't an isolated incident.''

West believes the border ''is creeping our way'' as a result of the dismantling
of customs posts. Security barriers have been moved ''further back from the
border'' - including, he says, the remote-control military post near
Newtownbutler, which has been shifted northwards.

Nevertheless, he says, border skirmishes aside, south Fermanagh's Catholics and
Protestants get on ''pretty well. We recognise we are in the minority in the
county by about 8,000. We accept that and have learnt to live with it.'' Over
Christmas, he and his wife gave a party in their home, an attractive,
nine-bedroom house which is approached by crossing the runway of a small
airfield. ''We invited 60 or 70 people of all shades,'' he says.

West is surprised when people express amazement at his open-house policy. ''When
Roy Mason was Labour Secretary of State, I asked him to come down and stay the
night. He and his wife and daughter arrived; there was a great gathering, and
the crack was good. He got me into a corner and said, 'Would I be right in
saying this is a mixed bunch?' 'Yes,' I said. 'It always is.' 'I would never
have believed it,' he said. So I told him: 'There are some Roman Catholic people
in this area who are as good loyalists as we Protestant people.' ''

West is unenthusiastic about the British Government's hunt for a settlement.
''If Britain thought the thing through, they would see the dangers in all this.
People will say it was terrorism that brought the Government to the negotiating
table.''

Reticence and quietly arranged land deals make it hard to guess how many farmers
have left border areas since the Troubles. Brian Donaldson, farming
correspondent of a local newspaper, the Impartial Reporter, and a farmer
himself, knows of ''a number of them who claim they have been intimidated in
their own farmyards. Shots have been fired. There have been anonymous phone
calls purporting to come from the IRA. One farmer sold up - to another
Protestant farmer - because he couldn't put up with living on the border any
more. The border was actually the hedge facing him when he drove from his farm
on to the main road.''

Donaldson recalls the kidnapping, four years ago, of the Nelson family, who
lived a mile from the Fermanagh border, near Roslea. ''The IRA took the two
eldest sons and forced them to drive a tractor and trailer across the fields to
an Army post. The trailer carried 3,500lbs of explosives. Luckily, it bogged
down in the fields. The IRA fled. The farmers are under terrible pressure around
here, but they have a resilience you won't find elsewhere. They hold themselves
together with the Protestant wisdom handed down from the day their leaders stood
firm to be British - and with the help of the Orange Order.''

Some Catholics manage to crack the defences. Stanley Tilson, an elderly
Protestant farmer whose acres lie between the Newtownbutler military post and
the Irish border, knows of Catholics who bought Protestant farms - but concedes
that they are rare. Tilson's own property is at Wattle Bridge, an extraordinary
place, even by border standards, where an Ulster salient projects into County
Cavan and two fingers of Republican territory jut up into the North. Here, an
Ulsterman finds himself surrounded by the fields of the Irish Republic. An Irish
road - the A54 - is interrupted by Ulster Tarmac before becoming an Irish road
again. Tilson's grandfather was born in Cavan before the border was drawn.  When
the border was established by the Government of Ireland Act in 1920 and ratified
five years later, a sense of betrayal followed. ''Many unionists in Donegal,
Cavan and Monaghan were bitter because their fellows in the other six counties
of Ulster had abandoned them,'' writes Liam de Paor in Unfinished Business.
''Many Catholic nationalists in those six counties felt they had been abandoned
in the settlement made between Dublin and London. However, they at least . . .
could console themselves with the hope that their exclusion would be brief.''

Since then bitterness has mellowed south of the border, but not in the North.
Tilson has cousins in Cavan who have never complained of their treatment as
Protestants. Yet Tilson, an Orangeman, ''would not be terribly happy if a
settlement redrew the border and left me in the Republic.''

More than 150 years ago Thomas Davis, the Irish essayist of Welsh extraction,
wrote of his hope that ''as the Orangemen become more enlightened, they will
more and more value the love of their countrymen, be prouder of their country,
and more conscious that their ambition, interest, and even security are
identical with nationality.'' John Hume's appeals to Protestants today appear to
echo that sentiment. But there are few signs that Protestants - even those in
border areas who are particularly vulnerable - are receptive to it.

Tilson acknowledges the Irish Republic's increased prosperity, modernity and
secularity. He agrees that Europeanisation has reduced barriers between EU
member countries. But in south-west Fermanagh, where Catholics outnumber
Protestants by seven to three, he remains impervious to such developments.

Through the gloom, however, appear glimmers of hope. Joan Bullock is leading
light in the South-west Fermanagh Development Organisation, a
''cross-community'' rural co-operative in which Catholics and Protestants are
represented equally, and which is based in the village of Teemore, a mile from
her cottage in the tiny hamlet of Aghalane. ''It is improving the quality of
relationships, after the divisions caused by the murders,'' she says.

Two Catholic officials of the organisation agree. Sean Coll, a native of
Belturbet in the Republic, says: ''My next-door neighbour was shot dead. The
Troubles definitely affected the community, which is tightly knit on both sides
of the border. So it was decided to form a committee to pursue social and
economic regeneration. The development organisation came into being in 1989,
with funding from the Northern Ireland Office. Its eight commercial units are
already let.''

In an area where the average farm is 38 acres and subsidies average less than
pounds 8,000 a year, farmers are in the doldrums. James McBarron, the
co-operative's Catholic boss, says that 60 per cent of farmers there are in
their sixties. ''Since the Troubles began, there has been a 50 per cent drop in
the farming population, so our chief aim is to attract younger people back to
the land,'' he said. ''We go to each farm, assess its needs and put in place the
resources required to improve the quality of produce over a seven-year period.''

In a society captivated by symbols, the latest symbol of rapprochement
encourages an unusual degree of hope. Earlier this month, a couple of days after
the IRA issued its leaflet warnings in Crossmaglen, the Erne-Shannon Waterway,
an ambitious project linking the lakes of Fermanagh with the Republic's great
river system, was finally opened after years of terrorist-inspired delays.
Officials and local councillors from both sides of the border came together to
welcome the setting up of a waterway holiday company, registered in both Belfast
and Dublin. New locks (one in Northern Ireland, 15 in the Republic) are working
smoothly, operated by coded plastic keys. Voyages of ''peace and tranquillity of
nature which will take you back hundreds of years'' are advertised.

Fred Elliott, whose Belcoo farm is reached by driving into the Republic and out
again, welcomes the waterway. ''The Troubles have crucified the tourist
industry,'' he says. ''Tourists must eat. We can feed them. So we'll probably
benefit in some way from the link-up.''

When dredging of the Woodford River and its canals was taking place, a few
curmudgeons raised objections to the dumping of spoil on their land. Others
wondered if the Erne-Shannon link might be a sinister portent of the outcome of
London-Dublin initiatives for making peace with the IRA. Before the opening
ceremony, a low-key affair to minimise the risk of disruption, Joan Bullock
showed some anxiety. ''I hope nothing untoward will happen,'' she said. And, for
once, nothing untoward did.

(Photographs omitted)


LOAD-DATE: May 22, 1994 May 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: May 29, 1994, Sunday

CORRECTION:

 LAST week's ''Living With It'' (The Sunday Review) contained an error. The
article said a land transaction made by Fred Elliott, a farmer in Belcoo, Co
Fermanagh, ''avoided the risk the land might go to a Catholic''. We wish to make
clear at no time was Mr Elliott motivated by any such consideration. We
apologise for any embarrassment this may have caused.


                      Copyright 1994 Independent Print Ltd

                              356 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                              May 22, 1994, Sunday

259 BRITAIN'S MURDER TOLL SO FAR;
DETAILS OF MURDERS IN BRITAIN THIS WEEK

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 694 words


THE naked body of a woman found partially buried at a Peak Distict beauty spot
was confimed yesterday to be that of missing prostitute Dawn Shield.

Dawn, 19, vanished a week ago after she was seen getting into a car in
Sheffield.

Her body had severe head injuries and was buried face down at a secluded spot
known as Shivering Mountain above the village of Castleton, Derbyshire.

Police said they did not yet know the cause of death. The body is thought to
have lain there for several days before being discovered by a National Trust
ranger on Friday.

A major police probe is also under way in Gloucester after a woman's body was
found hanging from a tree at a beauty spot yesterday.

The grim discovery was made by a woman out walking her dog in the city's
Robinswood Hill Country Park.

Police are treating the death as suspicious.

In Ulster yesterday, the IRA admitted shooting dead an off-duty British soldier
after a body was found in Armagh.

The terrorists claimed they had shot a member of the Royal Irish Regiment after
"interrogating" him.

The Army named the soldier as Private Reginald McCollum, 19, of Cookstown, Co
Tyrone.

The deaths brought Britain's murder toll to 13 last week, and the total so far
this year to 259.

Other victims were: SATURDAY, May 14: John Bennet, 35, beaten at a Wolverhampton
nightclub. Two men charged.

SUNDAY: Karnail Chand Sondhi, 43, stabbed in Bedford. Man charged.

Lance Corporal David Wilson killed by a terrorist bomb in Keady, Co Armagh.

MONDAY: Joan Cox, 42, stabbed in Dover. Man being questioned.

Diane Clark killed when an arsonist set fire to her Gainsborough home.

TUESDAY: Ten-week-old girl battered to death in Leigh, near Wigan. Man charged.

WEDNESDAY: Eamon Fox, 41, and Gary Convie, 20, shot in Belfast.

THURSDAY: Gavin McShane and Shane McArdle, both 17, shot in Armagh.


LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DAWN: Body found

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 1994 MGN Ltd.

                              357 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                              May 22, 1994, Sunday

DUBLIN TERROR ATTACK FOCUSES ANGLO-IRISH EXCHANGES

BYLINE:  Chris Parkin and Ian Graham, PA News

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 608 words


The implications of the most serious Ulster loyalist cross-border terrorist
attack in 20 years will be assessed by British and Irish government ministers
tomorrow.  Northern Ireland Secretary Sir Patrick Mayhew and deputy Dublin
premier Dick Spring are to meet near the Irish Republic's border with Ulster in
Co Cavan at the formal opening of a restored canal.  The pair had already agreed
on a two-hour exchange of views on the progress of their two governments'
current push for a Northern Ireland settlement in the light of Britain's reply
last week to questions posed by Sinn Fein - the IRA's political wing - about the
five-month-old Downing Street peace declaration.  But the gun and bomb attack on
a Dublin pub as Sinn Fein staged a fund-raising event on the premises has
sharpened the agenda for the discussions.  The loyalist Ulster Volunteer Force
tonight claimed responsibility for the attack which left one man dead and a
second wounded.  In a statement released in Belfast today, the outlawed terror
group boasted that it had "struck at the very heart of the republican movement
in its own back yard".  Mr Spring tonight said he was disturbed about what
happened, and confirmed the bombing would be high on the agenda when he saw Sir
Patrick.  One doorman was shot dead and another seriously wounded when they
blocked the entry of the gang of bombers.  The intruders fled after the
shooting, leaving their holdall bomb. Its failure to ignite prevented certain
carnage, police said. Both Mr Spring and Prime Minister Albert Reynolds - who is
due to have talks on peace of his own in London later this week with John Major
- had already signalled their growing concern about loyalist attacks in Belfast
and other parts of Northern Ireland.  The spread of the violence across the
border - and deep into the centre of Dublin - has rung security alarm bells in
both the Irish capital and Belfast.  The fear was that the incident at the Widow
Scallan's bar could herald the opening of a new campaign in the Irish Republic.
Until now the assumption had been that loyalist para-militaries lacked the
expertise and the neccessary network of escape routes to strike so far south.
Yet the signs were that not only had their raid been executed, even though the
18lb commercial mix bomb failed to go off, but the three-man gang had either got
back safely into Ulster, or gone to ground at a "safe-house".  The belief among
Dublin police tonight was that the gang had carefully laid plans to escape from
the Republic before road checkpoints were in operation at around midnight on
Saturday night.  The UVF assault was the most menacing by Ulster loyalists south
of the border since 1974, when bombs in Dublin and the frontier town of Monaghan
claimed 33 lives.  Suspicions have persisted among relatives of the dead that
loyalists were aided then by Northern Ireland-based security personnel. No
arrests were ever made in connection with those bombings.  Since that time, most
loyalist activity in the south has been restricted to firebombings and incidents
around the border. Eight years ago, audacious gunmen fired on the Dublin
headquarters of Sinn Fein, and earlier this year, incendiary devices were mailed
to the same address.

Mr Spring later called the Dublin attack "a sinister development".  He also said
the shooting and attempted bombing would require a complete review of security
on the southern side of the Irish border.

Irish justice minister Maire Geoghegan-Quinn will join tomorrow's discussions
with Sir Patrick and Mr Spring on the consequences of the Dublin attack, an
Irish government spokesman later said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1994 The Press Association Limited

                              358 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                              May 23, 1994, Monday

DUBLIN TERROR ATTACK FOCUSES ANGLO-IRISH EXCHANGES

BYLINE:  Chris Parkin and Ian Graham, PA News

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 560 words


The implications of the most serious Ulster loyalist cross-border terrorist
attack in 20 years were being assessed by British and Irish government ministers
today.  Northern Ireland Secretary Sir Patrick Mayhew and Deputy Dublin Premier
Dick Spring were meeting near the Irish Republic's border with Ulster in Co
Cavan at the formal opening of a restored canal. Irish justice minister Maire
Geoghegan-Quinn was joining the discussions.  Sir Patrick and Mr Spring had
already agreed on a two-hour exchange of views on the progress of their two
governments' current push for a Northern Ireland settlement in the light of
Britain's reply last week to questions posed by Sinn Fein - the IRA's political
wing - about the five-month-old Downing Street peace declaration.  But the gun
and bomb attack on a Dublin pub as Sinn Fein staged a fund-raising event on the
premises has sharpened the agenda for the discussions.  The loyalist Ulster
Volunteer Force claimed responsibility for the attack which left one man dead
and a second wounded.  One doorman was shot dead and another seriously wounded
when they blocked the entry of the gang of bombers.  The intruders fled after
the weekend shooting, leaving their holdall bomb. Its failure to ignite
prevented certain carnage, police said.  The UVF assault was the most menacing
by Ulster loyalists south of the border since 1974, when bombs in Dublin and the
frontier town of Monaghan claimed 33 lives.

Mr Spring described the UVF attack as sinister and disturbing and said last
night that there needed to be a new look at security measures generally on the
southern side of the Irish border.  It is likely to involve a full scale review
of all anti-terrorist precautions currently operated along the 300-mile-long
border - with extra checkpoints a strong possibility.  The central fear in
Dublin is that the loyalists could already have lined up further strikes in the
south.

The Rev Ian Paisley claimed today that the British and Irish governments are in
the final stages of agreeing cross border institutions with executive powers.
The Democratic Unionist Party leader said the final go-ahead for the new bodies
would be given when Mr Major and the Republic's Prime Minster Albert Reynolds
met for talks later this week.  He claimed they would have executive powers
dealing with a wide range of subjects and which would "impinge on sovereignty".
Unionist representation on the institutions would be in a minority, he said.  Mr
Paisley, added: "The British Government is proceeding down a dangerous road,
which can only exacerbate and intensify instability in Northern Ireland.  "They
continue to flout the will of the majority of the people of this province in
their desperate rush to appease republicanism, the SDLP and Dublin."

Irish justice minister Maire Geoghegan-Quinn is to have talks tomorrow with
Irish Police Commissioner Patrick Culligan about the implications of the Dublin
attack.  Mrs Geoghegan-Quinn announced the move today shortly before joining
talks with Mr Spring, and Sir Patrick and Ulster Security Minister Sir John
Wheeler.  She said there was concern that the attack was not an isolated raid.
She reported that a police review of security precautions had been initiated
immediately and was continuing. In Dublin top police officers were meeting to
assess the position.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1994 The Press Association Limited

                              359 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                              May 23, 1994, Monday

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 1746 words


Night schedule for Monday, May 23.

POLITICS Europe: Party leaders launched what threatens to be the most bitter
Euro-election campaign Britain has seen. Nightlead. Also: POLITICS Major: We are
staffing John Major's electioneering visit to the West Country. He is at a
Bristol meeting with the business community tonight.

IRISH Talks: Ulster Secretary Patrick Mayhew and Irish deputy prime minister
Dick Spring are meeting on the border with security issues high on the agenda.
Also: ULSTER Blast: An explosion at the rear of Belfast City Hall injured two
people.

HEALTH BUG: Health authorities in Gloucester are holding a news conference as a
seventh victim of a mystery infection that devours human flesh fought for her
life.

COURTS Driver: Uproar broke out in court when a drink-driver was jailed for
three years for killing three women who died instantly after being mown down on
their way home from a funeral. In file.

POLITICS Disabled: Disabled people crawled along the street outside the Houses
of Parliament today to drive home their anger at the killing of a Bill aimed at
giving them more rights. Watching developments.

COURTS Footballer: Chelsea soccer star Paul Elliott's illustrious career was
ended by an "over the top" tackle when he was at the peak of his profession, the
High Court heard. Nightlead.

COURTS Millionaire: A jury at Reading Crown Court has retired to decide whether
the business partner of a missing millionaire murdered him and disposed of his
body.

HEALTH Poison: A two-year-old girl's death may be linked to an outbreak of food
poisoning which left two children with kidney failure. Watching developments.

LEGAL Sunday: Employees who do not wish to work on Sundays have no protection
under European law, an appeals tribunal ruled. Seeking union reaction for
nightlead.

INDUSTRY BBC: BBC news bulletins and coverage of live events including cricket
are likely to be disrupted tomorrow when thousands of technicians and
journalists stage a 24-hour strike. Nightlead.  CONSUMER Animals: Actress Joanna
Lumley called on Britain to take a tough stance on stopping cruelty to thousands
of animals exported live to Europe each year. In file.

AIR BA: Terrorist attacks on Heathrow Airport earlier this year cost British
Airways £10 million. In file.

ROYAL Wales: Large crowds greeted the Prince of Wales as he became a "super
salesman" for the principality with what some royal-watchers see as a charm
offensive to mark the 25th anniversary of his investiture. In file.

FOREIGN FUNERAL 1: The funeral of Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis was taking place in
private in New York; to be followed by burial beside her assassinated husband
John F Kennedy at Arlington National Cemetery near Washington (1900).  FUNERAL
2: In contrast, the funeral of a child too young to have a name was one of many
for Rwanda's victims.  TALKS: A shaky truce held as a UN envoy ended talks with
rebel leaders in northern Rwanda but was still waiting for security assurances
before going by road to meet the government side.  MIDEAST: Israel, angry at
militant comments by PLO Chairman Yasser Arafat, said it would demand he
reaffirm in writing his commitment to the peace accord.  KUALA LUMPUR: Trade
Minister Richard Needham arrived in Malaysia amid signs its ban on government
contracts for British business might soon be lifted.

SPORT Will Carling is included in a strengthened midweek team as England seek
their first win in South Africa against Western Transvaal on Wednesday. Rugby
correspondent Terry Cooper will file a nightlead.  Durham have recorded their
second county cricket championship win of the season and there are seven further
games in progress. Nightleads on each plus an end-of-day round-up. Cricket
correspondent David Lloyd will preview tomorrow's Benson and Hedges Cup
quarter-finals.

NEWSFEATURES

The following features are available by wire or post at the usual rates:

ROYAL: The Princess of Wales reportedly splashes out around £38 weekly - £1,976
a year - on aromatherapy massage. But there is nothing to stop us lesser mortals
giving ourselves a boost by trying out much cheaper versions of the beauty
treatments and therapies the Princess is so keen on. Cathy Gordon reports.

TV: Young chef Gary Rhodes is setting out to put British cooking on the map.  In
his new BBC series, Rhodes Around Britain, he'll be tempting the palate with
traditonal food, at the same time indulging his passions for football, fast cars
and music. Rhodes, head chef at the Greenhouse Restaurant in London's Mayfair,
says he gets his inspiration from Bryan Robson. He talks to Olivia Convey. With
picture.

ENVIRONMENT: Few things in life give more family pleasure than a day on the
beach. Sea, sandcastles and ice creams have become part of our heritage -
hopefully with a dash of sun thrown in - and every year millions of British
holidaymakers flock to the coast. Many will be doing that over the forthcoming
bank holiday weekend, but it's worth being cautious - because you could be
breaking the law on the beach without realising it. Bob Jackson reports.

SCIENCE: It's easy to dismiss as nonsense the claims of people who say they have
been abducted by aliens. But when a top professor of psychiatry says there could
be truth in it, you have to listen. Dr John Mack from Harvard Medical School is
convinced that the men, women and children who make the claims are not making up
their stories but are reporting authentic experiences. He explains his views to
Cathy Gordon. With picture.  Provisional news diary for following 48 hours:

TUES MAY 24

LONDON: Members of Pensioners Rights Campaign arrive at end of re-enactment of
Jarrow march to Westminster. Hyde Park. Contact Rosemary Hobden 0469 532034.

PORTSMOUTH: Prison Officers Association conference (John Prescott speaks 1500).
Guildhall. Contact POA 081 803 0255.

GENERAL: BBC staff members of BECTU/NUJ unions due to stage 24-hour walk-out in
protest over pay and conditions. Contact NUJ 071 278 7916.

1000 LONDON: British Red Cross launches World Disasters Report 1994. 9 Grosvenor
Crescent, SW1. Contact Colin McCallum 071 201 5019.

1000 LONDON: MSF union holds conference on bullying in the workplace. NCVO
Conference suite, Regent's Wharf, 8 All Saints Street, N1. Contact Chris Ball
071 378 7255.

1030 LONDON: Labour publishes report on "Tory waste" in Europe and Common
Agricultural policy. Media Centre, Transport House, Dean Bradley Street, SW1.
Contact 071 234 3393.

1030 LONDON: Launch of Foodlink National Food Safety Survey, conducted by MORI.
Royal Society of Medicine, 1 Wimpole Street. Contact Carol Elsasser Food and
Drink Federation 071 836 2460.

1100 LONDON: Radio Authority announces option chosen for use of 105-108 Mhz FM
frequencies. Holbrook House, 14 Great Queen Street. (Staff). Contact Jenny
Sinclair 071 430 2724.

1100 LONDON: Channel 4 chairman Sir Michael Bishop and Chief Executive Michael
Grade at news conference on publication of annual report and accounts for 1993.
Channel 4 Cinema, 44 Whitfield Street, W1. COntact Jo Dyde 071 306 8523.

1130 LONDON: Presentation on progress of English Nature. BAFTA, Piccadilly.
Contact Mel Norris 0733 318424.

1130 LONDON: Young Minds national association for Child and Family mental health
launch second Violence and Young Minds report on initial and long-term effects
of child sex abuse. Royal College of Radiologists, 38 Portland Place, W1.
Contact Paul Farthing 071 724 7262.

1145 LONDON: Education Secretary John Patten at launch of new religious
education guidelines for independent schools. Jubilee Room, House of Commons.
Contact ISIS press office 071 630 8795.

1230 LONDON: Launch of English Tourist Board/English Historic Towns Forum
Getting it Right report on managing tourism to minimise harm to historic towns.
Donaldsons Chartered Surveyors, 70 Jermyn Street, SW1. (Staff).

1500 LONDON: Liberal Democrat news conference on childcare in Britain. 4 Cowley
Street, SW1. Contact Katie Razzall 071 219 3374.

1700 LONDON: Re-arranged launch of Competitiveness White Paper. John Major at
news conference. Contact Caroline Mooney/Lyn Salisbury 071 215 5964.

SWANSEA: Prince of Wales receives Freedom of City of Swansea, later opens Aim
High Conference on HMY Britannia.

eve LONDON: NCR Book award for non-fiction announced. Savoy Hotel. Contact Anne
Keogh 071 725 8248.

WEDS MAY 25

LONDON: Number of works of art from estate of actor Vincent Price for sale at
Christie's auction of post-war and contemporary pictures. Contact Christie's
press office 071 389 2982.

1000 LONDON: Director General of National Lottery announces preferred applicant
for licence to run UK's first national lottery. Institution of Civil Engineers,
1 Great George Street, SW1. (Staff). Contact Oflot 071 211 2134.

YEOVILTON, SOMERSET: Media view of new Carrier exhibition/attraction. Fleet Air
Arm Museum, RNAS Yeovilton, Nr Ilchester. Contact Ylva French Consultancy 071
735 9940.

0900 LONDON: Briefing on Tower Bridge centenary celebrations. Tower Bridge
Ticket Hall, North Tower. Contact 071 332 1987.

1000 BELFAST: Royal Marine Derek Adgey faces charges of conspiracy to murder.
(second appearance). Magistrates court.

1030 LONDON: Senior Ministry of Defence official Gordon Foxley to be sentenced
for taking £1.5 million in back-handers from foreign arms companies (two day
hearing). Snaresbrook Crown court. (Staff).

1115 LONDON: Prince of Wales at Service of Installation of Knights Grand Cross
of Most Honourable Order of the Bath. Westminster Abbey. Contact Emma St John
Smith 071 222 5152.

1400 LONDON: Health and Safety Executive prosecution of Medical and Dental
Schools of Guy's and St Thomas's Hospitals following incident involving alleged
spillage of fungal micro-organisms. Tower Bridge Magistrates court.  Contact HSE
071 243 6700.

eve LONDON: Ivor Novello Awards for British songwriters/composers/publishers.
Grosvenor House Hotel. Contact Beer Davies Publicity 071 323 3003.

eve LONDON: Princess Margaret and John Major at concert of Sir Andrew
Lloyd-Webber's music to raise money for St Paul's Cathedral.

UNS CHECKLISTS: See also checklists (1300, 1600 and 1900) on all stories sent in
UNS full-text press release service.

PA DUTY DESK CHIEFS Subs: Mike Trout News: John Jenkin Pictures: Steve Stocker.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1994 The Press Association Limited

                              360 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                              May 23, 1994, Monday

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 1779 words


Good morning from PA News. These are the key stories we are covering at home and
abroad, followed by today's News, City, Law and Parliamentary diaries,Sports
service highlights and top Newsfeatures.

GENERAL NEWS

POLITICS Europe: Today marks the first salvoes in a campaign delayed for a week
by the death of the Labour leader John Smith. We will be at press conferences by
all the main parties.

IRISH Talks: The implications of the most serious Ulster loyalist cross-border
terrorist attack in 20 years are being assessed by British and Irish government
ministers today as they meet for talks on the bid for a Northern Ireland
settlement.

ACCIDENT Helicopter: A man is in a critical condition in hospital today after
surviving a helicopter crash in which two men and a woman were killed.

POLITICS Labour: Shadow Chancellor Gordon Brown looks to have staked his claim
for the Labour leadership after an impassioned speech which, while calling for
party unity, also set out his vision for the future of Britain.

LEGAL Bulger: The parents of murdered toddler James Bulger have been shocked by
reports that his schoolboy killers could be planning an appeal against their
sentences.

HEALTH Bug: A seventh victim of a terrifying mystery infection that devours
human flesh is fighting for her life in hospital today.

ACCIDENT Fall: A 13-year-old boy is today seriously ill in hospital after
plunging over a cliff while playing with friends.

CONSUMER Flower: We have story on an erotic garden layout and a factfile on the
start of the Chelsea Flower Show.

SOCIAL BBC: Heritage Secretary Peter Brooke is being asked to order the BBC to
abandon a "blood-boiling" policy to give homosexual employees a week's paid
holiday to go on honeymoon and £75 "wedding" gift vouchers.

HEALTH Cervix: Fewer young women in Britain are dying from cervical cancer
although the disease, compared with Europe, remains strong in Britain, according
to figures released today by a top charity. (Embargoed to 1030, with graphic
showing worst areas for cervical cancer.)

COURTS Footballer: Chelsea soccer star Paul Elliott is suing Aston Villa striker
Dean Saunders over a tackle which wrecked his career in a High Court case
starting today.

SOCIAL Cannabis: Ministers were today urged to scrap current drug education
policies in favour of an experiment which could lead to cannabis being
legalised.

ROYAL Wales: The Prince of Wales becomes a "super salesman" for Wales when he
launches his own campaign to bring more jobs and business opportunities to the
principality.

DIARY (Times as diary, not copy-running times)

PORTSMOUTH: Prison Officers Association conference (to Fri). Guildhall. (Staff).
Contact 081 803 0255.

LONDON: Queen and Duke of Edinburgh attend 1994 Chelsea Flower Show gala
preview. Contact Royal Horticultural Society 071 630 5999.

BIRMINGHAM: Mining '94 conference. National Exhibition Centre. Contact Mining
Industry Promotions 0923 778311.

EASTLEIGH: By-election press conferences: Lib Dems 0815, Tories 0845, Labour
0915. (Staff).

0900 LONDON: Actionaid launch of Reality of Aid 94 report on official aid from
donor governments. The Barbican. Contact Actionaid press office 071 281 4101.

0930 LONDON: Balance of trade with countries outside EU (April). (STaff).

0930 LONDON: Tories launch Euro manifesto. John Major will attend, with Kenneth
Clarke, Michael Howard, Michael Heseltine. Church House, Great Smith St.

1000 LONDON: Joanna Lumley launches Compassion in World Farming video "For a few
pennies more". Royal Horseguards Hotel, Whitehall Place. Contact CIWF 0730
264208.

1030 LONDON: Cancer Research campaign news conference launching new cervical
cancer fact sheet. 10 Cambridge Terrace, NW1. Contact Susan Osborne 071 224
1333.

1030 LONDON: Labour leader Margaret Beckett launches Euro election campaign.
Labour Media Centre, Transport House, Dean Bradley Street. Contact Jo Moore on
071 234 3393.

1030 LONDON: Senior Ministry of Defence official Gordon Foxley to be sentenced
for taking £1.5 million in back-handers from foreign arms comapnies. Snaresbrook
Crown court. (Staff).

1100 LONDON: News conference on International Institute for Strategic Studies
survey 1993/94. 23 Tavistock Street, WC2. Contact IISS 071 379 7676.

1130 LONDON: Paddy Ashdown launches Lib Dem European election campaign. Assembly
Room, Mehtodist Central Hall.

1215 STOCKPORT: Actress Lynne Perrie (Coronation Street's Ivy Tilsley) at
photo-call for Mother Goose pantomime. Davenport Theatre. (Staff).

CITY:

1045 LONDON: VCI flotation news conference. Citigate, 7 Birchin Lane, EC3.
Contact Ginny Pulbrook, 071 623 9050.

1100 LONDON: British Airways results news conference. The Insurance Hall, 20
Aldermanbury, EC2. (staff).

1145 LONDON: Fidelity Brokerage briefing on rolling settlement and the private
investor. The Brewery, Chiswell Street, EC1. Contact Helen Proud or Nicola
Lloyd, Lansons Communications, 071 490 8828.

1200 LONDON: Celsis International results news conference. Panmure Gordon, 35
New Broad Street, EC2. Contact Tina Kane or Lisa Baderoon, Buchanan
Communications, 071 489 1441.

Interim results: Albion, Dead Sea Works, Domino Printing, Kelt Energy, Kunick,
National Home Loans, Richards, Scottish Radio Holdings.

Finals: Betterware, British Airways, Celsis International, Kenwood Appliances,
Seton Healthcare Group, Towles.

AGMs: S Daniels, Epwin Group, Fitzwilton (also EGM), Forte, Ladbroke Group,
Pittencrieff, Pressac, Proudfoot, Sentry Farming.

EGMs: Hobson, Pelican.

SPORT

Chris Eubank holds a news conference in London today to outline his future plans
following the successful defence of his WBO super-middleweight title on
Saturday.  In soccer, Wales play Estonia in a friendly in Tallinn, and in tennis
the French Open gets under way in Paris.

EVENTS

SOCCER: Estonia v Wales. Tallinn.  CRICKET: Britannic Assurance Championship
(eight games).  Oxford University v Leicestershire. The Parks.  Rapid
Cricketline Championship (eight games).  Minor Counties Championship (one game).
RUGBYL: News conference to announce GB Academy squad to tour Australia. St
Helens (1100).  ATHLETICS: Guardian British Athletics League news conference.
Westminster City Hall (1100). (Stuart Barnes covering).  BOXING: Chris Eubank
news conference. Lanesborough Hotel, London (1200) (David Field covering).
SPEEDWAY: Speedway Star Knock Out Cup, 2nd rd: Reading v Coventry (1930).
British League Div 1: Belle Vue v Bradford (1930), Wolverhampton v Kings Lynn
(1930). Div 2: Exeter v Glasgow (1930).  TENNIS: French Open. Paris (to June 5,
Nick Robinson covering).  RACING: Ayr, Leicester, Windsor.

FOREIGN:

RWANDA - Rebels capture Rwanda's international airport and main army barracks
before agreeing to a truce to allow the United Nations to press ahead with
efforts to pacify battle-torn central African state.

NEW YORK - In the church where she worshipped and the apartment where she lived,
prayers are said for Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis, who will be buried today beside
the grave of John F. Kennedy.

CAPE TOWN - President Nelson Mandela's coalition cabinet meets for the first
time with a row already raging between his ruling ANC and its junior partners in
government.

BONN - Special parliamentary assembly elects German president (To come).

LAW

10.00: Two executives of Surrey company Euromac appeal against their convictions
of conspiring illegally to export detonator capacitors to Iraq. Ali Daghir was
jailed in June 1991 for five years and Jeanine Speckman for 18 months.
(Three-day appeal hearing.) 10.30: Former Chelsea footballer Paul Elliott sues
Dean Saunders and his former club Liverpool for damages over tackle injuries
which forced Elliott out of soccer.  10.30: Judgment on a challenge by unions to
the Government's proposed changes to the Criminal Injuries Compensation Scheme.
10.30: Former soldier Craig Fletcher sues the Ministry of Defence over brain
damage suffered when a lorry he was driving in Cyprus ended up in a ravine.
(Four-day hearing.) 10.30: CPS barrister and hotel owner Veluthevar Shan-Mugam
sues for damages over devastating car crash injuries. (Five-day hearing.) Not
before 11.15: Somerset, Avon and Cleveland County Councils challenge proposed
boundary changes.  HEARING CONTINUES in: Appeal by the "East Ham Two", Sam
Kulasingham and Prem Sivalingham, against conviction of a 1986 firebombing in
which three Tamils were murdered. (Judgment expected to be reserved.)

PARLY:

Commons:

Questions to National Heritage ministers, Attorney General and Overseas
Development Administration.  Deregulation and Contracting Out Bill, remaining
stages.  Railways Pension Scheme Order.  Railway Pensions (Protection and
Designation of Schemes) Order.

Lords:

Criminal Justice and Public Order Bill, committee.  Intelligence Services Bill,
Commons amendments.  Licensing of Domiciliary Care Agencies Bill, third reading.

NEWSFEATURES

The following features are available by wire or post at the usual rates:

ROYAL: The Princess of Wales reportedly splashes out around £38 weekly - £1,976
a year - on aromatherapy massage. But there is nothing to stop us lesser mortals
giving ourselves a boost by trying out much cheaper versions of the beauty
treatments and therapies the Princess is so keen on. Cathy Gordon reports.

TV: Young chef Gary Rhodes is setting out to put British cooking on the map. In
his new BBC series, Rhodes Around Britain, he'll be tempting the palate with
traditonal food, at the same time indulging his passions for football, fast cars
and music. Rhodes, head chef at the Greenhouse Restaurant in London's Mayfair,
says he gets his inspiration from Bryan Robson. He talks to Olivia Convey. With
picture.

ENVIRONMENT: Few things in life give more family pleasure than a day on the
beach. Sea, sandcastles and ice creams have become part of our heritage -
hopefully with a dash of sun thrown in - and every year millions of British
holidaymakers flock to the coast. Many will be doing that over the forthcoming
bank holiday weekend, but it's worth being cautious - because you could be
breaking the law on the beach without realising it. Bob Jackson reports.

SCIENCE: It's easy to dismiss as nonsense the claims of people who say they have
been abducted by aliens. But when a top professor of psychiatry says there could
be truth in it, you have to listen. Dr John Mack from Harvard Medical School is
convinced that the men, women and children who make the claims are not making up
their stories but are reporting authentic experiences. He explains his views to
Cathy Gordon. With picture.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1994 The Press Association Limited

                              361 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 26, 1994

SECRETARY ESCAPES INJURY IN LETTER-BOMB ALERT AT DIRECT LINE

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 142 words


POLICE are investigating the possibility that a letter-bomb which exploded
yesterday at the head office in Croydon, south London, of Direct Line Insurance
was sent by a disgruntled customer.

The secretary who was opening post was treated for shock and 600 staff were
evacuated for more than two hours while explosives officers searched the
building.

Scotland Yard said no other devices were found and the incident was not being
treated as a terrorist attack. A second device sent to Terry Wogan at the BBC in
London was being linked to the attack.

Direct Line is one of Britain's fastest-growing insurance groups. It was founded
in 1985 using a telephone-based sales system. Last year its founder and chief
executive, Peter Wood, was named Britain's highest-paid businessman with an
pounds 18.2 million package of salary and bonuses.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              362 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                  May 26, 1994

Bomb sent to Wogan

SECTION: Pg. 14

LENGTH: 228 words


A LETTER bomb was sent to Terry Wogan at the BBC yesterday.

It was discovered just hours after another exploded at the headquarters of one
of Britain's main insurance firms.

Detectives were linking the attacks on the Direct Line offices in Croydon, south
London, and BBC premises in the centre of London.

The one addressed to Terry Wogan was intercepted by a member of BBC staff. It
failed to explode.

The first incendiary device exploded as a secretary was opening post at the
Direct Line offices.

A second, described by police as a "viable home-made device", was spotted by a
member of staff yesterday in the post room at Brock House, which handles mail
sent to nearby Broadcasting House -- base for many of the corporation's senior
management and national radio broadcasters.

The building was evacuated and the bomb squad called. The device was removed for
forensic examination.

Detectives ruled out terrorist involvement.

It was the first incident of its kind to hit Direct Line, a subsidiary of the
Royal Bank of Scotland and one of Britain's fastest-growing insurance groups.

The firm is valued at £1000m and founder and chief executive Peter Wood was
named last year as Britain's highest-paid businessman with an £18.2m package of
salary and bonuses.

Six hundred staff were evacuated from the Croydon office.

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              363 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Daily Mail (London)

                                  May 27, 1994

I'm still waiting for your peace pledge, Major warns Adams

BYLINE: John Deans

SECTION: Pg. 14

LENGTH: 707 words


JOHN Major warned Sinn Fein last night that Britain was still waiting for the
vital peace pledge and a permanent end to IRA violence.

Despite another signal from Gerry Adams that the Republican movement could swing
behind the Downing Street declaration, the Premier remained highly sceptical.

And after talks at No 10 with his Irish counterpart Albert Reynolds, he repeated
that Sinn Fein can play no part in the peace process until terrorism ends.

Earlier, Adams, in his first comments since Whitehall responded to Sinn Fein's
request to clarify the declaration, had told BBC Radio 4: 'I am quite convinced
that what is going to come out of this peace process is a peace settlement.

'It is a significant step.'

But Mr Major declared: 'Mr Adams made no indication that he will give up
violence and take up the offer open to him. That is what every part of Ireland
wishes to hear.

'There is the opportunity to give up violence. Then in a short while they could
enter into constitutional talks.

'That avenue is open, but I don't believe any amount of talking and waiting will
please anyone until he says violence will end.

'That is what I am waiting to hear from Mr Adams, and everyone else is as well.'

Mr Reynolds, who has been pressing the British government to adopt a more
conciliatory approach to Sinn Fein, said: 'Neither para-military organisations
are going to gain anything or bolster their position by a continuation of
violence.'

He added: 'We are all waiting for that definitive decision by both paramilitary
organisations to desist from violence.'

Ulster politicians from both sides cast doubt on Sinn Fein's objectives.

Unionist Ken Maginnis said the IRA was simply not interested in peace and the
British and Irish governments should be 'frank and admit that there is, sadly,
no peace process'.

Seamus Mallon, SDLP deputy leader, said he would wait to see Adams's words
translated into reality.

'If they are serious about peace the first thing they will do is put an end to
their own violence and allow further discussions to take place.'

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              364 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 27, 1994

ADAMS GIVEN EXTRA TIME TO REACH DECISION ON TALKS;
Sinn Fein leader says core issues covered in clarification, but 'elaboration'
may be sought - Major and Reynolds accept delay

BYLINE: Patrick Wintour And David Sharrock

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 649 words


JOHN MAJOR and the Irish prime minister, Albert Reynolds, yesterday reluctantly
gave Sinn Fein until after the European elections on June 9 to provide a
definitive response to the Downing Street declaration.

Both men emerged from an informal meeting in London increasingly gloomy about
the chances of Sinn Fein renouncing violence permanently.

The two prime ministers also agreed yesterday to meet for a formal summit in
July by which time they will know the definitive Sinn Fein position. The
expectation is that multilateral talks, involving the two governments and the
main constitutional parties, will then restart.

The two leaders' pessimism was despite a claim by the Sinn Fein president Gerry
Adams that he was confident that the peace process would succeed eventually. In
what is seen in Whitehall as another attempt to keep Sinn Fein at the centre of
the process, Mr Adams told BBC Radio: "I am quite convinced that what is going
to come out of this peace process is a peace settlement - I am quite convinced
about it."

Mr Adams reaffirmed that there would be no response from Sinn Fein until after
the European elections. In a shift of vocabulary, he also revealed that the
republican movement would not be seeking any further "clarification" to the
declaration after the British response to Sinn Fein's 20 questions on it, but it
may ask for "elaboration".

Ken Maginnis, the Ulster Unionist security spokesman, condemned the British and
Irish governments for continuing to wait on Sinn Fein's response and predicted
that Sinn Fein would call a second temporary ceasefire to coincide with the
visit next weekend of the US President Bill Clinton to Britain and the run-up to
the European elections. A 72-hour ceasefire was held just after Easter.

Mr Maginnis said such a ceasefire would represent a "cynical attempt to dangle
the false prospect of peace before the press and public."

In what was billed as an informal meeting between Mr Major and Mr Reynolds at
Downing Street, the two men were predictably united in their condemnation of the
continuing sectarian killings.

Mr Major said he and Mr Reynolds shared "a disappointment that the violence
continues, both the IRA violence and the loyalist violence. There is no shred of
justification for it."

Mr Reynolds said: "There is one message quite clear that we want to give - that
is that neither paramilitary organisations are going to gain anything or bolster
their position by a continuation of violence."

Earlier, when repeatedly pressed on whether Sinn Fein's response to the
declaration would be yes or no, Mr Adams avoided answering.

It is widely expected that Sinn Fein will not explicitly reject the declaration,
but its response will amount to a de facto refusal to join the peace process. Mr
Adams said yesterday: "We don't need to accept or reject, from what I have read.
It makes clear that a party can have whatever position it wants on the
declaration, and still be able to be involved in negotiations."

On the Government's answers to Sinn Fein's questions, Mr Adams said: "We may
need some supplementaries, we may need some elaborations. It is unlikely that we
will be seeking future clarifications, our questions covered the core issues. I
don't want to prejudge the collective discussion we will have, but if the result
of that discussion is that we want some further elucidation or elaboration then
of course we will have to get it."

The Democratic Unionist Party has so far refused to join exploratory bilateral
talks conducted by the Northern Ireland minister Michael Ancram, but ministers
hoped Dr Paisley's party will relent after the European elections.

- The Ulster Freedom Fighters said they carried out a bomb attack which injured
two workmen yesterday. A 2lb shrapnel bomb exploded at a work hut on the M1
motorway at Ballyskeagh, near Lisburn.

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              365 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                              May 29, 1994, Sunday

JOY AS BOMB VICTIM EMMA GOES HOME;
IRA BOMB VICTIM COMA GIRL LEAVES HOSPITAL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 467 words


IRA BOMB victim Emma Anthony gets a "welcome home" cuddle from her grandmother
after completing an amazing recovery.

Emma, three, was hurled from the family car two weeks ago when an IRA bomb
exploded under it. She was in a coma for seven days.

The blast killed her father Fred, 38, a cleaner at Lurgan police station in
Northern Ireland and injured her mother and nine-year-old brother Gareth.

Emma had both legs broken and surgeons discovered she also had a piece of
shrapnel in her skull.

They decided not to remove it and she went home yesterday with it still lodged
in her head.

Her mother Ann, 31, said: "As long as the shrapnel doesn't move towards her
brain we don't have to worry.

"After all, lots of people received shrapnel wounds in the war - and they're
still with us."

Both Emma's legs are still in plaster, but she was still able to play with her
cousins at a homecoming celebration.

Ann said: "We are so thrilled because the doctors told us at one time they
didn't think she had more than 48 hours to live. Now look at her."

Emma's plight touched thousands throughout Britain and Ireland, and Ann added:
"Everybody's prayers have been answered. We never stopped hoping for a recovery
- a miracle even.

"And that's exactly what w've got . . ."


LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MY LITTLE MIRACLE! Brave Emma gets a big homecoming hug from her
grandmother Picture: MARTIN WRIGHT

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 1994 MGN Ltd.

                              366 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                  June 3, 1994

29 die in Chinook fireball. Anti-terrorist chiefs are among the victims in Mull
of Kintyre crash

BYLINE: Cameron Simpson, Bill Caven, Ian Bruce, Stephen Fraser, Keith Sinclair,
David Steele

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1095 words


TWENTY-nine people, including the RUC's leading Special Branch officers, senior
Army officers, and Northern Ireland Office officials, died last night when an
RAF Chinook helicopter crashed and exploded in flames in thick fog in the remote
hills of the Mull of Kintyre.

An RAF spokesman said it was one of the RAF's worst helicopter crashes of modern
times.

The first rescuers on the scene were stunned by the sight. They said bodies and
burned parts of bodies littered the hillside.

The Special Branch officers, who are in the forefront of the secret war against
the IRA in Northern Ireland, are believed to include their commander and
officers up to and above the rank of chief superintendent.

A colleague in Belfast said: "The force is devastated. It seems the upper
echelon of the Special Branch is missing. We can't believe this has happened."

The Prime Minister was being kept closely informed of developments.

The Special Branch officers have access to the most sensitive intelligence in
the fight against the IRA and travel to Britain regularly to update forces on
the mainland.

Strathclyde Chief Constable Leslie Sharp said the dead comprised 10 senior RUC
officers, nine senior military officers, six senior Civil Servants from the
Northern Ireland Office, and the four crew members. He ruled out any suggestion
of a terrorist attack. "There are no reasons to suspect that we are dealing with
anything other than a terribly tragic accident."

They were on their way to a security conference at an Army base at Fort George,
Inverness. The conference was largely to be taken up discussing security
measures in the province, and it is almost certain at least some of the missing
military and Northern Ireland Office personnel were of senior rank and closely
associated with intelligence-gathering.

It is not known if any SAS men were on board the helicopter, but security
sources have not ruled out that possibility. No names of the missing 25
passengers or four crew have been released. "Families are being informed at the
moment and we have no comment to make," an RUC spokesman said.

Rescuers were hampered by the weather in the crash area, about 10 miles from
Campbeltown. As well as the whole area being shrouded by thick fog, an RAF
spokesman said the crash area was extremely remote and access by road was
hazardous.

The 51ft aircraft, the largest helicopter in service, was en route from RAF
Aldergrove in Belfast. The Chinook crashed 700 yards from the lighthouse on the
Mull of Kintyre and half a mile inland. Initially it was believed it had gone
down in the sea.

An army of searchers, including five Navy and RAF Sea King helicopters,
converged on the scene. They had been alerted shortly after 6pm.

Visibility at the time of the crash was less than half a mile, the RAF said.
Cloud in the hilly area was as low as 150ft.

Mr Sharp said all 29 bodies had been taken from the scene to a temporary
mortuary set up at Machrihanish Airport. Wreckage was strewn across an area of
about one square mile, on the hillside and surrounding ground, and the bodies
were all found within that area.

Mr Sharp said the alarm had been raised by a Mrs Murchie of the Mull of Kintyre
lighthouse who reported hearing an explosion and seeing a flash of flame.

It was also understood that lighthouse keeper Hector Lamont and his wife Esther
were walking near the brow of the hill above the lighthouse when they heard the
noise of the helicopter pass overhead very close to them. Then there was a loud
explosion and a fireball.

They also alerted police, who informed rescue controllers at RAF Pitreavie near
Edinburgh. The search was co-ordinated by RAF Pitreavie who scrambled a Nimrod
aircraft to act as an "overhead co-ordinator" of all the emergency services. A
spokesman said some military helicopters were scrambled to airlift members of
local mountain rescue teams in the west coast to assist in the search.

The lifeboat at Campbeltown was called out to make a detailed search of the
bottom of the cliff where the Chinook came down. An emergency team from the
Southern General Hospital, Glasgow, was flown to the area. The initial plan was
for survivors to be taken first to Campbeltown and then to hospital in Glasgow.

Campbeltown lifeboat services were alerted by the coastguard and the main
lifeboat was launched at 6.30pm, with a rigid inflatable D-Boat launched at the
same time from Machrihanish.

Captain Gordon Black, the honorary secretary of the Campbeltown lifeboat, was in
charge of the D-Boat. "We went round the Mull and saw from the sea the flames
around the crash site. A whole area of about quarter of a mile was ablaze," said
Captain Black.

The lifeboats were recalled at about 8pm and returned to their berths by 9pm.
Two of Captain Black's men, who did not go on the boats, went directly to the
crash site overland, and returned traumatised by the carnage. Captain Black sent
both men home.

"They told me that the scene was horrific. The helicopter appears to have
crashed into the hill above the lighthouse and, although the thick fog and smoke
made it difficult to tell what happened, seems to have cartwheeled up the hill.

"Bodies and burned parts of bodies littered the hillside some two to three
hundred yards from the wreckage, and the aviation fuel was still ablaze. There
was wreckage from the crash all about over a quarter of a mile of the hillside.
The main body of the helicopter seemed to be fairly intact but was badly
damaged."

He added: "There was one man alive when my men got there being treated by a
doctor but he died soon after."

Captain Black went on: "Judging from what my crew members told me, the
helicopter hit the ground with incredible force and then slewed up the hill,
perhaps cartwheeling over the lane, with aviation fuel spraying all over the
heather as it went. The fuel then ignited and it looked from the wreckage as if
the helicopter exploded on the ground.

"There's a substantial part of the body of the aircraft still intact. If the
explosion had happened in mid-air then the wreckage would probably have been
strewn in smaller pieces over a wider area."

A local woman spoke last night of blazing wreckage littering the countryside.
"The helicopter came down on part of the Carskiey Estate and the hillside's on
fire," said the woman, who did not wish to be named. Estate manager David Soudan
rushed immediately to the crash site to offer his help.

Continued on page 2

Continued from page 1

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Rescue services try to reach the crash site in the fog. Picture: JOHN
McFADYEN. A Chinook similar to the one which crashed

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              367 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 4, 1994, Saturday

The Mull of Kintyre Disaster: Mayhew defends use of single aircraft

BYLINE: DAVID MCKITTRICK

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 2

LENGTH: 348 words


THE Northern Ireland Secretary, Sir Patrick Mayhew, revealed yesterday that the
Inverness conference was an annual event and that security forces had regularly
flown to it in a single aircraft.

Sir Patrick and Sir Hugh Annesley, the Chief Constable of the Royal Ulster
Constabulary, emphasised that the Chinook helicopter was regarded as a safe
means of transport, rejecting criticisms that it was imprudent for so many
senior personnel to travel together.

They said the conference had been held for some years, Sir Patrick describing it
as ''concerned with the fight against terrorism throughout the United Kingdom''.
No further details were supplied, but it is assumed the 25-strong contingent
from Northern Ireland was due to meet a similar representation of senior
security personnel from Britain.

The UK dimension to the conference suggests it was primarily concerned with the
IRA campaign which has for some years affected both sides of the Irish Sea. It
may also have been intended to evaluate the sincerity of Sinn Fein's commitment
to what the party describes as ''the Irish peace process''.

Sir Patrick agreed, at a Belfast news conference, that security personnel
regularly used a single aircraft to go to the conference.

Although there have been a series of IRA attacks on helicopters in Northern
Ireland in recent years, most of these have been on smaller aircraft in border
areas. Military flights between Northern Ireland and Britain have never, so far
as is known, come under such attack.

Using a Chinook offered the advantages of avoiding the security risks of a
commercial airport and of being able to fly directly to Inverness without the
need for an airfield.

The conference was to have taken place in nearby Fort George, home to the Royal
Scots regiment. The fort is one of the outstanding artillery fortifications in
Europe. Situated on a promontory in the Moray Firth, it has 60ft walls and is
surrounded by a dry moat and is considered virtually impregnable. The Royal
Scots had just completed a tour of duty in Northern Ireland.


LOAD-DATE: June 07, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1994 Independent Print Ltd

                              368 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                              June 5, 1994, Sunday

A FATAL CRASH, BUT NOT THE END

BYLINE: David Rose And Eamonn Mallie

SECTION: THE OBSERVER LEADER PAGE; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 2600 words

HIGHLIGHT: Last week's air disaster hit Ulster's security machine hard. David
Rose and Eamonn Mallie assess the damage - and the prospects for recovery


ON THE top floor of RUC headquarters in Belfast, behind an inner ring of
security screens and cameras, there is a corridor of offices: the secret heart
of the fight against terrorism, the Special Branch high command. Yesterday, as
its remaining occupants struggled with the loss of 10 of their brightest and
best in last Thursday's helicopter crash, the atmosphere was like a morgue.

'The SB is a closed shop,' one source explained, 'you have only to look at the
fact that these 10 officers had 246 years' experience between them: promotion
tends to be internal, almost a kind of nepotism. They are a very close-knit
group, and they are reeling from the loss. If you walk along that corridor
today, you pass nameplate after nameplate on offices belonging to men who are
dead. Eight of the victims worked there: it's like walking along a death road.'
Their grief, and their fears for the future of an anti-terrorist campaign
deprived of its finest and most experienced minds, was sharpened by a feeling
that, with hindsight, the air crash which killed the 10 RUC men, six MI5
officers, nine military intelligence experts and four air crew could be seen as
unnecessary and highly avoidable.

Reports in the wake of the disaster suggested that the Chinook helicopter that
smashed into a mountain on the Mull of Kintyre had been carrying them to a
conference in Inverness to discuss Irish terrorism in the whole United Kingdom.
The implication was that the Ulster officers would be joined by numerous
security chiefs from the rest of the country.

The Observer has learnt that not one British police officer was due to attend.
Scotland Yard's Special Branch and Anti-Terrorist squad, the principal mainland
police units dealing with terrorism, would not have been represented. Moreover,
there was no plan to brief politicians: a Northern Ireland Office spokesman
yesterday rejected claims that the Secretary of State, Sir Patrick Mayhew, or
one of his junior Ministers would have visited the conference.

Top security sources said the conference's purview was confined to Ulster. It is
understood that no MI5 staff were travelling to the conference from London or
other parts of the mainland.

'There was no set agenda,' one source said, 'and there may have been an element
of rest and recreation.' According to eyewitnesses, visible among the helicopter
wreckage were fishing rods and golf clubs.

In some years, the security source added, the Inverness conference - an annual
event - had produced good results, as representatives from different agencies
came together and 'brainstormed' away from the stresses of a security community
in a state of permanent siege. But at other times, the results were
'disappointing': 'There isn't always something new to discuss.'

The justification for holding the conference away from Northern Ireland rested
partly on security, with the possibility of a mortar attack on even the
best-guarded premises, and partly on the benefits of taking people away from
their normal environments. As air-accident investigators continued to pick
through the remains of the Chinook last night, some of the colleagues of the
dead were beginning to ask whether these were reasons enough.

THE INTELLIGENCE effort against the IRA and Loyalist paramilitaries has not been
destroyed by the crash. Its structure, records and secret computer databases
remain intact. But with an estimated 40 per cent of the RUC Special Branch's
command level dead, and similar or worse figures for Army intelligence and MI5,
the effects will be severe.

Three weeks before his death in the crash, the then SB head, Assistant Chief
Constable Brian Fitzsimons, spoke of counter-terrorist intelligence as a
well-honed machine. He boasted that four -fifths of planned terrorist attacks in
Northern Ireland and on the mainland were now being prevented; and while the
campaign against Loyalist terrorism had suffered a setback with the allegations
of RUC collusion and the Stevens inquiry in the late Eighties, the damage had
been repaired. Sir Hugh Annesley, the RUC Chief Constable, told reporters that
Fitzsimons was the 'finest intelligence officer' in Europe - and it is clear
that among his own staff he enjoyed a near-legendary reputation for his memory,
knowledge and analytical nous.

During Sir Hugh's five-year tenure, the effectiveness of intelligence has been
enhanced by one of the hallmarks of his own leadership: a strong sense of
diplomacy and personal charm, which has seen the burial of old rivalries between
services and a productive pooling of effort. No doubt the three agencies in
play, the RUC, Army and MI5, will keep some of their best nuggets to themselves.
But under Sir Hugh, duplication and confusion have been minimised, with the
establishment of a committee consisting of the SB head, MI5's Ulster Director
and Co-ordinator of Intelligence (DCI) and the Army second in command. In
Ulster, the police retain formal leadership.

Intelligence work has become the mainstay of counter-terrorism. Where in the
Seventies and early Eighties the trend was to use those prepared to co-operate
with the security forces as 'supergrass' witnesses, the failure of this strategy
has seen a fundamental shift to a waiting game. Police or Army officers in West
Belfast and South Armagh tell the same story: 'We know who the terrorists are.'
But protection of informants' identity is now the sine qua non: they are too
valuable to blow for the sake of all but the most biggest prosecutions.
Intelligence prevents terrorist operations, but bringing its subjects to justice
is more difficult. Increasingly, success has resulted from high -technology
surveillance conducted over lengthy periods.

Effective intelligence against terrorism in Northern Ireland means effective
intelligence on the mainland. Virtually all leads passed to MI5 in Britain and
the Metropolitan Police Special Branch originate with their counterparts in
Ulster. In the past 12 months, those leads have brought a series of important
successes for the British security forces, with arrests and several big pending
trials.

Yet the damage from the air crash could be greater. 'The walls are full of
holes, but the building is still standing,' one source said. 'It is a dreadful
setback, but it is not one from which we cannot recover.'

Vital to this recovery was the introduction, five years ago, by Sir Hugh, of an
unbreakable 'force order': that the head and deputy head of Special Branch, at
headquarters and regional level, the only officers with the complete
intelligence picture, should never travel together, nor be absent from their
posts at the same time.  The damage to existing Army and MI5 set-ups appears to
be worse. While a few senior staff stayed in Ulster, their organisations and
command echelons are much smaller: the Army terrorist intelligence specialist
corps has been laid waste. However, the Army and MI5 regularly rotate their
personnel, so experienced officers are ready to return to Ulster to fill the
gaps.

In 1971, at the beginning of the Troubles, the murder of Detective Inspector
Cecil Patterson, the 'walking filing cabinet', is said to have a had devastating
impact: his knowledge of IRA gunmen died with him. Today, this would not be
possible.

Every time an informant handler meets his contact, their conversation must be
logged on computer. In every handler-informant relationship, there must be a
'supervisor' who scrutinises every 'transaction' - to monitor the value of
intelligence obtained, and to ensure that the contact does not cross the fine
line between 'participating informant' and 'agent provocateur'. To those of
sufficient seniority, the different services' databases are mutually accessible.

In the trial of INLA men Liam Heffernan and Martin McMonagle earlier this year,
it emerged that MI5's agent, Patrick Daly, had no fewer than three handlers -
common with the most valuable informants. In no case would a terrorist informer
have to deal with a stranger, they added.

But these are faint consolations. This was, as Sir Hugh admitted, a
'catastrophic' loss. One senior RUC source said: 'The bare facts may be on
computer, but computers don't have judgment, understanding. These guys knew the
psychology of the people they were dealing with, they knew the political
nuances; the body language. No computer can give you that.'

IN A sleepy RUC division in Co Down; lush, prosperous country with few social
problems and a tiny handful of terrorist incidents in 25 years, there is a
serving officer who spent five years in the Met, before returning to the land of
his birth.  Surely, we asked him, life must be easier in the peaceful Ulster
countryside?

'Even here,' he replied, 'policemen are potential targets. We never go out on
patrol unarmed. In London, I had a wide circle of friends. Here, to mix far
outside the RUC could be extremely dangerous. Last year, two RUC men in this
division were murdered.'

That is the reality of policing throughout Northern Ireland: a job that demands
a courage and commitment next to which even the most troubled British inner-city
seems a haven. Everything is relative: in West Belfast, or Armagh, where
Crosmaglen police station has yet to rise from ruin and Craigavon has only
recently done so, the Co Down meadows still look safe.

Ultimately, here lies the reason for the disaster. The security chiefs could
have met at an Ulster hotel, although at least one in Belfast used for big
police meetings was blown up last year. They could have met behind a ring of
steel at Stormont.  But if ever a group of men and women deserved to get away
from all that and mix their brainstorming with a little golf and fishing, it was
the victims of the crash.

The commitment produced by the siege mentality is another reason for the melting
away of inter-service opposition. It is also the source of the only crumb of
comfort. Filling the gaps caused by the Chinook crash will not be easy, but the
RUC will not be wanting in its determination to try.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1994 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              369 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Daily Mail (London)

                                  June 6, 1994

Cleared on the Rock;
SAS 'WAS RIGHT' TO KILL IRA GANG

BYLINE: John Deans,Tim Jotischky

SECTION: Pg. 17

LENGTH: 894 words


MORE aggressive anti-terrorist measures were urged yesterday after Britain was
cleared over the killing of an IRA team.

A European ruling backed the shootings by the SAS in Gibraltar in 1988 and said
they did not violate the human rights convention.

By a majority of 11 to six, the Human Rights Commission in Strasbourg ruled that
no unnecessary force was involved in the shooting of Mairead Farrell, Daniel
McCann and Sean Savage, who were believed to be planning to detonate a car bomb
by remote control. They were found to be unarmed, and the SAS was harshly
criticised in the TV documentary Death on the Rock.

The commission said the shootings 'can be considered as absolutely necessary for
the legitimate aim of the defence of others from unlawful violence'. But it
forwarded the case to the superior European Court of Human Rights for a full
hearing to decide the terrorists' 'right to life'.

The judgment was welcomed in Whitehall and hailed by MPs as 'a victory for
justice'.

Leading Ulster Unionist Ken Maginnis demanded more vigorous counter-terrorism
action, weighted strongly against the 'rights' of the IRA and other minority
groups inflicting death and destruction.

He said: 'There has been a trendy Leftie approach to serious problems like
Gibraltar. Now there is a demand throughout Europe for the rights of society to
be protected.

'For far too long there has been a hyper-sensitivity in respect of the rights of
people who themselves are not prepared to concede anything to the rights of the
majority.

'Sooner or later, governments have to bite the bullet as far as terrorism is
concerned. They can no longer leave their own forces and the unarmed civilian to
be the victim of highly-skilled, highly-trained and highly-dedicated
terrorists.'

Democratic Unionist Peter Robinson said: 'If there is the slightest chance for a
European body to find against the Ulster security forces they take it - which
shows how weak this case was.'

The Foreign Office welcomed the finding and said: 'We will vigorously defend our
actions in court.'

Niall Farrell, brother of Mairead, said: 'For us, it is an enormous victory. If
the commission was so happy with what these four SAS men did, and their
superiors, they would not have sent it to the European Court of Human Rights.'

The British authorities claimed that the undercover soldiers were justified in
opening fire because of the danger that the IRA terrorists were armed and might
detonate a car bomb, with disastrous results to innocent passers-by.

The commission decided there was no evidence of a premeditated plan to kill the
three and accepted evidence from the SAS soldiers that Farrell and McCann made
threatening movements.

It also found no convincing support for the allegation that the SAS men
continued to shoot the IRA members when they were attempting to surrender or
lying down.

One of the six dissenting voices was Irish member Jane Liddy, a 44-year-old
lawyer, who attacked the British case as 'a chain of lack of care, omissions,
errors and misleading information'.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: (1) Shot: Mairead Farrell (2) Shot:Daniel McCann (3) Shot: Sean Savage

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              370 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                  June 6, 1994

UK wins latest legal round on Rock shootings. No excessive use of force, says
human rights ruling

BYLINE: Murray Ritchie, European Editor

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 858 words


Brussels

BRITAIN has won the latest stage in its defence against accusations that the SAS
violated the human rights of IRA terrorists shot dead on Gibraltar.

The European Commission of Human Rights has found -- by a majority of 11 to 6
with Ireland dissenting -- that there was no excessive use of force in the
killings of three so-called IRA "active service" operatives on the Rock six
years ago.

The killings of Daniel McCann, Mairead Farrell, and Sean Savage caused an
international outcry when it was discovered that the three were shot dead when
they were unarmed and carrying no explosive detonator devices at a time when
there was no car bomb on Gibraltar.

A car containing explosives was later found in Spain.

Britain says the handling of the Gibraltar incident was in conformity with the
Gibraltar constitution, that the killings were lawful, that there was no plot to
kill terrorists, that the soldiers honestly believed there was a car bomb about
to be detonated, and that a subsequent inquiry on Gibraltar had been exhaustive
and independent.

The case now goes to the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg where
judges will consider the findings of the commission. It is unusual for judges to
disagree with commission conclusions but there are precedents. The size of the
dissenting minority could be influential.

Evidence which could be crucial to the case might now be heard from the Spanish
police who did not give evidence to the Gibraltar inquiry because Spain does not
recognise British sovereignty over the Rock.

Relatives of the three dead IRA members welcomed the decision to refer the case
to the court. "This means that the case will be finally decided by the court in
a full and public judicial hearing," they said in a joint statement.

Mrs Margaret McCann, widow of Daniel McCann, Mr Daniel Farrell, father of
Mairead Farrell, and Mr John Savage, father of Sean Savage, said they were
naturally disappointed that the commission had found no violation of the trio's
"rights to life".

The relatives took their case to the commission after losing their claim against
the British Government in which they argued that the shootings were a breach of
the European Convention on Human Rights which safeguards "the right to life".

The commission decided by a majority that the SAS soldiers were justified in
opening fire because of the risk that the IRA members were armed or could be
about to detonate a bomb. The shootings could be considered as "absolutely
necessary for the legitimate aim of the defence of others from unlawful
violence", the commission found.

Lawyers for the relatives said the commission's report established some crucial
issues of law and fact and provided a useful platform from which to argue the
case before the court. "On the basis of the facts as established by the
commission we are confident that we can convince the court that the three were
unnecessarily killed -- as was also held to be the case by a large minority of
the commission," the lawyers said.

"We are confident that, on a detached and objective assessment of the evidence,
the court will agree with the dissenters in the commission rather than with the
majority."

The lawyers also said the commission had gone a considerable way with the
applicants' arguments that in every crucial respect British authorities had made
"fundamentally erroneous assessments and assumptions" which led to the killings.

It was on those matters that the majority and minority split, they said.

"While the majority was willing to bend over backwards in granting the British
authorities every benefit of every conceivable doubt, and thereby to justify
these utterly wrong assessments, the six dissenters were scathing in rejecting
such excessive leeway," the lawyers said.

Irish commissioner Jane Liddy was one of the minority which backed the case of
the victims' relatives, saying: "The three suspects could have been arrested
without the use of lethal force, and insufficient care was taken to ensure that
that was the course adopted." But the majority view was that there was no
premeditated plan to kill the three.

The commission backed SAS claims that two of the three -- Farrell and McCann --
had made threatening movements. It said there was no convincing evidence for the
claim that the SAS men kept shooting when the three were either trying to
surrender or lying on the ground.

"Farrell and McCann were shot as they fell to the ground but not when they were
lying on the ground. Savage was shot at close range until he hit the ground and
probably in the instant as, or after, he had hit the ground," it said.

Ms Liddy said: "The use of lethal force against the three suspects was
disproportionate to the aim of defending other persons from unlawful violence.
The deprivation of life was consequently not the result of the use of force
which was no more than 'absolutely necessary' for that purpose." A final
decision by the court is still a long way off. The hearing will not take place
until at least next year and the judgment could be long after that.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              371 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                              June 6, 1994, Monday

Alternative terror cover

SECTION: Business

LENGTH: 102 words


COMPANIES balking at the high cost and onerous terms of insuring against acts of
terrorism in mainland Britain are being offered an alternative by Minet, the UK
insurance broker. Since the beginning of last year, terrorism cover has been
available only from Pool Re, the Government-backed mutual, on an all or nothing
basis.

If companies want cover they have to purchase it for all their properties,
irrespective of whether or not they are considered to be in high-risk areas.
Minet's scheme allows companies to choose those properties they want to insure.
The risk is placed with Lloyd's of London.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1994 Times Newspapers Limited

                              372 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 12, 1994, Sunday

The nuclear secrets on our roads

BYLINE: By TIM KELSEY

SECTION: BRITAIN PAGE; Page 10

LENGTH: 971 words


TWO MONTHS ago, an American transport plane crashed in East Anglia after
colliding with a Cessna light aircraft. It was carrying nuclear weapons. What
happened then remains a secret. Did the bombs explode? Did they leave the Broads
irradiated, and the population exposed to possible cancer? Did the emergency
services react efficiently?

This was actually a simulated scenario, part of the biggest exercise of its kind
yet staged in the UK mainland. The Ministry of Defence yesterday refused to
release any information on what happened.

CND claims that the exercise was a mess, that civil police who were first on the
scene did not wear protective clothing and it took several hours for specialist
Whitehall teams to arrive and start the clean-up.

The MoD's refusal to comment has helped to reopen the debate on the safety of
nuclear-weapon transportation in Britain. The subsequent discovery that the
Atomic Weapons Establishment at Aldermaston has been using civilian cars,
without escort, to carry nuclear materials around the country will also raise
concern. The MoD seems to have kept the use of these vehicles from the Commons'
defence select committee, the body which monitors its conduct.

Britain's nuclear deterrent is carried around by road through some of the most
densely populated parts of the country. At least once a month, vehicles emerge
from RAF Wittering near Peterborough to take Trident missiles from AWE
Burghfield to Scotland or transport bombs between bases in East Anglia. The
nuclear components for the weapons are made at AWE Aldermaston, but final
assembly is at Burghfield. From there, the Trident warheads travel to RNAD
Coulport in Scotland where they await deployment on submarines at Faslane.

In the past few months, several local councils on the route the weapons take to
western Scotland have called for an immediate independent inquiry and an end to
the convoys, amid concerns that they and emergency services could not cope with
a disaster.

Last month, Helena Kennedy QC chaired an inquiry on behalf of Reading Borough
Council into AWE Aldermaston and the movement of nuclear weapons. She castigated
the MoD for its ''need to cover even its most mundane activities in a cloak of
secrecy''.

Strathclyde council has also voiced concern about convoys passing through the
centre of Glasgow. A spokesman said: ''If we had a major accident we could not
cope with it. The guidelines issued by the Government suggest a 5km exclusion
zone around the area of the accident. If this was in central Glasgow this would
mean evacuating 32,000 people.''

The MoD dismisses such misgivings as ''political'' criticisms by anti-nuclear
campaigners. It has no legal responsibility to heed demands for an end to
convoys, and it does not alert the authorities' emergency planning officers to
the presence of convoys because their whereabouts are ''confidential''. However,
the police are informed.

Last year, MoD guidelines on nuclear emergencies were issued to local
authorities, but were dismissed as unworkable. They included: ''Go indoors and
stay there. Do not try to collect children at school unless told to do so. The
school authorities will look after them.''

The advice allows for the possibility that a weapon could leak radiation as the
result of a road accident, but the MoD says the chance of an atomic explosion
occurring is ''impossible''. This is despite an earlier US Congressional report
advising that there was a remote chance of a detonation.

US advice to local emergency planners on nuclear accidents is much more explicit
- and alarmist - than the British version. Where the MoD talks of 5km exclusion
zones, the US refers to 130km.

''What we are saying is that a disaster cannot be ruled out,'' said Di MacDonald
of Nukewatch, a monitoring group.

''In a fire the casement could rupture and the plutonium might 'jet' and be
dispersed.''

Transporter breakdowns are common on convoy journeys, and the Commons defence
select committee, which published a critical report last month, revealed that
there have been 21 breakdowns since 1992. As well as the possibility of
terrorist attack, there is a risk that a transporter could go out of control
while on the road.

Serious accidents, including transporter crashes, have occurred in the past 10
years. In a notorious incident in 1987, one transporter keeled over and was
stuck in a ditch for 24 hours. In another case, a convoy lost its way in the
one-way system in a small market town.

It is normally forbidden to carry weapons-grade plutonium side by side with high
explosive on the public highway, but the MoD has waived this restriction for the
warheads. The Health and Safety Executive has said it is satisfied there is no
particular risk to the public, and it has cited International Atomic Energy
Agency recommendations to justify its decision. However, the IAEA said that none
of its regulations were applicable to military transport, which it was keen to
discourage.

Frank Cook, Labour MP and member of the Commons defence committee, said
yesterday: ''There is a genuine risk of something terrible happening. The only
way to stop it happening is to stop transportation.''

The alternative to the roads is the sea. Originally, nuclear weapons were
carried by ship from Portsmouth or Plymouth to Scotland, but by the early
Eighties this had ceased.

Strathclyde council is insisting that the MoD consider sea transportation once
more, to avoid major centres of population. The MoD says this would be too
expensive. But if it changes its mind, it will face a new protest. The local
media in Portsmouth and Plymouth, prompted by mounting public concern, have
already begun campaigning to stop the missiles coming back to their ports.

(Photograph and map omitted)


LOAD-DATE: June 12, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1994 Independent Print Ltd

                              373 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             June 13, 1994, Monday

Britain is under threat - we must stay on our guard

BYLINE: Stella Remington

SECTION: Home news; 5

LENGTH: 1718 words


As a nation we have always been fascinated by the secret services''. English
literature contains a long line of spy fiction, from Kipling's Kim, through John
Buchan to John le Carre, and many more besides. It is exciting stuff, and has
led to some lurid speculation about our work. I must admit that it is with some
hesitation that I set out to shed some daylight I have a sneaking feeling that
the fiction may turn out to be more fun than the reality.

Britain has three different security and intelligence services. The Security
Service MI5 is the service that I lead. MI6 is the Secret Intelligence Service
(SIS), and the third is the Government Communications Headquarters (GCHQ). I
blame George Smiley for some of the confusion. In his role as Karla-watcher and
mole-hunter he was clearly doing MI5's work, but recruiting foreign agents
placed him firmly in MI6. In fact, we are three separate organisations, with
different functions.

The primary role for SIS and GCHQ is to collect foreign intelligence needed to
protect and support British interests. On the other hand MI5 is the defensive
service, the national security intelligence agency.

The modern security service was founded in 1909 to counter the threat of German
espionage. During the Cold War much of the service's effort went to countering
the sophisticated and well-resourced intelligence services of the Soviet Union
and its Warsaw Pact allies. But, since the collapse of Soviet communism, the
threats to national security and the tasks they generate for us have changed
greatly.

Countering espionage now takes up less than a quarter of our resources; half
what it was three years ago, and a far cry from the position at the height of
the Cold War.

The fall of the communist regimes and the disintegration of the Soviet Union
were fundamental changes and the service moved rapidly to respond to them. We
developed links with a number of countries in the former Warsaw Pact once we
were satisifed that democracy had taken hold and espionage against us had
ceased.

Together with our sister service SIS, we provided advice and support for the
reorganised and reorientated security services, particularly to help them to
establish a democratic framework for their work. We also began to exchange
information on areas where there were shared concerns, crucially in countering
terrorism.

The situation in Russia is different. We no longer need to fear the intense
military-related espionage against us associated with the Cold War. The
cataclysmic threats of a nuclear exchange, or of an attack, have receded.

But the process of reform is still vulnerable and, in the Russian security and
intelligence services, it is less far advanced. Both in this country and abroad
there has been clear evidence of the sort of threats from espionage which we
still need to counter. The case of Aldrich Ames, the CIA officer in the United
States who recently pleaded guilty to spying, is one example.

Although a year or so ago the Russians reduced the number of their intelligence
officers here, the total has begun to creep up. We must therefore remain on our
guard.

The other significant change in the service's work since the collapse of Soviet
communism has been in relation to subversion. The word subversion'' itself
doesn't appear in the Security Service Act, although the sense is conveyed in
the phrase activities intended to overthrow or undermine parliamentary democracy
by politcal, industrial or violent means''. The intention to undermine democracy
is what subversion means to us. It does not include political dissent.

Many of those whom the service had to investigate were members of parties and
organisations which made no secret of their wish to undermine parliamentary
democracy. There were also others who kept their objectives secret. Some, such
as the Communists, were loyal to the Soviet Union and its allies. Others, for
example, the Trotskyists, were fiercely critical of what they dubbed state
capitalism; but that made no difference to their determination to replace the
democratic system with one of their own choosing.

The service set out to identify all the members of these subversive groups, and
to investigate their activities. This was particularly necessary so that they
could be denied access to secret information through the vetting system, which
Clement Attlee introduced in 1949.

The allegation that the service investigated organisations which were not in
themselves subversive is quite untrue. Our interest was in the subversives not
in the organisations they sought to penetrate.

I have spoken in the past tense because, during the past ten years, the threat
from subversion has diminished dramatically. It now requires less than 5 per
cent of our time. Some of that is devoted to groups on the extreme Right, who
are seeking to undermine democracy through the exploitation of racial hatred and
xenophobia.

But the service's overwhelming focus today three quarters of our work is
concentrated on terrorism. Terrorism originating from within the United Kingdom
and abroad.

During the past two years and leaving aside the UK terrorist attacks have taken
place worldwide at a rate of nearly one a day. Nevertheless, we have, together,
had many successes, most of them, I'm afraid, necessarily unsung. But, as one
example, we have helped to prevent the intelligence services of a number of
Middle Eastern states from carrying out sustained campaigns of murder against
their opponents in this country and elsewhere.

Members of the Islamic extremist terrorist groups and terrorists from the Indian
sub-continent have been identified and their plans disrupted.

The service played a major part in the investigation into the bombing of Pan Am
103 over Lockerbie in December 1988 to the point where the atrocity was laid
firmly at the door of Libya.

In the foreseeable future, I expect there to remain a significant threat to
British interests. For example, the determined efforts to locate and kill the
author Salman Rushdie seem likely to go on. Extremists from part of North
Africa, and also Kurdish groups, pose an increasing threat of violence,
including to British tourists; and the conflict in former Yugoslavia could spill
over into acts of terrorism in Europe and elsewhere.

But the service's most important task and one that takes up nearly half our
resources is mounting intelligence operations to counter the threat from Irish
terrorism. During the past 18 months or so, more than 20 Irish republican
terrorists have been arrested in Great Britain and charged. In Northern Ireland
the security forces prevent four out of five terrorist attacks which are
attempted. All told, some 700 terrorists both republican and Loyalist have been
convicted and are serving prison sentences; many others are awaiting trial.

Intelligence gathering against terrorists is difficult and dangerous. Some of my
staff, and many others who work closely with us, risk their lives to do it. They
do it from a sense of public service, and a firm belief in the rule of law and
the democratic system. It is an anxious life for their families, who support
them because they, too, believe in the importance of their work. When tragedy
strikes as it did on such a scale with the helicopter crash on June 2 they
suffer their losses silently and with dignity. We have much cause to be grateful
to them all.

One new task which the service has recently taken on is helping to counter the
spread of weapons of mass destruction nuclear, biological and chemical. This is
not a new threat, of course, but it has been made more immediate by the collapse
of the Soviet Union. General instability there has resulted in the loosening of
controls over sensitive materials and related expertise. Some two dozen
governments are currently trying to obtain such technology. A number of these
countries sponsor, or even practise, terrorism, and we cannot rule out the
possibility that these weapons could be used for that purpose.

These people who wish to damage the State will naturally organise themselves,
and make plans, in secret. So we have to use secret means to investigate them.
With the proper legal authority, we may need to tap their telephones, open their
letters or eavesdrop on their conversations to find out their intentions. We may
have to observe their movements secretly, or recruit members of those
organisations as agents.

MI5 has no executive powers. So we pass information on to others and discuss
with them what action they can take to the police, for example, so arrests can
be made.

The question is asked, following the ending of the Cold War, are we using our
peace dividend'' to turn our attention to the general public or for that matter
anyone else about whom we, or perhaps the Government, feel uncomfortable? The
idea is just as ludicrous as the allegation I once heard that the service
carries out murder.

Accountability lies at the heart of the tension between liberty and security. A
delicate balance must be struck within the framework of government in
determining how far the security service should be allowed to go in invading the
privacy of the few in the interests of the nation.

The need for such a balance is reflected in international law and, particularly,
in the European Convention on Human Rights. The convention recognises that a
State has a duty and a right to protect itself. In doing so, it may set up a
security service to provide a covert response to covertly organised threats.

But the convention also makes clear that the State must respect individual
rights and liberties. It must put its secret services on a clear legal basis,
and it must establish independent oversight to ensure that these services never
abuse their powers.

The Government must not be able to pressure the service to do anything that is
not directly concerned with genuine threats to national security. To carry out
its functions the security service clearly has to conduct its operations in
secret. So in the future, as in the past, there will be little opportunity for
the public to find out in any detail what we are doing. Mechanisms for
accountability are therefore vital in providing reassurance, as well as control.


LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1994 Times Newspapers Limited

                              374 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             June 13, 1994, Monday

Britain is under threat - we must stay on our guard

BYLINE: Stella Remington

SECTION: Home news; 5

LENGTH: 1718 words


As a nation we have always been fascinated by the secret services''. English
literature contains a long line of spy fiction, from Kipling's Kim, through John
Buchan to John le Carre, and many more besides. It is exciting stuff, and has
led to some lurid speculation about our work. I must admit that it is with some
hesitation that I set out to shed some daylight I have a sneaking feeling that
the fiction may turn out to be more fun than the reality.

Britain has three different security and intelligence services. The Security
Service MI5 is the service that I lead. MI6 is the Secret Intelligence Service
(SIS), and the third is the Government Communications Headquarters (GCHQ). I
blame George Smiley for some of the confusion. In his role as Karla-watcher and
mole-hunter he was clearly doing MI5's work, but recruiting foreign agents
placed him firmly in MI6. In fact, we are three separate organisations, with
different functions.

The primary role for SIS and GCHQ is to collect foreign intelligence needed to
protect and support British interests. On the other hand MI5 is the defensive
service, the national security intelligence agency.

The modern security service was founded in 1909 to counter the threat of German
espionage. During the Cold War much of the service's effort went to countering
the sophisticated and well-resourced intelligence services of the Soviet Union
and its Warsaw Pact allies. But, since the collapse of Soviet communism, the
threats to national security and the tasks they generate for us have changed
greatly.

Countering espionage now takes up less than a quarter of our resources; half
what it was three years ago, and a far cry from the position at the height of
the Cold War.

The fall of the communist regimes and the disintegration of the Soviet Union
were fundamental changes and the service moved rapidly to respond to them. We
developed links with a number of countries in the former Warsaw Pact once we
were satisifed that democracy had taken hold and espionage against us had
ceased.

Together with our sister service SIS, we provided advice and support for the
reorganised and reorientated security services, particularly to help them to
establish a democratic framework for their work. We also began to exchange
information on areas where there were shared concerns, crucially in countering
terrorism.

The situation in Russia is different. We no longer need to fear the intense
military-related espionage against us associated with the Cold War. The
cataclysmic threats of a nuclear exchange, or of an attack, have receded.

But the process of reform is still vulnerable and, in the Russian security and
intelligence services, it is less far advanced. Both in this country and abroad
there has been clear evidence of the sort of threats from espionage which we
still need to counter. The case of Aldrich Ames, the CIA officer in the United
States who recently pleaded guilty to spying, is one example.

Although a year or so ago the Russians reduced the number of their intelligence
officers here, the total has begun to creep up. We must therefore remain on our
guard.

The other significant change in the service's work since the collapse of Soviet
communism has been in relation to subversion. The word subversion'' itself
doesn't appear in the Security Service Act, although the sense is conveyed in
the phrase activities intended to overthrow or undermine parliamentary democracy
by politcal, industrial or violent means''. The intention to undermine democracy
is what subversion means to us. It does not include political dissent.

Many of those whom the service had to investigate were members of parties and
organisations which made no secret of their wish to undermine parliamentary
democracy. There were also others who kept their objectives secret. Some, such
as the Communists, were loyal to the Soviet Union and its allies. Others, for
example, the Trotskyists, were fiercely critical of what they dubbed state
capitalism; but that made no difference to their determination to replace the
democratic system with one of their own choosing.

The service set out to identify all the members of these subversive groups, and
to investigate their activities. This was particularly necessary so that they
could be denied access to secret information through the vetting system, which
Clement Attlee introduced in 1949.

The allegation that the service investigated organisations which were not in
themselves subversive is quite untrue. Our interest was in the subversives not
in the organisations they sought to penetrate.

I have spoken in the past tense because, during the past ten years, the threat
from subversion has diminished dramatically. It now requires less than 5 per
cent of our time. Some of that is devoted to groups on the extreme Right, who
are seeking to undermine democracy through the exploitation of racial hatred and
xenophobia.

But the service's overwhelming focus today three quarters of our work is
concentrated on terrorism. Terrorism originating from within the United Kingdom
and abroad.

During the past two years and leaving aside the UK terrorist attacks have taken
place worldwide at a rate of nearly one a day. Nevertheless, we have, together,
had many successes, most of them, I'm afraid, necessarily unsung. But, as one
example, we have helped to prevent the intelligence services of a number of
Middle Eastern states from carrying out sustained campaigns of murder against
their opponents in this country and elsewhere.

Members of the Islamic extremist terrorist groups and terrorists from the Indian
sub-continent have been identified and their plans disrupted.

The service played a major part in the investigation into the bombing of Pan Am
103 over Lockerbie in December 1988 to the point where the atrocity was laid
firmly at the door of Libya.

In the foreseeable future, I expect there to remain a significant threat to
British interests. For example, the determined efforts to locate and kill the
author Salman Rushdie seem likely to go on. Extremists from part of North
Africa, and also Kurdish groups, pose an increasing threat of violence,
including to British tourists; and the conflict in former Yugoslavia could spill
over into acts of terrorism in Europe and elsewhere.

But the service's most important task and one that takes up nearly half our
resources is mounting intelligence operations to counter the threat from Irish
terrorism. During the past 18 months or so, more than 20 Irish republican
terrorists have been arrested in Great Britain and charged. In Northern Ireland
the security forces prevent four out of five terrorist attacks which are
attempted. All told, some 700 terrorists both republican and Loyalist have been
convicted and are serving prison sentences; many others are awaiting trial.

Intelligence gathering against terrorists is difficult and dangerous. Some of my
staff, and many others who work closely with us, risk their lives to do it. They
do it from a sense of public service, and a firm belief in the rule of law and
the democratic system. It is an anxious life for their families, who support
them because they, too, believe in the importance of their work. When tragedy
strikes as it did on such a scale with the helicopter crash on June 2 they
suffer their losses silently and with dignity. We have much cause to be grateful
to them all.

One new task which the service has recently taken on is helping to counter the
spread of weapons of mass destruction nuclear, biological and chemical. This is
not a new threat, of course, but it has been made more immediate by the collapse
of the Soviet Union. General instability there has resulted in the loosening of
controls over sensitive materials and related expertise. Some two dozen
governments are currently trying to obtain such technology. A number of these
countries sponsor, or even practise, terrorism, and we cannot rule out the
possibility that these weapons could be used for that purpose.

These people who wish to damage the State will naturally organise themselves,
and make plans, in secret. So we have to use secret means to investigate them.
With the proper legal authority, we may need to tap their telephones, open their
letters or eavesdrop on their conversations to find out their intentions. We may
have to observe their movements secretly, or recruit members of those
organisations as agents.

MI5 has no executive powers. So we pass information on to others and discuss
with them what action they can take to the police, for example, so arrests can
be made.

The question is asked, following the ending of the Cold War, are we using our
peace dividend'' to turn our attention to the general public or for that matter
anyone else about whom we, or perhaps the Government, feel uncomfortable? The
idea is just as ludicrous as the allegation I once heard that the service
carries out murder.

Accountability lies at the heart of the tension between liberty and security. A
delicate balance must be struck within the framework of government in
determining how far the security service should be allowed to go in invading the
privacy of the few in the interests of the nation.

The need for such a balance is reflected in international law and, particularly,
in the European Convention on Human Rights. The convention recognises that a
State has a duty and a right to protect itself. In doing so, it may set up a
security service to provide a covert response to covertly organised threats.

But the convention also makes clear that the State must respect individual
rights and liberties. It must put its secret services on a clear legal basis,
and it must establish independent oversight to ensure that these services never
abuse their powers.

The Government must not be able to pressure the service to do anything that is
not directly concerned with genuine threats to national security. To carry out
its functions the security service clearly has to conduct its operations in
secret. So in the future, as in the past, there will be little opportunity for
the public to find out in any detail what we are doing. Mechanisms for
accountability are therefore vital in providing reassurance, as well as control.


LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1994 Times Newspapers Limited

                              375 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 June 14, 1994

IRA BOMBERS ATTACK RAIL LINE AS MAINLAND CAMPAIGN RESUMES

BYLINE: Owen Bowcott

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 258 words


THE IRA resumed its mainland bombing campaign with an explosion yesterday beside
the King's Cross to Edinburgh inter-city line, writes Owen Bowcott.

At lunchtime, a coded telephone warning said a device had been planted near
Stevenage, Hertfordshire. Shortly after 3.30pm a blast damaged the embankment
300 yards north of the station.

Police claimed the warning had been misleading, indicating that the bomb had
been left south of the station. Instead it exploded behind a local comprehensive
school. No one is reported to have been hurt. The IRA claimed responsibility for
the attack in a phone call to a Dublin radio station.

A further warning alleged that a bomb had been left at Clapham Junction in south
London. The station was closed to passengers for nearly three hours, but no
device had been found by yesterday evening.

Apart from the mortar attacks on Heathrow airport this year, there has been a
lull in IRA activity in Britain, apparently to allow Sinn Fein politicians to
respond to the Downing Street declaration. In the past two weeks, however, the
IRA has resumed its traditional activities.

Republican sources in Dublin admitted responsibility for a 3 lb bomb left beside
tracks at Sevenoaks station, Kent, on June 6. Scotland Yard says the incendiary
devices planted at Liberty's and an Oxford Street store in London's West End
last week are assumed to be the work of the IRA. The targets selected so far
suggest the active service units are intent on causing as much economic
disruption as possible.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              376 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 June 14, 1994

COURT HEARS LOCKERBIE BOMB CLAIM

BYLINE: Richard Norton-Taylor

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 552 words


A PALESTINIAN follower of the Abu Nidal terrorist group stirred up fresh
controversy yesterday over the Lockerbie air disaster by claiming responsibility
for bombing the Pan Am jumbo, which crashed on the Scottish town in December
1988, killing 270 people.

Youssef Shaaban, on trial for killing a Jordanian diplomat, told a Beirut court:
"I personally blew up the Lockerbie plane.  I've told the investigating
magistrate about it before, but my confession wasn't documented. I say it again
now."

But his outburst - believed to be the first time anyone has claimed
responsibility for the bombing - was treated with scepticism by sources close to
the British intelligence community. It is understood that they have no
information linking him to the disaster.

Mr Shaaban is accused of assassinating Naeb Imran Maaytah in Beirut in January.
Abu Nidal's group has denied any involvement in the murder.

Western intelligence agencies initially pointed the finger at Abu Nidal,
supported by Syria and financed by Iran, for the Lockerbie bombing. In 1991,
Britain and the United States accused two Libyans, Abdel Baset Ali Mohamed
al-Megrahi and al-Amin Khalifa Fhimah, of carrying out the bombing.

Stella Rimington, head of MI5, said in the course of her Richard Dimbleby
lecture on Sunday night that her agency had played a major part in the Lockerbie
investigation "to the point where the atrocity was laid firmly at the door of
Libya".

A Foreign Office spokesman said yesterday: "As we have said many times in the
past, we believe there is a case to be answered in a court in Scotland or the
United States by the two Libyans. If anyone has further information which
implicates anyone else, this could be brought to the attention of the Lord
Advocate in Scotland or the US authorities."

In Scotland, a spokesman for the Crown Office said the Lord Advocate had seen no
evidence relating to "the alleged involvment" of Mr Shabaan.

Dr Jim Swire, spokesman for the British families who lost relatives in the
disaster - his daughter Flora was on the flight - suggested Mr Shaaban was
seeking to attract "what terrorists might regard as kudos for the Abu Nidal
organisation".

He said that until a fair trial of the two Libyans took place, it was impossible
to say who was involved. He said Britain should respond positively to a
suggestion from Robert Black, an Edinburgh University law professor, for the
case against the two men to be put to a panel of judges at the International
Court of Justice in The Hague.

He contrasted the Government opposition to the proposal with its support for a
special Yugoslav war crimes tribunal. The Black plan has been supported by the
Libyan leader, Colonel Muammar Gadafy.

In Tripoli, Ibrahim Legwell, lawyer for the two Libyans, said Mr Shaaban's
confession "would confirm what I believe, because I think that my two clients
are not guilty".

Abu Nidal, whose real name is Sabri el-Banna, has had close ties with Libya.
Gadafy claims to have dismantled Abu Nidal training camps but invited him to a
meeting in December.

- Foreign ministers of the Organisation of African Unity have urged the United
Nations Security Council to "reconsider its resolutions . . . and lift the
embargo imposed on Libya" over the Lockerbie bombing.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              377 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Standard (London)

                                 June 21, 1994

Nazi gang attack Auschwitz survivor

BYLINE: Vikram Dodd

SECTION: Pg. 18

LENGTH: 414 words


A SURVIVOR of the Auschwitz death camp today vowed to defy a Nazi terror gang
who attacked his London home after tracking him down.

Leon Greenman, 83, who lost his wife and baby in the Holocaust, says he will
continue giving lectures detailing the horrors of Nazi Germany's concentration
camps. Police say they are sickened by the attack on Mr Greenman in Ilford, and
fear it could be the start of a terror campaign against him by an extreme
right-wing group, Combat 18.

A brick smashed through his window at around 11pm on Sunday evening.

Minutes later, a man phoned a chilling message and bragged of the attack to
another anti-fascist activist.

Detective Constable David Moreland, leading the investigation, said: "These
people are dangerous. They are animals. This was a cowardly attack on an old
man. My worry is that next time he will get a petrol bomb or something more
serious. But he is determined not to be driven out of his house." Mr Greenman
said: "I am scared, I want to be left in peace. But I can only lose my life. I
have to tell what happened in the death camps, there are few survivors left."

Britain's foremost expert on far-right violence, Gerry Gable, of Searchlight,
said that Combat 18 want to terrorise Mr Greenman. "They've decided an
83-year-old man is their enemy."

A spokesman for the British National Party to whom it is believed that Combat 18
is allied, Arthur Field, said: "This Holocaust is a lie."

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              378 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                            June 22, 1994, Wednesday

HOLIDAY BLAST VICTIM FIGHTS FOR LIFE

BYLINE:  John von Radowitz and Teilo Colley, PA News

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 855 words


A British tourist was fighting for her life tonight after being caught in a bomb
attack at a Turkish seaside resort.  Joanna Griffiths, whose mother was also
injured in today's blast at Marmaris, suffered serious head injuries.  According
to one report, she was undergoing brain surgery tonight.  Three members of
another British family were hurt in one of two explosions in the Mediterranean
coastal resort which were caused, according to local reports, by devices hidden
in waste bins in a park and at an ice cream stall.  They were Jimmy and Sylvia
Metz and their daughter Anthea from Thornaby, Cleveland.  The Marmaris attack
followed two bomb explosions on Tuesday at Fethiye, about 60 miles away, in
which three Britons travelling with tour operators Thomson were hurt along with
two Germans, an Austrian and four Turks.  The Foreign Office, which revised its
advice to tourists heading for Turkey in the aftermath of the bombings, was
unable tonight to give Ms Griffiths's address or age, or her mother's first
name.

The Griffiths family are thought to have been travelling with Airtours, one of
the UK's leading holiday operators.  The company confirmed today that two of its
holidaymakers had been hurt, but refused to give any further details until
relatives were informed.  There were no claims of responsibility for the attacks
but Turkey's separatist Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK) has vowed to strike at the
tourism industry in its fight for an independent state in the south-east - and
warned foreigners to stay away.  Tourist areas and municipal buildings in Turkey
have been targeted in at least 10 bomb attacks in the past few months.  In
April, two tourists were killed and at least 15 injured by a bomb in Istanbul's
covered bazaar.  The Foreign Office - which had been warning tourists to avoid
the less popular south-east for some time - issued amended advice after the
latest attacks, drawing attention to the activities of the PKK in tourist areas
such as the Mediterranean coast.  Its new advice was: "Visitors should be aware
that the Kurdistan Workers Party has attacked places frequented by tourists.  "A
number of bomb attacks have taken place in Istanbul, Fethiye and Marmaris very
recently.  "These attacks have resulted in the deaths of two tourists and
injuries to others, including Britons.  "The Turkish authorities are giving a
high priority to protecting visitors but people's security cannot be guaranteed
and further attacks could be expected. Visitors should remain vigilant at all
times." Despite the attacks, holiday firms are unlikely to alter their plans for
this summer, when thousands of Britons are expected to fly to Turkey for
holidays.  An Association of British Travel Agents spokesman said: "The reality
is that there are something like 300,000 people travelling to Turkey a year from
Britain and the risk of being the victim of a terrorist attack is very small."
Turkey is one of the top 10 destinations for British holidaymakers.

Mr Metz, 57, whose 59-year-old wife suffered a shrapnel wound to her back,
described the moment the bomb went off.  "We were sitting on a row of sunbeds
playing cards. Suddenly an almighty blast hit us.  "My wife screamed. I thought
someone had shot her and I felt blood on her T-shirt. It turned out to be a
fragment from the bomb.  "Another hit me on the knee and went throught the flesh
and hit the bone," Mr Metz told tomorrow's Daily Mail from his hospital bed.
The Mail named Ms Griffiths's mother as Tina, 41, who underwent minor surgery.
It said the Britons hurt in the Fethiye attack were Richard and Estel Broom from
Bristol, and Derek Bartell.  Mr Broom, 54, suffered a broken knee cap and
shrapnel wounds to both legs. Mrs Broom, 51, had multiple fractures to both
legs.

The Foreign Office said tonight it had amended its travel advice to visitors to
western and central Turkey, including the Mediterranean and Black Sea coasts.
Its advice was: "Visitors should be aware that the Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK)
has attacked places frequented by tourists.  "A number of bomb attacks have
taken place in Istanbul, Fethiye and Marmaris very recently.  "These attacks
have resulted in the deaths of two tourists, and injuries to others, including
Britons.  "The Turkish authorities were giving a high priority to protecting
visitors but people's security could not be guaranteed and further attacks could
be expected. Visitors should remain vigilant at all times."

Two of the tourists injured in the Marmaris attacks were travelling with tour
operator Airtours, it emerged tonight.  The company, one of the UK's leading
holiday operators, refused to release names or to reveal the extent of the
injuries until relatives had been contacted.  In a prepared statement, Airtours
said: "We can confirm that two of our holidaymakers were among a small number of
British casualties involved in two incidents in Turkey today.  "At this stage we
are not able to confirm their identities, nor to give an indication of their
medical conditions." Several other tour operators also take British
holidaymakers to Marmaris.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1994 The Press Association Limited

                              379 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 June 23, 1994

Turks believe terrorist bombings won't halt influx of British tourists

BYLINE: Alistair Bell

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 964 words


Ankara, Wednesday

TURKISH authorities are expecting the recent mass influx of British tourists to
continue despite the current bomb attacks by suspected Kurdish terrorists.

"We'll just have to wait and see what happens but the British aren't usually put
off by this kind of thing," said Cengiz Topcu of Julian Tours, the local agent
of one of Britain's leading tour operators.

The tourism ministry predicts half a million UK tourists this year, an increase
from the 400,000 who took a holiday here in 1993.

"We started the season badly but between 80--90% of our hotel capacity in Alanya
is occupied now and we don't expect that to drop," said Mr Topcu.

"The number of British guests is definitely rising. They used to gather on the
Aegean coast but now they're discovering the whole southern region along the
Mediterranean."

Last season was disrupted by a campaign against tourism by the PKK Kurdish
guerrilla group aiming to cripple this valuable sector which brings in a much
needed £3 billion in hard currency annually to the troubled Turkish economy.

Last year the PKK kidnapped a total of 24 foreigners in the Kurdish populated
southeast.

Their first victims were British cousins, David Rowbottom and Tania Miller, who
spent five weeks in captivity being force-marched around the mountains at night
with only a couple of hours' sleep in the heat of the day. They were eventually
released unharmed.

Two other British students were abducted by the PKK before the Turkish army
rescued them in a shootout in which eight guerrillas died. A small bomb in the
Aegean resort of Kusadasi, popular with Britons, slightly injured two tourists.

Earlier this year the terrorists killed one Spanish tourist and wounded 13 other
people in a bomb blast at Istanbul's famous Grand Bazaar in April.

A similar explosion in the garden of the city's Sancta Sophia Museum injured
three foreigners 10 days previously. But these incidents have not deterred
Britons who are looking for a cheap and exotic alternative to Spain and Greece.

"Unlike the Germans, I think the British are used to terrorism and know that
these kinds of attacks are very isolated," said Mr Topcu. "Look at the IRA
mortar attacks on Heathrow. Planes were flying in and out as the mortars were
going off."

The PKK all but wiped out German tourism last year with three simultaneous bombs
in the Mediterranean town of Antalya that left 26 people, eight of them Germans,
wounded. "For the first time in years there are hardly any Germans here," added
Mr Topcu.

One of the reasons for the Germans staying away is a boycott organised by
militant Kurdish groups in Germany who claim that revenues from tourism fund the
Turkish army's "dirty war" against Kurdish civilians.

The news magazine Stern also has discouraged German tourism by placing Turkey
alongside the former Yugoslavia and Rwanda on a holiday blacklist of countries
to avoid because of war.

The Kurdish guerrilla campaign is indeed a bloody one but it is in no way
comparable to Bosnia. It must be remembered that the vast majority of political
violence in Turkey takes place in the remote southeastern region where only the
hardiest of backpackers venture.

As if terrorism was not enough to sully Turkey's image abroad, last year also
saw the mysterious death of Scottish designer Roy Dingley who disappeared while
visiting Istanbul.

In another incident, a British woman was seriously injured by a stone thrown
through her bus window minutes after arrival at Antalya airport.

A rival bus company was believed to be involved and there is the rise of the
Islamic fundamentalist Welfare Party which won Istanbul and Ankara for the first
time at local elections in March.

The new mayor of Istanbul is attempting to close down dozens of unlicensed bars
in the tourist Beyoglu district which have operated with impunity for years.

The fundamentalists also plan to table a parliamentary motion to have Sancta
Sophia Museum -- once Christendom's grandest church -- closed down and reopened
as a mosque.

So with all these disadvantages, what is the great attraction of Turkey? First
and foremost, it is cheap. Prices for package tours are favourably comparable,
if not less expensive, than other Mediterranean countries despite extra
travelling.

Overbooking problems in Majorca this season also have led to a last-minute rush
to Turkey, according to UK operators Airtours.

Once in Turkey, tourists find their money going further thanks to the tumbling
Turkish lira which has lost 123% of its value against the pound since January.

A full three-course meal with drinks can easily be found for under £10. The
waiters, who are attentive and tidy to the point of overdoing it, regard keeping
their guests happy as the gravest matter of national honour.

The local hospitality is a living attribute not confined to holiday brochure
propaganda. It is not unheard of for tourists to have their restaurant bills
taken care of by complete strangers who disappear into the street without
waiting for a thanks.

The nation is just beginning to open up and its turquoise coastlines remain
relatively unspoiled. Many of its abundant historical and cultural sites are
easily available for day trippers who want to get away from the beach.

Turkey claims to have more Greek and Roman ruins than Greece and Rome
themselves. Around 40 different civilisations have passed through Asia Minor
since the beginning of time.

This rich culture can lead to quite a spectacle at those optional nights out
organised by the tour rep. The colourful and fiery folk singers, not to mention
the obligatory belly dancer, leave Spanish flamenco wailers and Greek plate
smashers in the shade.

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              380 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            June 23, 1994, Thursday

Britons hurt in Turkish bomb blasts

BYLINE: HUGH POPE in Ankara and agencies

SECTION: INTERNATIONAL NEWS PAGE; Page 14

LENGTH: 391 words


A BRITISH tourist suffered serious head injuries and seven others received
lesser wounds in a spate of bomb attacks at Turkish coastal resorts yesterday.

Joanna Griffiths, whose mother was also among the casualties, was reported to be
undergoing brain surgery last night. Three members of another British family
were injured in one of two explosions in the town of Marmaris. They were
identified as Jimmy and Sylvia Metz and their daughter Anthea, from Thornaby,
Cleveland.

Kurdish guerrillas claimed responsibility for a bomb that injured three British
tourists and eight other people at a harbourside tea garden in the southern
resort of Fethiye.

The British embassy in Ankara named two of the Britons as Estelle and Richard
Broom, a married couple. Turkish police identified the third as Derek Bartel.

''They were injured by debris but they're all right,'' said the British
vice-consul. The other victims included three Germans and an Austrian and four
Turks.

The Kurd-A news agency in Germany, which reflects the views of the Kurdistan
Workers' Party (PKK) rebels, said that it had received calls from ''Kurdish
patriots'' claiming to have carried out the bombing.

Kurdish organisations close to the PKK have claimed responsibility for several
attacks on foreign tourists in the past year in Istanbul and on the
Mediterranean coast, killing two tourists and injuring several. PKK spokesmen
have repeatedly warned tourists not to travel to Turkey on the grounds that it
is a war zone and that tourist revenues go towards paying for the Turkish army
in its 10-year war against the Marxist rebel guerrilla army.

The threat of terrorism may pose a risk of injury considerably less than that of
travelling on Turkish roads, but Turkish operators expect 20 per cent less
tourists than last year. Britain does not warn against travel to the main resort
areas of Turkey, but it advises against travel to Mount Ararat, Lake Van and
other parts of the south-east and east, where the PKK has kidnapped tourists.

Turkish tourism has been badly hit, even if, unlike Egypt, whose package tourism
industry was crippled by Islamic radical terrorism, it does not rely so
completely on the fickle Europeans and Americans. The PKK are calling for
unconditional talks to end the fighting and their threats against foreigners.


LOAD-DATE: June 23, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1994 Independent Print Ltd

                              381 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                            June 23, 1994, Thursday

'RELAXED' HOLIDAYMAKERS DEFY TURKEY TERRORISTS

BYLINE:  Teilo Colley, PA News

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 1299 words


Most holidaymakers booked on flights to Turkey are defying the threat of
terrorist attack, tour operators reported tonight.  As a British woman injured
in a spate of bombings in Turkey underwent emergency treatment in Manchester,
holiday companies reported only a handful of cancellations.  "People are taking
a relaxed attitude to this," said Keith Betton, of the Association of British
Travel Agents.  Joanna Griffiths, the most serious casualty of the bombings in
the resorts of Marmaris and Fethiye on Tuesday and Wednesday, was flown to
Manchester today after undergoing surgery on a head wound in Turkey.  Doctors at
Manchester Royal Infirmary said she remained seriously ill.  "Joanna's condition
has been assessed and she is now undergoing treatment in the hospital's
intensive care unit," said a spokeswoman.  Joanna, 24, from Chester, was one of
eight British tourists hurt in the explosions, which are thought to be the work
of the Kurdish separatist group PKK. She was hit by shrapnel from one of the
Marmaris explosions.  Her mother Tina was also due to return to Manchester
today, but remained in Turkey after doctors there decided she needed urgent
treatment to a leg wound and was not fit to travel.  The Marmaris tourist office
said Mrs Griffiths was recovering well after an operation, but it was not clear
when she would return home.  "She is waiting now in hospital in Marmaris. I hear
she is talking and her legs are OK," said a spokesman.  The bombings, the latest
in an escalating round of terrorist attacks designed to damage Turkey's tourist
trade, prompted four of the UK's main tour operators to offer customers the
chance to transfer to other destinations at no extra cost or cancel if no
suitable alternative was available. But few people were taking up the offer from
Airtours, Thomson, Owners Abroad and Sunworld.  "We have had only 12 during the
day. That's a very small percentage when you consider that we have 2,000
holidaymakers in Marmaris alone," said an Airtours spokewoman.  And Mr Betton
added: "People recognise that it is not something you are likely to suffer from.
It is like if you come to London, you might get hurt by an incendiary device,
but millions of people don't." The defiant attitude was summed up by one of the
victims of the Marmaris explosions.  Sylvia Metz, from Thornaby-on-Tees,
Cleveland, who was injured along with her husband Jimmy and their daughter
Anthea, vowed to continue her break in the sun.  "I am going to have my holiday.
The Turkish people are really nice people. This is just a few stupid people like
we have got in our country," said Mrs Metz, 59, who had a piece of metal lodged
in her back in the blast.  The Turkish authorities stepped up security in
popular tourist areas in response to the bombings.  But they were also playing
down the effects of the attacks on the country's crucial tourist trade.  "Nobody
has left Marmaris," said the tourist office spokesman there. "Everything is OK
now and normal."

Joanna, 24, and her mother Tina, who had surgery for a leg wound, are from
Chester.  Witnesses at Manchester airport said it took nearly half an hour to
transfer the apparently unconscious Joanna from the aircraft to the waiting
ambulance.  She was attached to several drips and a hoist was used to place her
carefully in rear of the ambulance. It is understood she was taken to Manchester
Royal Infirmary, which has a neurosurgery unit.  Joanna was among 21 people,
including eight Britons, wounded by bombs in the Mediterranean resorts of
Marmaris and Fethiye yesterday and Tuesday.  According to local reports, the
Marmaris blasts were caused by devices hidden in waste bins in a park and at an
ice cream stall.  Soldiers were out in force on the streets of Turkish resorts
today. So far no group has claimed repsonsibility for the bombings, but they are
believed to be linked to the separatist Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK), which has
warned tourists to stay away.  Meanwhile, Sylvia Metz, from Thornaby, Cleveland,
who was injured along with her husband Jimmy and their daughter Anthea in
Marmaris, today vowed to continue her holiday.  Mrs Metz, 59, told the Today
programme she was playing cards with her husband and daughter on the beach when
"there was a big bang".  "I thought it was just a balloon or something - it was
just a bang. Then I saw my husband. His leg was bleeding, my daughter was
screaming, people were screaming. Then they were rushing us all into ambulances
and away." She said a piece of metal, about half an inch long, had gone into the
muscle of her back.  Asked if she was going to come straight back to England,
she said: "No I am going to have my holiday. The Turkish people are really nice
people. This is just a few stupid people like we have got in our country." In
another explosion on Tuesday at Fethiye, about 60 miles from Marmaris, three
Britons travelling with Thomson were hurt along with two Germans, an Austrian
and four Turks.

The Britons hurt in the Fethiye were Richard and Esther Broom, aged 54 and 51,
from Bristol, and Derek Bartell, the Foreign Office said. Mr Broom had a broken
knee cap and shrapnel wounds to both legs. Mrs Broom had multiple fractures to
both legs.  The Foreign Office - which had been warning tourists to avoid less
popular south-east Turkey for some time - issued amended advice after the latest
attacks, drawing attention to the activities of the PKK in tourist areas such as
the Mediterranean coast.  The FO said visitors should remain vigilant at all
times.  The Federation of Tour Operators, which represents Britain's largest
package tour companies, said Thomson, Airtours, Owners Abroad and Sunworld were
all offering special deals to worried holidaymakers.  All were allowing
customers booked on Turkish holidays to transfer to alternative destinations
within specific time periods at no extra cost.  Airtours and Sunworld were also
allowing people to cancel bookings altogether under certain circumstances.  A
Thomson spokeswoman said of the 800 of its holidaymakers booked on four flights
to Turkey last night, only 10 decided not to travel.  "From the feedback we've
had from the resorts, the situation seems very calm and relaxed. Everyone seems
quite happy," she added.  "In the areas where ther have been incidents there's
been some gossiping and chat, but no great alarm. We know of no cases where
people have wanted to come home early, neither Britons nor holidaymakers from
other European countries.  "They seem to be aware that this kind of problem is
world wide, and are taking it in their stride."

A Manchester Royal Infirmary spokeswoman confirmed that Miss Griffiths had
arrived at the hospital.  She said her injuries were now being assessed and that
could take some hours.

The Marmaris tourist office said Tina Griffiths was recovering well after her
operation, but it was not clear when she would return home.  "She is waiting now
in hospital in Marmaris. I hear she is talking and her legs are OK," said a
spokesman.  Tourists were not allowing what had happened to ruin their holidays.
"Nobody has left Marmaris," said the spokesman. "Everything is OK now and
normal."

Miss Griffiths remained seriously ill in Manchester Royal Infimary tonight.  A
statement from the hospital said: "Joanna's condition has been assessed and she
is now undergoing treatment in the hospital's intensive care unit." A
spokeswoman said they were unable to give any more detailed information about
her condition.

Joanna was understood to be on board a Swiss-registered air ambulance that
landed at Manchester Airport late this morning from Turkey.  On the airport
tarmac she was transferred from the twin-engined jet to an ambulance to be taken
to a hospital in the north-west of England.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1994 The Press Association Limited

                              382 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                            June 23, 1994, Thursday

John Deverell

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 604 words


John Deverell, CB, MBE, a director of the Security Service (MI5), was killed on
June 2 aged 57. He was born in Kenya on July 15, 1936.

ONE of the victims of the Chinook helicopter crash on the Mull of Kintyre on
June 2, John Deverell made a major contribution to the work of the Security
Service in the fields of counter-espionage and counter-terrorism.

Deverell was born in Nairobi into a family with a distinguished record of work
in the Colonial Service. He was educated in Kenya and at St Edward's School,
Oxford. After National Service with the King's African Rifles at the end of the
Mau Mau emergency, he joined the Colonial Service in 1958. He served in both
Kenya and Fiji in the years preceding their independence and retained great
affection for both countries.

His particular affinity was for district administration in which he worked with
outstanding success as a district officer. His final appointment overseas was to
the branch of the secretariat in Suva responsible for security and defence. This
introduced him to the field in which he was later to serve with such
distinction. He joined the Security Service in 1971.  Between 1982 and his death
he was responsible in succession for four major Security Service directorates.
He was due to retire in July of this year.

Deverell directed the counter-espionage work of the Security Service at the time
when it was confronting intensive intelligence activity against the United
Kingdom by the former Soviet bloc. During his tenure a large number of Soviet
and other intelligence officers were expelled from the UK at the service's
instigation and numerous investigations were conducted resulting, among other
successes, in the arrest and conviction of the East German spies, the Schultzes.
It was during this period also that the senior KGB officer Oleg Gordievsky was
run as an agent by MI6 while en poste at the Soviet embassy in London. Deverell
and a handful of Security Service staff were aware of the MI6 operation and
provided vital assistance in maintaining its security.

Deverell also played an important role in developing the service's work in
countering international terrorism at a time when Palestinian groups, in
particular, were attacking British interests. But he made his greatest
contribution in the Irish counter-terrorist field, holding a succession of key
posts that spanned the full range of the service's responsibilities for
countering terrorist activity in Great Britain and overseas as well as in
Northern Ireland.

Deverell's successes flowed from his personal qualities, chief among which were
his integrity, his belief in the importance of public service and the warmth of
his character.

His zest for life and enthusiasm for everything he did, combined with a keen
sense of humour and his gregariousness and generous support for others, earned
him the affection of his many friends and colleagues. These attributes made him
especially successful in sensitive and difficult areas of intelligence liaison.

Deverell was appointed MBE for his enterprise in introducing the Duke of
Edinburgh Award Scheme to Fiji, and CB in 1992 for his work in the Security
Service. He was a village cricketer and keen follower of all sports. Above all,
he loved the sea. He sailed dinghies from an early age and was in the process of
completing his RYA Yachtmaster certificate. Allied to this, he was a skilled
craftsman in wood. Throughout his working life, with its special demands, John
Deverell was sustained by the devotion, support and understanding of his wife,
who, together with two children, survives him.

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1994 Times Newspapers Limited

                              383 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 June 24, 1994

EYEWITNESS: A SILENT SENSE OF CALAMITY UNDER THE AEGEAN SUN

BYLINE: Jonathan Rugman In Marmaris, Turkey

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 503 words


"W E WERE just playing cards on the town beach when there was an almighty bang,"
said Silvia Metz, aged 62, before tucking into a chicken sandwich in the lobby
of her waterfront hotel yesterday.

"It was like a terrific sandstorm and our sun umbrella shook," added her
Hungarian-born husband, Imre. "Then it felt like somebody hitting my knee with a
hammer, my wife slumped forward and my daughter started screaming."

Mr Metz, who is a retired engineer aged 57 living in Stockton-on-Tees, has
emerged from Wednesday afternoon's bomb attack with a limp. A large piece of
shrapnel has been extracted from his wife's back, while their daughter, Althea,
aged 30, was in shock and found it difficult to speak.

Althea is physically disabled and uses a wheelchair. When the bomb left by
Kurdish extremists in a rubbish bin went off, she was left stranded and
screaming on the sand. She could only watch as the Turks picked up her mother
and took her to hospital in a passing van.

Joanna Griffiths, aged 24, from Chester, suffered serious head injuries and was
taken by air ambulance to Manchester Royal Infirmary. Her mother, Tina, was too
ill to fly and stayed in Turkey for emergency surgery. Down the coast at
Fethiye, Estelle Broom from Bristol was recovering from injuries caused by an
earlier blast.

A defiant Mrs Metz said: "This is a beautiful place, so we are staying put.
Bombs go off in London. It was just bad luck."

Before Wednesday's explosion, the scene on Marmaris beach must have been much
the same as it was yesterday: ranks upon ranks of sunbeds, young Turks gawping
at the topless English girls, the cicadas singing high in the palm trees and the
wooded islands across the bay shimmering in the blue Aegean sea.

Yesterday, the sun shone and bathers frolicked, yet hidden beneath the surface
was a sense of calamity which the local police chief, the governor, the tour
operators and the townspeople would rather not talk about.

"What are you doing here ?" a nervous and unfriendly Turkish deck-chair
attendant demanded, at first refusing to point out the spot where one of the two
bombs exploded. "Maybe the terrorists came on a yacht from Rhodes."

The army and police now patrol approach roads to Marmaris and a helicopter flies
overhead.

Suntanned but gloomy British holiday reps remained tightipped about how many
bookings had been cancelled, except for a woman from Sunworld who said: "The
British take this kind of thing in their stride."

A Scandinavian tour operator admitted that her bosses were flying out to
investigate how safe it was for tourists and that a few of her customers were
leaving early because they were scared.

Dogan Tugay, Britain's honorary consul in Marmaris, spent much of yesterday
passing on details to the Foreign Office, nervous tour operators and insurance
companies.

"This is the maiming of innocent people," Mr Tugay said. "But I think that now
the terrorist gale has passed through, it won't dare to come back."

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              384 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 June 24, 1994

Bomb victim flown home to hospital

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 262 words


A BRITON seriously injured in a seaside bomb blast in Turkey was flown back to
Britain on an air ambulance yesterday.

Ms Joanna Griffiths, 24, from Chester, suffered serious head injuries in one of
two explosions in the Mediterranean coastal resort of Marmaris.

She was flown to Manchester, then taken to Manchester Royal Infirmary's
neurosurgery unit. Last night she was described as seriously ill.

Her mother, who was also injured, was kept behind on medical advice.

Four companies announced they would allow holidaymakers to transfer to
alternative destinations or cancel at no extra cost because of the risk of bomb
attacks at Turkish resorts. The four companies are Airtours, Thomson, Owners
Abroad, and Sunworld.

However, most holidaymakers appeared to be defying the threat of terrorist
attack, the tour operators reported.

Twenty-one people, including eight Britons, were wounded by bombs at Marmaris
and Fethiye. Explosives were hidden in waste bins and at an ice cream stall.

Among those hurt were the Brooms, Richard and Esther, aged 54 and 51, from
Bristol. Mr Broom had a broken knee cap and shrapnel wounds to both legs. Mrs
Broom had multiple fractures to both legs.

Also injured was Mrs Sylvia Metz, 59, from Cleveland, who had a piece of metal
lodged in her back in the blast. However, she said she was continuing her
holiday with her husband Jimmy and daughter Anthea.

So far no group has claimed responsibility for the bombings, but they are
believed to be linked to the separatist Kurdistan Workers Party.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Joanna Griffiths is taken into Manchester Royal Infirmary, where she
underwent treatment in the intensive care unit.  Picture: PRESS ASSOCIATION

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              385 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 24, 1994, Friday

Desperation of a deadly 'peace'

BYLINE: CONOR CRUISE O'BRIEN

SECTION: COMMENT PAGE; Page 18

LENGTH: 1147 words


THIS week in Belfast, the IRA admitted responsibility for an attack on an RUC
Land Rover which was patrolling the Shankill Road area during the funerals of
two loyalists killed last week by nationalist gunfire. About the same time as
the Shankill incident, gunmen belonging to the loyalist Ulster Volunteer Force
opened fire on a group of Catholics who were watching the Ireland-Italy football
match on television in a pub in Loughinisland, Co Down. Six of the Catholics
were killed.

The Downing Street Declaration of 15 December 1993 was intended and expected to
lead to a cessation of IRA violence. But six months later, IRA violence
continues much as before. The effect of the declaration was, meanwhile, to
enrage the Unionist community, and stimulate loyalist paramilitaries into
greater activity. The total level of violence is now higher: Northern Ireland is
in a state of incipient civil war. The ''peace process'', which is supposed to
quench the flames, is pouring petrol on them.

In its psychological effects on the two communities in Northern Ireland, the
''peace process'' works like this: the two communities are not in disagreement
as to their understanding of how the peace process is working. Both sides see
the British government as making concessions to nationalists out of anxiety to
be rid of the problem, and in the hope of buying off the IRA. But their feelings
about this are radically different: nationalists are encouraged, and Unionists
alarmed. And both the encouragement and the alarm have the effect of stimulating
the extremists in both communities.

In an interview in Boston on Monday, the Irish Taoiseach, Albert Reynolds,
announced that he is seeking a form of Anglo-Irish cross-border authority ''with
executive powers''. This means that the nationalist demand is being stepped up,
from the ''consultative status'' accorded to Dublin in the Anglo-Irish
Agreement, to a share for Dublin in the actual governance of Northern Ireland.

Almost incredibly, this provocative statement was made on the same day that the
news had broken of the massacre in Loughinisland. Mr Reynolds and his colleagues
seem to have no idea of the kind of impact that their words and actions are
making inside Northern Ireland, especially in the Protestant community. And Mr
Major and his colleagues also seem either not to know or not to care what effect
their trafficking with Dublin is having in the same quarter. Neither government
appears yet to see the need for much more drastic security measures, applied
evenhandedly against both sets of paramilitary godfathers. Internment is not
ruled out, but neither is it yet being seriously considered.

Mr Reynolds's apparent bid for a share in the governance of Northern Ireland
should not be taken literally. I don't believe Dublin really wants anything of
the kind. To share responsibility with Britain for the governing of Northern
Ireland would be very onerous indeed for any Dublin government. It would mean
having to carry responsibility, before the Catholic electorate of the Twenty-six
Counties, for the actions of security forces (however composed in Northern
Ireland). Those actions could well be seriously inconvenient to the Catholic
population in Northern Ireland and, therefore, unpopular in the Republic.
Consultative status is vastly more comfortable, and it is most improbable that
Mr Reynolds has any real yearning to proceed beyond that point.  I think the
real reason for the ostensible bid for constitutional limits with ''executive
powers'' was to fend off change rather than bring it about. Mr Reynolds, it
seems, is under pressure from Downing Street to consent to the amendment of
Articles 2 and 3 of the Republic's constitution, the Articles that lay claim, by
implication, to Northern Ireland as part of ''the national territory'' of the
Irish State. Mr Reynolds does not want to do this, because it would be unpopular
with important elements in his own Fianna Fail party. It might even result in a
challenge to his own leadership of his party, something more vivid in his mind
than the dimly conceived reactions of people living in Northern Ireland (and not
voting in the Republic).

Albert Reynolds does not seriously propose to put the amendment of Articles 2
and 3 to a referendum. But neither does he want to irritate the British by a
point-blank refusal. So he makes a counter-proposition which he knows the
British are unlikely to accept and which, if they did, would be even more
obnoxious to the Unionists than the mere retention of Articles 2 and 3. So he
makes the counter-proposition: ''We'll drop Articles 2 and 3 if you give us a
share in the government of Northern Ireland.'' That should hold Mr Major for the
moment.

Mr Reynolds is primarily concerned with the internal politics of his side of the
Border. The trouble is that the repercussions of that kind of politicking on the
other side are becoming far more dangerous than the present Dublin government
seems capable of imagining. Already the nationalist point-scoring that has
become intrinsic to the ''peace process'' is costing more and more lives inside
Northern Ireland. But things could get far worse, and quickly.

Mr Reynolds may not be too worried about destabilising Northern Ireland. He may
even be gratified, as a politician, by the political brownie- points his tactics
are earning him from the most benighted of his own backbenchers. But he should
bethink himself that a destabilised Northern Ireland could speedily destabilise
the Republic, too. Driving a community to desperation is a dangerous business,
and Ulster Protestants have now been driven far down that road. Further
attempted progress down the nationalist agenda could be fatal.

I don't think John Major is likely to make much further progress. The results of
the Downing Street Declaration have hardly been encouraging for him and the
parliamentary arithmetic is against further concessions. But a future Labour
government would be under pressure to show itself even nicer to Irish
nationalists than the Tories have been. In that connection, the sort of thing Mr
Reynolds was talking about this week - joint administration - could well be
attempted. If it were, it would precipitate a revolt among Ulster Protestants.
British troops would be under fire from both sides, and British withdrawal would
follow. The consequences of that would be shattering, for the North and the
Republic.

In the Republic, there are already some signs that people sense the danger. The
leader of Fine Gael, John Bruton, has been courageously warning against the
dangers of the present course, and is beginning to attract significant support.
I am all for the opposition, in the Republic. But I live in mortal fear of a
victory by the Opposition in Britain, and its probable consequences for Ireland.

(Photograph omitted)


LOAD-DATE: June 24, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1994 Independent Print Ltd

                              386 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 June 25, 1994

TURKISH BOMBINGS FAIL TO DETER HOLIDAYMAKERS

BYLINE: Angella Johnson, Jonathan Rugman In Marmaris And Owen Bowcott

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 449 words


TOURISTS with holidays booked in Turkey have been offered a chance to go
elsewhere or cancel, following bombings that injured eight Britons.

Four of the main tour operators made the offer after receiving calls from
customers worried that a Kurdish separatist group will attack resorts again.

However, the biggest UK operator on the Turkish Aegean, Thomson Holidays, said
that only 12 of 3,000 had cancelled.

Julie Angrove, spokeswoman for Thomson, said: "Anyone who has booked a holiday
up to July 9 will be able to change. We have already had some transfers, but
only a handful."

Nedim Ozturk, deputy head of Turkey's tourism ministry, said that flowers and
offers of free holidays had been sent to the families of those injured in
Fethiye and Marmaris, in south-west Turkey on the Mediterranean, on Tuesday and
Wednesday.  Joanna Griffiths, who suffered head injuries and was the most
serious casualty at Marmaris, remained in a serious condition in Manchester
Royal Infirmary last night. Joanna, aged 24, from Chester, was flown back by air
ambulance after undergoing surgery. She is believed to have brain damage caused
by shrapnel.

Her mother Tina, aged 41, has an injured leg and was flown to Britain and put in
the same hospital yesterday.

The bombings are the latest attacks designed to hit the tourist trade, which
accounts for a quarter of Turkey's foreign currency earnings.

Although 600,000 Britons are expected to visit this year, the threat of violence
by the separatist PKK (Kuristan Workers Party) has reduced bookings by more than
a fifth, prompting Turkish newspapers to picture empty beaches on their front
pages.

Further attacks are planned, according to a spokesman for the pro-Kurdish Kurd
-Ha news agency in Germany. "If the Turks want to attack Kurdish villages, they
have to expect retaliation."

In Marmaris, tour representatives met hotel owners yesterday to discuss
protection, including private security guards.  Reinforcements of plain clothes
policemen and soldiers have been deployed.

Most tourists in Turkey remain phlegmatic, having been warned by the Foreign
Office before setting out.

"A lot of people phoned home to reassure relatives, but we didn't bother," said
James Nixon, a 65-year-old Scotsman enjoying his fourth holiday in Turkey and
hoping to return next year.

- More insurance companies are excluding cover for injuries or losses suffered
through terrorism, the Association of British Insurers warned yesterday.

As well as Egypt and Turkey, Peru has had a significant terrorist risk in recent
years, ABTA noted, while the IRA attack at Heathrow in March brought a flood of
delay claims.

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              387 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                             June 26, 1994, Sunday

TURKEY BOMB BLAST VICTIM DIES

BYLINE:  Alison Cameron, PA News

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 376 words


Joanna Griffiths, one of the British victims of a terrorist bomb blast in Turkey
last week, died in hospital today.  A spokeswoman for Manchester Royal Infirmary
said in a statement tonight that 23-year-old Joanna "died peacefully earlier
today".  She added: "She was unconscious when she was flown from Turkey to
Manchester on Thursday June 23, and she never regained consciousness." Joanna
received head injuries in the attack in Marmaris which also injured four other
Britons, including her mother Trene.  Joanna was flown to Britain by air
ambulance after undergoing brain surgery in Turkey where surgeons said she had
suffered shrapnel wounds.  Her mother suffered leg injuries in the blast and was
flown back to Britain a day after her daughter.  They were on holiday in the
resort when the bomb exploded.  The hospital spokeswoman said: "Mrs Griffiths
had an operation on Friday and her condition is comfortable.  "Obviously, Mrs
Griffiths and her family are extremely distressed and don't wish to add anything
further to this statement for the forseeable future."

Joanna was the most serious British casualty in a wave of bombings which struck
tourist resorts and were believed to be the work of a Kurdish separatist group.
The three other Britons hurt in the Marmaris blast, all from one family,
suffered less serious injuries and decided after their release from hospital to
continue their holiday.  Sylvia Metz, 59, from Thornaby, Cleveland was injured
with her husband Jimmy and daughter Anthea.  In a second explosion at Fethiye,
about 60 miles from Marmaris, three Britons were among the injured.  Richard and
Esther Broom, aged 54 and 51, from Bristol, and Derek Bartell, were treated in
Turkey.  Tonight, the Foreign Office described Joanna's death as "tragic news".
A spokesmn said: "We changed the travel advice regarding Turkey to mention the
fact that there had been bombings.  "I suppose we will again change it to
reflect the fact that the victim of this bomb outrage has tragically died." The
bombings, the latest in an escalating round of terrorist attacks designed to
damage Turkey's tourist trade, prompted four of the UK's main tour operators to
offer customers the chance to transfer to other destinations.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1994 The Press Association Limited

                              388 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             June 26, 1994, Sunday

Britain gives asylum to Turkish terrorists

BYLINE: David Leppard, Home Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 767 words


KURDISH extremists who were behind last week's bombings of holidaymakers in
Turkey are using Britain as a base for their terrorist activities.

Members of two prominent guerrilla groups are being granted political asylum
here despite their support for a growing campaign of violence in Britain and
abroad.

Immigration officials say that hundreds of members of the Kurdistan Workers'
party (PKK) and Dev Sol, two Kurdish guerrilla groups, have arrived at Britain's
airports in the past year claiming persecution by the Turkish government.

Senior police and immigration officers are angry at the government's decision to
continue granting asylum to the Kurds. Special Branch and the National Criminal
Intelligence Service (NCIS) believe they are behind a rising tide of terrorism
and other crime in Britain. ''Both groups are involved in extortion and the
transfer of the illicit proceeds,'' an NCIS spokeswoman said.

The PKK is thought to have carried out last week's bombings in two Turkish
tourist resorts in which eight Britons, including Tina Griffiths, 41, and her
daughter Joanna, 24, of Chester, were injured. Its guerrillas have kidnapped
British tourists and are running blackmail and extortion rackets against
businessmen in London.

The atrocities are being funded by an extortion and protection racket centred on
Stoke Newington, in north London, where many of London's 200,000-strong Turkish
community meet over coffee and billiards.

A Turkish restaurant owner there last week demonstrated his scars from having
been beaten on the head with iron bars and left for dead by Dev Sol members. He
had refused to contribute Pounds 10,000 to the organisation.

The 48-year-old man, who asked not to be named, said: ''They were extremely
intimidating, like gangsters. I asked what they would do if I didn't give them
money and they hinted I would be getting a return visit. I know it was them who
attacked me because they said 'Now you will pay' before setting about me with
iron bars.''

A police investigation led to 11 men being charged with extortion and firearm
offences. Police said they had all applied for, or been granted, political
asylum by the Home Office.

Ramadan Guney, a prominent Turkish businessman who runs a music shop, received
demands for Pounds 3,000 from Kurdish guerrilla groups two months ago. ''We
blame the British government for giving these people asylum,'' Guney said. ''If
these people have political aims they should go back and fight for them. They
should not fight for them here in England.''

Detectives said the Kurdish groups raised money by charging would-be asylum
seekers Pounds 3,500 to enter Britain. The ''asylum package'' includes travel
and the cost of training immigrants in what to say to immigration officers when
claiming asylum. About 10,400 Turks mostly Kurds have claimed political asylum
since 1989, one in 10 of all asylum seekers. Many others are understood to have
entered illegally.

In the past year, the PKK has firebombed the Turkish embassy in Belgravia, a
Turkish airline office and two Turkish banks in the City. Five BT workers were
hurt after PKK activists accidentally firebombed a BT office in the City last
November. The group has also been linked to at least 100 murders of civilians
and the kidnap of more than 20 Western tourists.

Last November, France and Germany banned both groups after a series of terrorist
attacks which left one man dead. The United States government also lists them as
terrorist organisations.

Yet membership of the PKK is not prohibited in Britain because Home Office
ministers say Kurdish separatists are members of a persecuted minority. The
organisation is allowed to hold regular meetings at London University.

''Being a member of PKK or Dev Sol is a common reason for claiming asylum,'' one
immigration officer said last week. ''I had one Kurd who said he supported their
revolution, he supported terrorism. Another man came in saying he was a
professional assassin. We had to let them both in while they applied for asylum
because they were Kurds who said they were being persecuted in Turkey.''

The Home Office defended the government's asylum policy: ''We consider each case
on its individual merits,'' it said. ''If there are any allegations of a
criminal nature, they should be referred to the police for investigation.''

But a senior detective said: ''Now that they are banned from other countries,
Britain has become a magnet for these groups. They look on Britain as the IRA
looks on the United States. We've given them a safe haven.''

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Kurdish extremists

                    Copyright 1994 Times Newspapers Limited

                              389 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 27, 1994, Monday

Tourist hurt in Turkish blast dies

BYLINE: GRAHAM MOORBY

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 3

LENGTH: 297 words


A BRITISH holidaymaker injured in a terrorist bomb blast in Turkey died in
hospital yesterday.

Joanna Griffiths, 23, from Chester, died in Manchester Royal Infirmary after
suffering serious head injuries in the attack in Marmaris last week. A
spokeswoman for the hospital said she never regained consciousness.

Miss Griffiths was hit by shrapnel when the bomb exploded in a rubbish bin on
Tuesday. She was flown to Britain by air ambulance on Thursday after undergoing
brain surgery in Turkey. Her mother Trene, 41, suffered leg injuries in the
blast and was flown back to Britain a day later.

The spokeswoman said: ''Mrs Griffiths had an operation on Friday and her
condition is comfortable.''

The women were among 21 people injured, eight of them Britons, in four blasts at
two Turkish resorts. Two bombs exploded in Marmaris and injured three other
Britons, Sylvia Metz, 59, her husband Jimmy and daughter Anthea. They continued
their holiday after being released from hospital.

Hours earlier, bombs exploded at a teahouse in Fethiye, about 85 miles along the
coast of southern Turkey. Three Britons, Richard Broom, 54, his wife Estelle,
51, and Derek Bartell were treated in Turkey.

Nobody has claimed responsibility for the bombing campaign but the Kurdistan
Workers' Party (PKK) has been blamed. The tourism industry has been targeted by
the group in its fight for self-rule because of the government's reliance on
foreign currency income.

Tour operators offered holidaymakers bound for Turkey the chance to cancel or
transfer to another destination. But Keith Betton, of the Association of British
Travel Agents, said that of about 800 people due to fly with the major operators
the day after the bombings, only about a dozen had cancelled.


LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1994 Independent Print Ltd

                              390 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                             June 27, 1994, Monday

TURKEY BOMB BLAST VICTIM DIES

BYLINE:  Alison Cameron, PA News

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 251 words


Joanna Griffiths, one of the British holidaymakers injured in last week's
terrorist bomb blast in Turkey, has died in hospital.  A spokeswoman for
Manchester Royal Infirmary said in a statement last night that 23-year-old
Joanna "died peacefully earlier today". She added: "She was unconscious when she
was flown from Turkey to Manchester on Thursday June 23, and she never regained
consciousness." Joanna suffered head injuries in the attack in Marmaris which
also injured four other Britons, including her mother Trene.  She was flown to
Britain by air ambulance after undergoing brain surgery in Turkey where surgeons
said she had suffered shrapnel wounds.  Her mother suffered leg injuries in the
blast and was flown back to Britain a day after her daughter. Her condition is
described as "comfortable".  Joanna was the most serious British casualty in a
wave of bombings which struck tourist resorts and were believed to be the work
of a Kurdish separatist group.  The three other Britons hurt in the Marmaris
blast, all from one family, suffered less serious injuries and decided after
their release from hospital to continue their holiday.  Three Britons who were
injured in a second explosion at Fethiye, about 60 miles from Marmaris, were
treated on the spot.  The bombings, the latest in an escalating round of
terrorist attacks designed to damage Turkey's tourist trade, prompted four of
the UK's main tour operators to offer customers the chance to transfer to other
destinations.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1994 The Press Association Limited

                              391 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                              July 4, 1994, Monday

NEW MOVES TO STOP ANOTHER LOCKERBIE

BYLINE:  Parliamentary Staff, PA News

SECTION: PARLIMENTARY NEWS

LENGTH: 271 words


The Government tonight hailed a safety boost to airline passengers travelling
from the UK, as it disclosed latest moves to prevent another Lockerbie-style
terror attack.  The Transport Department, commenting on a written reply from
Aviation Minister Lord Mackay of Ardbrecknish, said they would now enjoy one of
the highest levels of security in the world. Lord Mackay, in his answer,
outlined the implementing of "new measures designed to prevent another
Lockerbie-style terrorist attach against civil aviation".  He said: "It is now a
legal requirement that each item of hold baggage placed on board an aircraft for
a flight outside the UK or between Great Britain and Northern Ireland must be
accounted for and authorised for carriage.  "In addition all unaccompanied hold
baggage must be identified and made secure." Lord Mackay later praised the
industry's "positive attitude" in implementing the "operationally demanding"
regulations by this month in most areas.  He added: "In a very limited number of
cases, partial dispensations will be required for certain airlines - primarily
holiday charter companies - at Heathrow, Gatwick and Manchester at certain peak
periods until the end of holiday traffic on October 31.  "Even with the
dispensations, these airlines will still have to identify each item of
unaccompanied baggage, apply the proper security controls and list the baggage
on an unaccompanied baggage manifest." Lord Mackay warned: "We can never be
complacent in matters of aviation security", but added that the latest moves
gave "the traveller a higher level of security than ever before".

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1994 The Press Association Limited

                              392 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  July 5, 1994

US: RAISING STANDARDS: BENEATH THE TEACHER'S NAME WAS WRITTEN THE DREAM TEAM;
BENEATH THE HEADTEACHER'S WAS KEEPER OF THE DREAM.
James Meikle examines the transatlantic trade in ideas

BYLINE: James Meikle

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN EDUCATION PAGE; Pg. E3

LENGTH: 1048 words


AMERICAN exchange students who brave the expense and conquer nerves over
terrorist attacks in Europe may have an academic culture shock when they arrive
in Britain.

'When they come and have a bibliography of 50 to 100 books, they say 'Which
books should I read?' The notion that not everyone reads the same book is
foreign to them,' said Tony Hassan, director of visiting students at Reading
University.

This reflects the difference between a more behaviourist, step-by-step approach
to learning and the 'organic accumulation' of British tradition, where 'everyone
in a sense is in charge of their own education', he argued.

Reading today hosts a conference on the quality of student exchanges, as British
universities try to maintain a reputation for standards and increase their share
of the student market. 'Students have gone elsewhere. You can go to such exotic
places and the academic demands are sometimes quite slight.' American exchange
students often gain credits towards a degree. For British students, except those
on American Studies courses, there is less chance of gaining academic
recognition at home.

John Sutton, general secretary of the Secondary Heads Association, finds
American teaching methods in schools more didactic.  A publisher or textbook
writer who gets on to an American recommended booklist is 'a millionaire for
life', he notes drily.  But if exchange students and teaching methods are
reluctant to travel here, what about other education experiences? America's
standardised testing thrilled Thatcherites, yet as debate here moves towards
simplifying our arrangements, Americans are slowly moving to modify their 'tick
box' systems.

Professor Michael Barber, of Keele University, said there is a trend towards
'authentic assessments', which include records of achievement and doing
'performances', so that a child who learns how to do an equation in maths, for
instance, then 'performs' it in front of the class.

'They are having a national curriculum debate and it is like being in early
1980s England. We have been through it, for good or ill.' The Tories like magnet
schools, largely to buttress their own city technology college initiative.
Barber pointed out: 'When magnet schools came here, they were seen as a
right-wing idea. Yet in America, the idea was desegregationist and progressive.
It was seen as a way of keeping middle-class whites in black inner -city areas.'
He deplores the British government's attitude which gives extra money only to
favoured schools, but questions attachment to the neighbourhood comprehensive.
'That is segregation by house purchase and I don't think that is a very
progressive system.' Much of the development of teacher appraisal in this
country involved non-politician enthusiasts trying to separate the good from the
bad (for instance, a Florida example measured 'teacher-with-it-ness').

Cedric Cullingford, professor of education at Huddersfield University, fears the
Government here wants appraisal linked to pay and performance rather than
enhancing staff development - 'to tell us which teachers are 'bad' and which
teachers are 'good'.' British educators were once interested in the American
pastoral care system and Cullingford regrets that experiments in counties like
Somerset, where separate staff were responsible for helping children with
personal problems, giving advice and improving motivation, did not catch on.

Sutton says: 'Teachers over there work pretty hard but they are much more
class(room)-oriented than ours are. The background here is for the teacher to
have a far more rounded role.' Cullingford says: 'People like to buy in easy
packages but if you can look at the country they come from, the story is often
different or more complex.' Dr David Halpin, of Warwick University, is sceptical
of 'political borrowing' of ideas, even though the Tories claim America now
looks to Britain for market ideas, most recently with Charter schools allegedly
emulating grant- maintained ones. He points to differences. The voucher is a
policy favourite of Britain's New Right; in America progressively minded
inner-city politicians see it as a way of enabling low-income students to attend
private schools.

Similarly the emphasis on individual freedom, here cited in opposition to
collectivist attitudes, causes less friction in the States. Halpin remarked at a
conference last year how many changes in Britain were introduced without
negotiation with, let alone the approval of, local government. In America,
initiatives are often interpreted and approved locally and change tends to
proceed state-by-state.

That does not stop people blaming America for bad ideas. Many fear higher
education campuses are becoming 'politically correct' while praising Americans'
enthusiasm for bettering themselves by paying their way through college.

THE American High /Scope pre-school programme, with suggestions that it cuts
people's criminal tendencies as well as improving their later educational
chances, has attracted all-party enthusiasm. Interest is also growing in the
Cities in Schools movement, based on American ideals of hope for even the most
disaffected children. This has gained most publicity for the 'Burger King
Academy' in Tower Hamlets, east London, where Grand Metropolitan has helped fund
a centre for problem pupils.  The main work of the charity here is on far less
headline-grabbing schemes, working with local authorities and local businesses.

Assertive discipline, the rewards and punishment system for controlling pupil
behaviour developed in California in the 1970s, is now flavour of the month in
many English schools. Nigel de Gruchy, general secretary of the NASUWT, believes
American education is less divisive and class-ridden, more community-based.

'They salute their flag genuinely. We mock ours. Here you have to have
collective worship as if it is essential to the health of the nation, whereas in
a country like America to bring religion into schools is positively prohibited.'
But one cannot imagine many English schools following the example of a school
Barber visited in San Diego.

Teachers had name tags. Beneath their name was written 'The Dream Team'; beneath
the headteacher's, 'Keeper of the Dream'.

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              393 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                  July 5, 1994

Safety bid to prevent another Lockerbie

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 224 words


THE Government last night hailed safety improvements for airline passengers
travelling from the UK, as it disclosed latest moves to prevent an

other Lockerbie-style terror attack.

The Department of Transport, commenting on a written reply from Aviation
Minister Lord MacKay of Ardbrecknish, said they would now enjoy one of the
highest levels of security in the world.

Lord MacKay, in his answer, outlined the implementing of "new measures designed
to prevent another Lockerbie-style terrorist attack against civil aviation".

He said: "It is now a legal requirement that each item of hold baggage placed on
board an aircraft for a flight outside the UK or between Great Britain and
Northern Ireland must be accounted for.

"In addition all unaccompanied hold baggage must be identified and made secure."

Lord Mackay later praised the industry's "positive attitude" in implementing the
"operationally demanding" regulations by this month in most areas.

He said that in a very limited number of cases, partial dispensations would be
required for certain airlines at peak periods until the end of holiday traffic
on October 31.

The Minister warned: "We can never be complacent in matters of aviation
security", but added that the latest moves gave "the traveller a higher level of
security than ever before".

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              394 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                  July 8, 1994

Men of violence denounced by Prince on tour of Northern Ireland

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 530 words


THE Prince of Wales yesterday denounced terrorist violence in Northern Ireland,
saying it would never prevail against democratic freedoms or ever be accepted as
any measure of loyalty or faithfulness to Crown or state.

However, the Prince was barracked and verbally abused in Belfast and Londonderry
by angry nationalists.

Republicans protesting about Bloody Sunday in 1972 when paratroopers shot dead
13 people heckled the Prince when he went walkabout in Londonderry city centre.

Placard-waving protesters managed to get within feet of the Prince when he
visited a craft village inside the old walled city.

Despite the abuse they hurled at him, he remained calm, turned his back on them,
and continued to speak to others who had gathered to welcome him.

Police in the city were said to have been overruled by the Prince when they
advised it would be madness for him to visit the craft centre while it remained
open to the public.

After the security nightmare, a planned walkabout in Londonderry's Shipquay
Street was abandoned.

The IRA's political wing, Sinn Fein, said the visit to Londonderry by the Prince
was an insult, particularly because he was colonel-in-chief of the Parachute
Regiment, which carried out the Bloody Sunday killings.

The Prince also had taunts of "Brits out, Brits out" hurled at him when he
visited an enterprise zone in the small nationalist enclave of Short Strand in
east Belfast.

Elsewhere, particularly in the loyalist areas, he received a warm welcome on the
second day of his tour of Northern Ireland.

In Armagh, he broke with royal tradition and made one of the most outspoken
speeches against terrorism in memory.

He praised the work of those who toiled within and across the communities to
build a trust between the people, which would be essential on the long and
difficult road to peace.

He said that despite events which had captured the headlines of a whole
generation -- most recently outrages on the Shankill Road, at Greysteel, and
Loughinisland -- the overwhelming majority of people here had gone about their
lives calmly and peacefully.

Earlier, he visited the peace line dividing rival Roman Catholic and Protestant
areas of troubled west Belfast.

The Prince said he had been asked to make two announcements -- that the Queen
was conferring the status of city on Armagh and St David's in Wales.

Armagh is celebrating its 1550th anniversary and the Prince said he could think
of no better way of marking the event.

While there, he had a private meeting with the leaders of Ireland's Roman
Catholics and Anglicans -- Cardinal Cahal Daly and Archbishop Robin Eames.

The Prince then dropped in on the 1st Battalion The Welsh Guards -- he is the
regiment colonel -- at Shackleton barracks, Ballykelly, County Londonderry,
spending about an hour with soldiers engaged in the fight against terrorism.

He ended his trip by visiting the County Antrim village of Broushane, which has
repeatedly won Britain's Village in Bloom competition.

* Police confirmed that one person had been arrested during the protests against
the Prince's visit to Londonderry.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: All smiles: the Prince meets local children during his visit to west
Belfast yesterday. Picture: ADAM BUTLER/PA

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              395 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                              July 8, 1994, Friday

Rifkind squeezes budget as peace dividend falls short; Christopher Bellamy and
Colin Brown look at factors leading to cuts in the armed forces' back-up
services, which were announced yesterday.

BYLINE: CHRISTOPHER BELLAMY and COLIN BROWN

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 2

LENGTH: 754 words


MALCOLM RIFKIND, the Secretary of State for Defence, was last night accused of
bowing to Treasury pressure in swinging the axe again at the pounds 23bn defence
budget.

''The cuts are Treasury led. There is still no sign of any strategic review,''
Menzies Campbell, the Liberal Democrat defence spokesman, said.

But Mr Rifkind's supporters said the Defence Cost Study - called Front Line
First - would sharpen the teeth of the armed forces at the expense of the tail.

Ministers accept that the so-called ''peace dividend'' which followed the
collapse of the Warsaw Pact has been short-lived. Options for Change delivered
cuts of more than pounds 1bn with deep reductions in the numbers of troops and
led to campaigns to save famous regiments.

Mr Rifkind warned colleagues that cuts of that magnitude in the front line could
not continue without risking Britain's defence capability. He resisted a
full-scale review of defence, which could have raised questions over the
remaining British Army on the Rhine. Under pressure from the Treasury to find
more savings, he targeted the support services.

City-centre recruiting offices - vulnerable to terrorist attack - will be
replaced by mobile recruitment units; between 13 and 19 generals, admirals and
air marshals will be retired, and up to 24 Ministry of Defence top civil
servants will go. Firing ammunition live will be reduced, and replaced with more
use of simulations and computer models.

Two defence ministers, Jeremy Hanley and Jonathan Aitken, who is tipped for
promotion to the Cabinet, carried out the detailed review of back-up services,
from MoD permanent under-secretaries to Royal Navy dental hygienists. They
believe the cuts will be justified, providing they can turn the savings into
spending on new fighting equipment in the front line.

The ending of the Cold War, and increased instability in the world, has left
Britain with new demands out of the traditional Nato area, requiring forces
capable of deployment in the Middle East or further afield. Mr Rifkind is
planning a new hard-hitting joint rapid deployment force of 20,000 men combining
tough units, such as the Special Air Service and the three Royal Marines'
commando units under one command.

The Royal Air Force is expected to be hardest hit, taking about half the service
job cuts. In order to ''sweeten'' the bitter pill a number of big equipment
orders will be confirmed, though they are expected to be orders to which the
Government has already committed itself in some form.

Military chiefs regard the closure of the Royal Navy base at Rosyth as long
overdue. It was a hang-over from the Cold War threat to Nato's North Atlantic
sea lanes.

The Government is committed to replacing the two amphibious assault ships for
the Royal Marines, Fearless and Intrepid, but no order has yet been placed, so a
firm order is one possible ''sweetener''. A commando helicopter carrier, ordered
last year, is being built by Kvaerner Govan on the Clyde and is to be fitted out
by Vickers Shipbuilding and Engineering in Barrow, Cumbria, which also builds
submarines.

The Government is also committed to three more Type-23 frigates and to
maintaining the number of minehunters, of which five are already in service at
25. That gives scope for more new Sandown-class minehunters of which five are
already in service. Type-23s have been built by Yarrow, on the Clyde, but could
also be built by Vosper Thornycroft in Southampton.

Swan Hunter, currently in receivership, hopes to get the refit of the Royal
Fleet Auxiliary Sir Bedivere. It hopes to be taken over by CMN, a French
company, but CMN is expected to pull out if Swan Hunter does not get the Sir
Bedivere refit.

One ''sweetener'' which has been delayed until after the recess is an
announcement on a replacement for the RAF's ageing fleet of 60 Hercules
transport planes. A modern version of the Hercules, the Lockheed C-130J is
available now, and 23 British firms, including Westlands, are involved in the
project.

But British Aerospace is part of European consortium, Euroflag, which plans to
build a bigger plane, the Future Large Aircraft, using Airbus technology, which
would be available in about 2004. It fears that if the Government goes for an
order of C-130Js now it will preclude British involvement in the FLA programme,
although from a military viewpoint a mixed fleet of C-130Js to be augmented by
FLAs when they became available would make sense, and would also preserve jobs
now.


LOAD-DATE: July 08, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1994 Independent Print Ltd

                              396 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                  July 9, 1994

Rosyth campaign gets in gear

BYLINE: Roy Rogers, Bill Caven, Keith Sinclair

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1477 words


LABOUR and the trade unions yesterday predicted a "nationwide outcry" as they
launched "the mother of all campaigns" against the proposed closure of the
Rosyth naval base.

Just a day after it was confirmed that a Cabinet committee was recommending
closure to next Thursday's full Cabinet meeting, the well-oiled union and Labour
campaigning machinery was being cranked up to save the base and the many jobs it
sustains.

Even if they are ultimately unsuccessful, they clearly intend making the
maximimum political capital out of the situation by placing the spotlight firmly
on Scottish Tory MPs, especially Defence Secretary Malcolm Rifkind and Scottish
Secretary Ian Lang.

As the battle to keep the base open got under way, Shadow Chancellor Gordon
Brown called for an urgent meeting with Mr Rifkind and said he had organised a
mass lobby of Parliament for next Tuesday.

Meanwhile, leaders of 1200 civilian workers at the Scottish base met in London
to draw up the action which they warned will "shake the Government". They said
that 4000 jobs at Rosyth and in the Fife area will be lost by the closure, which
will cost the local economy an estimated £300m.

Mr Brown, whose Dunfermline East constituency includes Rosyth, said closure of
Rosyth would be economically disastrous and a betrayal of the workforce.

Mr Jack Dromey, national secretary to the Transport and General Workers Union
and chairman of the six industrial unions at the base, said the Prime Minister
had given an assurance three years ago that the future of the base was secure.

Britain still needed a northern naval base and nothing had changed to alter that
view of Rosyth's strategic importance. All that had changed since then was that
Ministers had mismanaged the economy, leaving defence workers facing a tide of
redundancies and closures, he said.

The defence costs study which is threatening 20,000 jobs across the country was
a "panic move" being driven by the Treasury to save money, he said, adding that
the strategic and economic case for Rosyth was "outstanding" and was
strengthened by an official report which proposed an alternative to closure.

The Ministry of Defence had commissioned the report from a senior naval officer
but the Treasury now wanted to "strangle it at birth", he added.

"Closure of Rosyth would blight Fife, a community already hard hit by Government
policy, including decimation of the coal industry. What Ministers are now
proposing is to cut defence spending but to spend more of taxpayers' money on
the dole, a grotesque transfer from the defence budget to the social security
budget."

The unions' action plan includes:

* Rosyth workers holding a "council of war" at the base today to mobilise
support;

* Workers calling on churches across Scotland to pray on Sunday for a "community
in peril";

* Sending every MP a copy of the naval officer's report on Monday;

* Workers from all of Britain's naval bases as well as other military
establishments, some threatened with closure, lobbying MPs in Parliament next
Tuesday;

* On Wednesday, on the eve of the Cabinet meeting, the unions to publish an open
letter to the Prime Minister reminding him of the Government's "broken promises"
to Rosyth.

Mr Brown, who is drawing together a dossier to demonstrate that it would be £6m
a year less expensive to keep Rosyth open than to transfer its operations
elswhere, is to meet officials at the Scottish Office, Alhambra House, Glasgow,
on Monday to discuss the closure plan before holding last-ditch talks with Mr
Rifkind before Thurday's Cabinet meeting.

"We now have six days left to try and make the Tories see sense. The Rosyth
workers have done everything asked of them," he said, emphasing that the
campaign to save Rosyth had won the strategic arguments and "it is time to win
the political arguments".

Scottish Secretary Ian Lang would soon see the "anger and sense of betrayal" in
the eyes of the Scottish people as the axing of Rosyth would have a similar
impact as the closure of the Ravenscraig steel works and the Linwood car plant,
Mr Brown added.

"This time, there can be no excuses -- the decision on Rosyth's future rests
squarely with the Cabinet. Now is the week for Ian Lang, Malcolm Rifkind, and
John Major to honour their promises."

Mr Walter Strachan, chairman of the trade unions at Rosyth, said: "Rosyth is
still the most efficient naval base in the country and to close it would be
suicide."

If Rosyth closed, male unemployment in Dunfermline would increase to more than
20%, Mr Strachan predicted.

Shadow Scottish Secretary George Robertson said yesterday: "We have six days
before the Cabinet tries to rubber-stamp this decision -- six days where we will
underline the defence and jobs case for Rosyth naval base -- and I don't believe
that a Government that overturns a defence and jobs case is ever going to be
forgiven in Scotland."

Speaking at the official opening of the Eurocentral rail freight terminal at
Mossend in Lanarkshire, Mr Robertson was asked if he was optimistic that Rosyth
could be saved and said: "I'm a realist and I recognise that this Government is
being driven by Treasury money boxes rather than by the defence of the country.

"But, on the other hand, we saved the Rosyth Dockyard by the pressure of the
Scottish people and I believe that, if Ian Lang gets a sufficient fright and
then chooses to stand up for Scotland rather than just stand back from the
fight, then there is still a chance and we will pursue it."

SNP leader Alex Salmond said that an East Coast naval base would be essential to
the defence of an independent Scotland. The decision to close Rosyth was
political, not strategic, he stated, and that with the North Sea containing more
than 70% of Europe's oil and gas fields, it was ludicrous to try to police
installations there from the South Coast of England.

Shadow Defence Secretary David Clark said last night: "The apparent decision to
close Rosyth is mistaken on defence grounds. It has been tak

en purely for financial reasons and flies in the face of defence criteria."

Shop stewards from Rosyth, Faslane, and Coulport, met yesterday to finalise
plans to attend the mass lobby to be staged outside Parliament on Tuesday as
well as hike up public support against the decision to axe the Fife base.

Mr Danny Carrigan, national officer of the Amalgamated Engineering and
Electrical Union, insisted that the closure announcement was not a "fait
accompli".

He said: "I don't believe that a decision has been taken. The leaks from the
Scottish Office and the Ministry of Defence are simply designed to gauge
reaction."

Having met the shop stewards from the naval bases in Glasgow, Mr Carrigan
confirmed that his members would not be divided or duped by false promises of
work at Faslane.

"Our members at Faslane, and elsewhere, for that matter, refuse to be used as
pawns in the Government's desperation to reduce public expenditure," he added.

Mr William Parker, AEEU spokesman for Faslane and Coulport, said there was total
mistrust of any Government promises of work.

"The Government's track record is hardly one to be held up," he said. "They
promised that the future of Rosyth would be secured into the next century and
then a few months later they are considering closure of the base."

North Sea oil rigs would be vulnerable to terrorist attacks if the Rosyth base
was closed, defence expert David Greenwood, of Aberdeen University, warned
yesterday.

He said: "At present, any terrorist threat in the North Sea would be dealt with
by commandos from Arbroath and the Navy at Rosyth. The Navy's ability to play
this important role would be all but ended if its ships were based down in
Plymouth or Portsmouth.

"There would be no capable deterrent in the north merely because it would be so
inconvenient to bring ships up. We would end up with a whole loop of coastline
from Glasgow to Newcastle which would rarely, if ever, see the Royal Navy."

Mr Greenwood, one of 41 prominent Scots to sign an open letter to the Prime
Minister in a last-ditch bid to keep Rosyth open, also claimed the Government
had got its strategic and financial priorities wrong. The closure would seem to
be governed by financial priorities rather than strategic ones.

"This is a dangerous imbalance. I think the argument that the end of the Cold
War has ended any threat to northern Britain is not proven. If we don't have a
main operating base in Scotland we could end up with an English Navy, with all
the historical pretexts that conjures up."

' This time there can be no excuses -- the decision on Rosyth's future rests
squarely with the Cabinet. Now is the week for Ian Lang, Malcolm Rifkind, and
John Major to honour their promises '

Gordon Brown

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              397 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 July 12, 1994

Frigate orders set to soften the blow

BYLINE: Audrey Gillan, Frances Horsburgh, Christopher Reekie, Stuart Trotter,
Alan Hunter

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1039 words


DEFENCE secretary Malcolm Rifkind yesterday refused to be drawn on the future of
Rosyth Naval Base but said there would be some good news when he makes his
long-awaited statement on Thursday. This could refer to yesterday's signing of a
European

defence deal which could bring much-needed new frigate orders to Yarrow on
Clydeside.

Britain, France, and Italy yesterday signed an agreement to work together on a
multi-billion pound project to produce a new twenty-first century anti-aircraft
frigate.

Defence Secretary Malcolm Rifkind said he was sure Project Horizon would create
"important opportunities" for the British shipyards where a planned 12 Royal
Navy frigates would be built.

But he would not be specific about which yards would get the orders, though it
is anticipated that Yarrow will benefit substantially.

At present, 22 of the Common New Generation Frigate (CNGF) class vessels are
planned, costing £6 billion to £8 billion.

Six of the frigates would go to Italy and four to France. It is hoped the first
three ships will enter service in 2002.

While touring the Clyde Submarine Base at Faslane with his French counterpart,
Mr Francois Leotard, Mr Rifkind criticised the Labour Party for "hysterical
outpourings" over Rosyth's future.

"We will have some difficult decisions to announce but there will also be a lot
of good news as well . . . in terms of jobs and in terms of services," he said.

"I think we will be able to show that some of the rather hysterical outpourings
of certain quarters of the Labour Party have been a little bit over the top," he
said.

He also indicated that defence contractors in Scotland were set to benefit from
multi-million pound orders that will be part of this week's announcement.

"I am very conscious, of course, that there is great uncertainty in Rosyth, as
indeed there is in other parts of the United Kingdom," he said. "We will be
bringing this to an end in two or three days time. I am conscious of the fact
that there are a lot of people's careers and jobs involved. What we have had to
do, and it has been a very difficult task, is to identify the needs of the armed
forces and to respond to the requirements of the 1990s."

Asked if it was too late for him to be swayed by the campaign against the
closure of Rosyth, Mr Rifkind said: "I have been looking extremely carefully at
all the representations over the past few months. I have listened to the points
that have been made by the Royal Navy and the local unions and they have been
looked at very carefully indeed.

"At the end of the day, whether it's in Rosyth or Faslane or in the South of
England, we have to identify what are the needs of the Royal Navy, the Army and
the Royal Air Force."

On rumours that the dockyard would close following the demise of Rosyth, he said
it was already secure as the premier yard for the surface ships of the Royal
Navy.

The Government was planning a programme of major new naval ships for the Royal
Navy which would be good for "all the shipyards in the United Kingdom" -
-including Yarrow -- each of which could bid for the future needs of the Royal
Navy which were "going to be very, very substantial".

Scottish council leaders meanwhile yesterday made a direct appeal to Prime
Minister John Major to honour past commitments to the base and reject Ministry
of Defence recommendations to close it.

They told him in a letter that anything less would be "a cruel betrayal" of both
Fife and Scotland as a whole.

Similar written appeals by the Labour president of the Convention of Scottish
Local Authorities, Councillor Rosemary McKenna, have also been sent to Scottish
Secretary Ian Lang and Mr Rifkind.

In the letter Councillor McKenna details what she claims is a compelling case
for the base being retained.

She refers to a study carried out in Scotland which concluded that it had a full
role to play in the defence of the UK because of its operational advantages. It
was also a low cost, flexible, efficient base with good infrastructure and had
an experienced workforce.

The Scottish National Party claimed the Government will have failed to protect
Scotland's vital energy and fishing resources in the North Sea if it closes the
base.

SNP leader Alex Salmond said in Edinburgh that Mr Lang and Mr Rifkind will stand
accused of dereliction of duty if Rosyth is shut. He is urgently seeking a
meeting with Mr Rifkind to spell out the implications.

Rosyth is needed, he said, for an immediate response to any emergency situation
or terrorist attack in the North Sea. He accused the Government of being
prepared to sacrifice key natural assets for petty pennypinching in the Ministry
of Defence.

Shadow Chancellor Gordon Brown, MP for Dunfermline East, yesterday met Scottish
Industry Minister Allan Stewart at the Commons along with Miss Rachel Squire, MP
for Dunfermline West, and Mr Henry McLeish, Central Fife, Scottish industry
spokesman.

He said afterwards that "the case for Rosyth" would be presented to the Prime
Minister as well as the Defence Ministry and the Scottish Office.

Mr Brown said he had been asked to explain the financial case in the document in
more detail and was confident that his costings "will be investigated at the
most senior level".

He said keeping Rosyth open on the basis he had set out would be cheaper than
running it down.

Mr McLeish said he felt that even at this late stage the MoD and Scottish Office
had not taken on board the full impact of closure, not just on the immediate
area but on the economy on the whole of that part of Scotland.

The Liberal Democrat MP for North-east Fife, Mr Menzies Campbell, maintained the
momentum later, by stating that no matter how the Government dressed up the
announcements about to be made, they were militarily indefensible and
politically unrealistic.

In one of his strongest condemnations of possible closure of the naval base, he
said it would be an act of monumental ineptitude.

"Once closed, the base will never reopen, and Britain will have committed itself
to placing all its naval establishment on the south coast."

Continued on Page 3

Continued from Page 1

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Defence Secretary Malcolm Rifkind and his French counterpart, Francois
Leotard, during a visit to the Clyde Submarine Base at Faslane.Picture: JEFF
MITCHELL

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              398 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 July 13, 1994

EXPLOSIVES HAUL POINTS TO IRA 'SPECTACULAR'

BYLINE: David Sharrock In Belfast, Duncan Campbell And Tom Sharratt

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 773 words


THE IRA's determination to continue its military campaign on mainland Britain
while peace talks are on the agenda was emphasised yesterday with the seizure of
two tonnes of home-made explosive at a Lancashire port.

The explosives, enough to carry out an explosion as big as the two City of
London bombs, were found during a routine search of a container lorry as it came
ashore on the ferry from Warrenpoint in Northern Ireland to Heysham, near
Morecambe.

One theory for the arrival was that the IRA is planning to stage one more
"spectacular" on a prestige target in London in advance of a temporary
ceasefire, to send a clear message that without further political concessions
the war will be resumed with a new ferocity.

Another view was that the IRA is reactivating its mainland bombing campaign and
has rejected the option of calling a ceasefire which would give Sinn Fein more
room to manoeuvre.

In Northern Ireland yesterday, the IRA brought down an army helicopter as it
took off from a security base in south Armagh.

Fifteen people, including army and RUC officers and RAF crew, were aboard the
Puma helicopter when it came under attack at Newtownhamilton at midday. No one
was seriously injured. The helicopter was lying on its side on a playing field
last night.  It had been hit by what was believed to be an improvised mortar
round.

The Heysham discovery was made at 5am yesterday when police checked a black and
white flatback Leyland Freighter, registration number B459 VKP, which had been
driven off by ferry staff.

The explosives, in two containers, one 24ft by 3ft and the other 24ft by 8ft and
both six inches high, were hidden in such a way as to indicate that the lorry
was empty.

No driver was present and no arrest was made. It is not uncommon, said a
Lancashire police spokesman, for a lorry to be driven on at one end by one
driver and collected at the other by a different driver. It is possible that the
intended driver or an IRA "spotter" saw the security activity around the vehicle
and abandoned any attempt to reach it. Staff at two Nuclear Electric power
stations about half-a-mile from the port were put on alert.

Members of Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist branch were at the scene last night.
They appealed for information from anyone who might have seen the vehicle in the
last few weeks or who knew its ownership.

A security operation was launched at the Channel Tunnel early yesterday after
police were warned of a possible terrorist attack on mainland Britain. Kent
police's Tactical Support Group mounted roadblocks around the entrance to the
tunnel in Folkestone.

There has been a decline in IRA activity on the mainland while peace talks were
on the agenda. There were some minor incidents last month, including a device
which exploded beside the King's Cross -Edinburgh railway line in Hertfordshire
and incendiary devices left in shops in the West End of London.

The last big IRA attack in England took place on March 9 when the IRA fired
mortars at Heathrow airport. This was followed two weeks later by a three-day
IRA ceasfire.

The explosives found yesterday were sufficient to cause massive damage: a one
-tonne home-made bomb killed three people, injured 91 and caused pounds 600
million worth of damage outside the Baltic Exchange on April 19, 1992. A
one-tonne bomb placed in Bishopsgate on April 24 last year killed a photographer
and caused an estimated pounds 500 million damage.

The Ulster Unionist MP and security spokesman, Ken Maginnis, last night said the
find of explosives confirmed his belief that the IRA was planning an attack on
the capital.

"This was to have been the final big show," he said. "Gerry Adams has to find a
way to persuade the hard men to give him a three-month reprieve. To do that a
very high profile period of activity is needed."

Sinn Fein is expected to make its definitive response to the Downing Street
declaration next week. Republican sources are indicating that the likely
response will be a non-acceptance rather than a rejection, leaving the door open
to negotiation, but expectations of an IRA gesture remain high.

The Irish prime minister, Albert Reynolds, visiting Minneapolis yesterday, cast
doubts on whether there could be an Irish-British summit this month. Asked if
changes in the Irish constitution and British law needed for the peace
declaration were slowing agreement, he said: "The work on this complicated
question is continuing. Whether it will be finished in time for a possible
summit on July 21 remains an open question."

Another photograph, page 2

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              399 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Daily Mail (London)

                                 July 15, 1994

FIGHTING FIT, BUT FIGHTING THE FAT WASTE AND BUREAUCRACY SLASHED AS RIFKIND PUTS
BRITAIN'S FRONT-LINE TROOPS FIRST TO KEEP THEM 'BEST IN THE WORLD';
£5bn orders as forces face 18,700 job losses

BYLINE: John Deans,Christopher Bell

SECTION: Pg. 6, 7

LENGTH: 5427 words


THE Armed Forces learned last night of the heavy price they must pay for
maintaining their frontline fighting capability.

In return for a £5billion package of equipment including ships, tanks and
weapons systems, they have been ordered to surrender another 18,700 jobs, close
down dozens of bases and begin the gradual merger of Army, Navy and RAF support
services.

By announcing new hardware contracts yesterday, Defence Secretary Malcolm
Rifkind was seeking to switch the spotlight away from yet another round of cuts
in the £23billion annual defence budget which were approved by the Cabinet only
three years after his savage Options for Change programme.

Sharpening the fighting 'teeth' of front-line forces will involve the purchase
of frigates, hunter killer submarines, two amphibious assault craft and a batch
of minehunters for the Royal Navy, more than 250 Challenger tanks for the Army
and the long-awaited upgrading of the Tornado for the RAF.  But cutting their
support 'tail' to save up to £800million a year over the next three years will
mean a blitz on the number of top brass, headquarters posts and staff colleges.

Many support services will either be abandoned or privatised, while Army, Navy
and RAF medical services will be merged and linked into the mainstream NHS.

There will be a 25 per cent cut in staff at the MoD in Whitehall. Future war
operations will masterminded from the Navy's Northwood HQ in North-West London -
pointing to the downgrading of the RAF's Strike Command HQ at High Wycombe in
Buckinghamshire and the Army's Land Forces Centre at Wilton, Wiltshire.
Training of RAF and Army pilots is to be streamlined and partly privatised,
while the Royal Marines Music School at Deal, devastated by an IRA attack five
years ago, will be closed down.

By the turn of the century the Army's strength will be reduced by 2,200, the
RAF's by 7,500 and the Royal Navy's by 1,900. The number of UK-based civil
servants in defence-related jobs will fall by 7,100.

Announcing the Front Line First shake-up in the Commons, Mr Rifkind insisted
that his assault on bureaucracy, waste, duplication and inefficiency would serve
to strengthen rather than impair the fighting capability of the forces.  Soldier
for soldier, pilot for pilot and ship for ship, they would remain 'the best in
the world', he declared.

'I do not underestimate the challenge the proposals represent for all those
involved. They will have a significant impact on the lives and prospects of many
who serve in the Armed Forces as well as the civilians in the MoD.

'The changes are, however, essential if we are to focus our resources on
sustaining and enhancing our operational capability and fighting strength.'

He then announced his enhanced programme of equipment orders. Vosper
Thorneycroft near Southampton will benefit from a £250million contract to build
seven new Sandown minehunters; Vickers at Barrow-in-Furness is in line for a new
batch of nuclear-powered hunter-killer submarines; and other yards will compete
to build two amphibious landing ships to replace the ageing Intrepid and
Fearless.

Tenders for more frigates are also to be announced over the next 12 months - and
for the first time the Royal Navy is on course to be equipped with Tomahawk
cruise missiles, similar to those fired by the U.S. Navy into Saddam Hussein's
Baghdad bunkers during the Gulf War.

A £700million mid-life update of the Tornado fighter-bomber will dramatically
enhance the RAF's strike capability well into the next century, when the planned
Eurofighter 2000 comes into service.

And another £300million spent on laser guided bombs will improve the capability
of the RAF's Jaguar and Harrier force as well as its Tornados.

Mr Rifkind said the package would guarantee more than 10,000 jobs in the UK arms
industry and insisted that the thousands of uniformed and civilian personnel to
be made redundant would quickly find civilian jobs.

The results of the study were welcomed by the Chief of the Defence Staff, Field
Marshal Sir Peter Inge, as 'fundamentally good'. He added: 'Frankly, the
exercise has turned out to be far better than a number of us feared when we
started.

'Of course, there are some parts of it that are bad news for certain
individuals, but overall, if you look at the package as a whole, I believe it's
a good package, and it confirms that the Armed Forces will continue to have a
war fighting capability in the future.'

MPs will get their chance to debate the changes in detail when they return to
Westminster in mid-autumn after an 11-week break.

While Tories generally approved of the balance between savings and new orders
announced yesterday, Opposition MPs lost little time in attacking the
Government.

Labour spokesman Donald Anderson warned: 'These cuts represent the sacking by
the MoD of 18,700 workers. Will they not have a major effect on regions like the
South West of England, already reeling from Government 'unemployment' policies?'

He described the orders package as a 'smokescreen' to hide the cuts.

'If you claim that before today these orders were in doubt, are you not clearly
conceding in effect that we can put no faith in Government promises?' he asked
Mr Rifkind.

Demanding a full defence review, Mr Anderson claimed: 'This is a Government
without a coherent strategy. Its defence policy is based on tactics,
short-termism and accountancy tricks.

'Do not our service personnel and workers in the defence industry deserve
better? They will receive better under Labour.'

Both Labour and Tory MPs united behind demands for a period of stability to
follow the latest round of cuts, with former Defence Secretary Tom King
describing the package as 'imaginative' but adding: 'This has been a period of
very major change. And while the pursuit of efficiency must always continue
within the MoD, the service and duty of our servicemen now entitle them to a
period of stability to carry out these changes and to make sure they are
successfully concluded.'

Sir Nicholas Bonsor, MP for Upminster and chairman of the defence select
committee, added a warning that many Tories felt there were 'areas of our
defences which are still in need of further enhancement'.

He highlighted concerns about the number of soldiers, and the frequency of
emergency tours of duty.

He told Mr Rifkind; 'I hope you can confirm not only that there will be a period
of stability, but that we have now reached the bottom of the cutbacks we have
been seeing for the last four years, and that as the economy improves, we will
be able to enhance further the capability of all three armed services.'

THE RAF

THE airbase immortalised by the Dambusters is to close in three years.

RAF Scampton, also home of the world-famous Red Arrows aerobatic team, is one of
the most high-profile victims of cuts in the Air Force, which by the year 2000
will see its strength down from 70,000 to 57,000, a drop of 11.6 per cent.

It was from the Lincolnshire base on the night of May 16, 1943, that 19
Lancasters of 617 Squadron flew into the history books.

Under Wing Commander Guy Gibson, they set off to destroy the Ruhr dams in
Germany's industrial heartland using the extraordinary bouncing bomb designed by
Barnes Wallis.

Since 1983, the base has been the home of the Red Arrows, whose aerobatic
exploits have thrilled crowds all over the world. Their red Hawk trainers have
become one of the RAF's most popular institutions but they are to fly from
another operational base, as yet unknown.

Scampton, six miles from Lincoln, is also headquarters of the Central Flying
School, which was formed in 1912. Said to be the oldest and one of the world's
finest, it is to be 'reduced and rationalised' and moved elsewhere.  The Queen
Mother is its commandant-in-chief, and its role is to train pilots to be flying
instructors.

Scampton's association with flying began in the latter part of 1916 when it was
a site for searchlights used to illuminate Zeppelins by night for 33 (Home
Defence) Squadron, then based at North Carlton, two miles south of the present
airfield, which dates from 1936.

Station commander Group Captain Ted Edwards broke yesterday's news to servicemen
and civilians gathered in one of the large hangars as Mr Rifkind was making his
announcement in the Commons.

A spokesman said: 'The instant reaction was shock and dismay, particularly among
civilians, as servicemen tend to be redeployed as long as they are not affected
by the redundancies, which have yet to be worked out.'

Air Force links going back 60 years were severed with the decision to close RAF
Finningley near Doncaster - Britain's biggest air training base - at the same
time as Scampton.

Finningley also played a major role during World War II as a bomber base.
Lancasters flew from there on the first 1,000-bomber raid over Germany.

Meteors, Britain's first jet fighters, one of which is now a gate guardian, were
also based there, but the base is best remembered for its squadron of Vulcan
bombers.

The closure will also end one of the country's biggest air spectaculars - its
annual At Home. The show attracts 100,000 visitors and raises hundreds of
thousands of pounds for RAF charities.

Station commander Group Captain David Wilby said he had not yet decided whether
a show would be held next year as a grand finale. He added: 'If we do not hold
one next year, we will bill this year's as the final show.'

Doncaster Council said it would seek an urgent meeting with the MoD.  Hundreds
of houses which will become vacant on closure are expected to be put on the
market.

RAF-supported university air squadrons, which were thought to be in line for
cuts, will remain, although there will be increased use of civilian air
instructors.

But £40million will be saved by bringing helicopters for all three services to a
single base by 1997 and by establishing a joint services command college in
place of the RAF Staff College at Bracknell, Berkshire.

Plans to mothball RAF Chivenor, in Devon, will go ahead but the White Paper
pledged that there would be no further airfield cuts in Britain.

In Germany, the Laarbruch airbase will be closed in 1999 and the two squadrons
of Harrier jumpjets and helicopters switched to Britain, saving £30million a
year. Four Tornado squadrons will be retained at Britain's other German base,
RAF Bruggen.

THE NAVY

IT survived the IRA bombers. But the Treasury cost-cutters have killed it off.

The historic Royal Marines School of Music at Deal, where 11 servicemen were
blown up in 1989, will close in two years to save its 'prohibitively expensive'
£6million running costs.

The attack led to allegations that the school had been allowed to become an easy
target after a private security firm was employed to guard its 150 musicians,
teachers and 34 administrative staff.

But it prompted the then Defence Secretary Tom King to promise that it would
remain in the Kent town, where it had been based for more than 90 years.

Only a week after the base was bombed, the Staff Band of the Royal Marines
marched through the town centre to the cheers of thousands.

Military music has been taught and played in Deal since 1903, when the Royal
Naval School of Music was established there. When World War II began, it moved
to Burford, Oxfordshire, returning in 1960. It gained its present name after
merging with the Royal Marines depot.

A figure of a Marine is incorporated into Deal's coat of arms - and the Marines
are honoured with the freedom of the town, a tradition allowing them to march
through its streets with fixed bayonets.

During the 1980s, plans to set up a combined military music academy for all
services were dropped after Ministers found that it would cost more than three
separate establishments.

The Royal Marine bands provide all the Navy's ceremonial music, and recruits
enter Deal from the age of 16. After an eight-week course to learn drill and
discipline, they take a two-and-a-half-year course to learn two instruments.
The school's music library contains more than 10,000 scores and at least 128
national anthems.

From 1996, initial training of musicians may be carried out in civilian
colleges.

Mr Rifkind confirmed that the naval base at Rosyth on the Forth is to be shut as
an operational warship centre - but retained as a support establishment.  Its
permanent fleet of minehunters and fishery protection squadron vessels are to be
dispersed to Faslane on the Clyde and Portsmouth.

However, the base will be retained as a forward operating base, with shore and
support facilities kept on a care and maintenance basis.

As a result, 900 jobs will remain, 600 of them civilians, to support the
neighbouring royal dockyard, storage, and take on Defence Agency work.

However, 700 civilians will be axed and 1,500 Royal Navy personnel will be
transferred. Altogether, the senior service will lose 1,900 men - 4.1 per cent.

Other bases to be axed include the Royal Naval Air Station at Portland, Dorset,
which will close in 1999, to save £12million. Some 1,400 posts will be lost
although 950 will be transferred to Yeovilton, Somerset.

The National Maritime Headquarters at Pitreavie in Fife will close in 1996,
while supply depots at Eaglescliffe in Cleveland, Exeter and Wrangaton, Devon,
also face the axe.

THE ARMY

THE Army emerges from the review with far fewer wounds than the Navy or RAF.
But it has been relatively unscathed only because it was most heavily mauled in
the massive Options for Change review ordered three years ago in the wake of the
Cold War.

Under the Options exercise, the Army's strength is already being reduced from
156,000 uniformed personnel to around 119,000, with the biggest cut taking place
in the British Army of the Rhine.

Yesterday's announcement will mean a further 2,200 job losses - a cut of 1.9 per
cent - compared with over 4 per cent for the Navy and 11.6 per cent for the RAF.

Most of the military losses will be concentrated in headquarters units, at
stores and logistical depots across the country and in Germany.

Its specialised recruiting centre operations will be switched to the 1,300
civilian JobCentres run by the Department of Employment.

The Territorial Army faces manpower cuts of 4,500 to 59,000 - a drop of almost
16,000 since 1991. But its 'weekend warriors' are to be given key new roles in a
major review.

A regiment is to be equipped with specially protected German Fuchs armoured
vehicles as the Army's nuclear biological and chemical defence regiment.

The Gulf War proved the need for such a specialist unit, and it is a major coup
for the TA that it has been selected to take on the role.

Other new roles include the use of the TA as an armoured delivery regiment and
flying support for the Field Army.

The Ministry of Defence is now looking at using Territorials in other tasks
including public duties and providing opposition forces in exercises with
regular troops.

However, the axe will fall on Army regional depots at Stirling and Hereford, the
supply depot at Colchester.

Ordnance supply units at Feltham, West London, Ashford in Kent, Burscough in
Lancashire, Bicester in Oxfordshire, Liphook in Hampshire, Thetford in Norfolk
and Weyhill in Hampshire will go.

Engineer parks at Hessay in North Yorkshire, Thetford and Stirling, a vehicle
depot at Ludgershall, Wiltshire and a finance and audit office at
Ashton-under-Lyne, Greater Manchester face closure.

The firing ranges at Pendine in Dyfed, Kirkcudbright in Dumfries and Galloway
and Lavington, Wiltshire, have been targeted.

Cambridge Military Hospital at Aldershot and the Princess Alexandra Hospital at
Wroughton, near Swindon, are to close.

NEW ORDERS

ORDERS for equipment worth £5billion should sustain about 10,000 British jobs.

The Services are to be toughened with new ships for the Royal Navy, hundreds of
formidable Challenger 2 tanks for the Army and the updating and strengthening of
the RAF combat squadrons.

Mr Rifkind confirmed that two new amphibious landing ships would replace
Intrepid and Fearless, a new class of nuclear-powered hunter-killer submarines
was planned, and seven mine-hunters costing a total of £250million would be
built.

British shipyards will be asked to tender for more Type 23 frigates to add to
the four already on order.

The £1.1billion order for 259 Challengers will go to Vickers Defence Systems
factories in Newcastle upon Tyne and Leeds.

A £50million order has been placed with the Royal Ordnance plant at Glascoed,
South Wales for 400,000 rounds of 51mm mortar ammunition.

The RAF's fighting performance will also be enhanced.

Some 142 Tornados will be updated with £700million worth of avionics, navigation
and weapons systems, giving them 24-hour all-weather capability.  Contracts
worth £300million for Paveway laser-guided bombs will give Tornados, Jaguars and
Harriers improved accuracy, stand-off range and penetration.

The new devices should reduce the risk of hitting civilian targets.

The immediate orders are worth £2.4billion and the entire package will push the
overall figure up to £5billion.

They should ensure that an estimated 10,000 jobs can be retained in armaments
factories, shipyards and high-tech industries.

NEW MISSLES

BRITAIN is seeking to win a place alongside the world's superpowers by arming
the Royal Navy with Tomahawk 'cruise' missiles.

The ground-hugging rockets launched with such deadly accuracy on Baghdad during
the Gulf War are currently owned only by the American and Russian armed forces.

During Operation Desert Storm, 200 were fired from U.S. warships at Saddam
Hussein's bunkers and other key military targets in and around the Iraqi
capital.

The world watched in amazement as the first full-scale TV war was fought out
between the superbly-equipped Americans and the Iraqi dictator's ramshackle
forces.

And while Britain's Tornado pilots risked their lives on bombing missions behind
enemy lines, the unmanned Tomahawks flew undetected at ground level to take out
their targets.

Yesterday, Mr Rifkind told the Commons that he was anxious to acquire the cruise
missile capability for Britain.

Each subsonic rocket can fly up to 800 miles, costs £1million and can be fired
from submarines and warships.

The Defence Secretary declared: 'We are examining the case for acquiring and
committing to Nato conventionally armed Tomahawk land-attack missiles and will
be seeking information from the U.S. government and from industry.'

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: (1) Bouncing into history: A Lancaster drops one of Barnes Wallis's
bombs on a Dambuster raid over Germany's industrial heartland (2) The badge:
Recording its finest hour (3) The hero: CO Guy Gibson won the VC

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              400 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                             July 15, 1994, Friday

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 1373 words


Night schedule for Friday, July 15.

POLITICS MP: A political row erupted over the departure of Tory MP Tim Devlin
from Government - he claims he resigned and the Whips insist he was sacked. With
profile and section on the life and sackings of parliamentary private
secretaries. Nightlead.

POLITICS Disabled: The daughter of the Minister for the Disabled Nicholas Scott
led a stinging attack on new Government plans to tackle discrimination against
people with disabilities. In file.

INDUSTRY Rail: The rail dispute has cost industry hundreds of millions of pounds
and is set to damage the economy because of the escalating number of strikes,
business leaders warned. Nightlead.

EU President: Leaders of EU countries were meeting tonight to attempt to elect a
president. We are staffing. Meeting due to start at 1630 and finish at about
2030.

ROYAL Russia: The Queen is to pay a state visit to Russia in October. In file.

COURTS Bullies: A girl who was the first person in Britain to take a council to
court claiming she was bullied at school today lost her damages case. In file.

ULSTER Police: Several people were injured in a terrorist gun attack on a police
car today. Watching developments.  ACCIDENT Nemesis: A man collapsed and died
after riding on a rollercoaster at Alton Towers theme park. A spokeswoman said
there was nothing to suggest that the trip on an attraction called Nemesis had
anything to do with his collapse.

COURTS Postman: A postman who sent pornographic pictures and articles to people
whose dogs barked at him was today jailed for nine months. In file.

CRIME Drugs: Seven Britons held in Turkey on drugs charges were expected to
appear in court today, the Foreign Office said. Watching developments.  LEISURE
Drive: A group of motorists set out today in a bid to make a gallon of petrol
last the equivalent of a trip to South Africa and back. Nightlead.

CRIME Parrot: Arnie the parrot, whose party piece is to whistle the complete
theme tune from Radio 4 soap opera The Archers, was snatched from a pet shop
early today. In file.

COURTS Fluoride: Parents of children whose teeth may have been damaged by too
much fluoride are being invited to join a multi-party action to sue
manufacturers of toothpaste and other products containing fluoride. In file.

COURTS Silcott: Winston Silcott, who was cleared of killing Pc Keith Blakelock
but is serving life for murdering a boxer, was today given the go-ahead to
challenge the Home Secretary's refusal to refer the other case to the Court of
Appeal. In file.

FOREIGN:

REFUGEES: A tidal wave of Rwandan refugees which aid agencies predict could
reach one million poured into Zaire.  CORRUPT: A decision by corruption-busting
magistrates to quit in protest over a government decree limiting their power
shocked Italians, rocked the government of Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi, and
rattled the markets.  BEEF: The European Union commission was preparing to
tighten restrictions on Britain's beef exports.  HANGING: Amnesty International
accused Trinidad and Tobago of violating its own law for hanging a man despite
judicial appeals.  SEALS: Namibia's seal cull began with 55,000 animals
threatened.  DEATH: A Philippine carpenter was sentenced to death for raping a
British tourist last May.  ALLIGATOR: It's safe to go in the water again -
Alligator Sammy (the Loch Neuss Monster) was recaptured after six days in a
German lake.

SPORT: Chris Sutton's record-breaking £5 million transfer from Norwich to
Blackburn is due to be announced today. PA soccer reporter Martin Lipton is at
the news conference and will send a nightlead.  American veteran Tom Watson has
launched his challenge for a sixth Open title by taking the second-round lead at
Turnberry with five birdies in 11 holes.  Britain are heading for further Davis
Cup humiliation at Manchester after Jeremy Bates's shock defeat to Razvan Sabau.

NEWSFEATURES

The following features are available by wire or post at the usual rates:

WAR: Fifty years ago next Wednesday (July 20) an attempt was made to assassinate
Adolf Hitler. A briefcase bomb exploded at his secret headquarters in Eastern
Prussia but by a quirk of fate he survived - saved by a table leg. Had the plot
succeeded, the course of European history would have been changed immeasurably.
Paul Brannan looks at events leading up to the attack, the part played by the
German resistance and at what happened afterwards.

TV: With a sardonic view of the world, a wicked sense of humour and a genuine
concern for political issues, Michael Moore makes the kind of films which
normally scare US advertising executives into pulling the plug. But now the
American documentary maker - whose award-winning film Roger & Me is the
highest-grossing documentary ever made - has teamed up with the BBC to bring his
unique talents to British television. TV Nation starts on BBC2 next Friday (July
22) and Moore tells Olivia Convey what's in store. With picture.

WEATHER: Tempers are likely to flare as the scorching heatwave takes its toll on
couples who are already giving each other the cold shoulder, according to
experts. They say that what started a few weeks ago as a welcome phase of warm
weather has sparked misery in some marriages. And although hot weather is never
the direct cause of marriage break-ups, it may be the last straw which drives
already warring couples to split up. Hannah Stephenson reports.

POP: Get out the beads and tie-dye T-shirts - it's time to go to Woodstock
again. Twenty-five years after 400,000 young people packed some farmland in
upstate New York for a legendary "three days of peace, love and music", US rock
promoters are planning to recreate the event. Woodstock, a potent mix of music
and mud, remains the most celebrated rock festival of them all. John Bungey
looks back to what happened that weekend in August 1969 and at how the
anniversary is being marked.

MOTORING: A number of school trips and other excursions have ended the tragedy
of a road smash. In the worst, 12 children and a teacher died in a crash on the
M40. Each accident is followed by calls for minibuses/coaches to be compulsorily
fitted with seatbelts. Roads Minister Robert Key is to report of the cost and
implications of such a move in the next few weeks. But as motoring experts tell
Cathy Gordon, it's a complex issue with several grey areas.

Provisional news diary for following 48 hours:

SAT JULY 16

OUTER SPACE: Collision (until July 22) of Comet Shoemaker-Levy 9 with Jupiter.
Contact Royal Astronomical Society 071 734 4582.  1030 FRECKLETON, LANCS:
Special consistory court hearing over dispute on inscriptions allowed on
gravestones. Holy Trinity Church. (Staff).  1415 LONDON: National Trust
extraordinary general meeting on resolutions on deer hunting. Central Hall,
Westminster. (Staff). Contact NT 071 222 9251.  FOREIGN:

LOS ANGELES - Tenors Jose Carreras, Placido Domingo and Luciano Pavarotti
perform prior to the World Cup Final on July 17. Also performing are conductor
Zubin Mehta, the Los Angeles Philharmonic, the Los Angeles Music Centre Opera
and singer Barbra Streisand.

TRIESTE, Italy - Meeting of prime ministers and foreign ministers from 10-nation
Central European Initiative (Final day).

DRESDEN, Germany - Informal meeting of EU Environment ministers (Second day).

WUERZBURG, Germany - Informal meeting of EU Culture ministers (Final day).

TAIPEI - Taiwan/Fujian provincial local government polls.

SUN JULY 17 1630 LONDON: Mass rally against racial attacks in east London. Brady
Centre, Hanbury Street, E1. Contact Tower Hamlets Against Racism 071 702 3208.
FOREIGN:

WASHINGTON - Secretary of State Warren Christopher scheduled to depart on a tour
of Middle East.

PASADENA, California - Vice President Al Gore scheduled to attend the World Cup
Final at the Rose Bowl stadium.

ZAGREB - Turkish, Bosnian and Croatian presidents meeting and hold news
conference.  UNS CHECKLISTS: See also checklists (1300, 1600 and 1900) on all
stories sent in UNS full-text press release service.

PA DUTY DESK CHIEFS Duty editor: Mike Trout News: David Mason Subs: Steve Howard
Pictures: Ricky MacGregor.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1994 The Press Association Limited

                              401 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             July 22, 1994, Friday

Adams is a law unto himself; Sinn Fein's leader wants his civil rights. What
hypocrisy, says Ruth Dudley Edwards

BYLINE: RUTH DUDLEY EDWARDS

SECTION: COMMENT PAGE; Page 18

LENGTH: 911 words


YESTERDAY, on legal aid from the British state, Gerry Adams, in his capacity an
a ''citizen of the European Union'' and a ''national of the Republic of
Ireland'', applied to the High Court to be given the right ''to move and reside
freely within the territory of the Member States''.

I am forced to admire the chutzpah of the Sinn Fein leader. Were I a frontman
for a gang of murdering thugs, I might feel embarrassed about getting involved
in a human rights debate. But, as befits a man with Scottish Presbyterian genes,
Mr Adams is made of sterner stuff. While condoning the IRA's practice of driving
out of Northern Ireland members of its own community whom it has deemed
undesirable, he goes to law to appeal against being banned from Britain. And he
does so at our expense.

Come to think of it, he does everything at our expense, for Mr Adams, like many
of his colleagues in Sinn Fein and the IRA, is on income support. Now why can a
man of his gifts not find a job? He is intelligent, well-spoken, clean and tidy.
Not only is he an experienced barman, he would be a great tourist attraction in
any public house. Why do the bureaucrats at his local Job Centre not insist that
he seek work seriously or lose his benefit? Could it be that they are afraid of
being killed? Or excluded from Northern Ireland as undesirable?

Notably, in his court case, Mr Adams made no claims as a citizen of the United
Kingdom. A point of principle no doubt - but with a side benefit. Under the
European Communities (Amendment) Act 1993, his case, apparently, is stronger as
a citizen of any country in the European Union other than the United Kingdom.
There's cheering news for the Europhobes.

In October 1993, following an invitation from Tony Benn to Mr Adams to speak to
MPs and journalists at the House of Commons, the Home Secretary signed an
exclusion order under the Prevention of Terrorism (Temporary Provisions) Act
1989. The grounds were that he was ''a person who is or has been concerned in
the commission, preparation or instigation of acts of terrorism connected with
the affairs of Northern Ireland.''

I think it was a bad decision. People should be entitled to make nuisances of
themselves equally in all parts of the kingdom. And it is certainly insulting to
Ulster Unionists to indicate that it is acceptable for Mr Adams to infest the
North of Ireland but not the Home Counties. However, in view of the deaths and
mutilations Mr Adams has defended and encouraged over many years, I confess I
find it hard to work myself into a state of righteous indignation about his
deprivation. But as befits nice English liberals, Liberty (the National Council
for Civil Liberties) is outraged: its legal director is acting as Mr Adams's
solicitor.

There are those of us who feel that Liberty might make better use of its slender
resources by addressing itself to the human rights abuses by paramilitaries.
Rather than representing Mr Adams in the High Court, why not remonstrate with
him about, for instance, the IRA exclusion order on the three children of Carmel
Treanor? After Brian, 21, and Gary, 17, were given suspended sentences in
Banbridge, Co Down, for their part in a robbery, the IRA gave them 48 hours to
leave the island of Ireland for two years or face ''direct military action'' -
Provospeak for mutilation or murder.

For good measure, their sister Cherry, 23, was forced out as well. Because her
two- year-old son, Ashley, has such bad asthma that his lungs have to be
inflated by a ventilator three times a day, he had to stay with his grandmother.
The three Treanors have been in hiding in England since February. Mr Adams has
refused to meet Mrs Treanor; Ashley is still motherless.

The Labour MP Harry Barnes - co-chairman of the cross-party organisation New
Consensus, which strives to explain to MPs and journalists the realities of life
in Northern Ireland - has suggested to Liberty's general secretary, Andrew
Puddephatt, that since paramilitaries are responsible for around 90 per cent of
human rights abuses in Northern Ireland, Liberty's priorities seem somewhat
skewed.

Mr Puddephatt explains that Liberty's job is to focus solely on human rights
abuses by the state: ''If specific paramilitary practices are criticised, such
as intimidation, certain murders, punishment shootings, and so on, it may imply
to some that other actions undertaken by paramilitaries are quite legitimate.''
So this balderdash permits his organisation to focus on the failings of the
British government and let Mr Adams off scot-free. This new evidence of British
wimpery must have them rolling in the aisles at Sinn Fein HQ.

Perhaps because they have themselves suffered from paramilitary wickedness,
members of the Northern Irish group Families Against Intimidation and Terror are
not wimps. Overstretched and poor they may be, but they find the resources to
point out what lies behind Mr Adams's plausible exterior. It was their banners
that wiped the grin off his face when he returned from his jaunt to the United
States. It was their demonstration throughout the Sinn Fein Annual Conference in
February that reminded journalists that those who talked about peace were men of
violence. Some were standing yesterday with friends outside the High Court
protesting about double standards.

I hope Mr Adams's colleagues will not feel it necessary to murder or exile them
in retaliation.

(Photograph omitted)


LOAD-DATE: July 22, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1994 Independent Print Ltd

                              402 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 July 27, 1994

IRAN BLAMED AS TERRORIST PAYMASTER;
Ian Black and Richard Norton-Taylor find security agencies focused on groups
opposed to the Arab-Israeli peace process

BYLINE: Ian Black And Richard Norton-Taylor

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 717 words


IRAN and its radical followers were blamed by security agencies for the bomb
blast outside the Israeli embassy in London yesterday, eight days after an
explosion destroyed a Jewish community centre in Buenos Aires.

Responsibility for that attack, in which at least 96 people died, was claimed by
a previously unknown Lebanese group called Ansarullah - Followers of God.

The group also claimed responsibility for a suspected bomb that killed 21 mostly
Jewish passengers in a plane crash in Panama last week.

Terrorist groups causing serious concern to Western security and intelligence
agencies are believed to be funded by Tehran but operate at arm's length,
allowing the Iranian government to deny involvement. Iran suggests general
targets but its control over the groups was described yesterday as fluctuating.

Israel blamed Hizbullah and Iran for the Buenos Aires attack on July 18. Iran
has formally denied responsibility, saying it condemns terrorism, but
intelligence agencies throughout the West see the hand of Tehran - though not
necessarily of its Government, which is divided into rival hardline and moderate
factions.

The immediate reaction of Mossad, Israel's secret service, to yesterday's bomb
attack will be to exchange information with Britain's Security Service, MI5, on
suspects. Mossad will also ask MI5 to step up surveillance of suspect groups and
possible targets.

Analysis of terrorism begins by looking at background, timing and motivation -
in this case all these are much clearer than any details yet available about the
operation itself.

The blast came less than 24 hours after another milestone on the rocky road
towards a Middle East peace settlement as Israel's Prime Minister, Yitzhak
Rabin, and King Hussein of Jordan met in Washington to announce the end of 46
years of war.

Reflecting the startling new realities in the region, the summit was welcomed by
the PLO leader, Yasser Arafat, now living in the newly liberated Gaza Strip, but
it represented another hammer blow to the Arab and Muslim enemies of a process
which they believe ignores their fundamental rights.

Violence is seen as the only option by Islamic fundamentalists who refuse to
accept the existence of a Jewish state and who still smart at the Israeli
presence in south Lebanon, and by Palestinians who see only betrayal in the
Gaza-Jericho self rule scheme.

Using the Leninist logic of "the worse the better", acts of terrorism are
carried out in the hope that they will provoke Israeli retaliation, undermine
the peace process and destroy the chances of a deal with Syria - which is coming
under mounting pressure to follow the PLO and Jordan. Southern and eastern
Lebanon, where Iranian-backed organisations like Hizbullah and Islamic Jihad are
based, are likely targets.

Even before yesterday's incident in London, Israel had vowed revenge for a
recent attack in which an Israeli officer was killed and 13 soldiers wounded in
south Lebanon. Hizbullah pledged to step up attacks against Israel after 26 of
its guerrillas were killed in an air raid on June 2.

In June 1982 members of the notorious Abu Nidal group tried to assassinate the
Israeli ambassador, Shlomo Argov, as he left a function at Grosvenor House in
Park Lane, London. Mr Argov was crippled by bullet wounds and returned to
Israel. Israel launched a big invasion of Lebanon which took their troops and
tanks to the outskirts of Beirut.

Mike Whine, defence director of the Board of Deputies of British Jews, said he
thought it likely that Middle East terrorists were responsible for yesterday's
attack and said a link with the Buenos Aires bombing was also possible.

He said these groups had made a number of specific threats this year to attack
Jewish and Israeli buildings around the world.  "We're already at a fairly high
state of alert. We're in constant touch with police."

Last week the board had asked police to ban parking outside Jewish buildings, he
said, but it was still waiting for a response.

Mr Whine said the terrorist threats had been provoked by the Arab-Israeli peace
process, the Hebron massacre in February - in which a Jewish settler shot dead
30 Arabs in a mosque - and Israel's recent bombing of Hizbullah targets in
southern Lebanon.

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              403 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 July 27, 1994

LEADING ARTICLE: ONE BOMB CAN'T STOP THE PROCESS

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGE; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 521 words


FIRST the peace accord; then the bomb. The pattern has become shop-worn,
although the venue can never be guessed. Why should a handshake on a lawn in
Washington produce an explosion in London, and not in Paris, Rome, or Washington
itself? Mainly because targets have become international, chosen for symbolic
reasons of bloody protest rather than for any close connection with the event
they aspire to denounce.

All that can be deduced with a degree of certainty is that yesterday's bomb
attack on the Israeli consulate in London was aimed at the Israeli-Jordanian
agreement. Israel's Prime Minister, Yitzhak Rabin, suggested yesterday that the
perpetrators were Iranians - Khomeinism without Khomeini, as he put it. In the
more appalling recent bomb, which killed at least 96 people at a Jewish centre
in Buenos Aires, the Israelis also claimed they detected an Iranian hand. In
neither the British nor the Argentinian case has any group taken responsibility
- but the suspicion of Iranian guilt is plausible.

The main Palestinian opponents of the accords which Israel has struck with the
PLO and Jordan are Hamas. But Hamas is a grass-roots organisation without the
funding and expertise to plant an "anti -peace" bomb like yesterday's. It is
more likely that some maverick agency of the Iranian government, or a group
within one of its ministries, has financed the deed.  This does not necessarily
mean that the top leadership knows or cares to know the details. It merely does
nothing to stop such actions. London is a good place since the consequences of
detection are small and Britain's relations with Iran are so poor. Iranians
might be less willing to act in the capital of a country with which their
government has better links.

Where then does this leave the peace process? No better or worse off than
before. Neither Israel nor Jordan's King Hussein are going to be put off by the
latest atrocities. For Mr Rabin, a meeting with King Hussein offered nothing but
benefit politically in a way that his deal with the PLO did not. The same is not
so true for the King, who took a calculated risk in meeting openly with an
Israeli leader for the first time. But, whatever disadvantages there are for
him, bombs in London are low on the scale.

A real threat to the peace process could come not from a series of random though
murderous explosions nor from a sustained campaign of terror - but from
political sources. There could be a collapse of will by the architects of the
peace accords, or a loss of momentum. Or the process could deliver so little
genuine change that it loses its popular support. So far neither option looks
feasible. Give or take many moments of delay and stagnation, the peace process
still continues to sputter forward. As yet, there is no juggernaut of sweeping
renewal. No-one in Gaza, Jericho, Jordan, or indeed Israel itself is living
appreciably better since the historic handshakes. But hope is alive, and gaining
ground, and the prospect of retreat is awesome. Yesterday's bomb will make no
difference: though those who planted it will be the last to see that.

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              404 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            July 27, 1994, Wednesday
                              Correction Appended

Law Report: Exclusion order challenged; Regina v Secretary of State for the Home
Department, Ex parte Adams - Queen's Bench Divisional Court (Lord Justice Steyn
and Mr Justice Kay), 26 July 1994.

BYLINE: YING HUI TAN, Barrister.

SECTION: MISCELLANY PAGE; Page 11

LENGTH: 780 words


Since the Home Secretary is not obliged to give reasons for his decision under
section 5 of the Prevention of Terrorism (Temporary Provisions) Act 1989 to
impose an exclusion order prohibiting a person from entering Great Britain, the
court, having no access to the information before the Home Secretary, would, in
practice, be unable to review such a decision except in exceptional
circumstances.

The Divisional Court dismissed judicial review challenges under domestic law to
exclusion orders and referred questions under Community law to the European
Court of Justice.

Gerry Adams, the President of Sinn Fein, accepted an invitation by Tony Benn, a
Member of Parliament, to address MPs and journalists in the House of Commons.

The Home Secretary made an exclusion order under section 5 of the Prevention of
Terrorism (Temporary Provisions) Act 1989 prohibiting Mr Adams entry into Great
Britain on the basis that he was concerned with acts of terrorism in Northern
Ireland. After hearing Mr Adams' representations the Home Secretary decided not
to revoke the exclusion order.

Mr Adams applied for judicial review of both decisions on the grounds that they
were unlawful under domestic law as they were made for an improper purpose and
unreasonable and unlawful under Community law as his right to move freely under
article 8(a)(1) of the Treaty of European Union had been infringed in that no
reasons had been given and the three year exclusion order was disproportionate
and he should have been allowed to enter the country for a few hours to address
MPs.

Robin Allen (Liberty) for Mr Adams; Stephen Richards (Treasury Solicitor) for
the Home Secretary.

LORD JUSTICE STEYN, giving the court's judgment, said that it could be a correct
inference that if Mr Adams had been allowed to attend Mr Benn's meeting, that
could have been a matter of political embarrassment to the Government, notably
vis-a-vis the Unionist parties and their support for the Maastricht Treaty.

It would be naive not to infer that Mr Adams had at least substantial
connections with the IRA.

A Home Secretary's decision to make an exclusion order was not immune from
judicial review, but it was settled law that he was not obliged to give reasons
for a decision under section 5 to impose an exclusion order since reasons would
usually have to reveal sensitive intelligence information which it would be
contrary to the public interest to disclose.

Therefore a decision under section 5(1) would not in practice be reviewable
except in the most exceptional circumstances, since one would hardly even know
what material was before the Home Secretary.

The exclusion order might have had the effect of saving the Government from
political embarrassment, but the court had no means of knowing on what
information the Home Secretary acted. The court could not form any judgment that
would enable it to conclude that the Home Secretary acted for an improper
purpose or that his decision was unreasonable.

Therefore the challenge under domestic law to the lawfulness of the order must
be dismissed. The questions whether article 8(a)(1) was merely declaratory,
whether the rights under article 8(a)(1) had direct effect, whether the case
concerned movement within the UK and if so whether it came within article
8(a)(1) were appropriate to refer to the European Court of Justice.

Article 223 provided that no member state should be obliged to supply
information the disclosure of which it considered contrary to the interests of
security. If article 8(a)(1) was given a broad interpretation it was, in any
event, subject to an implied derogation in respect of the interest of security.
The submission that under Community law the Home Secretary must give reasons
when he made an order under section 5 was rejected.

A question of law about the proportionality principle in this case involving
freedom of speech and national security would be referred to the European Court
of Justice.

Although the proportionality principle was part of our law through Community
law, the explanations of the principle were not in harmony. It was appropriate
that the ambit of the principle be elucidated by a reference to the European
Court of Justice. The explanations of the principle spanned a spectrum of views
from a narrow doctrine to a de novo review of the administrative decision. There
might be better explanations placing the principle between those extremes.

It was not self evident that the principle of proportionality might not need to
be adapted to the special circumstances of a case involving a tension between
freedom of speech and national security.


LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: August 1, 1994

CORRECTION:

 In R v Secretary of State for the Home Department, Ex p Adams, the Independent,
27 July 1994, Peter Duffy also appeared for Mr Adams.

                      Copyright 1994 Independent Print Ltd

                              405 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            July 27, 1994, Wednesday

London bomb blitz on Israel; 1am today: second car blast hits Jewish charity
office after yesterday's attack on embassy

BYLINE: STEPHEN WARD, JAMES CUSICK and TERRY KIRBY

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Page 1

LENGTH: 789 words


TWO TERRORIST car bombs hit Israeli targets in London yesterday and early today.
The first blast injured 14 people outside the Israeli embassy in Kensington at
lunchtime yesterday. At 12.45 this morning, a second bomb exploded at the
offices of Britain's largest Jewish charity in north London, injuring three
people.

The blast at the Joint Israel Appeal in High Road, Finchley, was heard all over
north London. Paul Clifford, 18, who was sitting in a bus shelter with friends
yards from where the bomb exploded, said the force of the explosion lifted him
upwards. ''Every window in the street was blown out.''

The JIA was founded before the state of Israel was established. It raises money
for Jewish education and social welfare projects in Britain and Israel. It also
offers advice to British Jews wishing to immigrate to Israel.

''After the embassy, the JIA is the next most obvious Jewish target in London,''
said a member of the Jewish community last night.

The embassy explosion left the Government embarrassed by what was seen as a
major security lapse. A woman was able to drive a stolen car with 20-30lb of
high explosives into Kensington Palace Gardens, a street containing several
embassies and a royal palace, and to leave it yards from the embassy.

The bomber, described as aged 55 to 60, and ''of Mediterranean appearance'',
drove a grey Audi 100 past security guards at the end of Kensington Palace
Gardens just after noon. She parked in a car park outside a block of flats. As
she walked away, a private security guard and an Israeli embassy guard became
suspicious and prepared to challenge her. As she walked towards Kensington High
Street, the bomb exploded. The car was blown 50 feet (15 metres) by the blast.

Scotland Yard's Anti-Terrorist Squad was astonished there had been a gap of less
than a minute from her leaving the car to the explosion.

The blast damaged many buildings near the embassy, and windows were shattered at
Kensington Palace. There was no warning of the attack, and no group has claimed
responsibility.

Shoppers fled screaming from Kensington High Street after the explosion. But
Charing Cross Hospital, which dealt with the victims, reported that the most
serious injury was a broken arm. Casualties included a 34-year-old police
officer in the Diplomatic Protection Group.

Jewish communities around the world have been on heightened alert following last
week's bomb attack on a Jewish centre in Buenos Aires, which killed 96 people,
and the signing two days ago of a peace accord between Israel and Jordan.

Douglas Hogg, the Foreign Office Minister, spoke by telephone to the Israeli
Prime Minister, Yitzhak Rabin, and visited the scene of the blast to confer with
the Israeli charge d'affaires, Yakov Hadas-Handelsman. Mr Hogg said later: ''The
charge is anxious we increase security and I was able to assure him.'' The
Scotland Yard diplomatic protection group and other agencies would now be
stepping up security, he said.

Commander David Tucker, head of the Anti-Terrorist Squad, said that increased
security measures had been taken after the Buenos Aires attack.

He said the grey Audi had been fitted with false number plates. The woman, who
had a thin face, large plastic-rimmed glasses and light brown hair halfway down
her back, and was carrying a Harrods shopping bag, would not have attracted much
attention in well-heeled Kensington, he said. No security cameras captured the
woman on videotape.

On the lawn at the side of the embassy lay the mangled, charred remains of the
car which contained the bomb. A brick wall of a building next door to the
embassy had been torn apart. In the street opposite, cars were covered with
debris, windows were smashed, and tree branches lay on the road and embedded in
cars.

Mr Rabin, in an American television interview, blamed Islamic terrorists
determined to undermine the Arab-Israeli peace process. The Israeli Prime
Minister, who on Monday signed the agreement with Jordan ending the 46-year-old
state of war, said the ''world should wake up and realise the tremendous
dangers'' such groups posed. ''They have the infrastructure all over the world -
in the United States, in Europe, in Latin America.''

The Board of Deputies of British Jews sent an angry fax to the Home Office
pointing out that it had been warning of a growing threat for weeks, and warning
urgently since the Buenos Aires attack eight days ago.

Michael Whine, defence director of the board, said it had asked for tighter
security, including a ban on parking outside prominent Jewish buildings.
Scotland Yard finally agreed to the parking ban after yesterday's explosion.

(Photograph and map omitted)


LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1994 Independent Print Ltd

                              406 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 July 28, 1994

WOMAN CLEARED OF WITHHOLDING INFORMATION UNDER TERROR ACT

BYLINE: Martin Wainwright

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 256 words


A WOMAN was acquitted yesterday of failing to give information to police under
the Prevention of Terrorism Act.

Kate Magee, aged 32, was applauded by friends and supporters as she left
Sheffield crown court at the end of a two-year ordeal, which began after an army
recruiting sergeant, Michael Newman, aged 34, was shot dead by terrorists in her
home city of Derby.

She was arrested, held for 61 days and then charged with withholding information
about her brother Joseph Magee, aged 29, and two other men suspected of carrying
out the murder on behalf of the Irish National Liberation Army.

The jury reached its verdict in two hours after Mr Justice Michael Turner, in
his summing up, emphasised that no suggestion had been made that Ms Magee knew
about the intended killing or had been involved in its planning.

He also asked the jury to take account of psychological evidence that Ms Magee's
response to questioning had been typical of "an intellectually disadvantaged,
vulnerable and frightened woman".

Jeremy Roberts QC, prosecuting, argued that Ms Magee had deliberately misled
police, but Rock Tansey QC, defending, said that fear of reprisals from the INLA
had influenced her response to questioning.

Michael Herbert, of the Kate Magee Support Group, whose sponsors include five
Labour MPs, said Ms Magee had been a substitute victim for her brother, whose
extradition to Britain was refused by a Dublin court in February on the grounds
that any offences he might have committed were political.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              407 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 July 28, 1994

Armed police step up security with 24-hour guard on Jewish community Under
threat from suicide bombers

BYLINE: Benedict Brogan

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 756 words


ARMED police are to provide around-the-clock protection for hundreds of
buildings with Jewish or Israeli links after two blasts in 12 hours and the
threat of suicide bombers.

Questions were raised in Britain and in Israel about the security arrangements
which failed to stop the two car bombs.

The attacks in London, the first on Tuesday at the Israeli embassy, the second
early yesterday at the headquarters of the Joint Israel Appeal, injured 19
people and caused extensive damage.

Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir Paul Condon said London was now at risk
from Middle Eastern suicide bombers. He had to defend himself against
allegations that pleas for more security before the bombings had been ignored.

Sir Paul said: "After several years, Middle Eastern terrorism is again being
played out on the streets of London. The new dimension for us is the power and
ferocity of the devices being put down and the total disregard for their own or
anyone else's lives by the terrorists involved."

The Israeli military attache at the embassy accused British police of blundering
by failing to prevent the second attack. Brigadier-General Azriel Nevo told
Israeli Radio: "After the attack of Tuesday afternoon, it was possible to take
all the steps.

"Our people gave their evaluation to the British authorities that there was a
danger now to the Jewish institutions and, here you are -- there was a blast in
the middle of the night."

Mr Eldred Tabachnik, president of the Board of Deputies of British Jews, called
for a meeting with the Home Secretary. He said the board had contacted police a
month ago with information that attacks were possible, but it was not acted
upon.

"They did not share our concern and they did not agree with our analysis. We
have in fact been proved tragically right," he said.

Sir Paul would not be drawn on the matter. He said: "We are at one with the
Israeli agencies involved, and we are working in partnership with them to
prevent any further terrorist attacks in London."

A claim of responsibility purporting to be from the Palestinian extremist group
Hamas has been discounted: the group has no record of attacks outside Israel and
the occupied territories.

Attention remains focused on Hizbollah, the Iranian-backed Party of God based in
Lebanon. It has carried out attacks in Europe before, and has pledged to disrupt
any attempt at a peace settlement between Arabs and Israel.

Police said the sophistication of the London attacks and the degree of
organisation required to acquire, transport and use the 20-30lb of high
explosives in each bomb suggested the involvement of a sponsor-state, such as
Syria, Iran, Iraq or Libya.

The bombings follow last week's devastating attack on a Jewish cultural centre
in Argentina, in which at least 96 people were killed, and appear to be part of
the violent response to the recent peace accords involving Israel, Jordan and
the Palestine Liberation Organisation promised by militant Islam.

As the Israeli Embassy reopened for business, police said they had made no
progress in their search for the middle-aged "Mediterranean looking" woman who
parked the car bomb outside the embassy and walked away carrying a Harrods
shopping bag seconds before it exploded.

Nor did they have details of the car used in the second attack, which was
destroyed in the blast. The offices of the JIA and surrounding buildings
sustained extensive damage.

Sir Paul said every measure possible was being taken to trace the bombers and
ensure maximum security for any installation considered at risk. He called for
the support from the public. "The whole community must be vigilant and tell us
about anything suspicious, any time of the day or night, so we can respond."

He admitted that Jewish groups had requested additional security in recent
weeks, in particular parking restrictions. But he said police cones and yellow
lines would not stop a determined terrorist.

The Chief Rabbi, Dr Jonathan Sacks, who visited the sites of both bombings,
called for a fundamental review of security at potential Jewish targets and said
every Jewish installation was vulnerable.

"I don't want to pass judgement on any particular episode. We now know that the
Jewish community in Britain is not immune from attacks and this must require
some fundamental re-thinking of security coverage of likely targets.

"I think we have known all along that each stage of the peace process would
bring with it a risk of attacks.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: A security guard patrols a north London Jewish cemetery in the wake of
the attacks.Picture: DYLAN MARTINEZ/Reuter"A member of the Party of God? Sorry,
not listed."

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              408 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 July 28, 1994

New-wave terrorists hit the streets

BYLINE: Christopher Dobson

SECTION: Pg. 15

LENGTH: 993 words


Fresh outrages by Islamic zealots in Britain are intended to provoke Israel into
shattering an uneasy peace.

SO the terrorists of the Middle East have brought their war back to the streets
of London with a daring and well-executed attack on the Israeli Embassy. The
potential for another round in the "War of Kill and Counter-kill" was always
there; the first round had ended only because the political scene had changed
and old-fashioned Palestinian-style terrorism no longer served any purpose.

Now we have a new wave of terrorists. They are not the Palestinians, some of
them Christians, who were fighting a nationalist war dedicated to winning back
their land from Israel, but Islamic zealots who are seeking to destroy the peace
accord between the Israelis and the very men who once mounted the terror
campaign that raged across Europe. The new wave have the same aim as their
predecessors -- to destroy the state of Israel -- but they are doing it in the
name of Allah, not of nationalism.

The immediate suspects are Hizbollah, the "Party of God", the Iranian-backed
fanatics who are also suspected of the bomb blast in Buenos Aires last week
which killed at least 96 people in Argentina's main Jewish community centre.
That outrage was ''claimed" by a Lebanese-based group called Ansar Allah, "The
Followers of God", but this is believed to be a cover name for Hizbollah, just
as "Black September" was a cover name for Yasser Arafat's El Fatah Group.

Whoever are responsible for the London bombs are ruthless and expert. They
penetrated the defences of one of the most closely guarded streets in London.
It is stuffed full of juicy targets for all sorts of terrorists: the French
Embassy, the Russian Embassy, and Kensington Palace with its royal inhabitants.

The street itself has its top-hatted watchmen who before raising their
barricades query the identity of anyone wishing to drive into the street. They
are backed up by patrols of the Diplomatic Protection Group and the Royal
Protection Division and there are usually a few MI5 agents going about their own
business. Every inch is covered by video cameras.

The Israeli Embassy itself is guarded by highly trained members of an elite
unit. To get in, a visitor has to pass through an electronically controlled gate
and then through the bullet-proof front door, under electronic and visual
scrutiny the whole time. Once inside the visitor finds himself in an enclosed
room where he is quizzed and frisked before being allowed farther into the
building.

The bombers were well aware of these defences. They had obviously reconnoitred
the embassy and its surroundings and they picked the only spot from which it was
vulnerable -- the car park of the building next door.

They knew that even then the car would be spotted -- as it was -- by an Israeli
guard and so the bomb was fitted either with a very short fuse or was
electronically detonated once the driver was clear. And how well they managed
her getaway for who would suspect a middle-aged woman of "Mediterranean
appearance" carrying a Harrods bag in Kensington High Street?

It was the ordinariness of her appearance that ensured her success. There are so
many people of "Mediterranean appearance" in London today that with the lapse in
middle eastern terrorism -- the last incident was the attempted bombing of an El
Al airliner eight years ago -- an Arab raises far less suspicion than someone
speaking with an Irish accent.

Mrs Stella Rimington, director of MI5, claimed in her recent Dimbleby Lecture
that "members of Islamic extremist terrorist groups . . . have been identified
and their plans disrupted". That may be so, but the resources of the security
services are limited and certainly for the past five years they have
concentrated their efforts on the IRA.

That will now have to change. It must be recognised that the Islamic fanatics
have, in the words of Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin, ''an infrastructure
all over the world" and "you can never know what will be the next target of
these . . . extreme terrorist movements".

It is very easy for a member of Hizbollah to gain entry to Britain and then to
disappear as a "sleeper" within the Islamic community. When a known member of
the IRA disappears from his usual haunts, alarm bells start ringing but nobody
knows who belongs to Hizbollah or the other fundamentalist organisations. And,
as Mr Rabin points out, they can switch their targets all round the world.

What then can be done? Increased co-operation with Israel is essential, for it
is only the Israelis who have penetrated Hizbollah. MI5 will have to step up its
surveillance within the Islamic community. And more men and women must be put on
the streets around potential targets. This, of course, means that there will be
fewer resources for the continuing fight against the IRA.

The Israelis may have their own, more extreme way of dealing with the problem.
When Black September terrorists carried out the Munich massacre of Israeli
Olympic athletes, the Israelis responded with hit teams which eventually killed
all those thought to be responsible. When the Israeli Ambassador Shlomo Argov
was desperately wounded by Abu Nidal gunmen in London in 1982 the Israelis
responded by invading The Lebanon. There is considerable pressure in Israel
today for a similar gesture.

Iran is blamed as the state godfather of the terrorists and Israeli militants
want action of some sort, possibly an aerial attack like the one that knocked
out the Osirak nuclear reactor in Iraq in 1981. But such action would probably
bring about what the terrorists are trying to achieve and destroy the peace
accord.

The only solution, certainly in Britain's streets, is better intelligence,
patient police work and increased vigilance. We shall have to ride out this wave
as we rode out the last one but for the Israelis an eye for an eye is still the
law.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin: fanatics have "an infras tructure
all over the world . . . you can never know what will be the next target."

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              409 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            July 28, 1994, Thursday

Armed guards for 100 terror targets; Argentines link Iran to bomb attack on
Israeli embassy and claim they warned Britain

BYLINE: STEPHEN WARD, JAMES CUSICK and ELIZABETH NASH

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Page 1

LENGTH: 854 words


ARMED POLICE mounted guard yesterday outside more than 100 potential terrorist
targets in London as evidence emerged of a likely Iranian connection in
Tuesday's bombing at the Israeli embassy and the blast early yesterday which
shattered the offices of the Joint Israel Appeal.

In the face of Israeli accusations that the British police had blundered in not
heeding warnings of bombing outrages, the Metropolitan Police Commissioner, Sir
Paul Condon, announced the introduction of armed security and surveillance at
buildings with Israeli and Jewish connections, along with parking bans to foil
the bombers.

Adding to the controversy over the police response to the sudden resurgence of a
Middle Eastern terrorist threat in Britain, there were unconfirmed reports from
Buenos Aires that the Argentine authorities tipped off the British security
services on Monday night about the threat of an imminent bomb attack in London.
The Argentines turned up the evidence during investigations into last week's
bombing of a Jewish centre in the Argentine capital in which 82 people are
confirmed dead.

The Argentine evidence also points strongly to Iranian involvement in both the
London and Buenos Aires attacks. Argentina appeared last night on the verge of
expelling a number of Iranian diplomats, possibly including the ambassador, Hadi
Solemanpour, who was asked to leave Spain in 1989 under suspicion of having
organised Hizbollah terrorist operations in Europe.

The Iranian connection came to light at the weekend when Judge Juan Jose
Galeano, heading the official Argentine investigation, went to Caracas to
interview a recently defected Iranian diplomat, Monousher Moatamer.

The judge is reported to have received from him a list of suspects involved not
only in last week's Buenos Aires attack but also in an attack on the Israeli
embassy in Buenos Aires in March 1992 which killed 29 people. Among those listed
are reported to be a former Iranian soldier long resident in Buenos Aires and a
number of people in the Iranian embassy in the city. Press reports say the
Semtex explosives used in the attack were brought to Argentina in the Iranian
diplomatic bag.

The Argentine President, Carlos Menem, said in an interview broadcast on Tuesday
night that Mr Moatamer had predicted the London attack. The Iranian had ''even
indicated the city where the attack would occur'', the President said. Senior
security sources in Argentina indicate that Britain was informed of this warning
shortly after Judge Galeano had reported to the President late on Monday night
(early Tuesday morning British time), and before the attack in London took
place.

Asked if Scotland Yard had received a full report on the Buenos Aires bombing,
David Veness, Assistant Commissioner, would only say: ''We're in contact with
all services, and that is one of them.''

The head of the Anti-Terrorist Squad, Commander David Tucker, said on Tuesday
that ''no specific intelligence'' of an attack on London had been received.

Brigadier-General Azriel Nevo, Israel's military attache to London, said on
Israeli radio that authorities in Britain had ''blundered''. He said that after
the embassy bomb ''our people gave their evaluation to the British authorities
that there was a danger now to Jewish institutions and, here you are - there was
a second blast in the middle of the night.''

Sir Paul Condon insisted: ''We are at one with the Israeli agencies involved,
and we are working with them to prevent any further terrorist attacks in
London.''

Scotland Yard conceded that it was virtually impossible to guard against bombers
who were prepared to risk their own death. Sir Paul said that a bomber who was
prepared to trigger a device within moments of delivering it to the target was a
''potential suicide bomber''. Tuesday's bombing was carried out by a lone woman
who parked a car moments before it exploded.

Sir Paul said the police faced a dilemma between security and maintaining
everyday life. ''We're trying not to turn London into a fortress. We want the
life of Londoners to go on as normally as possible . . . we are not prepared to
impose a totally oppressive regime which undermines the quality of life for all
Londoners.''

The Argentinian authorities yesterday arrested three Iranian suspects in last
week's bombing, two men and a woman. The woman, an employee at the Iranian
embassy, is alleged to have bought a delivery truck that served as the car bomb
that destroyed the seven-storey building. Police say she was arrested at Ezeiza
airport carrying a forged passport.

Despite official Iranian denials of complicity in either the London or Buenos
Aires bombs, intelligence sources said the evidence pointed to Iran. All the
operations would have required weeks, if not months of planning, they said.
European intelligence services are constantly on the watch for activity by the
Iranians and their allies but no unusual movements are believed to have been
picked up before the latest wave of bombings.

Further reports, page 2

Leading article, page 17

Chaim Bermant, page 18


LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1994 Independent Print Ltd

                              410 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            July 28, 1994, Thursday

Bombs that give us strength; Extremist attacks on Jews may actually speed up the
peace process, argues Chaim Bermant

BYLINE: CHAIM BERMANT

SECTION: COMMENT PAGE; Page 18

LENGTH: 942 words


BEING a Jew has always had its hazards, but they have changed their shape. For
the past 25 years or more, Jews in the diaspora have been among the victims of
the terrorist campaigns against Israel, and there have been bomb attacks on
diplomatic missions, synagogues, kosher restaurants - anywhere that is
identified with Jews. Such places have taken elementary safety precautions, but
there are more than 300,000 Jews living in Britain alone. They have scores of
synagogues, and dozens of Jewish schools, colleges, welfare institutions,
community centres, youth clubs; they cannot expect police protection or arrange
security guards for them all.

Eminent individuals are also under threat. In December 1973 Edward Sieff was
shot through the mouth when he answered his front door, and today Dr Jonathan
Sacks, the Chief Rabbi, has to be accompanied by security guards when he goes
about his work. But the threats to Jews have had no major impact on organised
Jewish life. Schools have not been closed nor outdoor activities curtailed. No
one has avoided Jewish meetings, restaurants or synagogue services for fear of a
bomb attack.

There is no thought of any retreat into fortified compounds, not only because
this would be impractical, but it would give terrorists the belief that they
were getting somewhere. The bomb that went off outside Balfour House in North
Finchley yesterday morning did not even affect the daily routines of the Jewish
organisations that use the building. The broken glass was swept from the
pavement, new windows were installed, but otherwise it was business as usual.
Anglo-Jewry can take it.

There were occasional attacks by fascists on Jewish institutions and individuals
here before the Second World War, and Jewish self-defence groups sprung into
being. In the main, though, Jews then had a general sense of helplessness and
dismay in the face of their enemies.

The emergence of Israel changed that. Where there was dismay there is now
defiance, even though the scale of the new atrocities suggests that they are
state-sponsored. Whether Israel will attack terrorist bases in southern Lebanon,
Syria or even Iran in response to the bomb in London and before that in
Argentina, is beside the point. Jews no longer feel helpless or friendless.

It is obvious why Muslim extremists should try to attack Israeli embassies. They
are the symbol and agency of that Israeli state. I find it more difficult to
explain why they should also single out Jewish institutions. In the past they
have tended to avoid religious and cultural buildings. They may possibly think
that by terrorising the diaspora they will inhibit Jewish support for Israel,
but in fact nothing draws Jews more closely to Israel, heightens Jewish
consciousness and solidarity than a sense of common danger.

But more than that. Jews in the past felt there was something vacuous about
their Zionism, for while they drew reassurance and pride from the existence of
Israel, they did not share its sacrifices. They do now. Muslim extremists have
placed them in the front line, and the effect, while worrying, is almost
invigorating. They feel like honorary Israelis.

Jews are a disparate and fractious race with a tendency to fall apart, and last
month Israel's president, Ezer Weizman, convened a conference of Jewish leaders
in Jerusalem because he feared that diaspora Jews living in a free world could
fade out of existence - which they could, but for recurring external threats as
exemplified by the London bombs.

If they would only leave us alone for a generation, said Theodor Herzl, the
founder of political Zionism, we would all vanish. There is no chance of that. A
famous passage from the Passover liturgy - ''In every generation men rise
against us to destroy us'' - is repeatedly confirmed by experience.

The problem in this instance, however, is not only a Jewish one. Hizbollah,
Hamas and Islamic Jihad are not anti-Semites in the classical sense of the term,
if only because they are semites themselves, and they have declared war not only
on Israel and the diaspora, but against Western civilisation, which they regard
with contempt as the work of Satan.

The New York World Trade Centre, which suffered a massive Hamas attack, was not
a specific Jewish target. The car bomb that destroyed the Jewish community
centre in Buenos Aires killed some Jews and a great many non- Jews, and it was a
miracle that the car bombs in Kensington and Finchley resulted only in a few
injuries.

For Hamas and others, non-Jewish casualties are not a regrettable by-product,
but a desirable bonus. They have also killed many Arabs. The more blood, the
more deaths, the greater the devastation, the better. There is no limit to the
enormities that men or women will commit when they are convinced they are
asserting the will of God.

Israel remains their main target, not because it is a Jewish state, but because
they regard it as a Western outpost in a Muslim world - much as the Frankish
Kingdom of Jerusalem was in Crusader times. They hope eventually to triumph over
the Jews much as their forefathers triumphed - it took them a century to do so -
over the Crusaders.

But the Crusaders were aliens to the Holy Land; the Jews are not. The Crusaders
had homes to go back to, the Jews do not; and now that most moderate Arabs have
reconciled themselves to the existence of Israel, the extremists have redoubled
their efforts to undermine it. Their very desperation is proof that the peace
process is working, and their atrocities, far from impeding it, are only likely
to accelerate it.

(Photograph omitted)


LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1994 Independent Print Ltd

                              411 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            July 28, 1994, Thursday

Inside File: Lubbers: a Major error of judgement

BYLINE: ANNIKA SAVILL

SECTION: EUROPEAN NEWS PAGE; Page 11

LENGTH: 656 words


AS officials in Brussels fret over what life will be like under their new boss,
whom they regard as a non-entity who will weaken the powers of the European
Commission, it is worth telling two anecdotes, explaining why one of Britain's
choices was a non-starter in the eyes of Europe's two most powerful leaders.

Back in the early days of the drive towards German unification, Helmut Kohl was
faced with the intractable issue of Poland's western border with Germany and
recognition of the Oder-Neisse line. Aware of the immense domestic pressure by
more than 12 million Germans expelled from Poland, the Soviet Union and
Czechoslovakia, the Chancellor equivocated and prevaricated for months. The rest
of Europe's politicians knew the delicate nature of his internal policy
manoeuvring, and kept off the subject.

That is, except for Ruud Lubbers. At the Strasbourg EC summit in December 1989,
the Dutch leader marched up to the Chancellor over pre-dinner drinks and
demanded to know, ''What do you think you are doing?'' and ''What is this Oder-
Neisse line anyway?''. Whether he was being tired and emotional, or just plain
maladroit, nobody speaks to Mr Kohl that way. Hence the comment by a German
envoy during the struggle to find a compromise candidate for the commission:
''We will never accept Lubbers, because nobody can control him.''

Even more startling is the story of why Francois Mitterrand would have none of
Mr Lubbers. The latter incurred the wrath of the French President during the
most fraught negotiations over the Maastricht Treaty in December 1991. John
Major was upsetting everybody, and the French government more than anyone else,
with his opposition to the Social Chapter and the clause on Economic and
Monetary Union. Everybody, that is, except for Mr Lubbers, who with what the
French called ''typical Dutch Atlanticist penchant'' weighed in with drafts even
more anti-communautaire than those of Mr Major. ''Mitterrand was so angry he
threatened to leave the room,'' said a source in the chamber.

So enter Jacques Santer, whom the Franco-German axis seems more confident of
controlling in the face of British foot-dragging. Some officials in the
Commission say that such a weak president will turn the body into a disaster
area. But here is the twist: others, including those in the president's cabinet,
are more confident. ''So long as we have the right commissioners in place,
politically able and not mere technocrats, things might still work out,'' said
one source. Who might those be? ''Well, you know. People like Sir Leon Brittan
and Neil Kinnock.''

ARGENTINA and Israel are making common cause in New York to ask the Security
Council to address international terrorism, following last week's bombing of a
Jewish community centre in Buenos Aires that killed 95 people.

Gad Yaacobi, Israel's envoy to the UN, has said that investigations ''have
pointed clearly to Iranian involvement'' and ''Iran considers terrorism an
acceptable means to achieve its political ends and views its opponents as
legitimate targets for terrorist attacks. Iran has been and remains a prime
sponsor of terrorism throughout the world.''

Best of luck. Britain, on whose soil the next anti-Israeli attack took place,
sought to single out Iran in a similar way more than two weeks before. The final
statement at the Group of Seven summit in Naples was to have included, for the
first time, a specific reference to both Iran and terrorism in the same
paragraph. British diplomats were proudly leaking that fact 24 hours in advance.
The peg was, of course, the discovery of direct links between Iran and the
provisional IRA. However, when the final text of the statement was issued, it
was only to ''condemn terrorism in all its forms, especially when
state-sponsored, and reaffirm our resolve to co-operate in combating it with
determination''. Of the Islamic Republic, there was not a mention.


LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1994 Independent Print Ltd

                              412 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            July 28, 1994, Thursday

Bomb Attacks: Israelis believe attacks mark a new onslaught; Charles Richards
looks at possible motives for the wave of anti-Jewish bombings and considers who
may be responsible

BYLINE: CHARLES RICHARDS

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 2

LENGTH: 657 words


ISRAEL has warned that the bombs in Buenos Aires and London mark a ''new stage
of terror'' against Israeli and Jewish targets.

Speaking on a brief stopover in London, Israeli's tourism minister, Uzi Baram,
pointed the finger firmly at Iran which, he said, sponsored the Islamic groups
that had carried out the attacks. Even though the car bombers did not die in the
attacks, they were prepared to do so. Therefore, Europe should come to terms
with the possibility of suicide car bombs. ''This is another level of attack,
another level of terror.''

Investigators will be concentrating on two main areas: motive and organisational
ability. The possible motives are: to derail the Arab-Israeli peace process; to
avenge Israeli attacks on southern Lebanon; or a combination of these.

Israel has always ascribed a political motive to such attacks. When Israeli
soldiers were attacked in southern Lebanon on Monday, Israeli officials said
Iran had timed the attacks to coincide with Jordanian-Israeli agreements being
reached in Washington.

However, many in the region believe the motive was simple revenge for the
devastation wrought by Israel on the villages and population of south Lebanon
during its invasion, codenamed Operation Accountability, exactly a year ago.

The method used for planting the explosives will also be scrutinised. The car
bomb is the hallmark of Lebanese, rather than Palestinian, groups. However,
Israeli security officials have been warning for a few months that some of the
Palestinian Islamic extremists have shown great familiarity with bomb-making.

Several Islamic groups could have carried out the bombings. On the Palestinian
side are Hamas (the Islamic Resistance Movement) and Islamic Jihad. The main
Lebanese group is Hizbollah, although another Lebanese group - Ansar Allah (the
Followers of God) - said they carried out the Buenos Aires attack which killed
nearly 100 in a Jewish community centre. All these groups have some contact with
Tehran. Yesterday, a claim by an alleged Hamas spokesman, that it planted the
London bombs, was repudiated by the movement in Jordan.

Israel believes none of these organisations acted alone. It says that to
acquire, move around, prime and set off such a large amount of explosives
presupposes the kind of organisational support only available to government
agencies.

Iran has rejected accusations of involvement, which it said was a pretext for
Israel to launch the kind of campaign against Hizbollah, Islamic groups and
Iranian targets which it led against Palestinian extremists in the 1970s.
''Accusing the Islamists even before the British police could find the
perpetrators shows that Israel wants to take advantage of these incidents to
justify its current aggression and possible future attacks on its opponents in
the region,'' Tehran Radio said in a commentary yesterday.

Determining Iran's motives is never straightforward. The pragmatists around
President Rafsanjani speak about seeking better ties with the West. However,
there are reports of rivalries between different branches of the intelligence
services. There are those who would like revenge for the bombing last month at
Mashad, the holiest shrine in Iran, which was said to have been by the Mujahedin
Khalq terrorist organisation. Iran has protested before that the Government
allows the Mujahedin Khalq to operate in Britain.

For all Israel's protestations that the aims of such attacks is to derail the
peace process, there is little evidence they will. The Arab-Israel conflict has
changed dramatically over the past two years, with agreement reached between
Israel and the Palestinians, the PLO chairman returned to Palestine, and now a
non-belligerency accord reached between Israel and Jordan.

That process seems irreversible. So if the bombers had a political motive,
rather than a desire merely to hit at Israel, they are likely to be thwarted.


LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1994 Independent Print Ltd

                              413 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            July 28, 1994, Thursday

Bomb Attacks: Bombers are prepared to die, police warn; Round-the-clock armed
guard for Jewish targets in London - Iran accused of sponsoring guilty groups

BYLINE: JAMES CUSICK, STEPHEN WARD and JASON BENNETTO

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 2

LENGTH: 713 words


SCOTLAND YARD warned yesterday that the terrorist attacks on Jewish targets are
virtually unpreventable because the bombers are prepared to risk killing
themselves.

Sir Paul Condon, Metropolitan Police Commissioner, said precautions taken in
London for the past decade have assumed terrorists would make sure they gave
themselves time to escape after planting a bomb.

He also announced immediate round- the-clock armed police security for more than
100 key buildings associated with Israel and the Jewish community in the wake of
the two car bombings in two days in the capital. This protection includes
surveillance and parking bans for more than 100 buildings, and increased
security for hundreds of other sites.

Sir Paul said the police now faced a ''new dimension'' given the power and
ferocity of the two bombs. Both were estimated to be 30 pounds of high
explosive. He said a terrorist prepared to trigger a device within moments of
delivering it to the target, as occurred at the Israeli embassy in Kensington
Palace Gardens, central London, and in Finchley, north London, was a ''potential
suicide bomber''.

He also defended his force against criticism of its failure to stop the second
bomb only 13 hours after the first.

Brigadier-General Azriel Nevo, Israel's military attache to London, said on
Israeli radio that authorities in Britain had ''blundered''. He said that after
the embassy bomb ''our people gave their evaluation to the British authorities
that there was a danger now to the Jewish institutions and, here you are - there
was a second blast in the middle of the night''.

However, Sir Paul insisted: ''We are at one with the Israeli agencies involved,
and we are working in partnership with them to prevent any further terrorist
attacks in London.''

He said the warnings had been proved correct ''with hindsight'', but his
information was that all requests from the Israeli government, but not other
Jewish groups, had been acted on.

Security sources revealed last night that M15 had carried out a ''threat
assessment'' on the risk of attack by Islamic extremists on targets in London
and concluded that there was a real possibility of a terror campaign in Britain.

The warning, which was part of a continuous programme of surveillance and
assessment, would have been sent to the Metropolitan Police and government
departments, including the Home Office.

Suggestions that the security services believed Islamic groups such as Hamas and
Hizbollah would not carry out attacks in London because of the potentially
disastrous repercussions were dismissed as untrue.

However, it is understood that neither MI5 nor MI6 were aware of any immediate
terror threat in the capital, or that an active unit intended to bomb the
Israeli embassy. It became clear yesterday how a terrorist had managed to
penetrate one of the most sensitive streets in London to plant the Israeli
embassy bomb. Guards who control barriers at either end of Kensington Palace
Gardens had been given no advice to be more vigilant over recent days.

The Metropolitan Police, and the Crown Estate which employs them, say the
barriers are not there for security. Guards have no power to stop anyone; even
after the two bombings in the past two days these rules have not changed.

The freeholds to all the buildings on the private street belong to the Crown
Estate, which employs private security guards from the Corps of Commissionaires,
a non-profit making company which employs personnel who have been in the forces,
the fire or services.

Jack Peck, area manager for the Corps, said: ''We always record the registration
number, the time, and where the visitors say they are going.'' The only security
role is to report anything suspicious to the Diplomatic Protection police. ''It
is difficult to define what we would pass on. You know if something is not quite
right.'' The woman who bombed the Israeli embassy was not reported as
suspicious. Her number plates were false.

The guards let through unquestioned any car with diplomatic number plates, and
allow in any driver who says he or she has come to collect a visa from an
embassy. No check is made to see if they went where they said they would.

Leading article, page 17


LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1994 Independent Print Ltd

                              414 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 July 29, 1994

ARGENTINA 'WARNED LONDON ABOUT BOMB'

BYLINE: Derek Brown In Jerusalem And Ian Black In London

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FOREIGN PAGE; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 534 words


ARGENTINA gave Britain advance warning that it was likely to be a target for
bomb blasts like that which killed almost 100 people at a Jewish centre in
Buenos Aires, Edgar Bronfman, a Jewish leader said yesterday.

However, a statement issued by the British embassy in Buenos Aires said: "We did
not receive any information from the Argentine government in advance of the bomb
attack in London."

In London, a Foreign Office spokesman said: "We had no advance warning." Police
in London and the office of the Prime Minister, John Major, also said they had
received no intelligence from Argentina.

Mr Bronfman, the president of the World Jewish Congress, said yesterday that
Argentina is considering breaking relations with Tehran if it is shown that Iran
was linked to the Buenos Aires bombing on July 18.

He said Argentina's president, Carlos Menem, had told him that an Iranian
dissident tipped off Argentinian investigators in Venezuela during an interview
in connection with the Buenos Aires blast.

"The Iranian who was in Venezuela had told (the Argentines) it was going to
happen in London," Mr Bronfman said. "That's pretty good proof it was the same
group (acting in London and Buenos Aires)."

Mr Bronfman said Mr Menem had told him he warned London.

Israel said yesterday it would pursue and punish the bombers of Jewish
institutions in Buenos Aires and its embassy in London, while Iran warned that
such attacks were likely to spread to other European capitals, and denied
responsibility.

As tension mounted and hundreds of Shi'ite Muslim villagers fled south Lebanon -
the likely scene of any retaliation - the bombings were high on the agenda of a
special cabinet meeting in Jerusalem, and ministers hinted that Israel would
take military action against groups associated with Iran.

A cabinet statement said: "The government condemns the bloodshed against
innocent civilians, and declares it will act and help to capture the criminals
and punish them."

The Israeli foreign ministry has put all its foreign missions on high alert.
The government has asked all other countries to increase protection of potential
Jewish targets.

The Israeli foreign minister, Shimon Peres, said he hoped other countries would
follow the example of Argentina, which has demanded the extradition of a Shia
guerrilla leader from Lebanon for questioning.

The Lebanese government has refused the request, despite Argentina's reported
threat to break off diplomatic relations.

The main groups suspected by Israel and Western countries are the Lebanon-based
Hizbullah and the main Palestinian Islamic group, Hamas. Both have denied any
involvement.

Mr Peres insisted that Iran was behind the wave of attacks. But Tehran Radio
claimed that Israel had staged the bombings.

"They will probably extend them to other European capitals, so that they can get
maximum benefit from these explosions against Islam, the Islamic movements and
the Islamic Republic of Iran," the radio station said.

Britain and Argentina yesterday called for a United Nations condemnation of
"international terrorism" after the bombs.

An endless, nasty little war, page 18

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              415 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 July 29, 1994

Argentina 'gave early warning' of London bombs

BYLINE: Benedict Brogan

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 622 words


ARGENTINA gave Britain advance warning that it was a likely target for bomb
blasts similar to one which killed 96 people at a Jewish centre in Buenos Aires,
a Jewish leader insisted last night.

Mr Edgar Bronfman, World Jewish Congress president, also claimed that Argentina
was considering breaking off relations with Iran if Iran is shown to be involved
with the group behind the bombing in Buenos Aires.

Mr Bronfman said Argentine President Carlos Menem had told him an Iranian
dissident had given the information that London Jewish centres were also a
target when interviewed in Venezuela by Argentinian investigators in connection
with the July 18 Buenos Aires blast.

"That's pretty good proof that it was the same group acting in London and Buenos
Aires," he added. "And Menem even phoned London to warn them," he said.

Agents of Mossad, the Israeli secret service, have flown to London to assist MI5
and Scotland Yard. Ten days ago the Israeli embassy warned British intelligence
that Islamic terrorists were planning attacks in London, but the warning was
apparently ignored.

Police and security organisations in London were caught off their guard by the
bombs outside the Israeli embassy and a Jewish fundraising organisation which
injured 19 people. The Board of Deputies of British Jews said it warned police a
month ago that extremist attacks could be expected, but that the British
authorities did not appear to share their concern.

In a speech last night, seen as part of a concentrated damage-limitation
excercise aimed at reassuring the Jewish community of Britain's commitment to
their security, Prime Minister John Major pledged every effort would be made to
track down and bring to justice the terrorists behind the attacks.

Addressing the Conservative Middle East Council, Mr Major said: "We have to seek
out the perpetrators and bring them to justice. It is entirely unacceptable for
any state to tolerate, let alone support, terrorism, and the international
community must unite against it."

Mr Major expressed his repugnance at the bombings, and added: "Terrorism has
been directed at those who seek peace in the Middle East."

However, he emphasised that he did not blame Islam. "We deeply respect Islam.
We do not regard it as a threat. It is wrong to equate the extremism of a few in
the Middle East with the religion of Islam."

The car bombs which caused extensive damage to the Israeli embassy in Kensington
and the offices of the Joint Israel Appeal in north London have prompted fears
of a wave of state-sponsored Middle East terrorism in the capital.

Armed police have been deployed around hundreds of potential Jewish and Israeli
targets to provide 24-hour protection. Special Branch officers and Jewish
community leaders have also reviewed security needs in Glasgow.

Mr Major met with the Israeli ambassador Moshe Raviv to express "profound
sympathy" and Mr Douglas Hurd, the Foreign Secretary, discussed possible
responses with the President of the Board of Deputies of British Jews.

Britain yesterday joined forces with Argentina at the United Nations to seek an
urgent resolution condemning the bomb attacks and calling for concerted
international action against terrorism.

Iran accused Israel of staging the bombings to attract Western support in the
battle against Islam, and warned that bombings against Jewish and Israeli
targets would spread to the rest of Europe.

But Israel, which yesterday pledged to hunt down those responsible, has made
clear it suspects Iran and the terrorist group Hizbollah, which is based in
Lebanon and receives Iranian support.

Israel has put its embassies and missions worldwide on high alert.

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              416 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             July 29, 1994, Friday

MI5 fears terror war on streets of London; Intelligence warns of undercover
battle as Israelis seek revenge for bombings

BYLINE: JAMES CUSICK and PATRICIA WYNN DAVIES

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 2

LENGTH: 523 words


INCREASING concern that the streets of London could become a battlefield for
Israeli intelligence squads and Islamic extremist groups was privately expressed
yesterday by British intelligence.

Senior analysts in the Security Service (MI5) believe the Israeli government's
promise yesterday that it would ''hunt down'' those responsible is a worrying,
though predictable, development in the aftermath of the two bombs which exploded
earlier this week.

Last night, John Major followed Israel in pledging an unending quest to bring
the perpetrators of the outrage to justice. But he also emphasised Britain's
''deep respect'' for Islam and the need for a new partnership between Britain
and Europe and the Middle East.

An intelligence source told the Independent that the comment by the Metropolitan
Police Commissioner, Sir Paul Condon, that the British authorities ''are at one
with the Israeli agencies'' was perhaps ''wish rather than reality''.

Scotland Yard, which last night issued a police artist's inpression of the woman
seen leaving the car bomb outside the Israeli embassy, said the sophistication
of the devices and the organisation required to plant two bombs containing 30
pounds of high explosives within 13 hours indicated months of planning. Senior
officers also said the bombs represented the beginning of a ''wave'' of
terrorist attacks to be played out in the capital.

The Israeli cabinet statement that it ''condemns the bloodshed against innocent
civilians, and declares it will act . . . to capture the criminals and punish
them'' was being interpreted in British intelligence circles as resulting in
Israeli retaliation focused on Middle East fundamentalist strongholds and an
increase in the activities of Mossad (the Israeli intelligence network) in
Europe.

The Security Service fear what one source called a ''refereeing role'' where
claims of co-operation are belied by a covert no-holds- barred war.

A potential testing ground for the Police and intelligence services will be an
Islamic conference scheduled for Wembley Arena in north-west London on 7 August.
The International Muslim Khilafah, expected to attract 12,000 people, will be
the largest gathering of its kind outside the Muslim world.

In a speech to the Middle East Council dinner in London, Mr Major announced the
conversion of pounds 60m worth of Overseas Development Aid loans to Jordan to an
outright grant as a ''powerful signal of our support'' - but had few words of
comfort for Iran.

The Prime Minister said: ''Terrorism has been directed at those who seek peace
and progress in the Middle East . . . We must seek out its perpetrators and
bring them to justice . . .''

He said: ''We deeply respect Islam. We do not regard it as a threat. It is
completely wrong to equate the extremism of a few in the Middle East with the
religion of Islam.'' But he added: ''Iran is an important regional power. We
would prefer a normal relationship with her. But many aspects of Iran's
behaviour are simply unacceptable, and indeed threatening: on human rights,
terrorism, her military and nuclear ambitions.''


LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1994 Independent Print Ltd

                              417 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             July 31, 1994, Sunday

Egypt and Jordan send agents to hunt London car bombers

BYLINE: ADEL DARWISH and NICK COHEN

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Page 1

LENGTH: 474 words


BRITISH security services, already embarrassed by claims that they ignored
warnings of Middle East terrorist attacks in London, have been forced to call in
Arab agents to help their search for the Israeli embassy bombers.

Between Tuesday and Friday the Egyptian and Jordanian security services each
sent an agent to London. Two more were due to arrive yesterday and, according to
one diplomatic source, MI5 and MI6 were also asking Lebanese intelligence for
help.

Mossad, the Israeli intelligence service, had already increased the size of its
team in London after warnings that attacks against Israeli and Jewish targets
were imminent.

Both Arab and Israeli diplomats claimed that MI5 and MI6 had a ''relaxed''
attitude towards the warnings - which came to a peak when the Israeli embassy
asked for more protection after 19 July - and an outdated view of Middle East
terrorism.

When Israelis warned that militant Islamic groups were using London as a base
the British authorities said they were ''crying wolf'' again.

When Arab governments called for a clampdown on fundamentalists in London they
were, according to one Arab diplomat, told they just wanted Britain to silence
their Islamic opponents, and ''given a long lecture about freedom of
expression''.

Now, the British security services have been compelled to turn to Middle Eastern
intelligence agencies to find clues to the identity of those who last week
bombed the Israeli embassy and a Jewish organisation in Finchley, north London.

Security services believe the bombs must have been planted by a ''sleeper cell''
whose members had carried out extensive surveillance.

''They have been in London for some time,'' said one intelligence officer.
''They knew exactly how the police would react to a suspect vehicle left
unattended outside the embassy .''

In private, Jewish leaders are angry with the Government. In the past few
months, officers of the Board of Deputies of British Jews gave the police
evidence that attacks on Jewish and Israeli targets were likely in Northern
Europe.

It took no great intelligence coup to work this out, they said. The Lebanese
press and Middle Eastern radio stations said that violence was likely. One
Jewish leader said: ''The politest way to put it is that something has gone very
badly wrong.''

Jewish organisations are also angry that, in private meetings, they failed to
persuade John Major and Michael Howard, the Home Secretary, that membership of
Hamas and Hizbollah should be illegal under the Prevention of Terrorism Act.
Ministers also rejected calls to make it easier to prosecute the publishers of
anti-Semitic and other racist literature.

Fundamentalist Islamic groups, particularly in the universities, have produced a
stream of literature and posters which call for the killing of Jews.


LOAD-DATE: August 01, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1994 Independent Print Ltd

                              418 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             July 31, 1994, Sunday

Bomb alert Britain ignored; Arabs and Jews in London claim that the authorities
turned a deaf ear to their warnings of probable terrorist attacks

BYLINE: ADEL DARWISH and NICK COHEN

SECTION: INTERNATIONAL NEWS PAGE; Page 8

LENGTH: 1146 words


FOR ALMOST a year before the bomb exploded outside the Israeli embassy in
Kensington Palace Gardens, Arab diplomats, the Board of Deputies of British Jews
and officials in the embassy itself were warning the Government that Middle East
terrorism could return to the streets of London.

Last week, after two car bombings, no one wanted to rock the boat and distract
the search for suspects by bluntly criticising MI5, the security service, in
public. But in private Arabs and Jews were saying the same thing: the British
did not listen.

According to the only public statement that MI5 has ever given, the idea that an
apparently experienced terrorist could drive a stolen car into the street next
to the embassy - one of the most heavily protected buildings in London - park
and walk away leaving a bomb behind, was absurd.

Stella Rimington, its director general, proudly stated in her Dimbleby lecture
on 12 June that the security service had made a significant impact in the fight
against Middle East terrorists operating in London.

''We have helped to prevent the intelligence services of a number of Middle
Eastern states from carrying out campaigns of murder against opponents in this
country,'' she said.

Last week, Middle Eastern diplomats were recalling her words and strongly
criticising MI5 and MI6 for their ''old- fashioned approach'' to modern
terrorism.

''They MI5 & MI6 were only concerned with dealing with individual terror attacks
or someone like Colonel Gaddafi or Saddam Hussein sending an assassin to kill an
opponent in London,'' said one diplomat. ''Beirut-style car bombs are different
and they were not ready for them.''

He and Israeli officials criticised the ''relaxed'' attitude of the security
service to information about possible attacks from Islamic extremists.

''They thought London was a difficult target for a terrorist attack from our
part of the world,'' said an Arab intelligence officer arriving in London last
week to help MI5 and the police find the bombers, ''but there are too many fish
swimming in a very large pond . . . London has become an Arab capital, my
friend.''

Just how many fundamentalist opponents of the Israeli/PLO deal there are in
London now, and how many of them would be willing to go beyond legitimate
criticism of a settlement that leaves hundreds of thousands of Palestinians
homeless, is the subject of bitter controversy.

A year ago MI5 was told by Mossad, the Israeli intelligence service, that
Britain had become a major base for Hamas leaders who had direct links with
murder squads.

The claim followed the arrest of two high-ranking Hamas operatives, Mohammad
Salach and Mohammad Jalad. The Palestinians, with US citizenship, had passed
through London carrying $ 600,000 ( pounds 400,000) for rebuilding the
organisation after Israel expelled more than 400 Hamas members to Lebanon.

Israeli sources said then that the men were briefed in London by a senior Hamas
agent before leaving for the West Bank. The agent, whose name is well known to
British intelligence officers, continues to live in London and operate freely.

British Jewish organisations, most notably the board of deputies, backed the
Israeli calls for Hamas and Hizbollah to be labelled as proscribed organisations
under the Prevention of Terrorism Act.

They lobbied John Major and Michael Howard, the Home Secretary, to have the law
changed.

By the spring of this year, the demands had become insistent. Two suicide
car-bomb attacks in Israel - one in September 1993 and one in April this year,
which left 12 dead - led some MI5, MI6 and Scotland Yard officers to share the
Israeli concern.

According to an Israeli Radio report at the time, which was based on an
intelligence leak, Israeli and British officials started working together to
have Hamas declared a terrorist organisation in Britain.

But no ban came. British officials defended their decision by saying that the
Israelis had cried wolf many times in the past.

A successful intelligence strategy should be based on specific warnings about
specific crimes rather than general bans on organisations the Israelis did not
like, they added.

Hamas and Hizbollah may be fighting the Israelis and PLO leadership in the
Middle East but that did not automatically mean they were planning crimes in
London.

When Jordan, Egypt and other Arab countries joined the Israelis in criticising
the British authorities, Britain's response was that they were trying to get the
Government to silence troublesome exiles in London. ''Arab regimes just wanted
Britain to censor their Islamic opponents who make use of the atmosphere of free
speech in Britain,'' said one British official.

The Foreign Office's words are now being thrown back in its face by both Jews
and Arabs.

''We have been urging the British for years to keep an eye on these people but
they are too relaxed,'' said one Arab diplomat who complained that his embassy's
reports about Muslim fundamentalists active in Britain were not taken seriously.
''But they replied, 'You just want us to silence your opposition' and then gave
me a long lecture about freedom of expression.

''They failed to realise the simple fact that violence is commonplace for these
organisations. It is violence and terrorism in different forms and different
degrees, whether intimidating a woman to force the veil on her face, or burning
down a theatre that performed something they Muslims consider anti-Islamic, or
shooting a writer who authored a book considered blasphemous, or blowing up an
embassy - all are the same.''

Last week, the stream of allegations about ignored warnings came to a head when
the World Jewish Congress claimed that Argentina had told Britain that the
investigation into the murder of 96 people in a car bomb at the Beunos Aires
Jewish community centre on 18 July suggested that London could be a target.

Intelligence services often blame each other when something goes wrong. But
support for the claim of British insouciance in the face of a growing threat
comes from the board of deputies, which represents most British Jewish
organisations. Members went to Scotland Yard and raised concerns about security
in numerous meetings with the Home Office and Prime Minister's Office.

Mike Whine, the board's security officer, said that ''you did not have to be
James Bond'' to work out that attacks were likely. Reports in the Lebanese press
and from the BBC international radio monitoring service at Caversham had spoken
repeatedly of the threat of bombings in Northern Europe.

''Our friends in Europe were telling us that there were armed police guards
outside synagogues,'' he said. ''I don't want to be critical of the Metropolitan
Police, but there does seem to have been some problem with the people they pass
their information on to.''


LOAD-DATE: August 01, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1994 Independent Print Ltd

                              419 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 August 1, 1994

LETTER: GERRY AND THE PEACE-MAKERS

BYLINE: Bert Ward

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGE; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 225 words


GERRY ADAMS'S article (Guardian, July 28) is an example of Sinn Fein's use of
obscurantist language, apparently revealing all, but actually concealing
everything.

The simple truth that appears nowhere in this article, but is stated repeatedly
by Sinn Fein elsewhere, is that IRA violence will continue until Britain
announces it will withdraw from Northern Ireland.

When Adams talks of a "peace process" he is therefore referring to a process
whereby the British and Irish governments have been edged, as the Provisionals
and unionists perceive it, towards granting the demands of the IRA. By peace he
means victory.

If Adams's purpose in writing this article was to enlighten the British public,
he would have been much better employed publishing the Adams/Hume document. For
a man so keen to demonstrate his peace credentials, his reluctance to publish
that document is truly amazing.

Far from bringing peace to Northern Ireland, the so-called peace process is
leading to increasing violence by loyalist paramilitaries, as they interpret it
in the same way as Adams.

A genuine peace process requires a cessation of paramilitary violence and
democratic discussions between all the people of Northern Ireland without guns
being held to their heads.

Bert Ward.

New Consensus International,

Middlesbrough TS5.

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              420 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                           August 3, 1994, Wednesday

IRAN LAUNCHES BITTER ATTACK ON BRITAIN

SECTION: OOO

LENGTH: 320 words


Iran has bitterly attacked Britain, accusing it of supporting terrorism and
blindly imitating US policies against Tehran.  Official Tehran Radio said last
night the anti-Iranian policy of the British government was not new and said
such policies were among reasons why Britain was a second-rate power.  "The lack
of independent action, blindly following American and Zionist whims and a lack
of ability to distinguish the truth have, on the whole, transferred Britain to a
second-class and dependent country in Europe and the Middle East," it said.
"This anti-Iranian policy is not unprecedented in Britain," it said, charging
that Britain supported Iraq during eight years of the Iran-Iraq war that ended
in 1988.  "ih5!British turned a blind eye to Iraq's chemical attacks, remained
silent in the face of missile attacks against civilian areas and defenceless
people and did not hold back any assistance from the Iraqi regime," it added.
The radio, monitored by the BBC in Nicosia, accused Britain and the BBC of
supporting the opposition Mujahideen Khalq, which Iran blames for recent
bombings and killings in Iran.  The Mujahideen denies responsibility for the
attacks.  It said Iran had invited British MPs and journalists to visit Tehran
to examine the alleged role of the Mujahideen in the killing of two Christian
pastors last month.  "The secret efforts of the government and Zionist pressure
groups in Britain in preventing the realisation of this invitation are
indicative of coordinated steps that are designed to hide the terrorist
activities of this group," it said. Iran last week attacked the United States
and Britain for hinting that Tehran was behind attacks on Jewish and Israeli
targets in Britain and Argentina while failing to condemn recent bombings in
Iran.  Iran denied involvement in the bombings, which killed nearly 100 people
in Buenos Aires and wounded 19 in London.  Reuter


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1994 The Press Association Limited

                              421 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            August 4, 1994, Thursday

Iran lashes out

SECTION: INTERNATIONAL NEWS PAGE; Page 14

LENGTH: 87 words


NICOSIA - Iran has bitterly attacked Britain, accusing it of supporting
terrorism and blindly imitating US policies against Tehran. Official Tehran
Radio said Britain's anti-Iranian policy, thought not new, was one reason
Britain was a second-rate power.

''The lack of independent action, blindly following American and Zionist whims
and a lack of ability to distinguish the truth have, on the whole, transferred
Britain to a second-class and dependent country in Europe and the Middle East,''
it said. Reuter


LOAD-DATE: August 04, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1994 Independent Print Ltd

                              422 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 August 5, 1994

PARIS BLASTS UK OVER ISLAMISTS

BYLINE: Ian Black, Vivek Chaudhary And Richard Norton-Taylor

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 559 words


FRANCE bitterly reproached Britain last night for harbouring Muslim militants.
The attack came a day after suspected Muslim guerrillas shot dead five French
government employees at an embassy housing complex in Algiers.

The diplomatic rift occurred amid warnings that a controversial weekend
conference in London organised by a radical Islamic group banned across the
Middle East could serve as a focus for fundamentalists.

In a radio interview the French interior minister, Charles Pasqua, said Britain
had ignored requests from Paris for action against supporters of the Islamic
Salvation Front (FIS), driven underground by the military regime in Algiers. At
the same time it emerged that the Royal Institute of International Affairs,
closely linked to the Foreign Office, recently organised a secret meeting with
FIS representatives.

Mr Pasqua said France was vigilant in cracking down on fundamentalist militants
on its soil but Britain, Germany and the United States had failed to act when
tipped off about similar activities.

"They have within their borders people who claim to be official representatives
of the FIS and we have already made diplomatic representations to these
countries and we will make more," he said.

Yesterday France ordered seven Islamic militants to be transported to the east
of the country and placed under house arrest.

Muslim militants have been high on the agenda of the police and security
services in Britain since the bombing last week of the Israeli embassy and a
Jewish charity, which followed the deaths of 96 people in an attack on a Jewish
centre in Argentina.

Jewish groups have called for action against this weekend's conference of the
Hizb ut-Tahrir, but the Home Office says that a ban on entry into the country on
grounds of being a member of an organisation is limited to those linked to
Northern Irish terrorism.

Under immigration rules, foreign nationals can be denied entry if it is
considered "not conducive to the public good".

However, police can prosecute on evidence of incitement to racial hatred. This
could catch any speakers indulging in anti-semitic abuse at the rally.

Security sources confirmed that agents from the Mossad, Israel's secret service,
flew into London after last month's bomb attacks. But they have gone out of
their way to insist that the agents would not be allowed to carry guns in
Britain.

Farid Kassim, spokesman of Hizb ut-Tahrir in Britain, said delegations
representing Muslim groups from Europe, the Middle East, Asia and across Britain
would be attending Sunday's Wembley Arena gathering.

He added: "We deny that terrorists are being invited to speak. We have got
professors, academics and political exiles who believe in Islam as a concept and
ideology.

"There's been an orchestrated campaign against this conference from individuals
and groups in this country who are opposed to Islam."

On Wednesday presumed Muslim terrorists killed five people in the French embassy
compound in Algiers, bringing to 56 the number of foreigners murdered in the
last 10 months. More than 4,000 Algerians have also died.

Mr Pasqua's charges followed a similar claim by the Tunisian president, Zine Ben
Ali, angry at the presence in Britain of a Tunisian fundamentalist, Rashid
Ghannouchi.

West at odds, page 14

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              423 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 August 5, 1994

WEST AT ODDS ON ALGERIAN VIOLENCE

BYLINE: Ian Black Diplomatic Editor

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FOREIGN PAGE; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 521 words


ESCALATING violence against foreigners in Algeria is sharpening the dilemma
facing Western governments, which are watching helplessly as the country's
military regime shuns dialogue with its fundamentalist enemies but proves
impotent to crush them.

After the latest atrocity, when Muslim militants driving a booby-trapped car
into the embassy compound on Wednesday killed five French gendarmes and
officials, the Netherlandsannounced yesterday that it was closing its mission.

Belgium advised its nationals to leave.

Britain is keeping its embassy in Algiers open for now, but with staff levels
reduced by half and few dependants remaining, the Foreign Office said.

France, the strongest Western supporter of the regime, has insisted it will not
reduce numbers, but it is already coming under strong pressure from allies to
actively urge President Liamine Zeroual to seek dialogue.

Fifty-six foreigners, including 15 French nationals, have been killed in the
last 10 months, and more than 4,000 Algerians have died in what now amounts to
civil war.

France, which ruled Algeria until 1962, is a prime target for the
fundamentalists because of its firm support for the Algerian authorities who
scrapped a general election in January 1992 which the Islamic Salvation Front
was poised to win. The front now has the legitimacy of frustated democrats.

Robert Pelletreau, the US assistant secretary of state, said yesterday that
Wednesday's incident "only reinforces the concern we have that the government
takes measures to broaden its political dialogue".

But the French interior minister, Charles Pasqua, hit back, accusing Britain,
Germany and the US of harbouring FIS militants and doing nothing to curb their
activities, even when tipped off.

More pressure is expected in the next few weeks when the European Union's
working group on north Africa meets to discuss the deteriorating situation and
whether economic aid to Algiers should be made conditional on the early holding
of free elections.

Last month Paris supported a statement issued by the Naples G7 summit urging the
Algerian government "to continue a political dialogue with all elements . . .
rejecting violence and terrorism".

But France has not followed through on this commitment.

The issue will move higher up the EU agenda towards the end of the year as
France prepares to take over the presidency from Germany, which is already
advocating greater priority for the north African Maghreb states.

Wednesday's incident caused particular anxiety because of the audacity and
sophistication of the method: a Beirut-style car bomb.

"This was an attack on protected diplomatic premises and was part of an attempt
to plant a car bomb, every security man's nightmare, especially if they turn out
to be connected to a suicide mission," one diplomat said.

"It is very difficult for the outside world to say to a government like the
Algerian one that you must negotiate with these terrorists and fundamentalists.
But it is quite clear that something has to be done to bridge the gap in
Algerian society."

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              424 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 August 6, 1994

France rounds up Muslim militants in wake of murders

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 825 words


Paris, Friday

FRANCE interned 16 Algerian Muslim fundamentalists in a disused army barracks
today and urged its Western allies to gag sympathisers in response to the murder
of five Frenchmen in Algiers claimed by Islamic guerrillas.

Hardline Interior Minister Charles Pasqua ordered a highly publicised dawn
roundup of nine Islamists, including two imams (preachers), in Paris, Lyon,
Marseille, and Lille, two days after a Beirut-style attack on a French embassy
housing complex.

They were taken to join seven other militants interned yesterday under heavy
guard at an army camp in the village of Folembray, north-east of Paris, in moves
intended to show the Government was taking firm, fast action.

Six were served with expulsion orders "on imperative grounds of state and public
security", but they will be interned because of the risks they would face in
their home country.

The Foreign Ministry said Paris had asked the United States, Britain, and
Germany through diplomatic channels to silence exiled leaders of the Algerian
Islamic Salvation Front (FIS) on their territory.

Bonn and London immediately denied Pasqua's accusation that they were soft on
Muslim militants and said they had no evidence that crimes had been committed or
prepared on their soil.

The Foreign Office said Britain had consistently taken a strong stand against
terrorism and dismissed the French accusations of giving the militants shelter.

"Individuals here have full freedom provided that they act within the law," a
Foreign Office spokesman said in response to the French criticism. "Our stand
against terrorism is strong and consistent. We would look very seriously at any
evidence of illegal acts committed by individuals in this country."

Three French paramilitary gendarmes and two consular officials were shot dead on
Wednesday when nine assailants, disguised as Algerian police commandos, opened
fire and tried to detonate a car bomb inside the residential compound.

The radical Armed Islamic Group (GIA), which warned foreigners earlier this year
to leave the country within a month or face attacks, today claimed
responsibility for Wednesday's attack in a message faxed to the London-based
Arab newspaper al-Hayat.

Prime Minister Edouard Balladur bitterly condemned the fundamentalists at an
emotional memorial ceremony at Dugny air base, near Le Bourget, north of Paris.

"An ideology cannot be built on hatred, much less on odious murders. One does
not serve religion by mixing it with terrorism. One cannot build the future by
rejecting the outside world," he said in a eulogy in front of five flag-draped
coffins in an aircraft hangar.

Pasqua said on television on last night that French authorities would take all
necessary measures and maintain "a state of vigilance" towards Algerian
fundamentalists.

Among the militants confined in Folembray, surrounded by barbed wire fences and
armed gendarmes in bullet-proof jackets, was Djaffar al-Houari, leader of the
Algerian Fraternity in France (FAF), seen by police as a support group for the
FIS.

France has strongly supported Algeria's army-backed authorities since they
cancelled a general election in January 1992 which the FIS had been poised to
win.

The move triggered worsening civil strife in which at least 4000 Algerians and
56 foreigners have been killed.

Rabah Kebir, German-based president of the FIS leadership in exile, told the
newspaper Le Monde: "The position of France, which refuses the free choice of
the Algerian people, negates democracy and gives unlimited support to the
military dictatorship, is an outright provocation."

Quoting a proverb, he said: "He who sows the wind will reap the whirlwind."

Officials said France was keen to muzzle Kebir and Anouar Haddam, a leader of
FIS politicians, based in Washington.

Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Catherine Colonna said Paris had asked its Western
partners again through diplomatic channels to prevent these leaders from
carrying out political activities and making unacceptable public statements.

Pasqua said the idea that "moderate" Islamists could come to power in Algeria
was an illusion. The only choice was between backing a government that was "not
a model of democracy" or seeing the most extreme fundamentalists seize power.

Kebir said through a spokesman that he was considering legal action against
Pasqua after the Minister described him in a French TV interview as one of the
"murderers' accomplices".

The opposition Socialist party criticised Pasqua's comments, saying France would
do better to support democratic forces in Algeria rather than claiming there was
no alternative other than the army or the fundamentalists.

Paris regrouped its remaining personnel in Algiers in the heavily-guarded
embassy compound after Wednesday's attack. Other Western governments have placed
their nationals in Algeria on alert.--Reuter.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Shared grief: Family and friends of the five French nationals murdered
in Algiers by Muslim fundamentalists weep during a state ceremony at Le Bourget
military base near Paris, at which Prime Minister Edouard Balladur paid tribute
to the dead.Picture: GARETH WATKINS/Reuter.

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              425 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                            August 6, 1994, Saturday

FROM THE FIRST EDITIONS:

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 1186 words


NEWS OF THE WORLD FLOYD: MY VICE SHAME: TV cook Keith Floyd confessed last night
that he hired prostitutes and phoned sex lines after his wife walked out.
RIDDLE AS ROCK STARS' CASH MAN VANISHES: An accountant who looks after £3
million for Pink Floyd star Rick Wright has vanished without trace.  TARZAN'S
REVENGE: Trade supremo Michael Heseltine is planning to get his own back on
Michael Portillo by swallowing up a chunk of his Cabinet rival's Department of
Employment.  Sport: TREV BUYS NEW PET: Romanian World Cup star Dan Petrescu has
snubbed the high life in Italy to join Trevor Francis's Sheffield Wednesday.

MAIL ON SUNDAY 'MOVE THE QUEEN OUT': The Queen should move out of Buckingham
Palace and Windsor Castle and into a new 'People's Palace' built by Britain's
top architects, Labour's Heritage spokeswoman Marjorie Mowlam says.  MARINES GO
ON TUNA WAR ALERT: Armed Royal Marines were on standby last night to protect
British trawlers from further Spanish attacks.  GIRL TELLS OF FAIRGROUND TERROR
RIDE: Rosemary Charles told yesterday of the terrifying moment when she was
hurled 40ft from the Porthcawl fairground white-knuckle ride.  City: TAX
FUGITIVE SEEKS £100m VAT REBATE: Octav Botnar, who is wanted in connection with
one of the UK's largest tax frauds, may be in line for a multi-million pound VAT
rebate.  Sport: END THIS CHAOS: Cricket bosses are set to act over the third
umpire as controversy marred the Second Test at Headingley yesterday.

EXPRESS DIANA "DOCTOR" AN EX-JAILBIRD: A convicted armed robber has treated the
Princess of Wales at Windsor Castle for medical disorders, it is claimed by a
consultant who is a partner of the convicted criminal.  KNAPP'S OTHER WOMAN: The
devastated wife of rail union leader Jimmy Knapp has accused him of ruining her
life by leaving her for a German divorcee.  WHAT A CARRY ON: The Queen Mother
packed up her favorite corgis yesterday for their annual holiday to Scotland. An
aide was spotted carrying one of the pets on to her aircraft.  Sport: BATTLING
BOKS: England were still on course for victory in the second Cornhill Test
against South Africa at Headingley yesterday.

PEOPLE TV IVY'S AMAZING SEX TAPE: Coronation Street star Lynne Perrie was
secretly taped when she made an amazing late-night phone call about her sizzling
sex life.  LET EVIL KILLER HINDLEY FREE TO BE A SUPER SECRETARY, SAYS THE LOONY
LORD LONGFORD: Do-gooder Lord Longford sparked fury last night by claiming that
evil Moors murderer Myra Hindley was ready to go free - and start a job as a
super secretary.  BOOZE TAX IS SLASHED IN PRICE WAR WITH FRENCH: Booze prices
are set for a dramatic drop under a round of tax cuts by Chancellor Kenneth
Clarke.  Sport: TEL TO SUE FA BOSS: England coach Terry Venables is to shake the
football establishment to its foundations by sueing one of his FA bosses for
£200,000.

MIRROR PHIL-HARMONIC: Phil Collins relaxes in the sunshine with a beautiful
brunette almost half his age just days before Monday's showdown with his
estranged second wife.  BBC STAFF OUTRAGE AT BIRT'S £250,000 PAY DEAL: The BBC
has rewarded director-general John Birt for losing six million viewers and
listeners with a massive pay rise to nearly £250,000 a year.  GUN LAW: Britain
moves a step closer to gun law on Monday with the open arming of police officers
guarding 10 Downing Street and diplomatic nerve centres.  Sport: LOVE AT FIRST
DIVE: Jurgen Klinsmann dived into English football yesterday and it was love at
first sight.  SUNDAY TIMES RAILTRACK TO HIRE 200 TO BREAK STRIKE: Railtrack is
recruiting an extra 200 signalmen to bolster its strike-breaking force.
REVEALED: SCANDAL OF BRITAIN'S CUSTOMS-FREE AIRPORTS: Several UK international
airports have become customs-free zones after an unannounced decision by Customs
and Excise to concentrate on intelligence rather than spot checks.  BRITISH TO
JOIN HAITI INVASION: British and Argentine forces are expected to serve
alongside one another in Haiti as part of an international peace-keeping force
being assembled by the Clinton administration.  City: CABINET ROW SPLITS
INDUSTRY: Michael Portillo's outspoken attack on his fellow Cabinet minister
Michael Heseltine has split British industry.  STORM GATHERS OVER ELECTRICITY
PRICE CONTROLS: A storm over electricity charges will be triggered this week if,
as the City expects, industry regulator Stephen Littlechild announces smaller
price cuts than he previously indicated.

TELEGRAPH FOOD FIRMS REVOLT OVER HEALTHY EATING: Britain's leading food
manufacturers have mounted a revolt against growing attempts by Whitehall to
shift the nation's diet towards so-called "healthy eating".  REVEALED: HOW AIDS
SCIENTISTS GOT IT WRONG: Hard evidence that scientists have fundamentally
misunderstood the Aids virus will be produced on Monday by French scientists. It
will show billions have been wasted on rare and expensive drugs while cheaper
treatments can be effective in halting the progress of the disease.  PORTILLO
PLAYS POP STAR AT PALACE: The Employment Secretary is planning a massive party
at London's Alexandra Palace - complete with a rocket display set to music - to
celebrate his tenth anniversary as MP.  City: FUNERAL WAR SIGNALS NEW TAKEOVER
FEVER: The battle to dominate Britain's funeral industry will reach fever pitch
this week as US group Service Corporation International locks horns with
Canadian rival Loewen, the 11th-hour would-be white knight for Great Southern
Group.

OBSERVER DEFENCE CHIEFS COURT LABOUR: Britain's three most senior military
chiefs have had a series of meetings with Labour's shadow defence secretary,
overturning an 80-year ban on briefing Opposition politicians.  RAIL PEACE TALKS
GET BACK ON TRACK: Hopes for an end to the rail dispute were raised last night
when the signalmen's union said face-to-face talks with Railtrack this week were
"very possible".  PRINCES GET MILLIONS FROM TRUST: The Queen Mother has put up
to £19m of her estimated £26m private fortune into trust funds to benefit her
great-grandchildren.  City: US DRAWS UP DIY INVASION PLAN: Atlanta-based Home
Depot, the world's largest DIY group, is planning an assault on the European
market.

INDEPENDENT ON SUNDAY COMPANY POCKETS 50p FROM EVERY RWANDA DONATION: A
telephone game company has been making up to £12,500 a day since the launch of
charity appeals for Rwanda two weeks ago.  PORTILLO MET TOP HESELTINE AIDE:
Michael Portillo, the employment secretary, met a senior aide of Board of Trade
Michael Heseltine less than four days before the leak of the letter showing the
two men at loggerheads.  NASA MAN CALLED IN OVER BALL-TAMPERING: Cricket's
ruling body has called in a scientist from the American space agency Nasa to
resolve the game's ball-tampering controversy.  City: MORE LOSS OF FACE FOR SFO:
The Serious Fraud Office has suffered an embarrassing setback after all for
defendants in a key fraud case were found not guilty last week at the end of a
costly three-month trial at Liverpool Crown Court which followed the collapse of
Seil Trade Finance.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1994 The Press Association Limited

                              426 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             August 7, 1994, Sunday

Muslim rally angers Jews; Islamic body accused of racism

BYLINE: By KENAN MALIK

SECTION: BRITAIN PAGE; Page 8

LENGTH: 915 words


AN ESTIMATED 10,000 people are expected to attend a Muslim conference at
London's Wembley Arena today. The aim of the International Muslim Khilafah
conference, the biggest such gathering ever held in the West, is ''to assist in
the work to unify the global Muslim community''.

The event has caused consternation among MPs and Jewish groups, particularly in
the wake of the recent bombings of Jewish targets in London. Tory-run Brent
council, in whose borough Wembley Arena lies, appealed unsuccessfully to the
Home Secretary to ban the conference. The council leader, Bob Blackman, said the
event ''would set back race relations in the area by 10 years''.

The conference organisers dismissed such claims. ''British politicians seem to
believe in freedom of speech except when it comes to Muslims,'' said Farid
Kassim, a spokesman. So what is the truth about the people behind the
conference?

It has been organised by the Muslim Unity Organisation, a coalition of Islamic
groups. One group in particular - Hizb u Tahrir - is controversial. Its critics
accuse it of anti-Semitism and links with terrorist organisations.

In the past few years, Hizb u Tahrir - Arabic for ''Liberation Party'' - has
gained a new following among young Muslims in Britain, particularly in colleges
and universities. Founded in 1952 in Jordan, it is one of the more militant
Islamic groups. Its aim is the resurrection of the Khilafah, or pan-national
Islamic state. It calls for the destruction not only of of Israel but also of
all existing Arab states that Hizb u Tahrir regards as ''secular'' - even those,
such as Iran, seen in the West as the embodiment of Islamic fundamentalism.

Hizb u Tahrir's often violent oppositional activities in Arab states have
increasingly provoked repression, and many have banned it.

In Britain, Hizb u Tahrir is mainly an intellectual movement which has gained
growing support among students. William Bell, last year's student union
president at London University's School of Oriental and African Studies,
believes its growth reflects the alienation of young Muslims from British
society.

''Hizb u Tahrir appeals predominantly to young students from areas such as Tower
Hamlets where racism is particularly prevalent,'' he said. ''Only Hizb u Tahrir
seems to speak to their anger and understand their frustrations.''

Jewish student groups have accused the organisation of promoting anti-Semitism
and bigotry. According to Paul Solomon, campaigns officer for the Union of
Jewish Students, ''Hizb u Tahrir is the prime cause of a climate of fear and
harassment on British campuses this year.''

As evidence of Hizb u Tahrir's anti-Semitism, Mr Solomon pointed to a quotation
from the prophet Mohamed which frequently appears on the organisation's
leaflets: ''The hour of resurrection will not occur until the Muslims fight the
Jews and the Muslims kill them.''

Mr Solomon is particularly incensed that the Wembley conference is taking place
in the wake of the bombings. ''Last week, Hizbollah, an organisation that
practises essentially what Hizb u Tahrir preaches, brought terror to London,''
he said. ''The Government assured the Jewish community that it would search out
these terrorists and bring them to justice.

''On the other hand it is allowing a conference of this kind with international
speakers from heaven knows where, saying heaven knows what, to take place right
here in the heart of London. That cannot be right.''

Mr Kassim dismissed allegations of anti-Semitism and said the quotations calling
for the killing of Jews had been taken out of context.

''It is not an injunction for Muslims to fight Jews. Every single quote has been
in reference to Israel, and the state of Israel is an enemy to Muslims,'' he
said.

The Hizb u Tahrir national organiser, Omar Bakri Muhammad, called the London
bombings ''irresponsible'' last week, and argued that neither the Israeli
embassy nor Jewish community groups were ''legitimate targets''.

Both the Home Office and the police confirm that there is no evidence of
terrorist attacks by Hizb u Tahrir followers. But Mr Solomon dismisses this as
irrelevant: ''The ideology of Hizb u Tahrir has a large number of similarities
to the ideology of Hizbollah. One cannot say for sure that in the future Hizb u
Tahrir activists may not be called upon to take part in the planning or even
carrying out of acts of terrorism.''

Mr Bell believes that, although Hizb u Tahrir produces irresponsible literature,
some of the arguments against it are dangerous. ''They are not helping to create
an atmosphere of trust in the colleges,'' he said, ''but I also think that the
campaign against them is equally irresponsible.

''The media response to the bombings has been to bring out all the stereotypes
about 'mad mullahs'. When people refer to the Wembley conference as a 'Muslim
conference' and talk about it as being full of fanatics, and when they want to
ban Hizb u Tahrir even though there is no evidence of any links with the
bombings, surely that can only be understood as an attack on Muslims per se and
on Islam.''

In this climate, Mr Bell believes, it is difficult to take a measured view of
the issue. Even Mr Solomon agrees that there is a danger of the campaign against
Hizb u Tahrir becoming part of an anti-Muslim backlash.

He said: ''It is unfortunate that many journalists have tapped into whatever
bigoted views there are in this society about Muslims.''


LOAD-DATE: August 09, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1994 Independent Print Ltd

                              427 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             August 7, 1994, Sunday

If the face fits . . . it's probably by computer

BYLINE: By PETER VICTOR

SECTION: BRITAIN PAGE; Page 7

LENGTH: 709 words


SCOTLAND YARD issued an artist's impression last week of a woman wanted for
questioning about the recent terrorist bombing outside the Israeli embassy in
Kensington. Many people vaguely recognised her. I vaguely recognised her - and
then realised that the picture did not resemble anyone but was a mixture of
Middle Eastern features.

The suspect is said to be aged between 55 and 60. The picture appears to be of
someone younger, though perhaps suffering from a serious illness. Scotland Yard
says it is ''very pleased'' with the response to the picture and will comment no
further.

Artists' impressions are seldom a great success, for this is a visual art
dependent on verbal skills. The veracity of the image depends on interaction
between the artist and the person describing the suspect. The artist must try to
interpret a description without making suggestions that will influence that
description.

Photofit is an updated version of the artist's impression, with photographed
features, eyes, mouths, noses and face shapes that can be pieced together.

Introduced by the Home Office in 1970, it has some 800 pieces, giving a fairly
limited range of possibilities. With few sets of women's features, and hardly
any for people of Oriental, Asian or Latin appearance, some police forces still
prefer to use artists.

Some of the most notable recent successes with images have been due to
Electronic Facial Identification Technique - E-Fit - systems, otherwise known as
videofit. The pounds 7,000 system, developed by a computer company working with
Aberdeen University and the Home Office, generates likenesses on a computer
screen.

Its great advantage is that it is based on witnesses' verbal descriptions.
Details such as ''big nose, staring eyes, mean mouth and lantern jaw'' are typed
in: the computer shows a finished picture. After this, minute adjustments can be
made. The system has a much larger set of features, carrying 400 hairstyles
alone.

The E-Fit of the serial killer of homosexuals, Colin Ireland, was almost
completely accurate. The head shape, hairline, eyes and mouth are clearly
recognisable. Only the nose is a little too wide.

So concerned was Ireland by the E-Fit and a security camera video picture of him
walking with one of the victims that he turned himself in to the police in the
hope of brazening it out.

Among the E-Fit system's other successes was an image that helped to track down
the abductor of baby Alexandra Griffiths. Another image led to a suspect in
Cambridge recently giving himself up after seeing an E-fit of himself on
television.

The results using traditional methods have been less impressive. The
old-fashioned photofit of the ''Yorkshire Ripper'', Peter Sutcliffe, is a more
handsome, less saturnine prospect than Sutcliffe turned out to be when arrested.
His hair was completely different and Sutcliffe sported a beard where the
photofit had none.

The photofit closest to Julie Kelley, 22, released on bail last week charged
with abducting baby Abbie Humphries, looked more like the late actor Richard
Beckinsale than the alleged kidnapper.

Twenty-six of the country's 44 police forces now use E-Fit. Sergeant John Royle,
of the Greater Manchester police, who is one of Britain's most experienced users
of the system and an adviser to the Association of Chief Police Officers'
identification working party, said: ''There have been lots of cases where E-Fit
has worked out very well.

''Officers can now take a laptop and printer, carry out a cognitive interview
with a victim and print an image there and then.

''Police artists are being phased out except in exceptional circumstances.''

No independent study has been made of the effectiveness of such pictures in
crime appeals, but Professor Peter Vanezis, head of the forensic science unit at
Glasgow University, says it is time for a study of such systems.

''We're able to go into court and give reasonable evidence on security video
images,'' he said. ''Facial recognition is a different matter entirely. There
you are looking at being able to get an accurate picture out of a witness.
You've got to be able to extract information without leading the witness on.''

(Photographs omitted)


LOAD-DATE: August 09, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1994 Independent Print Ltd

                              428 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 August 8, 1994

TERROR THREAT IN FRANCE;
Champs Elysees blocked in alert over Algerian extremists - Rhetoric rules at
Muslim conference

BYLINE: Vivek Chaudhary

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 497 words


ONE of the largest Muslim conferences outside the Islamic world ended in
Wembley, north London, last night with delegates stamping their feet, chanting
"God is great," and calling for the destruction of Israel.

Up to 8,000 attended the conference at Wembley Arena, organised by the Muslim
Unity Organisation, a coalition led by Hizb ut-Tahrir (Party of Liberation). The
delegates, mostly young British Muslims, heard one speaker after another urging
them to help to establish the Khalafah, a global Islamic state not based on
nationalism.

A declaration by the organisers stated that all regimes ruling in the Muslim
world were invalid and not Islamic. To huge cheers, it called all negotiations
and agreements with Israel illegal.

Omar Bakri Mohammed, the British leader of Hizb ut-Tahrir, in summing up the
conference called for Muslim schools to be established in Britain. He added that
Islam will one day be implemented in Britain.

The feared violence did not happen but there were chaotic scenes outside the
arena as the delegates struggled to gain entry against tight security. The start
was delayed by nearly an hour.

The organisers criticised Wembley Arena's officials for turning away up to 1,000
people who arrived without tickets, saying they were initially told the
delegates would be able to gain admittance at the door.

Hizb ut-Tahrir stewards were accused of being heavy-handed and not allowing
delegates to be interviewed by journalists waiting outside.

Television crews and photographers were banned from the conference, which was
addressed by intellectuals and religious leaders from all over the world.

A speaker from Pakistan said: "We say to the Western world, 'Yes, we are
fundamentalists. We can't make any compromises and b argains when it comes to
Islam. But we are not terrorists and must do our duty to establish the global
domination of the Khalafah'."

Before the conference started, a group of protesters led by Peter Tatchell, from
the homosexual rights group, OutRage, were arrested. Holding placards reading
Mullahs Kill Queers, they said they were protesting against the treatment of
homosexualists in Islamic countries. Mr Tatchell and another protester were
charged with obstruction and disorderly conduct.

Omar Bakri Mohammed stressed that Hizb ut-Tahrir, which is banned in several
Arab countries, was not involved in terrorism.  "We are a political party with
an ideology. We don't take physical action against anyone. We believe thought is
the way for revival and our aim is to carry the message."

Much of the Islamic rhetoric meant little to many of the young British Muslims,
whom Hizb ut-Tahrir has been trying to recruit. Mohammed Ali from west London,
said: "We've heard all this stuff before. It means little to us, and to be
honest, you can hear speeches like this in every mosque in the country."

Tunisia keeps Islamist threat in check, page 8; Beirut in Bayswater, G2 cover
story

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              429 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             August 8, 1994, Monday

Muslims call for Israeli state to be destroyed; Fundamentalist gathering seeks
political overthrow of Western democracies as part of Islamic revolution

BYLINE: TIM KELSEY

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 3

LENGTH: 613 words


THOUSANDS of delegates at an Islamic conference in London last night cheered a
resolution calling for the destruction of the state of Israel.

The 8,000 Muslims who attended the conference at Wembley Arena were told by
members of the Hizb ut Tahrir, an extremist group which has called for the
hijacking of Israeli aircraft, that they should work to overthrow the political
regime in Britain and other Western nations to allow for the foundation of an
Islamic superstate.

And at the end of the conference, the organisers declared a series of
resolutions which included the statement that ''there is no peace for the state
of Israel until the state of Israel is demolished''.

Other final resolutions included the statement that ''all regimes in the Islamic
world have no legitimacy in Islamic law'' and, most radically, a resolution
condemning all international organisations such as the United Nations, the World
Bank and the International Monetary Fund as being ''tools in the hands of the
superpowers and unacceptable in Islam''.

This struck the biggest emotional chord of the day: participants stood up, fists
raised, shouting ''God is great'' and stamping feet in scenes more typical of a
Tehran mosque than a north London entertainment complex.

The gay rights activist Peter Tatchell was arrested while demonstrating outside
the conference against the alleged homophobia of radical Islam. Mr Tatchell, 42,
and Glen Halton, 29 - who were among a group calling itself Queers Against
Fundamentalism - were later charged with obstruction and possession of abusive
and insulting literature.

Last night, Mr Tatchell said: ''Our aim was to highlight the harassment of
lesbians and gays at British universities by Muslim extremists and the fact that
over 4,000 homosexuals have been executed in Iran since 1980. They are beheaded
and sometimes thrown over clifftops.''

The protest was not aimed at all Muslims, he said, only at the most intolerant
elements. He alleged that during the course of the demonstration he and his
colleagues received death threats. ''We were told by some of the Muslims that we
would be tracked down and killed,'' he said.

The conference - believed to be the biggest gathering of fundamentalists staged
outside the Middle East - had been seen as a flashpoint between radical young
Muslims and Jews after two bomb attacks against Israeli targets in London last
month, but serious trouble was avoided, although some newsmen and photographers
said they were threatened when they tried to interview delegates.

The widespread concern that the conference would provoke violence led Jewish
groups, Brent council and local MPs to demand last week that it be banned. The
Home Office insisted that it had no powers to stop it.

Privately, even the organisers were nervous about security. They claimed that
one of the key speakers, a well-known Saudi Arabian dissident, was forced to
cancel his appearance because of evidence that Arab intelligence services had
plans to assassinate him. They also refused to allow television cameras into the
conference hall for fear of participants being filmed.

Inside the arena, a number of radical Muslim academic and religious leaders from
around the world called for the establishment of a global Islamic state, and the
restoration of the Caliphate, which was abolished after the First World War.

Such ambitions are outlawed in many Muslim countries, which regard them as
subversive. One speaker, from Jordan, called for Jihad, or Holy War: ''In order
to create our system, you have to take some systems out. Islam will not co-exist
with democracy.''

(Photograph omitted)


LOAD-DATE: August 09, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1994 Independent Print Ltd

                              430 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            August 9, 1994, Tuesday

US holds key to early IRA ceasefire

BYLINE: LEONARD DOYLE and DAVID MCKITTRICK

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Page 1

LENGTH: 567 words


THE CLINTON administration has communicated directly with Sinn Fein in Belfast,
urging the republicans to accept the Downing Street Declaration and end IRA
violence, according to reliable sources.

A letter from the US National Security Council was hand-delivered in April by
Val Martinez, the American consul-general in Belfast, to a close associate of
the Sinn Fein president, Gerry Adams.

There have been numerous other indirect contacts between Sinn Fein and the US
administration since then, according to authoritative US sources. American
policy is being handled directly from the White House by Nancy Soderberg, a
director at the National Security Council and a close confidant of President
Bill Clinton.

Although the British government, so far as is known, is not in direct contact
with the republican movement, the Irish government appears to have had prolonged
contacts with Mr Adams via intermediaries. These contacts have led Irish
ministers to take a more optimistic view of the possibility of an IRA ceasefire
than their British counterparts.

The Taoiseach, Albert Reynolds, has appealed to the republicans to choose a
complete cessation of violence, but speculation in Belfast and Dublin centres on
a ceasefire of about three months. However, several sources say a ceasefire is
not expected during August, but could start next month.

Such a move would be presented by the IRA as an imaginative gesture demanding a
significant response from Britain. Both London and Dublin have repeatedly said
Sinn Fein could not expect a place at any conference table unless a permanent
cessation was in place. But even a limited ceasefire would ease the pressure the
republicans are now undoubtedly feeling.

A ceasefire of three or even two months would lead to calls from many sources in
Ireland, Britain and the US for a positive move from Britain. The prospect of
future American visas for Gerry Adams and other republican leaders is seen as
one of the possible inducements to Sinn Fein to opt for the political processes.

The Clinton administration's position is that it did not err in granting Mr
Adams a visa earlier this year despite fierce British opposition. The US State
Department is unhappy that the visa was granted because it soured relations with
Britain, but it no longer directs US policy on Ireland, which has become
increasingly important in domestic US politics.

In the event of a ceasefire Mr Adams hopes to be able to use his influence in
the US to put pressure on Britain in any future talks and once peace has taken
hold, Sinn Fein believes it could rely on a sympathetic audience in the US to
maintian that pressure.

It is also expected that Mr Adams and other Sinn Fein leaders could conduct a
tour of major US cities to drum up support in the event of a prolonged
ceasefire. US Administration sources recently told the Irish Times that Mr Adams
would probably get another visa to explain Sinn Fein policy to supporters in the
US if the IRA stopped the violence.

In Northern Ireland, however, the IRA kept up its campaign yesterday with the
killing of Thomas Withers, 46, a part-time member of the Royal Irish Regiment,
as he stood behind the counter of his butcher's shop in the quiet Co Down town
of Crossgar. He died almost at once after being shot in the head by a gunman who
escaped on a motorcycle.

Leading article, page 13


LOAD-DATE: August 09, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1994 Independent Print Ltd

                              431 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                August 10, 1994

Heavy-handed French

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 465 words


IS the French Government over-reacting to the terrorist threats by Algerian
Muslim extremists? The entire police force of Paris, reinforced by riot police
from the provinces, has been mobilised and dozens of suspects detained and
served with expulsion orders. The authorities claim that the operation had been
planned last week but was given added importance by the threat of reprisals if
France refused to free the 17 Algerian exiles recently arrested as extremist
suspects. The Government, moreover, insists that it is in a better position than
its critics to assess the scale of the threat. It accuses the United Kingdom,
Germany, and the US of failing to take effective measures against militant
Islamic groups in their own countries. It rejects any notion of compromise in
the struggle to turn back the fundamentalist tide and prevent Algeria from
turning into another Iran.

There can be no doubting the reality of the threat posed by the Islamic
Salvation Front, with its network of terrorist groups in France and its support
from militants in Lebanon and Iran. More than 50 foreigners, in addition to
thousands of Algerians, have been murdered in Algeria during the Islamic revolt.
Even so the French policy looks heavy-handed, given the fact that there have
been no Islamic attacks in France itself and that the Algerian community in
France has publicly pledged its loyalty to the Balladur Government. It is
unfortunate that Charles Pasqua, the hardline Interior Minister, is setting the
tone of policy. He bears responsibility for the harsh anti-immigration policy
which has recently upset North Africans in France. He has extended police
powers, and it seems to some observers that the patrolling of immigrant areas,
which has been a feature of the present operation in Paris, amounts to
intimidation. The French Government has also made itself vulnerable to criticism
through the support it has given to the unsavoury regime in Algeria.  It claims
that this is justified in order to keep the fundamentalists at bay, but it has
declined to take the sensible alternative of talking to the moderate Muslim
leadership.

It is also on dangerous ground in trying to press its allies into taking
stronger measures against their own Islamic fundamentalist and to swoop down on
Algerian militants -- a request that has been rightly rejected on the grounds
that the Algerians have done nothing illegal. It is true that increasing numbers
of Islamic fundamentalists are arriving in Britain. But it is worth noting that
at about the time the Paris police were blocking off the Champs -Elysees one of
the largest Muslim conferences outside the Islamic world was passing off more or
less peacefully, and perfectly legally, in Wembley. there may be a lesson there
for Mr Pasqua.

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              432 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                August 13, 1994

NEW ISLAMIC TERROR THREAT TO FRANCE;
Paris moves to distance itself from Algiers regime

BYLINE: Paul Webster In Paris

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FOREIGN PAGE; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 579 words


ISLAMIC terrorists threatened to unleash new violence against French interests
yesterday unless the government respected the rights of Muslims in France and
denounced the Algerian regime.

The Armed Islamic Group (GIA), which murdered three French gendarmes and two
consular officials in Algiers last week, sent the warning to El Hayat, a Saudi
newspaper in London. The threat, which included a demand for the withdrawal of
all French residents in Algeria, was made before the police mounted their sixth
big operation in Paris, mainly in immigrant areas.

The police action, mainly against north Africans, has given the impression that
France is underwriting the self-appointed Algerian government, particularly as
it has included the internment in northern France of 22 opponents of the regime.

The foreign minister, Alain Juppe tried to dispel this impression in a
television interview in which he made it clear that the interior minister,
Charles Pasqua, was responsible only for domestic security.

In the latest police action, which ended early yesterday morning, more than
3,300 people were questioned in Paris and hundreds of others in Marseille and
Lyon were asked to prove their identity.

Eleven people were held, none for terrorist activities. But in a separate
incident two Muslims with suspected extremist links gave themselves up to police
in Paris. Two men were arrested in Marseille for distributing banned newspapers.

While Mr Juppe gave unreserved support to the police operations, he said the
Algerian people must be allowed to express themselves through the ballot box.

Referring indirectly to Algerian repression of the Islamic Salvation Front
(FIS), which was banned in 1992 because it was winning general elections, Mr
Juppe said that the need for a political solution was the opinion of the whole
government, including the prime minister, Edouard Balladur.

Mr Balladur has scheduled a radio programme for tomorrow which could end the
impression that France's Algerian policy is being dictated by Mr Pasqua, who is
a law and order advocate and has often been accused of racist attitudes.

Mr Juppe's comments were more in line with political thinking in Britain,
Germany and the United States, which Mr Pasqua recently criticised. The interior
minister implied that the three countries were protecting the FIS and its
terrorist wings, which have killed 56 foreigners in Algeria in the past year.

Despite the police swoops, Mr Pasqua told Le Figaro newspaper yesterday, that he
did not think there was a high risk of terrorism on French soil, although he was
concerned about attacks abroad.  Nevertheless, police roadblocks and random
identity checks will continue for several days, despite unfavourable reaction
from the biggest police union and opposition parties.

The national police federation, Fasp, described Mr Pasqua's action as a
"publicity stunt" and the left-radical movement MRG said the minister was
fishing for extreme rightwing votes before next year's presidential elections.

Several human rights groups have expressed anxiety at a possible backlash after
complaints from immigrant communities of police intimidation.

The Socialist Party spokesman, Jean Glavany, said Mr Pasqua's tough tactics
could put a brake on the emergence of democratic and moderate forces in Algeria.

"I think that Mr Pasqua is taking a lot of risks for his petty personal
political ends," he added.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              433 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           August 13, 1994, Saturday

Catholics sense the chance to win the peace; David McKittrick has reported from
Northern Ireland for 23 of the 25 years since British troops went into
Londonderry. Here he looks back and assesses prospects for peace

BYLINE: DAVID McKITTRICK

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 4

LENGTH: 2240 words


TWENTY-FIVE years ago tomorrow since British troops were deployed, and more than
3,500 funerals later, what remains uppermost in the memory is not the dead but
the bereaved. The quiet but inconsolable grief of the widows; the bitter,
hatred-soaked stare of a brother whose sister was gunned down; the 10-year-old
girl who asked her mother for a kitchen knife ''because I want to put it in my
heart and go and see Daddy in heaven''.

The political profit and loss accounts can be drawn up, with conclusions drawn
on how the Catholics have fared, how Protestant fortunes stand, what the British
government has achieved. But the essence of the Troubles lies in those little
homes which now lack a father or a son; where even if peace comes it will bring
no real respite from sorrow.

Six years ago, at the time of another anniversary, the Independent concluded:
''There is no great groundswell of opinion in favour of accommodation in either
community; no perceptible desire for compromise. The maiming and killing will
continue. Peace is not in prospect.''

That bleak assessment proved unhappily accurate. This time, however, there are
realistic grounds for hoping that the beginning of the end may be in sight, and
that a continuation of the conflict cannot be so confidently and coldly
predicted. Today the republican movement may be moving, however slowly and
fearfully, away from IRA violence and towards political activity.

If that happens, loyalist paramilitaries might follow suit. This time peace
could be in prospect. This is not a confident prediction, for much could go
wrong. If it happens, it will not be a quick clean ending: it is more likely to
be a messy business, with many dying kicks and old scores being settled. It
could take years; but there is in the air a sense that the conflict has entered
a new phase, which is possibly the final phase.

Yet, as six years ago, there is still an absence of a great groundswell for
accommodation between the two communities. The IRA, if and when it lays down its
arms, will be doing so because it believes it is moving towards new
understandings with the rest of Irish nationalism, and with the British
government. It is not about to stop because it thinks it is about to find new
common ground with Unionists. Far from it, in fact: one of its persistent
demands now is for Britain to ''break the Unionist veto'', which is to say, to
reduce Protestant power and influence. The onset of peace would be a spectacular
step forward, but it would still leave a land disfigured by deep and bitter
divisions.

Some of the scars will never heal. Peace would not be the end of the matter, but
rather the first real step in a long and painful re-building process. As the
accompanying interviews illustrate, the Catholic community is in the better
shape to meet such a future.

Both its militant component and its much larger non-violent section display a
confidence unimaginable 25 years ago. It is growing in numbers and climbing the
social and economic ladders. It has re-defined and re-interpreted its beliefs
and its goals, junked much redundant ideological baggage, and modernised itself
in a new flexible European pragmatism.

Its people are already running large sections of the Northern Ireland public
sector. It has powerful friends in Washington, Boston and Brussels. The future
seems to hold either a united Ireland or a fairer Northern Ireland: either way
it wins.

Unionism, by contrast, faces a fearful future. The two governments are looking
ahead and so are the Catholics, even the IRA: but the Ulster Protestant has not
moved with the times. The 25 years began with a historic defeat for Unionism,
which found itself unable to justify, defend or even acknowledge its
discriminatory system. It has never really recovered from that, playing a
defensive game which has won it few outside friends over the years. Its lack of
influence has to some extent been masked by the violence of the IRA, which
brought as its incidental corollary a certain sympathy for its Protestant
victims.

But for Protestants now, the closing of the IRA campaign would be a distinctly
dubious blessing. The end of the killings would of course be welcome, but
cessation would bring with it the prospects of far-reaching negotiations and
debate on how everyone's interests could be accommodated in a new political
deal.

The problem for Unionists is that their basic tenet - the assertion that Ulster
is British and nothing else - is incapable of being reconciled with any
settlement acceptable to the nationalists, who would be at future conference
tables. Thus an IRA cessation could spell increased political trouble for the
Protestants as, in the new situation, many will argue that republican
aspirations have to be given due account.

It has been a terrible 25 years, with all those people being despatched to
premature graves. With luck, we may be at a juncture where the conflicting
currents can, finally, be drawn together; when belief in politics overcomes
belief in the gun; when assassins no longer sledgehammer down doors and shoot
people in their beds.

A great many people have learned lessons during the last quarter of a century,
often the hard way. Hopefully, if the Troubles do end, the most lasting lesson
is that Northern Ireland has more than its fair share of widows and orphans, and
needs no more of them.

A PROTESTANT VIEW

'We are simply holding the line'

RAY FERGUSON is a Co Fermanagh solicitor whose family has been in unionist
politics for generations. He has been an Ulster Unionist councillor for 17
years.

He said: ''The story of the last 25 years is the story of the loss of unionist
or Protestant hegemony. The Protestant community is still numerically stronger
than the Catholics, still economically and commercially stronger, but the
confidence isn't there. Young Protestants have no interest in politics . . .
they don't have any positive ideas, they don't see anything in it for them.

''You just couldn't sell something like powersharing in places like the big
polarised housing estates where all the old myths obtain. The communities are
definitely a lot more separate and polarised . . . and I don't know whether
you'll ever break that down. But some things have changed. The old fear of the
Catholic church just doesn't exist in the same way.

''Attitudes in the Republic of Ireland have changed as well. Twenty-five years
ago they were wholeheartedly in support of the Irish nationalist ideal of Irish
unity, but that has been very seriously challenged by a number of their leading
thinkers. Now they are unsure whether it's a good thing. But Protestants define
their political existence in terms of the struggle inside Northern Ireland and
in relation to the Republic.  They would see an all-Ireland as their ultimate
defeat.

''The Catholic middle classes have got the sense that they have achieved and
made progress. Whether they are are determined to progress along a traditional
nationalist road to a united Ireland is another question.

''They have progressed whereas the Protestants have gone back. What Gerry Adams
and the IRA want is some form of victory, but they probably realise that a total
victory is just not possible . . . But they've struggled for 25 years, and made
sacrifices, so they have a deliverance to make to justify all they've gone
through. The rest of the Catholic community is basically saying they don't want
to see Adams and the Provos humiliated, they just want them to stop.

''They're backing John Hume's efforts to put them out of business peacefully.
But on the Protestant side there's a lot of indignation because they think Hume
is boosting the republicans when they seemed to be faltering. Protestants still
very much regard themselves as being British. But, as they perceive it, Britain
would come to almost any political deal that it could, with honour, to relieve
itself of the burden of Northern Ireland.

''So Protestants don't trust Britain, because they know the other partner in
this union isn't as wholeheartedly committed to it as they are. The Protestant
community are determined to hold their own as long as they can. They know
they're simply holding the line, but they're certainly determined not to be in
any way subjugated. Twenty-five years on Protestants are still at a loss about
what to aim for.''

A CATHOLIC VIEW

'We're beginning to find our voice'

MARY McALEESE'S family had to leave their north Belfast home at the beginning of
the Troubles after loyalists machine-gunned the house. Today she is a law
professor and pro-vice-chancellor of Queen's University, Belfast.

''The Catholic population has undergone an almost phenomenal change in terms of
its sense of confidence, its willingness to articulate its nationalism. For
years, largely because of the IRA's campaign of violence, people did not feel
comfortable about openly espousing nationalism when others were killing and
bombing. I think we have begun to successfully fight off that label, and what
has probably created the space has been the prospect of ceasefire and the
prospect of Sinn Fein coming on board.

''So the Catholic population are beginning to find their voice anew, they are
coming out from behind the silence. My feeling has always been that Catholics
were regarded as subversive - fundamentally not to be trusted. Now there are
fair employment laws and the Irish government has access through the Anglo-Irish
agreement and so on: there are structures in place which are beginning to allow
Catholics to believe that there is the possibility of being regarded as equals.

''But we do not have an equal and fair society yet. My ambition would still be
for a united Ireland but I don't know how realistic an ambition that is.

''Nationalism has been through a lot of debate and analysis, but I think the
Protestant community still has a way to go in terms of analysing what's
happening to them. I'm not suggesting that Unionism accept full responsibility
for everything, but I'm saying it should accept a lot of responsibility for the
events that led this community into chaos.

''Yet I still don't hear that voice that says: 'Look, we made mistakes, we are
desperately sorry and we are trying very hard to find a way of redressing those
mistakes and finding a way for us all to move forward in the future.' I see them
as a people who head up so many cul-de-sacs and yet never face the fact that the
union with Britain could be removed tomorrow morning, because essentially it is
a gift. It is within the gift of Westminster to maintain the union, or to end
it.

''British governments have often been negligent and they have acted stupidly at
times. I really still don't know what the British government's long-term
intention here is, apart from saying they'll stay if they're wanted and they'll
probably go if they're not wanted. It would be important for the British
government to indicate clearly where it sees itself in relation to Ireland 10,
15, 25 years from now. The Downing Street declaration has offered the IRA an
opportunity to do what the rest of us feel is the right thing to do, which is to
learn to listen to one another without the threat of guns.

''I hope what is going on is a weaning process which will produce people who
have genuinely forsworn violence. I have a feeling that over the last 18 months
the problem is beginning to be analysed in the correct way, with a real prospect
of a meaningful peace. We're not there yet; but I think we may be on the
doorstep.''

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--                  ULSTER'S EBB AND FLOW OF VIOLENCE SINCE 1969
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
-August 1969: British troops sent in after widespread rioting and disorder in
Belfast and Londonderry - the culmination of worsening street disturbances
involving Paisleyite protesters and Catholic civil rights campaigners. 1970-71:
 Emergence of Provisional IRA as significant force. 1972: Troops shoot dead 13
Catholics on ''Bloody Sunday''; Protestant-dominated Stormont parliament
abolished; loyalist killer gangs emerge. Violence reaches peak, with almost 500
 deaths. 1973 on: Violence continues as series of attempted political
initiatives fail, including collapse in 1974 of loyalist-nationalist
power-sharing executive. Late 1970s: Violence reduced from average of 275
deaths a year to 85. 1981: Maze hunger strikes - during which 10 IRA and INLA
members die - revives republican movement. 1985: British and Irish governments
sign Anglo-Irish agreement - outraging Unionists and signalling period of
closer relations between London and Dublin. Late 1980s: IRA, re-armed by Libya,
 begins long-running campaign in Britain. Loyalist violence also escalates.
1990s: Government has secret talks with IRA. Republican rhetoric of peace
brings Downing Street declaration.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--

(Photographs omitted)


LOAD-DATE: August 13, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1994 Independent Print Ltd

                              434 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                            August 14, 1994, Sunday

BIKE BOMBERS HUNTED AFTER SEASIDE TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE:  Paul Edwards, PA News

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 1261 words


IRA terrorists who hid bombs on mountain bikes for a double attack on the south
coast holiday towns of Bognor Regis and Brighton were being hunted by police
today.  It was the first time on mainland Britain that bicycles have been used
to conceal bombs, both of which were "big enough to maim and kill", said Sussex
assitant chief constable Richard Childs.  Police are hoping holidaymakers taking
photographs or video films may be able to help their search with footage of the
bikes - with panniers in which the bombs were concealed - being planted sometime
on Saturday.  And, as they began checking security videos from shops in Bognor
town centre, police also appealed for help from firms hiring out bikes who may
be able to provide vital information.  The bomb in Bognor exploded in the town
centre just before 6pm on Saturday, shortly after the shops had shut.  Only
minutes earlier, pedestrianised London Road had been crowded with shoppers and
holidaymakers and police described it as a miracle that no-one was hurt.  A
total of 15 shops were wrecked as a rain of deadly broken glass was sent flying
through the precinct and experts were today still combing the debris for clues.
The second device left on the forecourt of the Palace Pier at Brighton - 15
miles from Bognor - was defused by a controlled explosion after it had been
found following a search.  The twin attacks, which were accompanied by warning
telephone calls which gave no exact locations, came a year to the day after a
series of IRA firebombs went off in the nearby resort of Bournemouth - on August
13 1993. They also came on the day Sinn Fein president Gerry Adams declared that
peace for Ulster was in sight as loyalists marched in Belfast and Londonderry
and a rally in London marked the 25th anniversary of the deployment of British
troops.  Both bombs were hidden in panniers on the back of blue mountain bikes.
The Bognor bike was left locked to a cycle rack outside Woolworth's in London
Road. A Townsend Oregon mountain bike, it had the numbers 20-2 written in white
fluid on the part of the frame leading from the handlebars to the front forks.
On the D-lock, used to secure the cycle, the number 26 was written in the same
type of fluid.  Following the blast at Bognor and a non-specific warning that a
device had been left at Brighton, police closed the Palace Pier and found the
second bike with its explosive device.  This bike was a French made Gitane
Bullet, again secured to railings using a D-lock on which the number 16 was
written in the same type of fluid.  Assistant chief constable Mr Childs declined
to give specific information about the types of devices. But he spoke of the
devastation that could have been caused at Brighton if the bomb had gone off and
the "callousness" of planting such a device.  In Bognor today - where a man
described being hurled off his feet by the blast and another told of seeing a
grandfather shield a young boy - the most common phrase being used was that it
was a miracle no-one had been killed.  A small crater in the pavement, measuring
about a foot square, marked the spot outside Woolworth's store where the bomb
exploded.  The blast also twisted the frame of the cycle rack to which the bike
had been secured.  This afternoon, members of the Anti-Terrorist Squad completed
a fingertip search of the area and debris from the blast, as well as the
crumpled frame of the dark blue bicycle, was taken away for forensic
examination.  The explosion left huge gaping holes in shop windows along the
precinct, where, 24 hours later, shop alarms were still ringing.  Woolworth's
store looked like an open doll's house and alongside it windows in Specsavers
had been shattered.  Across the road, the windows of travel agent Thomas Cook,
advertising "Get Away From It All" holidays, were smashed and a shoe shop was
wide open, its display of fashionable footwear heaped in a pile by the blast.
The blast hit shop fronts over a wide area and shattered windows in upstairs
offices. Tonight and tomorrow glaziers will move into the area so that the shops
can be reopened to the public, probably some time tomorrow.  In Brighton today,
thousands of day trippers and holidaymakers packed the seafront - although the
area around the Palace Pier remained cordoned off.  Many motorists also ignored
large signs posted on main routes into the town which declared: "IRA Bomb -
seafront road closed".  Day tripper Jonathan Hunt, of Richmond, Surrey, who was
with his wife and two children, said: "We had planned to spend the day in
Brighton. When we heard about the bomb we never even considered calling off the
trip.  "If we had decided not to come we would have been playing right into the
IRA's hands. We are having a great time." Lorraine Lewis, owner of the seafront
AlJo's Cafe, said: "The seafront around the Palace Pier has been closed off to
the public all day but I've still had about 200 customers.  "The people who are
here seem to be carrying on pretty much as normal, they don't seem to be too
concerned." Brighton Beach office manager Ian Taylor said: "The beach is even
more packed than usual because a section of the beach near the Palace Pier has
been shut off to tourists.  "Everyone is sun bathing and totally happy,
oblivious to the police searching for bombs around them. No-one seems very
concerned, people are really taking it all in their stride."

reopens) Appealing for assistance from amateur photographers today, Sussex
police spokesman Sgt Mike Alderson said: "We want everyone who took any pictures
or holiday videos near the bomb sites in the past few weeks to bring them in to
us, no matter how silly they may be.  "Someone may have unwittingly taken a
snapshot of the person or people who planted these bombs." He added that the
numbers painted on both bikes could provide vital information.  "Serial numbers
on the bikes and on the locks used to chain them up are similar to those which
would be issued by bicycle hire companies.  "The bikes would not necessarily
have been ridden here - they could have been hired anywhere in the country,
rigged up and then brought to the targets by car, bus or train." Sgt Alderson
also said police were well aware of the significance of the date the bombs were
planted and added: "It is clear from these incidents and others in recent months
that we are in the middle of a mainland bombing campaign by the IRA."

The devices were on the back of the cycles and were "big enough to maim and
kill", Sussex assistant chief constable Richard Childs told the news conference
today.  The the numbers 20-2 were written in white Tippex-type fluid on the part
of the frame which leads from the handlebars to the front forks of the cycle
involved at Bognor.  The number 26 was written in the same type of fluid on the
D-lock used to secure the machine.  The cycle at Brighton was also secured to
railings using a D-lock, which bore the number 16, written in the same
Tippex-type fluid.  He said it could be that the cycles were hired and appealed
for anyone who had any information about them to contact police.  Police were
today examining security videos taken in the town centre at Bognor, and making
house-to-house inquiries in the area.  As a precautionary measure the piers at
Bognor and Brighton remained sealed off while searches continued.  Mr Childs
said that anyone who had been in the area of Brighton's Palace Pier or Bognor's
London Road precinct should contact police - they could have taken photos or
video footage which could provide a vital clue.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1994 The Press Association Limited

                              435 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            August 14, 1994, Sunday

France's blanket crackdown on fundamentalists worries allies

BYLINE: By Tony Allen-mills, Paris

SECTION: Overseas news

LENGTH: 1115 words


AHMED ZITOUNI is not a good example of a modern Muslim militant. He smokes
heavily. He drinks beer. At his grocer's shop in Lievin, in the Pas de Calais,
he slices pork for customers. He is married to Martine, a feisty French Catholic
who was not at all amused last week to hear police describe her husband as a
dangerous Islamic activist.

When Zitouni was arrested during France's security clampdown on Islamic
fundamentalism last week, Martine pulled on a clean pair of jeans and drove to
Folembray, the Picardy village where 23 suspected Algerian militants were being
held in a disused barracks. She hammered on the gates and demanded that he be
released.

Two days later the police sheepishly obliged. Zitouni, a spokesman mumbled, had
once innocently lent his van to a friend with militant connections.  ''They
might as well be picking us up at random as we leave the mosque,'' complained
Djaffar El-Houari who, as president of the Fraternity of Algerians in France,
was one of the first to be detained.

The powerful French response to the murders of three gendarmes and two consular
officials in Algiers on August 3 sent out international shock waves. As squads
of black-uniformed riot police set up random checkpoints along some of the
busiest boulevards in Paris, diplomats in London, Bonn and Washington were
quietly praying that France's high-risk confrontation with radical Algerian
Muslims would not precipitate what some analysts have portrayed as the next
great global war: Islam versus the West.

Amid the televised suffering of Rwanda, Bosnia and Haiti, the festering Algerian
crisis had been passing virtually unseen. Last week it proved impossible to
ignore as Charles Pasqua, the French interior minister, carried the war on
religious extremism down almost every high street in France.

As the country's 800,000 Algerian residents protested with rage and frustration
in a blanket security crackdown, Dalil Boubakeur, rector of the Paris mosque and
a prominent Islamic moderate, warned that moderate Muslims were being pushed
into the radical camp. Relations with ordinary French people, he said, were in
danger of being poisoned for good.

Militant Algerian Muslim groups denounced the Folembray barracks as a
''concentration camp'' and pledged violent reprisals. Human rights groups
unanimously criticised the heavy-handed security for which Pasqua has long been
notorious. Pasqua blithely replied: ''If you don't go fishing, you can't catch
any fish.''

France's Western partners, condemned by Pasqua last week for pandering to
fundamentalism, viewed the interior minister's antics with growing unease.  His
crackdown may have been dictated largely by domestic politics notably the
presidential election next year but baiting Islamic terrorists could invite a
terrible revenge.

Few analysts outside France believe that Algeria's military dictatorship can
hold out indefinitely against the Islamic rebellion. It was spawned by the
cancellation in 1992 of a general election that the Islamic Salvation Front, the
leading fundamentalist grouping, was about to win.

British, American and German diplomats appear convinced that overtures need to
be made to the more moderate Islamic groups to prevent France's most troublesome
former African colony falling into the hands of the fanatical Muslim gunmen.
Since last September the gunmen have slaughtered 56 foreigners, 15 of them
French.

For France's partners, the costs of a failure to restore dialogue between the
Algerian military and its Islamic opponents are almost too dreadful to
contemplate. They could involve an eventual victory for religious fanaticism;
another refugee crisis as Algeria's secular middle class flees to Europe; the
emergence alongside Iran and Libya of another hostile regime proficient in
terrorist methods against the West; and the steady collapse of northern Africa
as Islamic mayhem spreads through previously stable countries such as Tunisia
and Morocco.

The worst-case scenario of a fundamentalist revolutionary triumph would
constitute a ''catastrophe for France'', the writer Jean-Francois Kahn
acknowledged last week. ''It would provoke the departure of several hundred
thousand Algerians. It could be that the role played by the Goma region in
Zaire, where Rwanda's Hutu refugees are massed, will have to be copied by the
hinterland of Marseilles,'' he commented.

Pasqua's response to those who call for dialogue was characteristically blunt.
''The only certainty in this affair is that the notion of a moderate Islamic
regime is a con,'' he said last week. ''The reality is that the kind of Islam
they want to install in Algeria would be aggressive and conquering.  France
cannot be indifferent to that.''

Pasqua confesses to little enthusiasm for the present dictatorship in Algiers
but, publicly at least, he expresses no alternative to propping it up. His
belief that ''you have to terrorise the terrorists'' offers little hope of an
early end to a civil war that has claimed at least 4,000 lives.

The main question, as French police continue their mass identity checks and
nightly raids on Muslim homes, is the extent to which Pasqua's belligerence
should be taken at face value, given the pressures and potential perils of the
looming presidential campaign.

As the hard-line interior minister of a right-wing government with Jean-Marie le
Pen and his neo-fascist National Front breathing down his neck Pasqua could
hardly have responded to the terrorist attacks on French citizens this month
with anything other than a total security onslaught. But inside his hobnail
boots he wears a surprisingly sharp pair of socks.

Although the right-wing favourites to replace Francois Mitterrand remain Edouard
Balladur, the prime minister, and Jacques Chirac, the Gaullist mayor of Paris,
Pasqua continues to regard himself as a compromise candidate.

While Pasqua's strong-arm approach has earned him an impressive rating in
opinion polls, less well-known is his taste for secret diplomacy. Not long
before he was denouncing Britain and America for dealing with Algerian
fundamentalists, French newspapers reported last week, he was also dispatching
secret envoys to his own fundamentalist contacts in Germany.

What precisely the interior minister is cooking up remains a mystery, much to
the disgust of his colleagues at the foreign ministry which does not regard
Algeria as part of the French interior portfolio.

But Pasqua's presidential ambitions add another layer of uncertainty to a
volatile international crisis. It might, if he handles it cleverly, propel him
to the pinnacle of power. It could also blow up in his face.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1994 Times Newspapers Limited

                              436 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                August 15, 1994

SEASIDE TOWNS ON ALERT AFTER BICYCLE BOMBS;
IRA blasts hit south coast as Gerry Adams tells Belfast rally: 'We've defeated
the British Army'

BYLINE: Vivek Chaudhary, Angella Johnson And David Sharrock In Belfast

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 437 words


SECURITY at resorts along the south coast was stepped up yesterday following IRA
attacks in Bognor Regis and Brighton, as police revealed a tactic used for the
first time on mainland Britain: the bicycle bomb.

Richard Childs, assistant chief constable of Sussex police, said the devices
were big enough to "maim and kill" and it was a miracle that nobody had been
seriously injured.

"It is now obvious we are in the middle of an IRA mainland campaign," he added.

Fifteen shops were wrecked in a Bognor shopping precinct in the first explosion,
shortly before 6pm on Saturday. The second device, left on the forecourt of the
Palace Pier at Brighton, 15 miles away, was disarmed by a controlled explosion.
In both attacks, devices were concealed in saddle bags on mountain bikes chained
to railings.

The attacks, designed as a reminder of the IRA's capacity to continue its
campaign and continually vary its tactics, came hours before Sinn Fein's
president, Gerry Adams, told a demonstration in Belfast that republicans had
defeated the British Army.

Thousands marched on Belfast city hall, many carrying the Irish tricolour, to
mark the 25th anniversary of the deployment of troops in Northern Ireland. Mr
Adams told supporters they were in "the final phase of the unfinished business
of British interference".

He added: "We who have faced down far superior forces for 25 years and are still
here know that we are beyond the consideration of defeat."

There was only one way out for Britain - to learn the lessons of history, "of
failed British policies and strategies and to devise new ones so that the people
of this island can create our own peace and the British can go home where they
belong."

Sussex police yesterday appealed to visitors who had taken photographs in the
area to come forward. A spokesman said: "We want everyone who took any pictures
or holiday videos near the bomb sites in the past few weeks to bring them in to
us, no matter how silly they may be."

Police were also examining security videos taken in Bognor town centre and
around Brighton's Palace Pier and were making house to house inquiries.

As a precautionary measure the piers at Bognor and Brighton remained closed
yesterday as police and Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist branch searched for
clues.

Police forces in adjoining Kent and Hampshire said they were stepping up
security and urging uniformed officers to be more vigilant. A Kent police
spokesman said: "With our coastline and the number of resorts we have got in the
area, there are several soft targets."

Mayor protests, page 5

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              437 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                            August 15, 1994, Monday

IRA ADMITS PLANTING HOLIDAY RESORT BICYCLE BOMBS

BYLINE:  Paul Edwards and Chris Parkin, PA News

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 500 words


The IRA tonight claimed responsibility for the weekend bomb attacks on two south
coast holiday resorts.  In a statement telephoned to a radio station, the terror
group said the attacks on Bognor Regis and Brighton had been carried out on the
eve of the 25th anniversary of the arrival of British troops in Northern
Ireland.  "Again, as in other recent IRA attacks in Britain, police chose to
endanger the public by not acting on the precise details and locations given in
several phoned bomb warnings," said the statement, which included a recognised
codeword, to Dublin independent radio station 98FM.  Police, meanwhile, are
stepping up their bid to catch the terrorists and tomorrow shoppers will be
shown an identical mountain bike to the one which contained the Bognor Regis
bomb.  As shoppers walk through the pedestrianised precinct in London Road,
where the bomb exploded, they will be asked: "Do you remember seeing this on
Saturday and the person with it?" The blue Townsend Oregon bike has been
positioned by the small crater left in the pavement where the bomb, concealed in
a pannier bag, went off shortly after the area had been busy with shoppers.  A
device found later that day on a bike at the Palace Pier, Brighton, and made
safe by bomb experts, had contained about 5lbs of Semtex, police disclosed
today.  At the height of the summer season, and in an area popular with tourists
and local people, it could have caused severe damage, injury and death within a
50 yard radius, said police. Sussex Assistant Chief Constable Richard Childs
said the device, which had a timing mechanism, had been "callously and
strategically placed to cause maximum injury and damge".  He said the bicycle
had been chained to railings against a large cast iron lamppost which would have
shattered in the exposion.

The pier at Brighton reopened today and Mr Childs said visitors to the resort
should not be deterred.  The Bognor Regis bomb contained half the explosive of
the Brighton device and when it went off it damaged about 15 shops, but no-one
was seriously hurt.  Tomorrow, with the precinct fully opened, officers will
stand by the bike to question the public and seek clues to how long it had been
there before the blast and what else people might know which could give a lead
to the bombers.  The bike used in the Bognor Regis bombing had the numbers 20-2
written in white Tippex fluid on the frame leading to the front forks. The D
lock, used to secure the cycle, had the number 26 written in the same type of
fluid.  The bike at Brighton was a blue French-made Gitane Bullet mountain bike
and on its D lock was the number 16 written in the same type of fluid.  Police
believe it is possible the bikes were hired from a shop and have appealed for
information about them.  They are also checking security vidoes taken from shops
at Bognor Regis and the Brighton pier and have asked holidaymakers to send in
any photographs or video film taken at the two resorts on Saturday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1994 The Press Association Limited

                              438 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                            August 15, 1994, Monday

LONDON BASE FOR INTERNATIONAL TERRORIST

BYLINE:  David Mason, PA News

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 755 words


Carlos the Jackal chose London as his base for his international terrorist
activities in the early 1970s and made plans for a campaign against prominent
British figures.  He made an assassination attempt on Jewish millionaire Edward
Sieff, the then president of Marks & Spencer, and launched several attacks on
the continent.  But he was forced to flee Britain after police raided his
girlfriend's west London flat and seized guns, explosives and a hit-list of
prominent Jewish targets, including Lord and Lady Sainsbury, Lord Delfont, Sir
Yehudi Menuhin and Keith Joseph.  "He was one of the most dangerous and active
terrorists of the 1970s," said terrorism expert Professor Paul Wilkinson.  "I
would expect British detectives to seek to interview him." Scotland Yard refused
to comment on his arrest, but it was understood there were no active British
warrants outstanding against Carlos.  Only extraordinary good luck saved the
late Mr Sieff from joining the list of Carlos' 83 worldwide victims.  He was
shot in the face at point-blank range as he emerged from the bathroom of his
home in St John's Wood, north London, on December 30, 1973. The bullet struck
his teeth and lodged in his jaw.  Carlos admitted he was the gunman in a
chilling interview with the Paris-based Arabic magazine Al Watan al Arabi in
1979, saying "Lord Sieff" had been chosen for his strong Israeli links.  "I
usually fire three times around the nose. But in Lord Sieff's case only one
bullet went off, though I fired three times," he said. Venezuelan-born Carlos,
44, whose real name is Illich Ramirez Sanchez, moved to London in 1971 after
studying in Moscow and training as a terrorist in Jordan with the Popular Front
for the Liberation of Palestine.  He lived with his mother in Philimore Court,
Kensington, west London, and socialised on the diplomatic circuit. He taught
Spanish at Langham Secretarial College, Park Lane, was known as an expert poker
player and dressed in expensive suits and well-cut blazers.  He gained a
reputation as a Latin Romeo and used the flat of his lover Angela Otaola to hide
an arms cache.  From his base in London he made frequent trips abroad and is
thought to have led a Paris-based PFLP squad which carried out a number of
terrorist attacks in 1974-75.  In the 1979 interview he claimed to have:
    Bombed a Paris chemists, killing two people and wounding 30.
    Planned the kidnapping of the French ambassador to the Hague.
    Organised a firebomb attack on an Israeli El Al jet at Orly airport, Paris.
He is also thought responsible for bombing the Israeli Hapoalim bank in the City
of London in 1974, injuring a typist.  In 1975 a Lebanese informer led three
French agents to the apartment he was using in Paris. Carlos asked to go to the
toilet and returned with a gun, shooting dead the Lebanese and two agents,
leaving the third seriously wounded.  The terrorist slipped back to London, but
after French police announced that they were looking for a man named Carlos, a
friend of Miss Otaola, Barry Woodhams, contacted Scotland Yard.  He had found
three pistols, hand grenades, gelignite and a false passport at her flat in
Hereford Road, Bayswater. There was also a "hit-list" reported to have named
about 500 prominent people, about half of them Jewish.  Miss Otaola, a Spanish
waitress, was later sentenced to a year's imprisonment and deportation. Another
of Carlos's friends, Maria Nydia Romero de Tobon, a Colombian doctor of law who
acted as his London banker, was given the same sentence for possessing a stolen
identity card he had given her.  But Carlos managed to flee the country, and he
is not known to have been active in Britain since.  David Yallop, author of To
the Ends of the Earth, which tells of how he tracked Carlos down to Damascus and
finally met him after a 10-year search, said his quarry had "the charm of the
psychopath".  He said: "He was once described to me by an oil minister who he
had kidnapped. He said, 'You'd introduce him to your daughter'. The kind of man
you'd take home to meet your family.  "The same kind of man that could throw a
hand grenade into a restaurant in Paris on a Sunday afternoon and cause
appalling slaughter." Mr Yallop told ITN news: "There will be many people,
President Assad of Syria, Saddam Hussein, who will want to see this man dead.
"He is a walking encyclopaedia, not only of the acts of terrorism that he was
responsible for, but for everything that's occurred in that area for the last 25
years."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1994 The Press Association Limited

                              439 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                August 16, 1994

CAPTURE OF CARLOS: EVIL SPAWNED IN CHELSEA;
SWINGING SIXTIES/The rich kid learned his terrorism skills at a London rifle
club, then earned his spurs in the capital

BYLINE: Sally Weale

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FOREIGN PAGE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 891 words


IT WAS in Britain that Illich Ramirez Sanchez, a young Venezualan student
enjoying swinging sixties' London, learned to shoot, courtesy of a Chelsea
pistol club.

It was in Britain just a few years later that the same man first put those
skills into practice.

Just before 7pm on December 30 1973, a hooded man rang the doorbell at the St
John's Wood home of Edward Sieff, president of Marks & Spencer and
vice-president of the Zionist Federation of Great Britain.

The Portuguese butler answered. The caller pointed a gun at him and asked to be
taken to the master of the house. The butler led him upstairs to the bathroom
where Mr Sieff was changing. The gunman put his 9mm Beretta revolver inches from
Mr Sieff's nose and fired.

Miraculously he survived. Thanks to an exceptionally healthy set of teeth for a
68-year-old, the bullet was deflected. It came to rest a quarter-inch from his
jugular vein, saving his life.

The gunman tried to shoot again and again but the bullets would not fire.
Frustrated, he fled and drove off into the wintry night leaving Mr Sieff's wife,
Lois, nursing her injured husband.

This botched attack is thought to have been Carlos's first terrorist strike. If
it was a test of the young revolutionary's courage and loyalty to his masters,
the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, he had passed. The audacity
of the attack - no back-up as driver, no hand grenades, just one gun and five
bullets - convinced them of his calibre. The trail of terror had begun.

Carlos's second attack came days later on January 25 1974. This time the target
was the Israeli bank of Hapoalim in Lawrence Lane, off Cheapside in the City of
London.

According to witnesses, a man in his mid-twenties held open the bank's twin
doors with one hand and with the other tried to hurl a shoebox packed with
plastic explosives. The heavy doors swung back into him, colliding with the box
as he threw it. It skidded across the floor and exploded in front of the bank
counter injuring a typist, Janet Kipling.

Again the operation was botched. It proved however that Carlos had made the
transition from armchair revolutionary to fully-fledged terrorist.

It was in August 1966 that Elba Maria Sanchez arrived in London with her sons
Illich, Lenin and Vladimir - all named after their father's hero, Lenin. The
family lived at a number of addresses over the years, including 12 Walpole
Street and Flat 4 Phillimore Court.

Illich and Lenin attended Stafford House in Kensington, a sixth-form crammer
specialising in English courses. The youngest boy, Vladimir, attended Bousfield
primary school in the Boltons, Kensington.

His teacher, Natalie Pringle, recalls a pleasant, well-off family, openly
committed to communism. Illich she remembers from a parents' evening, when he
accompanied his mother, as "serious and studious".

Having studied for O-levels in English, physics, maths and chemistry, Illich
went on in June 1967 to Earls Court Tutorial College in Redcliffe Square to
start A-levels. Among his extra-curricular activities was target practice with
his brother Lenin, at the Royal Kensington Rifle Club.

After a spell at the Patrice Lumumba University in Moscow, Illich returned to
London where he began teaching Spanish at the Langham Secretarial College in
Park Lane. He registered as an external student at the University of London for
a BSc economics degree and attended lectures at the London School of Economics.

With friends he talked of his commitment to the Palestinian cause, but his
revolutionary image was dented by his frequent visits to the Playboy Club and
Churchills, a nightspot also popular at that time with the Princess Margaret
set.

In July 1975 the terrorist trail led to London again. One of Illich's women
friends was a 21-year-old Basque called Angela Otala, whom he met at a steak
house where she was working as a waitress.

On July 1, Ms Otala's flatmate, Barry Woodhams, read an item in the Guardian
which said French police were hunting for a political militant called Carlos
Martinez, wanted in connection with the shooting of three French
counter-espionage agents in Rue Toullier in Paris.

Instead of going to the police, Mr Woodhams went to the newspaper. He told its
foreign reporter, Peter Niesewand, that while redecorating his west London flat
in Hereford Road, Bayswater, he had discovered a black hold-all left by his
flatmate's boyfriend, a man called Carlos.

He had opened it to find an arsenal of arms and explosives. Niesewand, who has
since died, went to see the suitcase for himsel f. It contained, among other
things, a Czechoslovakian Vzor pistol with silencer and ammunition, a Browning
9mm with ammunition, slabs of plastic explosives and black rubber coshes.

There were also sheaves of names and address, newspaper clippings mainly from
the Jewish Chronicle with lists of Jewish organisations, a Chilean passport, and
stamps for forging British entry visas.

In the bookcase behind which the hold-all was stashed was a paperback copy of
Frederick Forsyth's novel, The Day of the Jackal. It belonged to Mr Woodhams and
there was nothing to suggest Carlos had so much as flicked through it.

The name stuck, however, and Carlos the Jackal was born. Like the man, the story
was to run and run.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              440 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                August 16, 1994

IRA CLAIMS TWO BICYCLE BOMB WARNINGS WERE UNHEEDED BY POLICE

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 346 words


THE IRA last night claimed responsibility for the weekend bicycle bomb attacks
on Bognor Regis and Brighton.

In a statement telephoned to a Dublin radio station, the terrorists said the
attacks on the Sussex resorts had been carried out on the eve of the 25th
anniversary of the arrival of troops in Northern Ireland. "As in other recent
IRA attacks in Britain, police chose to endanger the public by not acting on the
precise details and locations given in several phoned bomb warnings," said the
statement.

The Brighton bomb was dealt with before it went off but would have caused death
and destruction over a 50-yard radius, police said yesterday.

Five pounds of Semtex explosive was packed into a pannier bag on the bike which
was chained to metal railings on the forecourt of the Palace Pier. This was
twice the size of the bomb that exploded in a pedestrian precinct at Bognor
Regis, wrecking 15 shops.

Police said the location and size of the Brighton device was a "callous" act.
It was found and dealt with in a controlled explosion on Saturday. Sussex
assistant chief constable, Richard Childs, said of the bomb: "This would have
maimed and killed within a considerable radius. The only conclusion was that it
had been strategically placed to cause maximum injury and damage."

The area was extensively used by tourists, and the bicycle was against an iron
lamppost that would have shattered into flying fragments.

Police have appealed for information about the two bikes, a Townsend Oregon and
a French-made Gitane Bullet. Both had white Tipp-Ex type markings which may
indicate they are hire bikes.

Security videos taken at shops in Bognor and Brighton pier were being gathered
for examination. Tourists are also being asked for their videos.

The bombs have not deterred tourists. Brighton council said that the seafront
was "fairly busy" yesterday.

- Several men were arrested yesterday by police hunting the killers of Sean
Monaghan, a Catholic aged 20, murdered by the Protestant Ulster Volunteer Force
over the weekend.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              441 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            August 16, 1994, Tuesday

'Carlos' arrest: Britain urged to seek its own justice

BYLINE: ANNIKA SAVILL, Diplomatic Editor

SECTION: INTERNATIONAL NEWS PAGE; Page 8

LENGTH: 427 words


ISRAELI and Jewish support groups yesterday demanded that Britain insist on
questioning Ilich Ramirez Sanchez, known as ''Carlos the Jackal'', for the
shooting of a leading Jewish businessman in London more than two decades ago.

British officials would not confirm that Carlos was wanted for the 1973 shooting
of Joseph Edward Sieff, then president of Marks & Spencer and vice-president of
the Zionist Federation in Britain. Scotland Yard would merely say it had ''not
ruled out'' questioning Carlos but declined to specify any offence. The Foreign
Office said it was not aware of any warrant for his arrest. This was in contrast
to a swift reaction in Germany, which said it would seek to extradite Carlos and
try him for murder over a bomb attack in Berlin in 1983.

British pressure groups insisted Britain must use the detention of Carlos in
France to seek justice over the attack on Sieff, who survived the bullet fired
into his face at his home in St John's Wood, north London.

''I'd be very surprised, outraged even, if they don't seek to extradite or at
least question him,'' Helen Davis, director of the Britain Israel Public Affairs
Centre, told the Independent.

Howard Schavarien, president of the Zionist Federation, said: ''I would
certainly hope that any outstanding crimes committed by this man will now be
investigated. It was an act of terrorism here; we are now undergoing a new spate
of Islamic terrorism against Jewish and Israeli targets in this country. The
Sieff shooting shows how long it has been going on. It would certainly send the
right signal to show the files are still kept open.''

After the Sieff shooting, Carlos hid the gun at the West London flat of a Basque
woman - one of several girlfriends here - where it was later found. Sieff
survived thanks to a set of exceptionally strong teeth which deflected the
bullet's impact, and to the presence of mind of his wife, who turned him over on
his stomach to stop him choking. He was paralysed for a time, but recovered
almost fully and lived for another nine years.

Sieff was at the top of a list of targets carefully prepared by Carlos a year
before. His family had donated to Zionist causes; he had made frequent
fund-raising trips to Israel; a month before the shooting, he had acted as host
to Menachem Begin.

A month later, a bomb caused serious damage to the Israeli Bank Hapoalim in the
City of London. No conclusive evidence exists, but eyewitness reports and
records of Carlos's movements could indicate he was responsible for that too.


LOAD-DATE: August 16, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1994 Independent Print Ltd

                              442 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            August 16, 1994, Tuesday

Carlos held after 20-year manhunt; Scotland Yard may question killer who is said
to have been behind series of terrorist attacks in London

BYLINE: JULIAN NUNDY in Paris

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Page 1

LENGTH: 674 words


SCOTLAND YARD said last night it may seek to interview Ilich Ramirez Sanchez,
the international terrorist better known as ''Carlos'', whose arrest by French
police yesterday, after a secret extradition from Sudan, ended a 20-year hunt by
the world's security forces.

British police would not say whether there are outstanding warrants against him,
but Carlos is presumed to have been behind a number of terrorist attacks in
London, his base in the early 1970s.

Announcing his capture, Charles Pasqua, France's Interior Minister, said Carlos
was responsible for the killing of 83 people, 15 in France. He is ''the
best-known and the most dangerous terrorist on the national and international
plane''.

His most infamous operation on British soil, for which he claimed
responsibility, was in December 1973, when he tried to kill Joseph Edward Sieff,
who was chairman of Marks & Spencer and the vice-president of the Zionist
Federation in Britain. Although Carlos shot him in the face with a pistol at his
home in St John's Wood, Sieff survived. Carlos, now 44, operated from the homes
of London-based girlfriends which were used to hide weapons, cash and false
papers.

He carried out a string of terrorist attacks in the 1970s, including the
hostage-taking of oil ministers at an Organisation of Petroleum Exporting
Countries (Opec) conference in Vienna in December 1975. After a gun battle in
which three people died, Carlos demanded and got a jet with a volunteer crew.
This took the terrorists to Algiers and Tripoli, then back to Algiers before he
freed the last hostages.

The delivery of Carlos into the hands of the DST, France's counter-espionage
service, ended a hunt by a service seeking to avenge the deaths of two of its
officers shot by Carlos in Paris in 1975. Mr Pasqua said the killing began ''a
long pursuit on the French side with the help of several friendly services. This
hunt was never abandoned.''

Mr Pasqua, explaining ''there are some things I can't say and others I don't
know'', gave few details of the arrest of Carlos, saying only that he was
arrested on Sunday by the Sudanese authorities and flown to Villacoublay, the
French government's VIP airport south of Paris. Mr Pasqua declined even to say
to which country the aircraft carrying Carlos belonged or where he was being
held, saying only that he was in DST hands. French radio reports said he had
been taken to La Sante prison in central Paris.

Carlos, born into the family of a Marxist lawyer in Venezuela, was educated at
Patrice Lumumba University in Moscow before being expelled from the Soviet Union
for raucous behaviour. His first name, Ilich, was the patronymic of Vladimir
Lenin.

Mr Pasqua said the DST had discovered that Carlos was in Sudan at the start of
this year. Most recently, he was reported to be living in Damascus with his
wife, Magdalena Kopp - herself a one-time member of the Baader-Meinhof gang -
and their daughter, Rosa.

Ten days ago, France sent Sudan a written request to extradite Carlos on the
basis of an international arrest warrant. Mr Pasqua insisted Sudan had agreed
without any negotiation, even though Khartoum could be expected to be
sympathetic towards a man who fought for radical Arab causes. Yesterday, Sudan
said its capture of Carlos reflected its opposition to terrorism, but denied it
extradited him to improve its international image. Sudanese officials said
Carlos came to Khartoum to plan assaults on foreign targets in Sudan, and that
agents had him under surveillance before France requested his arrest. However,
Sudan's Justice Minister, Abdel-Azziz Shado, urged the US yesterday to consider
taking Sudan off a list of countries that sponsor terrorism.

Carlos was sentenced to life imprisonment by a French court in absentia in June
1992. Now he is in custody, he will face a retrial. Officials in Berlin said
that Germany would seek his extradition, to face trial for a bomb attack in
1983.

(Photograph omitted)

Leading article, page 15

Robert Fisk, page 17


LOAD-DATE: August 16, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1994 Independent Print Ltd

                              443 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                August 17, 1994

KURD BOMBERS GET 15 YEARS AS OTHERS ESCAPE NET

BYLINE: Edward Pilkington

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 611 words


THREE Kurd separatists who took part in petrol bomb attacks on Turkish targets
in London last November were sentenced to between 12 and 15 years yesterday as
police warned that up to 12 other bombers had escaped detection.

The Old Bailey jury had to stay in a hotel overnight before finding the Kurds
guilty of participating in a concerted wave of attacks which struck London and
other European cities on November 5.

Five buildings in the capital were targeted, including the Turkish Embassy, a
community centre, airline offices and two Turkish banks.

The defendants were charged with conspiring to damage property at the banks and
intending to endanger life. They denied all counts.

Cafer Kovaycin, 30, and Hikmet Bozat, 33, were sentenced to 15 years and Zervet
Ozen, 19, to 12 years. The three lived in north London, having claimed political
asylum in Britain.

Detective Inspector Kieron Sharp, of the City of London police, said: "We are
keeping the case open, though there is little hope of a breakthrough without new
information."

Five British Telecom workers were injured in one of the attacks when a petrol
bomb was thrown through their window. One worker, Caroline Russell, was burned.

It was disclosed after the trial that BT had received an anonymous letter two
days after the attack admitting the bombers had made a "tragic mistake" - they
confused the offices with the TC Zirrat bank next door.

The convictions have refocused attention on the north London community of
Turkish Kurds. There are fears that Turkey's politic al struggle, which has
claimed more than 10,000 lives in the past decade, may have spilled into
Britain.

A Turkish newspaper office in north London was wrecked early yesterday by masked
intruders thought to be from a Kurdish separatist group. Police said four men
entered the offices of the Turkish language daily Hurriyet in Stoke Newington
and daubed political slogans on walls. Office equipment was destroyed.

At the Old Bailey, Judge Ann Goddard told the jury that the defendants were on
trial for their actions not their political beliefs, and recommended the men be
deported after serving their terms.

The defendants denied they were members of any organised terrorist faction, and
no evidence was presented to the contrary.  However, the jury was told that they
were found in possession of literature sympathetic to the Kurdistan Workers'
Party, or PKK, a separatist group waging war on the Turkish state. Twelve
million Kurds live in south-east Turkey.

David Paget, prosecuting, alleged that leaflets had been scattered explaining
that the bombings were in protest "against the torture and murder of Kurdistan
villagers". Last year 874 Kurdish villages were razed or depopulated by the
Turkish army.

After Mr Bozat was sentenced it emerged that he had fled from Turkey in 1992
having spoken out against the regime. Soon after being granted temporary
admission to Britain he sprayed the Ziratt bank with graffiti and was bound over
to keep the peace.

Scotland Yard has been concerned for more than two years about supporters of the
PKK and the far-left revolutionary Kurdish group Dev-Sol. There have been
complaints of intimidation to extract donations from small businesses in the
Stoke Newington area.

The PKK has been banned in France and Germany, but the Home Office said last
night that it had no plans to add the party to its list of proscribed
organisations.

Mizgin Sen, of the Kurdish Information Centre, warned that the sentences would
increase pressure on Kurdish refugees. "We are worried the case will be
generalised against us," she said.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              444 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                August 17, 1994

Kurdish bombers are jailed Refugees carried out campaign against Turkish targets
in Britain

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 577 words


THREE Kurdish terrorists who launched a bombing campaign against Turkish targets
in Britain, while themselves seeking refuge here, were jailed at the Old Bailey
yesterday for terms ranging from 12 to 15 years.

All three were convicted of conspiracy to damage property by fire with intent to
endanger life on November 4 last year. They were also convicted of damaging
property by fire.

The three all lived in north London. They are Cafer Kovaycin, 30, of Lingfield
Gardens, Lower Edmonton; Zervet Ozen, 19, of Denmark Road, Hornsey; and Hikmet
Bozat, 33, of Junction Road, Upper Holloway.

Ozen was jailed for 12 years while the other two each received 15-year
sentences.

As they were led to cells, a lone protester was bundled from the public gallery
by police after he repeatedly shouted "long live Kurdistan".

Judge Ann Goddard told the trio she was not sentencing them for any political
beliefs they may hold.

"What I am concerned with is petrol bomb attacks on the streets of London," she
said.

"There are no legitimate targets for such attacks -- endangering life is more
important than damaging property and the intention to do so is even worse."

Mr David Paget, prosecuting, had said that, after their arrest, all three were
found to have literature "indicating either interest in or sympathy with a
Kurdistan separatist organisation, the Kurdistan Workers Party or PKK".

Mr Paget said that that fact was not adduced during the trial, "there being no
evidence on which the Crown can say that was the orgainsation which in fact were
behind the attacks."

The terrorists had all sought asylum in Britain but the Judge recommended that
they eventually be deported, despite a claim by the defence that at least one of
them feared for his life if he returned to Turkey.

MrAshley Gordon, defending Bozat, said his client was a respectable teacher and
an idealist who was forced to leave Turkey after he insisted on exercising free
speech.

Mr Gordon told the Judge: "You are dealing with a refugee. He told me before
these verdicts that if he was to return to Turkey he would be killed."

The three were involved in firebombings aimed at two Turkish banks in the City
of London on November 4 last year -- the same day as a wave of attacks against
Turkish offices across Europe.

Also on that day, Kurdish protesters targeted the Turkish Islamic Centre in
Stoke Newington, the Turkish Airlines office in London's West End, and the
Turkish Embassy in Belgrave Square.

The first UK target was to have been the TC Ziratt bank in Gresham Street, north
London, but the bombers mistakenly hurled their Molotov cocktails into the
British Telecom building next door -- injuring Ms Caroline Russell, 23.

The court was told how flaming petrol stuck to her clothes and hair, burning her
face and upper body.

As the petrol bombers, including Bozat and Ozen, fled they left leaflets which
declared: "We are protesting against the genocide attacks by the Turkish state
in Kurdistan. We are protesting against the torture and murder of Kurdistan
villagers."

The second attack was on the Sabanci bank in Finsbury Square, north London.
Kovaycin, and two other unknown men, set a fire in the customer area which
slightly injured one man and caused considerable damage.

Turkey denies that the PKK is a freedom fighting organisation but a Marxist
terror organisation bent on undermining Turkish democracy.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: The three Kurdish terrorists who were jailed yesterday at the OldBailey
for their bombing campaign: ZervetOzen, 19, Cafer Kovaycin, 30, and Hilmet
Bozat, 33.Picture: PA

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              445 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           August 17, 1994, Wednesday

Kurds jailed for London bombing campaign; Attacks aimed at Turkish targets

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 7

LENGTH: 444 words


THREE Kurdish terrorists who launched a bombing campaign against Turkish targets
in Britain while seeking refuge here were jailed yesterday for terms ranging
from 12 to 15 years.

Hours before the men were sentenced masked intruders thought to be from a
Kurdish separatist group wrecked the offices of a Turkish newspaper in London.
Police said four men entered the offices of the Turkish language daily Hurriyet
in Stoke Newington, north London, and daubed paint on office equipment.

Later at the Old Bailey Cafer Kovaycin, 30, of Lower Edmonton; Zervet Ozen, 19,
of Hornsey; and Hikmet Bozat, 33, of Upper Holloway, all north London, were
convicted of conspiracy to damage property by fire with intent to endanger life
on 4 November last year. They were also convicted of damaging property by fire.
Ozen was jailed for 12 years but the other two each received 15-year sentences.

As they were led to cells a lone protester was bundled by police from the public
gallery after he repeatedly shouted ''Long live Kurdistan''.

Judge Ann Goddard told the three men that she was not sentencing them for any
political beliefs they may hold. ''What I am concerned with is petrol bomb
attacks on the streets of London,'' she said. ''There are no legitimate targets
for such attacks - endangering life is more important than damaging property and
the intention to do so is even worse.''

Earlier, David Paget, for the prosecution, said that after their arrest all
three were found to have literature ''indicating either interest in or sympathy
with a Kurdistan separatist organisation the Kurdistan Workers Party or PKK ''.
But he added that there was no evidence on which the Crown could say that the
organisation had been behind the attacks.

The terrorists had all sought asylum in Britain but in sentencing them the judge
recommended that they eventually be deported.

The three were involved in firebombings aimed at two Turkish banks in the City
of London on 4 November last year - the same day as a wave of attacks against
Turkish offices across Europe. A woman was injured in one of the attacks. Also
on that day, Kurdish protesters targeted the Turkish Islamic Centre in Stoke
Newington, the Turkish Airlines office in the West End of London and the Turkish
Embassy in Belgrave Square.

Mr Paget said it would seem that the London attacks were brought about by ''Kurd
resentment at what the Turks are doing, or allegedly doing, to the Kurds in
Turkey''.

Meanwhile, last night police were investigating the possibility that the PKK or
another group, Dev Sol, were behind the early morning attack on the north London
newspaper office.


LOAD-DATE: August 17, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1994 Independent Print Ltd

                              446 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                August 18, 1994

Cheerful in the face of disaster

BYLINE: Ron Marshall

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 749 words


HOW did we ever manage without it? is the question the business world asks so
often about nearly every gadget that has hit the market since the abacus.

Calculators, faxes, modems, fancy phone systems, and most of all the computer
have all eased office burdens in a magical fashion.

But what happens if the computer system is wiped out at a stroke by some outside
agency such as a fire or flooding (the latter often accompanying the former when
internal sprinklers burst into action)? What can be done if a virus is
accidentally or intentionally injected, or the system is knocked out of action
for any length of time by lightning or some other structural accident?

Statistics show that a business relying heavily on a computer network has only a
50% chance of survival if it fails to resume normal trading within six weeks of
a "disaster", and that is why sensible companies are insured against such
happenings.

The major drawback in these circumstances is that a contingency loss has to be
proved, and the insurers then pay usually a percentage of the loss. And as that
loss continues to show up in subsequent accounts, only then do insurers pay up
the policy's agreed portion, up to the level of insurance.

The most enlightened haven these days for a company critically severed from its
computer umbilical is the disaster recovery centre (DRC), an idea prompted by
terrorist attacks, mainly in London.

Briefly, the affected company moves its key personnel into premises already
equipped with facilities mirroring those at base, with duplicate back-up tapes
and disks, faxes, and phone numbers replicating the original infrastructure of
the company.

Safety Net, a London-based company, recently expanded trading to Dunfermline,
and its principal activity is what is called a Wide Area Network -- i.e.
dealing with mainframe IBM computers, usually with links throughout Britain.

The first Scottish-based company to home in on Local Area Networks (LANs), where
terminals are dotted round the same building or room, connected to one central
server, is VisaTech, run by partners Bill Hendry and Alan Ferguson.

Hendry, whose expertise lies in hardware maintenance, worked with Reuter in
London and was latterly closely involved with all the installation and
maintenance of Reuter's communications north of London. Ferguson is the software
specialist, an expert in the DOS and UNIX systems.

Although the company base is in Milngavie its DRC is "somewhere near Newbridge,
west of Edinburgh". Naturally where offices are laden with gear worth tens of
thousands of pounds, there is a reluctance to pinpoint the location.

"We deliberately chose a site handy for both big cities, near a motorway," says
Hendry. "If necessary we could accommodate key staff from three or four
companies at a time. We have three separate rooms, one accommodating 30 people
without shoe-horning; the two others would take 10 each.

"We want to target roughly 20 companies to take on board our facility. We will
prepare a complete risk assessment, and if a company agrees to subscribe to our
plan it can be certain its operation will be able to continue literally the day
after whatever disaster befalls it."

Figures from insurance and fire-service sources show that one company in five
will suffer a major disaster every five years. A more insidious cause of trouble
comes from disgruntled employees -- people are well aware of the damage they can
do with a well-placed match, not to mention the deliberate introduction of a
computer virus.

The VisaTech partners knew there were four or five DRCs operating in London, but
not in Scotland. However, its perceived "gap in the market", as far as
attracting the big financial institutions was concerned, was blocked off when
two major companies in Scotland with British-wide communications opted to place
their business with a London-based DRC after having shown interest in the
Scottish idea.

"Having come a cropper there," admits Bill Hendry, "we re-thought our strategy,
decided to sidestep the financial industry and target local area networks and
companies with anything from half a dozen to several dozen PCs linked to their
own central server."

A recent survey in the US showed that LANs were more prone to failure than
mainframe computers; also the bigger the number of work stations the more likely
the chance of failure (the average LAN was out of commission for more than one
working day a year).

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Bill Hendry and Alan Ferguson: 'If a company subscribes to our plan it
can be certain its operation will be able to continue literally the day after
whatever disaster befalls it'. Picture: DUNCAN DINGSDALE

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              447 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            August 21, 1994, Sunday

Body Of Evidence

BYLINE: John Burns and Ciaran Byrne

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 2174 words


The five shots that rang out in a Dublin suburb on Thursday afternoon realised
the worst fears of the republic's security forces: after two weeks of rising
gangland tension, of shootings, beatings and murder, the paramilitaries who have
wreaked havoc in Northern Ireland for the past 25 years formally laid siege to
the capital city.

As members of the Garda Siochana quietly celebrated the death of Martin Cahill,
Ireland's most notorious criminal who taunted and provoked them for two decades,
their jubilation was tinged with fear. Cahill, known as The General for his
organisational expertise and the loyalty he commanded from his gang, may have
been a thorn in their side and a source of constant embarrassment and
frustration, but he had become in recent years a containable menace. With
patience and perseverance, gardai knew that in time they might get Cahill: he
only had to make one serious mistake and they would have him. But his killers
represent a totally different threat for the force.

Hardened by the conflict in Northern Ireland, their ruthlessness is
unquestioned. In the areas of Belfast controlled by the Provisional IRA and
their proxy killers in the INLA, racketeering, punishment shootings, torture and
corruption are their daily diet. Faced down by the British Army and an armed
RUC, they survive nevertheless, and prosper and murder.

Their violence often comes cloaked in respectability. The IRA has made much in
the past of its hatred of drug pushers, petty criminals and sex offenders:
publicly, it projects an image of the real community police force, doing a job
that the established forces of law and order cannot or will not do. But beneath
the surface, the picture is far, far different. The IRA is deeply mired in drugs
and racketeering. It punishes drug pushers, but only those who do not play by
its rules. It is a regime of terror that is now being exported to the republic,
and one that the Garda will find horrendously difficult to combat.

IT WAS 3.15pm on Thursday as Cahill drove his black Renault 5 van along Oxford
Road in Dublin's southside. He had just visited a house in nearby Swan Grove and
was planning to drop off a video at a local store before making his way home to
Cowper Downs, a middle-class housing development where he had lived since 1988.

With him was the mobile phone he used to keep in touch with associates and to
get instant advice from lawyers. In his pocket was a balaclava which would be
pulled over his head if a confrontation with gardai or journalists loomed.

Few knew exactly what he looked like. Newspapers could only ever produce
pictures of Cahill wearing a variety of ski-masks, balaclavas and Mickey Mouse
outfits.

But the two men waiting on the corner of Oxford Road and Charleston Avenue knew
their quarry. As Cahill drove towards the junction, one of the men ran alongside
the van and spoke to him. Suddenly he produced a small silver handgun and fired
one shot through the driver's window. The van careered out of control and
crashed into a stone gatepost outside the entrance of a house on the other side
of the road.

The gunman shot him four more times in the neck, head and chest, before jumping
on the back of his accomplice's motorbike and escaping.

In the following hours, the IRA and the INLA squabbled farcically over who could
take the credit for his death. First the INLA said it carried out the killing.
Two-and-a-half hours later, the IRA issued a statement describing the INLA as a
''criminal gang'' and saying it had executed Cahill for his involvement with
loyalist paramilitaries. Later, in yet another bizarre twist, the Ulster
Volunteer Force, the loyalist terrorist group, jumped on the bandwagon and said
that it had already passed a death sentence on him and would have killed him
given the chance. Then INLA changed its tune and said it had planned to kill
Cahill ''but the IRA got there first''.

Everyone wanted to cover themselves in Cahill's blood, because they knew his
death would be popular not just with gardai, but with the communities that he
had terrorised for years.

Cahill was born in 1949 in Crumlin, one of 12 children. His experience in crime
was developed from an early age and led to a court appearance for theft when he
was just 11 years old. He was 16 when he was convicted of burglary and sent to
an industrial school run by a religious order. He later said ''it was those mad
monks down at the bog'' who had corrupted him.

Cahill was sentenced to four years in prison in 1970 for receiving stolen goods.
It was in Mountjoy that he met many of the criminals who would become members of
his gang. When he was released in 1973 he dedicated himself to armed robberies.
The Garda began to appreciate Cahill's increasing prowess as a criminal after
the 1974 robbery of a Quinnsworth branch in Rafarnham, which netted Pounds
90,000. He was never convicted of the crime but it set the tone for a series of
spectacular robberies and kidnaps that would take place over the next 20 years.

However, it was RTE's Today Tonight programme which introduced his activities to
the Irish public in 1988 and exposed him as a crime boss living in opulence,
despite being officially unemployed and drawing social welfare payments since
1969.

The exposure forced an embarrassed force to assign more than 90 officers to
mount 24-hour surveillance of Cahill and his gang. While most of The General's
lieutenants cracked under the strain and were imprisoned for a range of
offences, Cahill continued to enrage the force.

Detectives were openly taunted by Cahill, who tape-recorded his conversations
with them, slashed the tyres on their cars outside their social club and dug up
greens on the force's golf course. They prosecuted him for these offences,
trivial in comparison to the crimes he had committed, and Cahill turned up in
court wearing Mickey Mouse outfits or sporting a bird's nest on his head. More
than 150 files relating to The General's crimes were stolen from the offices of
the director of public prosecutions.

However, those who came into contact with The General were left in no doubt that
he was a ruthless and vicious man who would not hesitate to order the torture
and murder of those who got in his way.

A social worker who attempted to cut off Cahill's unemployment benefits was shot
in the leg. A get well card to his hospital bed was typical of Cahill's black
humour. ''The General prognosis is good,'' it read.

The head of the state forensic laboratory, working on a case involving Cahill in
1982, lost part of a foot after a bomb exploded in his car.  Journalists who
wrote stories criticising his activities were threatened.  Cahill's neighbours
were intimidated and businessmen who got in his way were shot. One suspected
traitor in his gang was nailed to a floor.

BENEATH Cahill's violence and sporadic publicity stunts lurked a cunning
criminal brain. Although never charged for a major offence, he was known by
gardai to have been responsible for some of the most daring robberies during the
1980s.

It was one of his most spectacular escapades the July 1983 Harold's Cross
jewellery robbery that netted a then-record Pounds 2m that first put Cahill at
odds with the IRA. It was one of the most audacious raids ever organised and, at
the time, the biggest in the history of the state. The IRA had drawn up its own
plan for a similar raid but had scrapped it, believing it to be too difficult.
The IRA was said to be furious at The General's success, but more particularly
by his refusal to share the spoils. It also received information that Cahill
intended to barter the jewellery for drugs: a move that would give it the
opportunity to tackle Cahill and at the same time boost its credentials in
working-class areas by punishing drug dealers.

In March 1984, Tommy Gaffney, a close associate of Cahill, was abducted by the
IRA and questioned for 12 days about drugs and the Harold's Cross raid.  The
kidnappers demanded to know about Cahill's activities and told him to tell his
boss they would never kidnap him: ''We will kill him on the street instead,''
they warned.

The catalogue of violent crime reached a new level in 1986 when the gang broke
into Russborough house and stole paintings from the Beit collection valued at
more than Pounds 30m. But Cahill found it difficult to dispose of them and
formed links with loyalists from Armagh in a plan to sell them abroad. It proved
unsuccessful and some of them were recovered.

Gardai almost captured Cahill in September 1987 when he was lured to remote
woodland in Co Wicklow to meet a man posing as a foreign businessman. Their
elaborate sting operation went wrong when a radio link failed.

IN THE days before his death Cahill and his deputies were thought to be plotting
another major heist a high-profile kidnapping or the theft of the Book of Kells
from Trinity College, according to Garda speculation but for many years he had
been a shadow of his former self. He returned to the fray last year with the
carefully planned kidnapping of Jim Lacey, the then chief executive of the
National Irish Bank, but the Garda was growing less concerned with the threat he
posed. Typically, though, Cahill had not lost his ability to taunt gardai. While
his colleagues carried out the crime, Cahill had the perfect alibi: he was
passing the time of day with gardai on a street in Rathmines.

Intensive Garda surveillance was lifted from The General's two homes in
Rathmines in 1989 as Cahill, a portly diabetic who still feasted on chocolate
and rich food, went into semi-retirement and left the dirty work to others.

His gang of the 1980s had long since broken up and Cahill was no longer able to
rely on a loyal bodyguard when he ventured out. His daily routine went like
clockwork, rounding off each night with a meal in a Chinese restaurant nearby
and then a trip to a Leeson Street night-club. ''It was all totally
predictable,'' said one garda.

His killers had been able to conduct a dry run of their attack on Wednesday
afternoon when Cahill had emerged from his house at the same time and headed off
in the same direction.

But the end to his 30-year crime career was not entirely tame and just days
before his death he got involved in an altercation with a paramilitary leader
that hastened his demise.

A dingy flat in the Tom Kelly estate of Charlemont Street in Ranelagh, Dublin,
is not the type of prized possession that Cahill would have been expected to get
excited about. The estate is run by Dublin corporation, who on Thursday, August
11, finally moved against a close relative of Cahill's who had been squatting
there for more than a year.

Perhaps unknown to The General and his cronies, the flat had been allocated by
the corporation to a woman with close links to a leading INLA figure in Dublin.
When the city sheriff arrived with an eviction order for Cahill's relative, he
found the flat barricaded and a hostile crowd waiting.

The General, who was also at the scene, took legal advice about the eviction
order on his mobile phone. When he challenged the legality of the order and the
crowd with him threatened to turn nasty, the sheriff withdrew.

That evening, on Cahill's orders, the disputed flat was completely burnt out.
Gardai believe the arson attack infuriated the leading INLA figure, who then
threatened to kill The General. They say the INLA man is a particularly ruthless
terrorist, who has been involved in several attacks in Britain, and that he does
not issue death threats lightly. Cahill was getting out of his depth.

CAHILL's murder has signalled a terrorist takeover of Dublin's criminal
underworld. It is a takeover that has been building for some years, but which
has intensified as the prospect of a ceasefire in Northern Ireland has grown
more likely. It has also been fuelled by the terrorists' insatiable need for
cash to fund their campaigns.

If an extended IRA and INLA ceasefire comes to pass this autumn, many gardai
believe that idle and disgruntled terrorists will step up their racketeering
operations in Dublin and other parts of Ireland. ''This week's events could just
be a taste of what's to come,'' commented one garda.

Dublin is now braced for a round of tit-for-tat revenge killings, as Cahill's
followers seek to avenge his murder and the terrorists seek to secure their
dominance of the city. Neither side will be short of firepower.

''The city's criminals are increasingly settling their differences with guns,''
said one garda. ''A hitman can be hired for as little as Pounds 1,000, depending
on the job, while a gun can be rented for Pounds 200 plus a small percentage of
the crime's profits. That is what we are up against.''

It is a fight that many believe gardai are ill-equipped to handle. Unless Maire
Geoghegan Quinn, the republic's holidaying justice minister, moves swiftly to
combat the new threat, the terrorists may soon exert the same deathly grip on
Dublin as they do on Belfast.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Terror Focus; Ireland

                    Copyright 1994 Times Newspapers Limited

                              448 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                August 22, 1994

LEADING ARTICLE: THE CRUCIAL NEED FOR A FAREWELL TO ARMS

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGE; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 602 words


HAD THERE not been so many false dawns before, this weekend's signals that the
Provisional IRA is about to declare an indefinite ceasefire would be a moment
for unqualified hope. But hope in this context needs always to be liberally
laced with caution. Last autumn, John Hume held out the prospect of peace
"within weeks".  Soon after the Irish Taoiseach, Albert Reynolds, talked of
peace "before Christmas". Neither outcome occurred. The killings continued. In
the spring, President Clinton was persuaded to let the Sinn Fein President Gerry
Adams into the United States on the understanding that he would use the occasion
to announce a ceasefire and acceptance of the Downing Stret Declaration. He did
neither. The killings continued.

The impetus for the ceasefire initiative now seems also to have come from the
Irish lobby in America, which is said to be arguing that, were a ceasefire
announced, Washington might more easily be persuaded to "lean on London". That
seems a dangerously simplistic view of how the troubles might eventually be
resolved.

An indefinite ceasefire would not be the same as the permanent cessation of
violence which was set as a condition for Sinn Fein participation in peace talks
within the framework of the Downing Street Declaration, but it is the most that
London and Dublin are going to get. It would need to be offered on terms which
represented very much less than the "victory" over Britain which Mr Adams was
claiming the other day. It would have to be based on an IRA /Sinn Fein
acceptance that the rights of the people of Northern Ireland to decide their own
future without coercion would be unconditionally honoured - without even the
sweetener of the promise by the British government, which Sinn Fein has until
now demanded, to act as a "persuader", chivvying reluctant Unionists towards a
united Ireland. It would thus in effect represent the renunciation by the IRA of
the objective for which so much blood has been shed in the past 25 years. If
that is what the offer of a ceasefire proves to represent, then the basis for a
settlement in Northern Ireland might at last exist. If it proved to mean
anything less, it would not be worth having.

Clearly, rewards are foreshadowed: a place at the negotiating table, a beginning
of the withdrawal of the British armed presence from Northern Ireland's streets,
as held out by the RUC Chief Constable, Sir Hugh Annesley, in the recent radio
interview for which he has been so extensively and unfairly condemned. But here
too there needs to be caution. The troops might even become more necessary than
before. Some believe that if IRA violence ceased, the activities of the Loyalist
terror groups, now responsible for more killing that the IRA, would cease in
response. Others - like Robin Wilson, one of the moving spirits behind the
Opsahl Commission, writing in the latest edition of the Labour magazine Renewal,
argue that surges in Loyalist violence are more a response to the judgements
they make on the UK government than on what the IRA may be doing. The closer
London seems to be moving towards Sinn Fein/IRA, the more likely the Loyalist
groups are to escalate violence.

If the signals picked up at the weekend genuinely represent a change of heart on
the Republican side, an acceptance that the cause must be fought for in future
by political rather than military means, no British government could afford to
spurn such an opportunity. It should not be assumed from that that the streets
of Belfast will then necessarily become as tranquil and unblooded as the streets
of Basingstoke.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              449 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                August 27, 1994

MORTAR ATTACKS ON RUC LEAVE 10 INJURED

BYLINE: Owen Bowcott

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 338 words


TWO IRA mortar bomb attacks were launched against Royal Ulster Constabulary
bases in Northern Ireland last night.

Up to 10 people were injured when a mortar exploded prematurely in the back
-yard of a pub near the RUC base at Downpatrick, County Down.

Later, police said what appeared to be a single "barrack-buster" mortar was
fired at the RUC station in Donemana, Co Tyrone. The station was closed and
unmanned at the time and there were no reports of casualties.

At Downpatrick, the devices, intended to devastate the police station, detonated
prematurely hours after a meeting in Belfast between Sinn Fein leaders and an
Irish-American delegation. Their talks raised hopes of an imminent ceasefire.

None of the casualties in Downpatrick, one of whom was a police officer, was
seriously hurt. A major disaster was averted at the Avenue Bar because the
publican became suspicious after spotting a red van being driven into the car
park.

He evacuated his packed premises and moments later, the IRA detonated the mortar
- but it failed to launch and exploded in the van.

Shrapnel from the disintegrating mortar and the vehicle flew through the bar and
into the street. The pub was badly damaged, and dozens of other premises were
hit.

A local Ulster Unionist Party councillor in Downpatrick, commented: "If this is
the peace process, God help us all."

South Down's SDLP MP, Eddie McGrady, said: "This was a no warning bomb, intended
to kill as many people as possible."

- A man allowed into England from Northern Ireland to give evidence against
alleged terrorists and then thrown out again pleaded with the High Court in
London yesterday to be allowed to live in England.

Kevin McQuillan, of Belfast, was applying for a judicial review of an exclusion
order, barring him from entering mainland Britain. The order was temporarily
lifted so he could give evidence against two alleged members of the INLA caught
taking explosives from a West Country quarry.

The hearing continues.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              450 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                August 29, 1994

Full-scale alert for IRA bomber

BYLINE: Andrew Young

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 486 words


FULL-SCALE police security was laid on at the George Hotel, Edinburgh, at the
weekend, when a former IRA man, jailed for planting a bomb that blew up the
Europa Hotel, Belfast, appeared at the Edinburgh Television Festival.

Mr Pat McGeown, now a Sinn Fein Belfast councillor and a member of Sinn Fein's
national executive, had received a special dispensation to be absent from the
Dublin peace talks to attend one of three sessions under the title Getting it
Wrong.

After 25 years in the full glare of media attention, he had been invited to
answer the question: How does Sinn Fein feel about the coverage of Northern
Ireland?

Mr Peter Taylor, a BBC Northern Ireland reporter, who shared the platform with
Mr McGeown, revealed how he might have been a casualty of his guest's act of
"mindless terrorism".

"It was nearly 20 years ago. I was having lunch in the Europa Hotel when there
was a bomb scare. Fortunately, the hotel was evacuated, for shortly afterwards
it was blown up, causing about a million pounds worth of damage. Pat McGeown
received 15 years in jail for planting that bomb," he said.

"He had already spent time as the youngest-ever internee, at the age of 16.
This weekend, I asked him why he joined the IRA and he said that, in the early
seventies, where he lived that was just the thing to do."

Mr McGeown said he was a different person now to the one who planted the bomb.
He said Sinn Fein wanted peace but gave no definite indication that there would
be a ceasefire by the IRA.

Asked to reply yes or no, if he thought there would be a ceasefire, he replied:
"Well, I'm reluctant to give a yes or a no because you can be misquoted."

This response caused an ironic burst of laughter from from the delegates and
even brought a slight smile to his face.

Asked if the British media had got it wrong in the way they had covered the
Republican movement over 25 years, he said he would not make such a sweeping
statement.

He added: "The problem lies with the media. It's very seldom that anyone looks
at the fundamentals of the problem. It's not accepted that partition was
something that was opposed by the Irish people. That is an integral part of the
problem and must be resolved along with all the other issues."

Did using an actor's voice when being interviewed made him look like a villain?

"It doesn't cast me in a true light." It caricatured his personality and made
viewers regard him as a villain. He conceded that there was also a problem on
how Unionists were presented "because they are treated almost as the other side
of the Paddy factor. As though Britain has no responsibility at all.

"The interest of the media is more to do with the military conflict as opposed
to the real causes. The problem with that is it creates a situation where people
think the situation cannot be resolved -- it's just the Irish who hate each
other."

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              451 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Daily Mail (London)

                                August 30, 1994

IRA truce threatens the Tory majority;
Revolt could wipe out Tory majority

BYLINE: Steve Doughty,Suzanne O'Shea

SECTION: Pg. 1, 2

LENGTH: 792 words


RIGHT-WING Tories threatened John Major with rebellion over Ulster last night.

They warned that he would hit serious problems if he went too far in response to
an IRA ceasefire expected this week.

Crucially, they said there must be no suggestion of pulling out any British
troops before the terrorists renounce violence permanently.

Sir George Gardiner, leader of the 92 Group of Right-wing MPs, said: 'We are in
grave danger of responding to an agenda dictated by the IRA. A ceasefire falls
far short of what is required.'

Terror

The threat comes from some 20 or 30 MPs with close links to Ulster Unionists -
enough to cancel out Mr Major's Commons majority.

It could plunge the Premier into a repeat of the crisis he faced trying to push
Maastricht through the Commons.

To make matters worse, the outlawed Ulster Freedom Fighters, the biggest
loyalist terror group in Ulster, threatened virtual civil war if an IRA
ceasefire led to a British 'surrender'.

Both groups were reacting to intense speculation that the IRA is about to
announce a ceasefire. Sinn Fein chief Gerry Adams met the IRA leadership
yesterday and told them the time was right for 'a democratic and peaceful
settlement'. There were indications that

nationalist leaders believe they can enlist support from the U.S. and Dublin to
wring major concessions out of Britain, including a change in Northern Ireland's
constitutional position, once a ceasefire is declared.

There is also the possibility that the doves in their ranks have found it
impossible to persuade the IRA hawks to renounce violence totally, as required
under the Anglo-Irish Downing Street declaration last December.

But Sir George warned: 'Only after three months have elapsed without a single
IRA attack, and after weapons and explosives have been surrendered, can there
possibly be any question of withdrawing troops or calling off the hunt for
terrorists guilty of past crimes.'

Sammy Wilson, spokesman for Ian Paisley's hard-line Democratic Unionist Party,
said they were convinced that any IRA ceasefire would be the result of secret
promises of concessions from Britian.

He declared: 'John Major has got into bed with dangerous, devious and despicable
terrorists and he will live to regret it. Democracy will be sacrificed to please
his new bed partners.'

The UFF made it chillingly clear that they would be taking no part in the 'peace
process'.

In a message to Adams, SDLP leader John Hume and Irish Prime Minister Albert
Reynolds, they warned: 'It is not peace you are after but surrender.  We care
little for your speculative ceasefire talk and will not respond to it. Rather
than being, in your words, a historic opportunity for a settlement of the Ulster
conflict it is a recipe for civil war.'

Ulster Unionist leader James Molyneaux - the voice of the traditional and more
moderate loyalist camp - demanded a meeting with Mr Major.

If the nine Unionist MPs switch their votes against the Government, the Tories
will be down to an overall majority of just 14 - at the mercy of a determined
revolt on the Right.

In the coming months the Government could face a testing series of votes, for
example over Post Office privatisation or its troubled Criminal Justice Bill.

Downing Street said no time had been fixed for a meeting between Mr Molyneaux
and Mr Major, but the Prime Minister cannot afford to keep the Unionist leader
waiting long.

In his statement last night, Gerry Adams made it clear that the republican
movement would be making demands on the Government as part of any ceasefire.

Initially they would be likely to involve a scaling down of the number of troops
on the streets, and an improvement in the situation of republican prisoners -
but unionists fear that ultimately constitutional concessions would have to be
involved.

An IRA ceasefire seemed a remote possibility only a month ago, when a Sinn Fein
conference effectively rejected the Downing Street declaration.

But momentum had been building since an American delegation with the tacit
support of President Clinton met Adams last week.

The Sinn Fein chief said yesterday: 'Much common ground has been established
between Sinn Fein, the SDLP and the Dublin government with the strong support of
Irish American opinion. The potential now exists to move the situation towards a
democratic and peaceful settlement.'

Labour's Northern Ireland spokesman, Kevin McNamara, warned Unionists against
trying to block political progress. He said loyalists should be reassured by
guarantees in the Downing Street Declaration that there would be no unification
of Ireland without the consent of the majority in Ulster.  Comment - Page EIGHT

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              452 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Standard (London)

                                August 31, 1994

Peace starts on bomb victim Tim's birthday

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1147 words


COURAGEOUS Colin and Wendy Parry will shed a silent tear for their murdered son
Tim tomorrow - on what should have been his 14th birthday.

As a fragile peace dawns in Ulster the couple will visit Tim's grave, painfully
aware of the ironic coincidence.

Mr Parry, who has worked tirelessly for an end to the violence since the
Warrington bomb blast killed his son, said he took comfort from his belief that
outrage over Tim's death had helped the peace process. The bomb blast in March
last year also killed three-year-old Jonathan Ball.

Mr Parry had earlier told GMTV: "If the ceasefire is announced today and takes
effect from midnight then it will begin on Tim's birthday."

He acknowledged that the path to peace would be difficult in the face of
Loyalist suspicion, which he and his wife encountered in trips to Belfast, but
said: "Give it time.

"I understand well enough the fears of the Loyalist community in places like the
Shankill.

"We don't live there and we can never truly feel what they feel, but we sampled
it and we can understand their misgivings about what is really going on behind
the scenes. Progress seems mighty slow - but at least let's stop the killing.

Mr and Mrs Parry and their daughter will visit Tim's grave at Foxes Covert
Cemetery near their Cheshire home tomorrow.

Mr Parry added he had no regrets about his role as a peace campaigner since
Tim's death. "I have remained hopeful ever since Tim died that he would become a
symbol for peace. I used those words at his funeral.

"I said it in hope and it does seem to have marked the beginning of the end -
and that is mighty welcome."

But the grieving parents of WPC Jane Arbuthnot, who died in the 1983 Harrods
bombing, said today that her IRA killers should be brought to justice even if
there is a ceasefire. And John and Susan Arbuthnot condemned any suggestion of
an amnesty for IRA gunmen.

Today, Susan Arbuthnot, her voice shaking with emotion, said: "What we want is a
complete capitulation. We want the arms locked up and the key thrown away.

"Even if people haven't been touched by the situation in Northern Ireland I
think they will agree that IRA prisoners shouldn't be released.

"We weren't sure about the British Government having links with the IRA, but
perhaps it was a price worth paying.

"Talking doesn't mean giving in to the terrorists. The IRA have got to
surrender. A complete surrender, like the Germans in 1945."

Former Irish Government minister Dr Conor Cruise O'Brien said today the
ceasefire does not mean the IRA intends to give up violence altogether.

Dr O'Brien, an arch-critic of the IRA, said: "A complete cessation of violence
is not the same as permanent.

"My view of this is this ceasefire will be a little short."

Sinn Fein leader Gerry Adams had said he expected from Britain rapid signs of
progress on constitutional and other issues, he pointed out.

"I don't think that will be forthcoming," said Dr O'Brien. He added: "What the
IRA has done is put arms in places where they cannot be found.

"The IRA will use this period for what they call the unarmed strategy." There
would be big demos and street protests which would get "pretty rough", he added.

He said there will be demands from Britain followed by rejections of what the
British had to say, and Britain would then be blamed for continuing violence.

Dr O'Brien said today's announcement was a tactical move by an organisation
whose strategy remained to destabilise the United Kingdom and move Northern
Ireland out of it.

from PATRICK CLANCY

in Dublin

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: (1) Tim Parry (2) WPC Jane Arbuthnot

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              453 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           August 31, 1994, Wednesday

Third World missile threat to Britain 'in ten years'; A new defence strategy has
been given priority. Christopher Bellamy reports

BYLINE: CHRISTOPHER BELLAMY

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 3

LENGTH: 785 words


A pounds 5M STUDY into defending Britain against ballistic missile attack,
focusing on a potential threat from the Third World, has been brought forward
amid indications that at least one Muslim state - Pakistan - has nuclear
weapons.

The study will start shortly and report in mid-1996, according to Ministry of
Defence sources who believe there could be a direct missile threat to Britain
from the Third World in 10 years' time.

A month ago Roger Freeman, Minister of State for Defence Procurement, said that
tenders for the study had been received from British Aerospace and Logica and
that the result would be announced in the autumn. But last week sources said the
study would begin in ''late summer''. It would ''examine options, costs,
technical risks and timescales with particular emphasis on the emerging Third
World threat''. Other MoD sources said the study would consider a ''defensive
structure'' embracing surveillance, early warning of attack, command and control
and the ''kill mechanism''.

The study could still conclude that an anti-missile defence system would not
guarantee stopping all incoming missiles, or that Britain does not need one
because the threat is negligible or because possession of Trident would deter
any attack. Critics of the scheme say that the threat from the Third World has
been exaggerated to justify the continuation of defence programmes made
redundant by the end of the Cold War.

Traditionally, Britain has relied on the threat of retaliation with its own
nuclear weapons to deter any missile attack. But in the Gulf wars of 1980-88 and
1991, both sides possessed ballistic missiles, but that did not deter their use.
There are now doubts about whether a ''non-rational'' dictator or government
would be susceptible to deterrence. At present only missiles from the former
Soviet Union and China can reach the UK. But in 10 years, countries such as
Libya, Saudi Arabia, Syria, Iran, Iraq, India and Pakistan, which currently have
ballistic missiles could threaten the UK, sources said. Furthermore, ''we can be
less certain about our interests elsewhere, such as Nato's southern flank,
Cyprus and Gibraltar, and UK forces deployed overseas''.

The origins of Ballistic Missile Defence (BMD) lie in the US Strategic Defense
Initiative (''Star Wars'') in the early 1980s. According to an MoD source:
''Cost considerations, technical risks combined with changes in the strategic
setting have led recent US administrations to refocus the programme along more
modest lines with priority now being given to ground-based systems. It is
possible that an effective BMD system could be developed within the next five
years''.

Sources said defence against missiles will be as important as defence against
aircraft in the next century. Cruise missiles and very small, ''stealthy''
missiles are also of concern and the RAF's Sentry early warning aircraft will be
upgraded to help counter them by 2000.

Plans for a new medium surface-to-air missile - primarily aimed at attacking
aircraft - were shelved two years ago because it was decided the money would be
better spent later, on a system also able to destroy ballistic missiles. Britain
has been cooperating with the US on the development of defences against missiles
since the mid-1980s. Only the US, Russia and Israel currently have them. The
Nato Air Defence Committee has also commissioned work on a collective system.
But the new study is to look at BMD ''from a UK perspective''.

MoD sources said last week that the main threats to Britain in the next century
are now seen as terrorism and ballistic missile attack. A ''resurgent'' - and
hostile - Russia is not discounted, but is considered a less likely risk than
attack from a Third World country with ballistic missiles and nuclear, chemical
or biological weapons. However the most likely scenario remained the deployment
of forces worldwide as part of multinational operations, and they faced a
similar missile threat.

Numerous Third World countries now have missiles in the 1,000kms (625 miles)
range bracket, which is expected to stretch to 3,000kms within a few years.
Countering them requires US technology and European co-operation, because a
missile defence system will have to extend over all of Europe. A radar based in
the UK could not possibly detect a missile launch in Libya, for example.
Satellites from the US or France, which also has a space programme, would be
needed.

The best way to destroy missiles is before launch, as the SAS and US Special
Forces demonstrated during the 1991 Gulf War, or immediately after launch. But
satellites and radars could help to destroy them in the final stages of flight.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1994 Independent Print Ltd

                              454 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           August 31, 1994, Wednesday

Loyalists distrust 'deals behind doors'

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 2

LENGTH: 508 words


BEHIND the green iron grills which fortify the Berlin Arms pub on the Shankill
Road a few early regulars were waiting last night for the latest on the
''betrayal'' on the evening news.

A few months ago the pub was the victim of a bomb attack. A local pensioner
carried the device from the premises and saved the building and its occupants.

''We have a lot of pensioners who come in here who fought for Britain in the
Second World War. They feel that it was all for nothing now,'' said Billy the
barman, 29, who is not entirely happy talking to reporters.

''When you are one of a handful of pubs yet to be driven out by the other side's
bombers, you don't exactly welcome strangers.

''The general feeling is that we don't trust the IRA and we feel betrayed by the
British.

''We all want peace but not on their terms, that's what's happening now, it's
all deals behind closed doors. It's just a step towards a united Ireland.''

A loyalist backlash he believes is inevitable. He seemed unconcerned. ''The
loyalist paramilitaries will start to hit out against the Irish in the way the
IRA targetted the British, it's just a turning of the tables.''

Just down the road at the boarded- up gap that was Frizzell's fish shop before
last year's Shankill bomb, another Billy, 60, was less bleak, but still
sceptical about the imminent ceasefire.

''You just get on with life here. You try to earn a living, bring your family up
and you hope for better for your grandchildren.

''But you don't just start trusting people who plant bombs in a main shopping
street on a Saturday afternoon when the place is full of women and children.''

He crossed the road just before the Shankill bomb exploded claiming nine lives.
Like everyone in the area he knows the victims and relatives of those who died.

Jimmy Rankin, 25, a mill worker, had just spoken to a couple of friends minutes
before the IRA atrocity. The couple and their child died in the explosion. He
looks at the lone bouquet of roses on the hoarding wall that now covers the gap
where the fish shop was.

''You can never forgive or forget this sort of thing. The ceasefire is a lot of
shit, it will never happen. We will have another 25 years of this because the
hatred is so deep. A Taig will never be able to come and use the post office on
the Shankill Road.'' The Ulster Freedom Fighters would simply never allow it.
What would make the UFF lay down their arms? Jimmy shrugs. ''They will do what's
necessary to keep Ulster British.''

Two elderly ladies gossiping opposite Frizzell's were more optimistic. ''We just
want peace,'' said one. ''We are fed up worrying where our children are at
night. It used to be our sons and now it's our grandsons.''

Her friend said that the crucial point was that people did not want another 25
years of violence. She pointed to the half- mile of metal shutters which covers
the shops on both sides of the Shankill. ''It wasn't always like this you know.
We used to be able to walk around, it used to be safe.''


LOAD-DATE: August 31, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1994 Independent Print Ltd

                              455 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                           August 31, 1994, Wednesday

The road ahead if an IRA ceasefire holds

BYLINE: By Nicholas Watt, Ireland Correspondent and Richard Ford, Home Affairs

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 891 words


AN IRA ceasefire, if it is announced and maintained, will be followed by
measures by London and Dublin to ensure the truce is not derailed.

Army and police levels in nationalist areas of Northern Ireland would be
reviewed and there would be moves to bring Sinn Fein into the political arena.
If the ceasefire meets the demand of London and Dublin for a permanent end to
violence, the British Government would enter into exploratory talks with Sinn
Fein within three months.

In a letter in April, Roderic Lyne, John Major's foreign affairs adviser, told
Gerry Adams, the Sinn Fein president, that after a permanent ceasefire a
dialogue would explore how Sinn Fein could enter political talks. He added that
the dialogue would also include an examination of ''the practical consequences
of the end to violence''.

The Government has drawn up options for scaling down military patrols. If the
ceasefire holds, the first step would entail soldiers wearing berets instead of
helmets. The next step would involve the withdrawal of some troops to barracks
in the province provided the RUC was confident about patrolling the streets
without Army back-up.

Sinn Fein is expected to demand an amnesty for republican prisoners in Ulster
and the Republic. The Government has been transferring prisoners from Britain to
the province as a gesture of goodwill and would expect the IRA in return to
provide details of its arms caches.

The developments would inflame Unionist suspicions that the IRA was being
rewarded as a result of secret discussions that led to the ceasefire. Last night
senior Unionist politicians urged their anxious community to remain calm.

James Molyneaux, leader of the Ulster Unionist Party, attempted to allay
suspicions and anxieties within the majority community after learning from
Church, business and community leaders that many people fear London has done a
''secret deal'' with Sinn Fein and Dublin.

Mr Molyneaux talked to Downing Street officials on Monday before issuing a
statement in Belfast saying he was confident there had been no shift in the
British Government's policy towards the constitutional position of Northern
Ireland within the United Kingdom.

William Ross, Chief Whip of the UUP, said: ''I think the Unionist people have
nothing to fear at the present time. While there is tension, while there is
enormous pressure in our direction, the Government is standing firm. We should
be prepared to wait and see what the Government response is and what the IRA
say.''

While the nationalist community would welcome any ''demilitarisation'' they
would want protection from reprisals by Loyalist paramilitaries. Sinn Fein would
expect the Government to lift the exclusion orders banning Mr Adams and Martin
McGuinness, another Sinn Fein leader, from entering Britain. They would also
expect visas to travel in America to present their peace proposals.

British ministers would come under pressure to lift the broadcasting ban on
members of Sinn Fein introduced in 1988 by Douglas Hurd, the then Home
Secretary, to deny them the ''oxygen of publicity''. Sinn Fein would argue that
the ban was ridiculous when the Government was attempting to bring it into the
political process.

In the short term, the Irish government would invite Sinn Fein to join a Forum
for Peace and Reconciliation, intended to ''remove barriers of distrust'' and
send a lifeline to Sinn Fein. The forum, which would not form part of
constitutional talks, would be open to all constitutional parties on the island
but would be boycotted by Unionists.

Mr Major and Albert Reynolds, the Irish Prime Minister, are likely to hold an
Anglo-Irish summit early in the autumn to review progress on a framework
document that would form the basis for a resumption of talks on Northern
Ireland's future. The two prime ministers would have to offer enough to win the
trust of Sinn Fein, without enraging the Unionist community and provoking the
Loyalist paramilitaries by offering too many concessions too quickly.

While the wider Unionist community has yearned for peace, they remain deeply
suspicious of the Government and, as throughout their history, fearful that they
will be betrayed by London.

Unionist fears of a ''pan-nationalist front'' have been heightened by this
week's joint statement by John Hume, leader of the Social Democratic and Labour
Party, and Mr Adams, followed by a statement from Cardinal Cahal Daly, the Roman
Catholic Primate of All Ireland.

Scotland Yard officers have been briefed by the RUC and MI5 about the risks of
peace. Officers do not believe that Loyalists, angry at any suspected deal,
would launch any attacks on the mainland. The fear is that the IRA could split
and opponents to any deal would reignite the campaign in Britain.  As one senior
Yard anti-terrorist expert said: ''There is always the risk of a maverick or
breakaway group. There are hardliners, especially on the border. If there was a
faction to fear, it's a breakaway faction.''

While everyone waits to see if the ceasefire holds, the IRA could redeploy and
resupply in case terrorist attacks are ordered again. Undercover operations and
prosecutions would continue.

Detectives believe two tons of explosive seized at Heysham docks in July were
intended as a last ''spectacular'' before a ceasefire.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1994 Times Newspapers Limited

                              456 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 1, 1994

SECURITY FORCES LOOK FOR PEACE DIVIDEND;
Alan Murray in Belfast, and Duncan Campbell, Richard Norton-Taylor and David
Fairhall on implications of peace

BYLINE: Alan Murray, Duncan Cambell, Richard Norton-Taylor And David Fairhall

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 755 words


SECURITY sources were speculating yesterday on the potential benefits of an
unprecedented "peace dividend".

The most immediate visible effect will be the smaller number of soldiers on the
streets of Northern Ireland. In Belfast, however, military checkpoints are
expected to remain in strategic positions close to nationalist districts where
the loyalist threat is thought to be high.

There was official caution about relaxing security measures, particularly in the
City of London, until the strength of the ceasefire could be assessed.

The army has about 17,600 soldiers in Northern Ireland, and there are about
1,000 RAF and 250 navy personnel. This is well below the peak figure of 30,000
soldiers deployed in 1972 in Operation Motorman - the clearance of the "no go"
areas - but still higher than in the mid-1980s, when the number fell to half
that level.  The total cost of the military operation last year was pounds 477
million.

The current deployment involves 12 battalions, six of which are on so-called six
month emergency tours without their families. This is by a long way the army's
biggest operational commitment. It grossly distorts the army's manpower
structure, which would otherwise have been pruned by more than the 40,000
removed in the recent Options for Change defence review.

While security and police sources were predictably cautious yesterday, they
conceded that if the ceasefire held it could have profound implications for
Britain's security and intelligence agencies, the bulk of whose resources have
been devoted for years to combating Irish-based terrorism.

The Security Service, better known as MI5, will have to re-examine its role.
The fight against Irish-based terrorism was its main purpose even before the end
of the cold war.

The extent of MI5's involvement in Northern Ireland was revealed by the Chinook
helicopter crash on the Mull of Kintyre in June. Among the senior Northern
Ireland-based security and intelligence officials killed were six MI5 officers,
including John Deverell, director and controller of intelligence in Northern
Ireland and a former MI5 deputy director-general.

MI5 devotes nearly half its resources - about 2,000 officers with an annual
budget estimated at pounds 150 million - to Irish-based terrorism, and it has
cited IRA violence as the main justification for its continuing existence. In
her Dimbleby lecture on BBC Television in June, Stella Rimington, MI5's
director-general, singled out the IRA as "the most serious threat to our
national security".

Security sources acknowledged last night that if the threat no longer existed,
the resources devoted to countering the IRA would not be needed. But it would
take a ceasefire of at least three months - after which the Government has said
it would agree to negotiate with Sinn Fein - before MI5 scaled down its
activities.  Loyalist violence would lead to a shift in resources.

Sir Paul Condon, Commissioner of the Metropolitan Police, said it was too early
to say what the implications of the ceasefire for policing in London would be.
"I hold my breath, waiting to see what happens."

He reserved his position on the transfer of IRA prisoners from the mainland to
Northern Ireland jails or amnesties.

But although there was official caution in the police service, unofficially
there was an acceptance that, if the ceasefire holds, there could be changes in
manpower and resources.

The anti-terrorist branch has between 60 and 100 officers with a large civilian
back-up team. Although around 90 per cent of their work has been on the IRA and
the Irish National Liberation Army over the past few years, there are no
immediate plans to wind down the squad.

"They're not being sent back tomorrow to the areas to deal with burglary," a
police source said. Even if the IRA ceasefire should continue, the source said,
there were the activities of Middle Eastern terrorists to pursue. The two recent
bombings of Israeli targets in London had indicated that the squad would
continue to be fully employed. The increased activities of the animal rights
movement, notably the Animal Rights Militia and the Justice Department, were
also being monitored.

Security around the City of London, target of two of the IRA's most spectacular
bombs, will remain intact. The restriction of access to major routes will remain
in place as a traffic control measure, a spokeswoman said. City of London police
have no immediate plans to relax the armed checkpoints.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              457 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 1, 1994

DOUBLE STANDARDS AS SHARE PRICE REMAINS PRIORITY;
Notebook

BYLINE: Will Hutton

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN CITY PAGE; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 973 words


THE leaked minutes of the three Anglia board meetings on January 5, 12, and 19
obtained by the Guardian yesterday throw further light - not merely on the
events surrounding Lord Archer's now infamous share transaction in Anglia shares
only days before MAI's takeover was launched - but on British boardroom
decision-making.

In all the exchanges that the Anglia board members had about the terms of the
share offer from MAI, there is nothing about the welfare of staff, the future of
programme-production in the Anglia region or of the quality of programmes.

Of the two committees set up by the board, one was to "facilitate" the operation
of the executive share option scheme so priorites are clear.

The overriding issue was the share price. Anglia would play a key role in the
regrouping of the TV industry with the relaxation of the takeover rules of
independent TV companies, and the board intended to sell its asset dear - at
between pounds 6.50 and pounds 7 a share, as it repeatedly told Lord Hollick,
chairman of MAI.

Moveover, it is clear that by the end of December Anglia was "in play". LWT was
courting it, if unsuccessfully, and Lord Hollick already had been in
discussions, putting forward an offer that Anglia's chairman, Sir Peter
Gibbings, did not consider acceptable.

The Stock Exchange has now closed the inquiry it briefly reopened and Tory party
chairman, Jeremy Hanley, yesterday very much "welcomed" Lord Archer into the
Conservative Party. Evidently the Conservative establishment intend to let the
matter blow over, while reinforcing their calls for more law and order whilst
abolishing the right of silence in the Criminal Justice Bill. Double standards
could hardly be more blatant - and in the board room, one business objective is
pre-eminent. The share price.

After the ceasefire

YESTERDAY'S historic IRA ceasefire will be as welcome in the City as in the
Falls Road. After all, it was at the Guildhall last November that John Major
launched his peace initiative. Two successful IRA bombing attacks in the City
had shaken London's financial community and they needed reassurance.

Apart from worries over security within the Square Mile, there was the sharp
rise in insurance premiums - and more tellingly the threat that some key
international financial institutions, especially the Japanese, were considering
using Dublin, Luxembourg or Frankfurt as the base of the operations. London's
future as an international financial centre, an annual subvention to Northern
Ireland climbing to pounds 4 billion and a troops commitment that weakened
Britain's capacity to undertake Great Power obligations were beginning to
concentrate London's minds wonderfully.

The ceasefire opens the way to a reduction in London's security commitment, but
the real public expenditure savings will only come if Northern Ireland's economy
can be weaned from its dependence on public spending and generate some
sustainable economic activity.

More trade with the Republic will be an important stimulus, and the much touted
Dublin/Belfast growth corridor could really take wing. On the other hand,
Northern Ireland's economy has disintegrated so far, and so many have a vested
interest in the racketeering on both sides of the sectarian divide that
returning the province to economic normality will be a long drawn-out affair.
After all Glasgow, Liverpool and Newcastle - British cities comparable with
Belfast - have troubles enough without Belfast's history. The mainland's
subvention looks like continuing.

More of a dribble

AQUAINT new ritual has emerged in the City this summer designed to spice up the
otherwise dull lives of under-employed market-makers - leaking the Purchasing
Managers' Index.

For those who like a punt, the PMI has two virtues. First, it is not released by
the Government but sent out under embargo to subscribers. Second, its findings
are always bullish, hardly surprising since it was launched in 1991 when the
economy showed its biggest one-year contraction since the 1930s and the only way
was up.

So it was that yesterday morning saw the traditional bout of jitters in the
gilts' market as someone broke the embargo to reveal that the explosion of
demand was putting such strain on Britain's manufacturing capacity that prices
were about to go through the roof.

But as ever, the leak only told half the story. Price pressures certainly look
stronger than a few months ago, but this was only partly due to higher demand.
The PMI shows that the price of commodities and basic materials has been rising,
which would be a problem if firms were able to pass on the costs to their
customers.

All the recent evidence, however, suggests that this is something they are
currently unable to manage. As the PMI itself shows, activity has come off the
top over the past couple of months, possibly as the impact of higher taxes
ripples down the supply chain from consumers to manufacturers.

In this context, higher costs simply mean lower profit margins, tempting firms
to pare down the size of their workforces to save money. Unless you work at the
Bank of England, it's hard to see how this justifies calling for higher base
rates. Now who was it that leaked that report?

Sad fact of life

PROVIDENT Financial, now Britain's biggest lender of credit collected weekly on
the doorstep, reported a 40 per cent jump in profits for the first half of 1994
yesterday. Its 1.1 million clients, mainly council house tenants, seem no less
ready to pay 100 per cent interest rates (APR) for the typical pounds 300-400
loan and the company sees its market expanding. Usurious interest rates and the
growing class of marginalised people desperate for credit seem a profitable
combination, but it is also a sad statement about contemporary Britain.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              458 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               September 1, 1994

Caught in the middle of terror.  Civilians bore brunt of bombs and bullets

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1158 words


TWENTY-FIVE years of terrible violence in Northern Ireland have claimed the
lives of 3168 people.

Men, women, children, soldiers, and police officers have died by bomb and
bullet.

The most recent victim was Sean Monaghan, a 2O-year-old Roman Catholic murdered
by loyalists in Belfast on August 14.

While the police and Army have fought it out with the terrorists -- both
republican and loyalist -- it has been the civilians caught in the middle who
have borne the brunt.

A total of 2224 have died, among them several hundred terrorists -- killed by
the security forces, by "the other side", their own groups or by their own foul
-ups.

The Army, sent into Northern Ireland on August 14, 1969, has lost 445 men; the
RUC 195; and its Reserve 101. The Ulster Defence Regiment lost 197 before being
amalgamated into the Royal Irish Regiment which has lost six members.

A further 36,680 have been injured, many maimed for life -- 23,718 civilians;
7252 police officers; and 5710 soldiers.

Official figures record that the vast majority of victims were shot dead. Bomb
explosions killed 835 -- although it has been the bombings which have lived in
memory for their multiple deaths.

There have been a total of 10,001 explosions; 2674 attacks on police stations;
1968 victims of "punishment shooting"; and 151 tarred and feathered.

Nearly 250 more people have died in bombings and shootings in mainland Britain,
the Republic of Ireland; and on mainland Europe.

The IRA is blamed -- and was responsible -- for the majority of the deaths.

But it was loyalists who crossed the border and were responsible for the worst
single day of death -- May 17, 1974 -- when three car bombs in Dublin and
another in Monaghan claimed the lives of 33 people including two babies.

Some events, many so terrible they cannot be forgotten, stand out to mark the
bloody history of Northern Ireland over the past 25 years.

TOLL OF MURDER

MCGURK'S BAR, December 4, 1971: 15 people killed in Ulster Volunteer Force bomb
attack on north Belfast bar.

BLOODY SUNDAY, January 30, 1972. 1st battalion Parachute Regiment shot dead 13
people taking part in a banned civil rights march in Londonderry.

ALDERSHOT BOMBING, February 22, 1972. Seven killed and 15 injured when a bomb
exploded at the Parachute Brigade HQ, marking the start in earnest of the IRA's
mainland campaign.

BLOODY FRIDAY, July 21, 1972. Eleven killed and 130 injured when IRA set off 26
bombs in Belfast.

M62 COACH BOMB. February 4, 1974. Twelve people died when a bomb exploded on a
coach packed with soldiers on the M62 near Leeds.

BIRMINGHAM PUB BOMBS. November 21, 1974. Twenty-one killed in IRA bombing of two
pubs in the city.

KINGSMILLS MASSACRE. January 5,1976. Ten Protestant workers shot dead when their
works minibus was ambushed at a bogus road block at Kingsmills near Bessbrook in
South Armagh.

LA MON HOUSE MASSACRE. February 17, 1978. Twelve Protestants killed when IRA
fireball bomb exploded at restaurant near Comber, Co Down.

AIREY NEAVE MURDER. March 3, 1979. Conservative shadow Northern Ireland
secretary, a close personal adviser to Mrs Thatcher, killed by INLA bomb
attached to his car in the House of Commons car park.

WARRENPOINT MASSACRE. August 27, 1979. Eighteen soldiers killed on Bank Holiay
Monday by double IRA bombing in the County Down coastal resort. Hours earlier
LORD MOUNTBATTEN was killed by an IRA bomb which blew apart his fishing boat off
the County Sligo coast in the Irish Republic where he had a holiday home.  Three
others died with him.

HYDE PARK BOMBING. July 20, 1982. Eleven soldiers killed and 50 people injured
in attacks on Household Cavalry in Rotten Row and at the band stand in Regent's
Park.

BALLYKELLY BOMBING. December 6, 1982. INLA bomb destroyed the Droppin' Well Bar,
killing 17 people, 11 of them soldiers from a nearby army base.

HARRODS BOMB. December 17, 1983. Six killed, three of them police, and 90
injured in IRA bombing.

BRIGHTON BOMBING. October 1984. Five people killed and 30 injured when the IRA
planted a bomb at the Grand Hotel during the Conservative Party conference. The
bombers' main target, Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, escaped uninjured.

NEWRY MORTAR ATTACK. February 28, 1985. Nine RUC officers killed when the IRA
mortar-bombed the border town's police station.

LOUGHGALL SHOOTING. May 8, 1987. Eight-man IRA unit shot dead in SAS ambush as
they mounted a bomb attack on the local RUC station. A civilian caught in the
crossfire also died.

POPPY DAY MASSACRE. November 11, 1987. Eleven killed when the IRA bombed the
Remembrance Day service at the Cenotaph in Enniskillen.

GIBRALTAR SHOOTING. March 6, 1988. Three IRA members shot dead by the SAS in
Gibraltar as they walked along Winston Churchill Avenue. Nine days later at
their Belfast funeral, maverick loyalist Michael Stone killed three mourners in
a gun and grenade attack. Four days later two soldiers who drove into the
funeral of IRA man killed by Stone were lynched and shot dead.

FUN RUN BOMBING. June 15, 1988. Six soldiers blown up in their van after taking
part in a charity fun run at Lisburn, County Antrim.

BALLYGAWLEY BOMBING. August 30, 1988. Eight soldiers killed and 27 injured when
the IRA blew up the bus taking them back to base in County Tyrone after
returning from leave in England.

DEAL BARRACKS BOMBING. September 22, 1989. Eleven Army bandsmen killed after
bomb exploded at the North Barracks at the Royal Marines School of Music at
Deal, Kent.

IAN GOW MURDER. July 30, 1990. Conservative MP, another close adviser to Mrs
Thatcher, killed by IRA bomb under his car outside his home at Hankham, East
Sussex.

HUMAN BOMB. October 24, 1990. Man strapped into bomb-laden van by IRA and forced
to drive to the Buncrana border crossing outside Londonderry where bomb
exploded, killing him and five soldiers.

TEEBANE BOMBING. January 17, 1992. Eight Protestant workers killed by IRA bomb
which blew up their minibus after leaving a County Tyrone Army base where they
were carrying out building work.

BOOKMAKERS BOMBING. February 5, 1992. Five Catholics shot dead in UFF gun attack
on Sean Graham's Bookmakers in Belfast's Ormeau Road.

CITY OF LONDON BOMBING. April 10, 1992. Three killed when IRA bomb exploded
outside the Baltic Exchange.

WARRINGTON BOMBING. March 20, 1993. Two IRA bombs kill Jonathan Ball, three, and
Timothy Parry, 12.

SHANKILL ROAD BOMBING. October 23, 1993. Ten killed by IRA bomb which exploded
in a shop in west Belfast's Shankill Road.

GREYSTEEL MASSACRE. October 30, 1993. Seven Catholics killed in UFF shooting at
the Rising Sun Bar, Greysteel, County Londonderry, in reprisal for the Shankill
bombing.

LOUGHINISLAND SHOOTING. June 18, 1994. Six Catholics shot dead in O'Toole's bar
by UVF while watching Ireland's opening World Cup match on TV.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Tory target . . . a crane is used during rescue work after the IRA
bombing of the Grand Hotel in Brighton.Picture: STUART PATERSON

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              459 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               September 1, 1994

Hard decisions ahead to keep the peace

BYLINE: John Cooney

SECTION: Pg. 13

LENGTH: 870 words


John Cooney examines the way forward in Northern Ireland: what measures are
proposed by the British and Irish Governments, and what will the nationalist and
unionist groupings be demanding in return for their co-operation in the new
political process?

THE Irish Government welcomes the IRA ceasefire as a significant acknowledgment
by the terrorists that violence cannot achieve a political settlement in
Northern Ireland.

But both the Fianna Fail and Labour members of the coalition insist that only a
complete end to the IRA's 25-year military campaign will allow Sinn Fein, its
political wing, to enter the political process.

This precondition of a permanent cessation of violence is the requirement set
out in the Downing Street declaration, which was issued last December by Prime
Ministers John Major and Albert Reynolds.

In the subsequent eight and a half months of IRA/Sinn Fein prevarication, Mr
Reynolds has stuck to his belief that the Sinn Fein president, Gerry Adams, was
sincere in his desire for peace, as expressed in his agreed statement last year
with the leader of constitutional nationalism in Northern Ireland, John Hume.

At times Mr Reynolds has seemed to go too far to placate Sinn Fein, causing his
Foreign Minister and Labour leader, Dick Spring, to haul him back to the strict
letter of the declaration.

Although Mr Reynolds was outwardly optimistic about the Sinn Fein special
conference in Letterkenny, Co. Donegal, which effectively rejected the
declaration, he has hardened his attitude since then.

A clear signal of unity of purpose inside the coalition -- and between Dublin
and London -- was given to an Irish-American delegation last week by Mr Reynolds
and Mr Spring when they reaffirmed the necessity of a total cessation of IRA
violence.

In his latest appeal to the IRA to give up violence completely, Mr Reynolds has
described the present situation as "the best opportunity for peace in Ireland
since partition" of the island in 1921, and he has pledged that his Government
will show "flexibility and imagination".

Irish Department of Foreign Affairs officials based at the Maryfield secretariat
outside Belfast (the body set up by the 1985 Hillsborough Accord) will play a
crucial role in monitoring the IRA ceasefire and in observing the movements of
loyalist paramilitaries.

In the event of a violent loyalist intrusion into Catholic neighbourhoods, the
Irish Government believes that the Royal Ulster Constabulary can be relied upon
to defend vulnerable nationalist areas.

The ceasefire comes at a critical juncture when the two Governments are close to
a historic breakthrough which will be enshrined in a new framework document -- a
kind of Downing Street 2. To be unveiled by Mr Major and Mr Reynolds at a summit
meeting in late September or early October, this document will commit the Irish
Government to amend articles two and three of its constitution -- the articles
laying claim to the territory of Northern Ireland.

In return, the British Government will pledge to pass through Westminster an
amendment of section 75 of the Government of Ireland Act, 1920, which
established the partition of Ireland.

These constitutional changes will be enacted only after the political parties in
Northern Ireland have negotiated a new parliamentary assembly for Belfast and a
new body with cross-border functions.

The two Governments hope that the specific promise to change the republic's
territorial claims will coax Ulster Unionists into the talks, and that London's
undertaking to modify the terms of partition will persuade the republican
movement to end its violence and join the process.

Mr Reynolds has spoken of the "heavy responsibility" on the part of the British
Government to play "a positive role in assisting the Irish people to reach
agreement".

This is a clear appeal to Mr Major to respond vigorously in joint efforts to
facilitate the transition from a fragile peace to all-round political
negotiations.

Government officials in Dublin do not underestimate the obstacles in the way of
a negotiated package. With Mr Major so dependent on the Unionists at
Westminster, they realise that he would find it difficult to meet the Sinn Fein
demands for a date for Britain's withdrawal from Northern Ireland.

Another major hurdle will be the Sinn Fein demand for an end to the Unionist
veto in an all-Ireland context. Like the British Government, the Irish
administration is committed to Northern Ireland remaining within the United
Kingdom as long as a majority of the people there want this status.

But Sinn Fein wants approval of a political settlement to be on an all-Ireland
basis rather than on separate responses on both sides of the border.

Another key issue will be whether Mr Major bows to the Sinn Fein demand that
Britain should join the ranks of the persuaders for a united Ireland. This
raises the perennial, and so far unresolved, dilemma of how to reconcile the
conflicting aspirations of those who support the Union and those who want a
united Ireland.

'This raises the perennial, and so far unresolved, dilemma of how to reconcile
the conflicting aspirations'

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              460 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          September 1, 1994, Thursday

Inside File: Closing the door on Mr Haddam

BYLINE: ANNIKA SAVILL

SECTION: EUROPEAN NEWS PAGE; Page 11

LENGTH: 744 words


LONDON has finally abandoned its city of freedom policy towards Islamic
fundamentalists in a clear move to placate the French. Paris, understandably
obsessed with the Algerian crisis, has grown increasingly exasperated with what
it considers Britain's refusal to take the threat seriously.

And so it is that British officials were uncharacteristically outspoken this
week in predicting that Anwar Haddam, a leading Algerian fundamentalist residing
legally in Washington, would be refused a visa when he tries to come to London
next month to give a lecture at Chatham House. It is even more surprising
considering the latter has not even filed his visa application yet.

Mr Haddam, who calls himself ''President of the FIS Parliamentary Delegation to
Europe and the US'', has sought to don what would be the respectable face of
fundamentalism if there were such a thing. Elected an MP in Algeria's scrapped
poll, he claims to be an adviser to the US Administration; insiders say he is a
voice behind President Clinton's policy of encouraging an Algerian dialogue with
''moderate'' fundamentalists.

Faced with growing French fury at its failure to adopt a zero- tolerance policy
- the French were goggle-eyed that Islamists were given visas in order to take
over Wembley stadium for their jamboree last month - Britain has conveniently
found reason to refuse Mr Haddam's entry. They point out that following his
reported defection to the Islamic Armed Group (GIA) - which has threatened to
kill all foreigners in Algeria - even the FIS is said to have expelled him from
its overseas executive.

The Home Office - under whose remit the question actually falls - is sticking to
its rigorous refusal to discuss individual cases; but a Foreign Office source
gaily volunteered: ''If I were you I wouldn't hold my breath waiting for him to
be granted a visa.'' There is no evidence that Mr Haddam is personally
responsible for any terror act, but ''that he has supped with far too short a
spoon with the devil is quite a good phrase''. Yet a month ago, when Mr Haddam
was originally invited, the Foreign Office was critical, but not threatening to
ban him outright: ''We merely told Chatham House not to expect a single Foreign
Office face in the audience,'' an official said.

French pressure has grown since then. Conventional Foreign Office code was used
to confirm this: ''As you know, we are in constant touch with the French.'' As
for Mr Haddam's role in Washington, he added: ''I think you'll find he'll be
less welcome there too.''

Two decades ago the IRA was allowed to set up shop in Paris, provided it did not
commit any offence on French soil. London raised hell but, one insider recalls,
the French only expelled the IRA after a spate of bombings in Paris- based
British banks. France has since repented; it now expects Britain to keep its end
up.

Keeping what peace there is with France is important; but some Maghreb analysts
are not so sure banning Mr Haddam is wise. ''It's a terrible mistake,'' one
said. ''The British in Algeria have been reasonably spared attacks so far. Their
diplomats have been able to operate more freely than most, and given Britain's
policy of talking to as many quarters as possible, it would be a shame to lose
that. British companies like BP have major interests there. I don't think they'd
approve.''

Nor, for that matter, would another North African nation which is keeping its
fundamentalists in check, for now: Tunisia. It claims to have achieved this
through abandoning attempts at dialogue, locking up the Islamists and throwing
away the key. It has never forgiven Britain for granting asylum last year to
Rashid Ghannouchi, a Tunisian fundamentalist leader sentenced to life
imprisonment in absentia. Britain argues Mr Ghannouchi is not personally linked
to any act; but then, it admits the same of Mr Haddam. ''If Britain refuses
Haddam entry without expelling Ghannouchi, there will be hell to pay,'' said a
Tunisian envoy. ''Especially as we know more Tunisian fundamentalists have been
allowed into Britain in the past two months. We are not going to declare war on
Britain, but we will be very hard. There are special channels we go through,''
he added darkly.

Mr Haddam, meanwhile, appears to be playing it both ways to stay in Washington.
The Arabic press this week reported his election as GIA foreign minister; Mr
Haddam has denied all knowledge of his own appointment.


LOAD-DATE: September 01, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1994 Independent Print Ltd

                              461 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 2, 1994

OFFICIALS BLAMED OVER MAGEE TRANSFER

BYLINE: David Sharrock In Belfast

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 851 words


"LOW-LEVEL officials" in the Prison Service were last night blamed for the
transfer of four republican prisoners - including Brighton bomber Patrick Magee
- to Northern Ireland on the day that the IRA's ceasefire started.

Official denials that ministers were not informed were being treated with
scepticism last night.

Legislation enabling the transfer programme to go ahead was passed in November
1992. Under its terms the prisoners are transferred on an "extended temporary"
basis, meaning that they remain under Home Office control and can be brought
back at any time. The transfer is reappraised every six months. Magee and his
companions applied for transfers on February 4. They were granted by the Home
Secretary, Michael Howard, in a batch of 14in June and they were informed on
July 5.

Derek Lewis, head of the Prison Service, said last night that the timing of the
transfers was decided within his agency "on an operational basis". The first
four prisoners were transferred to Maghaberry prison, Co Antrim, on July 28.

The decision to transfer Magee yesterday was made on August 26. It would have
been quite wrong to have changed it because of the IRA's announcement, he said.
"It was simply the consequence of an earlier public decision on transfers."

Unionist politicians reacted coolly to the news last night. David Trimble MP,
the Ulster Unionist Party's legal expert, said it was "nothing to get worked up
about".

"An arrangement was worked out a couple of months ago and we were told that 17
or 20 were going to be transferred. I just assumed this was the next instalment.

"If anyone thinks this is a quid pro quo for the ceasefire, well it's very small
beer."

The transfer of Mr Magee, two more IRA men and one Irish National Liberation
Army prisoner, brings to eight the number of republican prisoners transferred to
Northern Ireland in the past five weeks. It means that all members of the IRA's
mainland bomb team convicted in Britain in the early 1980s are back home.

Mr Magee, aged 43, and the three others, were flown from Full Sutton prison,
near York, yesterday morning. By lunchtime they were in Maghaberry prison, Co
Antrim, recognised as one of Europe's most advanced penal institutions.

Magee is the most notorious IRA bomber convicted. He was found guilty of
planting the bomb at the Grand Hotel, Brighton, which nearly killed Margaret
Thatcher and her cabinet at the 1984 Conservative Party conference. Five people
died in the blast, including Roberta Wakeham, wife of the chief whip, John
Wakeham.

Norman Tebbit, then Trade and Industry Secretary, was trapped in the rubble for
several hours and his wife was paralysed from the waist. At the Old Bailey in
June 1986, the judge recommended that Magee serve a minimum 35 years.

The Home Office said: "For security reasons the prisoners were given no advance
notice that they would be transferred this morning. There is no connection
between these transfers and yesterday's events."

Those accompanying Magee were Gerard McDonnell, who was part of the bombing team
arrested in a Glasgow flat in June 1985, Thomas Quigley, who in 1985 was given
five life sentences for the 1981 Oxford Street bombing, and Patrick McLaughlin.
McLaughlin, aged 34, was found guilty of a 1986 INLA conspiracy to bomb Chelsea
barracks. All received 35-year recommendations.

Last night, Quigley's wife Geraldine said she did not believe his transfer was
connected with the ceasefire. "We have been campaigning and this was really
before the ceasefire was called," she said.

Quigley was convicted with Paul Kavanagh, who was transferred to Maghaberry last
month. Kavanagh was accompanied by his wife, Martina Anderson, and Ella O'Dwyer,
who were arrested with Magee. Anderson and O'Dwyer were the only women category
A prisoners in England.

In 1992, the Government acknowledged the desirability of the transfer system
after the Ferrers report concluded it would be of benefit to the prisoners'
families.

But the Government stalled on putting it into action. Last year a Belfast
solicitor acting on behalf of 14 prisoners held in England took the Government
to the European Court of Human rights, claiming that their rights to privacy and
family life were being infringed.

The Government won the case, claiming national security as the reason why the
prisoners could not be transferred. It said there were fears that the IRA might
try to "spring" the prisoners during transfer. The prisoners' campaign group
threatened to take the case to the United Nations, but earlier this year the
Home Office said it would implement the Ferrers recommendations.

Since the IRA has announced a "complete cessation of military operations," the
Government's security argument no longer applies. There are some 26 other
republican prisoners in England, but only those with family links in Northern
Ireland are eligible for the scheme. This, the Home Office claims, is because of
the failure of the Irish government to pass legislation ratifying a European
convention on prisoner transfers.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              462 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Daily Mail (London)

                               September 3, 1994

Get the troops off our streets;
'LIVID' MAJOR GETS REPORT ON PRISONER TRANSFER SHAMBLES AS IRA BOMBERS SETTLE
INTO SHOWPIECE JAIL WITH ALL AMENITIES,Adams demand fuels loyalist fears of a
secret deal between Government and terrorists

BYLINE: Steve Doughty,Suzanne O'Shea

SECTION: Pg. 10, 11

LENGTH: 3347 words


GERRY ADAMS demanded that troops and police quit Northern Ireland's Roman
Catholic strongholds yesterday.

The Sinn Fein president's call outraged loyalists, who fear such a retreat has
been pledged in a secret deal between John Major's Government and the IRA.

'Crown forces, including the RUC, are not acceptable in nationalist areas,'
Adams said in Dublin. Britain should immediately start 'demilitarisation', end
raids and searches and arrests, and scrap 'all forms of repressive legislation'.

His call raised the spectre of IRA gunmen bringing their own brutal brand of law
and order to nationalist districts deserted by the security forces.

It also appeared to contain an implicit threat of a return to violence if
Britain does not comply. Although Adams insists the 'complete cessation' of
violence means for ever, he has not yet used the word 'permanent', and the IRA
has not yet allayed fears that it will continue to use murder as a threat.
Loyalist anxieties had already been fuelled by Thursday's transfer of Brighton
bomber Patrick Magee and three other Irish terrorists to jails on home soil.
They took it as proof that a secret pact for British withdrawal from Ulster is
being put into action.

The admission by the outlawed Ulster Freedom Fighters that they murdered Roman
Catholic John O'Hanlon added to the pressures on Mr Major's peace hopes.  Mr
O'Hanlon was shot as he repaired a friend's car in North Belfast. The first
killing since the ceasefire, which began at midnight on Wednesday, appeared a
direct attempt to provoke the IRA or a splinter group into a revenge attack.

The UFF also fired at a taxi in the Old Park district, and in another incident a
Roman Catholic family in West Belfast escaped unhurt after a grenade thrown at
their house failed to explode.

Adams promised that the ceasefire would hold. 'The IRA is a disciplined force
and will not be provoked by anyone who is trying to wreck the peace process,' he
said.

The prisoner transfer shambles led a 'livid' Prime Minister to insist on an
inquiry, and a report was delivered to Downing Street last night. It is
understood to confirm that Home Secretary Michael Howard sanctioned the transfer
of Magee and the others to Ulster jails, in accordance with regulations which
came into force in 1992. But before the IRA ceasefire was announced he departed
on a drugs fact-finding tour of South America, leaving the timing of the return
to the Prison Service and its officials.

Although the Home Secretary would have been familiar with Cabinet discussions on
the progress of peace in Ulster, he seems to have had his back turned when the
timing of the transfer threw the Government's Irish strategy into danger.

Michael Forsyth, the Prisons Minister and the man in charge of the Home Office
in Mr Howard's absence, did nothing to stop the move.

Yesterday the Prison Service said that Home Office ministers took the decision
to send the prisoners back after consultation with the Northern Ireland Office.
The timing, officials confirmed, had been left to the Prison Service.

Prison Service director general Derek Lewis said: 'My main priority is to make
sure everyone understands the facts - there was no political involvement in the
decision at all.

'Everyone was aware that it was very sensitive timing but also of the importance
of carrying out previously decided policies.'

The direct involvement of Mr Howard was confirmed by nationalist SDLP leader
John Hume. One of the four prisoners, 34-year-old Patrick McLaughlin, comes from
Mr Hume's Foyle constituency.

'I myself have been in correspondence with the Home Secretary,' Mr Hume

said on BBC Radio. 'I had an indication before the ceasefire that my constituent
was going to be transferred to a prison near home.

'I was aware the date was approaching because there was a report in the press a
fortnight ago in my own constituency that this particular prisoner was being
transferred back and I have been corresponding, as the Home Secretary can
confirm.

'A few weeks ago I wrote to the Home Secretary on this very case and I was
getting private indications that he would be transferred back.'

The SDLP leader said he had not been told the day on which the transfer would
happen. But, he said, it was before talk began of an imminent ceasefire.
Loyalists and some Tory MPs, however, believe that the switch of Magee, who
killed five and nearly assassinated Margaret Thatcher in the 1984 Grand Hotel
bombing, Gerard McDonnell, Thomas Quigley and McLaughlin was part of a
secretly-negotiated payback to the IRA in return for the ceasefire.

HOW THE INMATES MADE THEIR WAY HOME THESE are the key dates behind the transfer
of the four prisoners:

December 1, 1992: New regulations on the transfer of prisoners to jails near
their homes come into force. They follow a review by officials from the Home
Office, the Prison Service, the Scottish Office and the Northern Ireland Office
of arrangements for moving prisoners laid down in the 1961 Criminal Justice Act.
The recommendations of the working group cover prisoners in the whole of the UK
including Ulster. The idea is that prisoners should be close to their families
and receive frequent visits.  Transferred prisoners can be moved away from home
areas if their behaviour deteriorates. The changes do not require legislation by
Parliament.

February 4, 1994: 58 prisoners apply to return to serve their sentences in jails
in Northern Ireland. Some are terrorists, some are common criminals.

June 14: Home Secretary Michael Howard is alleged to have approved transfer of
an unspecified number of prisoners to Ulster jails.

June 25: Derek Lewis, director general of the Prison Service, writes to The
Times mentioning the transfer arrangements alongside preparations for the
release of prisoners. The former businessman writes: 'Nor are we soft-pedalling
our efforts to prepare prisoners for their return to the community. Imaginative
work schemes, which allow prisoners to save for their release, have been widely
introduced. Links between prisoners and their families are fostered by
accommodating inmates as close to their homes as possible.' The linkage appears
to suggest that the Prison Service sees transfer as a precursor to early release
- a link firmly denied by Prison Office officials yesterday.

June 30: Peter Lloyd, then Home Office Prisons Minister, answers a parliamentary
question. He says that since the rules were introduced, four prisoners have been
transferred permanently to Northern Ireland jails, nine have been transferred
temporarily and four more on temporary transfer have been granted extensions of
their time in Ulster.

July 5: An unspecified number of prisoners - including Magee, McDonnell, Quigley
and McLaughlin - are told they are to be transferred near to their families in
Northern Ireland for a period of six months.

July/August: Mr Howard is in correspondence with the SDLP's John Hume, the
nationalist politician whose dialogue with Gerry Adams is one of the central
planks of the peace process. Hume is given a 'private indication' that
McLaughlin is to be sent home.

July 28: First four prisoners repatriated to Northern Ireland.

August 26: Magee, McDonnell, Quigley and McLaughlin told they are to be returned
on September 1, Lewis says.

August 31: IRA announces 'complete cessation of military operations' from
midnight.

September 1: Four republican prisoners flown to Northern Ireland.

TV and video for Magee in his cell How the inmates made their way home THE
Brighton bomber will have a television, video recorder and microwave oven in his
new prison cell.

But Patrick Magee and the other terrorists will not be spending much time in
front of the set - inmates at Maghaberry Prison, near Lisburn, County Antrim,
spend 12 hours a day outside their cells.

Despite the high security, their new £65million home has an 'advanced regime'
according to the Northern Ireland Office.

Republican and Loyalist prisoners must mix together, instead of the strict
segregation practised in other jails such as the Maze in Belfast.

The newest inmates would have agreed to this as a condition of their transfer,
and could be returned to Britain if they refuse.

They have been returned to Northern Ireland on a six-month renewable transfer,
and will still come under the same rules as prisoners in Britain.  They will not
be entitled to return home at Christmas, or for compassionate home leave like
other paramilitary prisoners.

But from 8.30am each day when they are released from their cells, they can take
part in a variety of activities, including drama classes, workshops and sports.
There is a fully equipped gym and a library service.

Each prisoner is allowed one visit and one food parcel a week and has access to
a kitchen to prepare meals. The jail authorities have also held parties for
children of inmates, complete with bouncy castles.

The prison was opened in March 1986 and stands in Ministry of Defence owned land
on the borders of Co Antrim and Co Down.

From the outside it looks far from impressive, with corrugated iron perimeter
fencing and heavy metal security gates.

However, the inside of the vast concrete building is bright and modern,
featuring well-equipped prison workshops, and educational and exercise
facilities.

Singer Toyah Willcox performed a concert there last year and a local radio
station was allowed to stage a roadshow behind the prison walls.

Quiet man becomes first victim of the peace JOHN O'HANLON was like so many of
Northern Ireland's young men.

Without a steady job, he lived a quiet, aimless life on £25-a-week income
support.

The Troubles were always there but remained in the background, never touching
him directly.

But as the first day of the IRA ceasefire drew to a close, the Roman Catholic
labourer was gunned down by the Ulster Freedom Fighters in the driveway of a
friend's home - the first victim of the peace and the 3,170th since the Troubles
began.

Earlier he had echoed the hopes of most in Northern Ireland as he and friends
tinkered with a car.

'We were fixing a car wheel and talking about the ceasefire,' a friend recalled
yesterday.

'He said he hoped it would stay on permanently - the ceasefire and the wheel.'

Soon after, a gunman walked up to the house in Skegoneill Avenue and opened
fire.

'There was a flash and then the bullets started hitting the ground,' said Fergal
O'Connor, whose girlfriend was inside the house during the attack.  'I just ran
as fast as I could and threw myself over a hedge to get out of it, but I could
hear John shouting out for me.'

When he returned to the driveway, the vehicle was covered with bullet marks and
the windscreen shattered. Beside it, Mr O'Hanlon lay dying.

His death leaves yet another Irish child without a father. A picture of his
three-year-old son, also John, sits on a shelf in the flat where he had lived
alone since splitting up with girlfriend Ellen.

'He never did anybody any harm or had a bad word to say about anybody - and he
certainly didn't deserve to be murdered,' another friend said yesterday.

'He was just in the wrong place at the wrong time.

'What is the price of peace? How many people have to be killed before both sides
sit down and give peace a chance?

'I think he will just be forgotten like the rest of them. He will be a statistic
like all the others. I wish it could be a statistic that will never be repeated
- the first and the last.'

But with the UFF's chilling prediction that the peace process is a 'recipe for
civil war', it seems the bloodshed will remain a fact of life on the streets of
Belfast.

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: (1)Transferred: Patrick Magee(2)Transferred: Gerard McDonnell(3)
Transferred: Patrick McLaughlin(4)Transferred: Thomas Quigley(5)Killed as he
mended a friend's car: John O'Hanlon with his baby son

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              463 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 3, 1994

MURDER DIMS HOPE OF LOYALIST TRUCE;
Killing points up two paramilitary groups' different agendas, writes David
Sharrock

BYLINE: David Sharrock

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 555 words


THE murder of a Catholic man in Belfast by the Ulster Freedom Fighters has
deflated prospects of a loyalist ceasefire to match the IRA's.

Hours before the murder on Thursday, a Protestant minister involved in talks
with the loyalist paramilitaries said he was optimistic they would end the
violence soon. The killing that followed was a cruel illustration that loyalist
motivations remain difficult to assess.

One reason is that there are two distinct loyalist organisations, with different
agendas. With 20 murders this year, the Ulster Volunteer Force has the bloodier
track record, but its leadership is believed to be more amenable to overtures
for a ceasefire.

If the IRA permanently ended its campaign to force Britain out, the estimated
600-strong UVF would halt too, it has said several times this year.

The Ulster Defence Association, with an estimated 4,000 members, uses the cover
name of the Ulster Freedom Fighters for assassinations.

The UDA has flirted with politics, and in recent years has moved towards
embracing an independent Ulster agenda.

Both organisations deny they commit sectarian murders, but this is not borne out
by the facts.

Both organisations have also suffered grave losses in recent months, and a spate
of IRA attacks on loyalist bars was claimed to be an attempt to provoke them
into making a response which would wreck any hopes of an all-round ceasefire.

But while the UVF is understood to have been involved in recent contacts with
civil servants, the UDA has remained silent.

In a recent interview with the Guardian, though, its leadership said it was no
longer reacting to IRA violence and was pursuing its own agenda: "The IRA will
only stop if they're winning. They have shown that violence pays. But they can
do what they like now, our enemy is Dublin."

Security forces in the Irish Republic have confirmed that they sent
reinforcements to the border because of the threats. The UVF shot dead an IRA
member at a Dublin pub in May, and both organisations have since placed
incendiary devices in the republic.

While the republic has escaped most of the violence of the last 25 years, it is
conscious of the effect a loyalist campaign could have. "It would only take one
gun and two American tourists dead in Dundalk to wreck the tourist industry,"
said one source.

David Ervine, of the grassroots loyalist Progressive Unionist Party, said he
believed a loyalist ceasefire may yet be deliverable.

"The loyalists would take on board the thinking of the Unionist population. If
we could move towards dialogue they would be pleased enough. But inherent in
almost everything that Sinn Fein has said or done, there seems implicit this
idea that there are shady deals being done. I think if the loyalists were
convinced that was not the case they would stop as well."

Mr Ervine said loyalists were praying for peace but preparing for war, and
claimed that support from the Unionist middle-classes was on the rise,
confounding the theory that Northern Ireland's conflict is a working-class war.

"We are in dangerous times. I think if the violence continues it will take us
towards the abyss. I would like to think that the IRA realise that they have
gone as far as they can go in their quest for a united Ireland by violent
means."

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              464 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Daily Mail (London)

                               September 5, 1994

BOMBERS HITS SINN FEIN HQ

BYLINE: Suzanne O'Shea

SECTION: Pg. 1, 2

LENGTH: 894 words


LOYALISTS gave their verdict on the IRA ceasefire last night by blasting Sinn
Fein's HQ.

A car bomb exploded hours after Gerry Adams told a rally outside the offices
that a campaign of civil disobedience would begin if the British Government did
not 'demilitarise' nationalist areas.

Witnesses said two men pulled up in a car at 9.45pm, parked it outside the
building in the Lower Falls Road, in the heart of Belfast's Catholic community,
and ran away moments before it exploded. There was no warning.

The car burst into flames and fragments of it landed in gardens.  Amazingly, no
one was injured but several people were treated for shock.

The Sinn Fein offices were not badly damaged, but nearby houses and a public
library had their windows blown in. The Ulster Volunteer Force claimed
responsibility for the attack, which it said was 'in the cause of democracy'.
Belfast Sinn Fein councillor Tom Hartley said: 'This was an attack on the peace
process, but we will not be intimidated by the loyalist death squads, nor will
we be deflected from the peace process.'

The attack will heighten fears of a surge of activity by loyalist paramilitaries
trying to provoke an IRA backlash.

Less than a day after the ceasefire began, gunmen killed Roman Catholic John
O'Hanlon as he worked on a friend's car in North Belfast.

Last night the Government faced its first direct Sinn Fein challenge when
protesters reopened two roads on the

Irish border which had been closed for more than 20 years to prevent IRA killers
using them as escape routes.

The RUC and police in the Republic stayed away as a crowd of 100, including the
fugitive Father Patrick Ryan, who is wanted in Britain on bomb plot charges,
reopened the roads.

Huge concrete barriers blocking the stretches at Lecky Bridge and Derryvollen
between Rosslea, Co Fermanagh, and Clones, Co Monaghan, were bulldozed away.

It was the 37th attempt in five years to reopen the road at Lecky Bridge - in
the past troops have blocked it again within days. The crowd hoisted Irish
tricolours and cheered as the first car was driven along the muddy lane.

Clones Sinn Fein councillor Peter McAleer said: 'After the ceasefire it will be
interesting to see how they react and if there is any goodwill around. Usually
the Garda are about, but not today.'

The bridge closure sometimes meant a detour of up to 24 miles for people
travelling between Clones and Rosslea and for farmers trying to reach land on
both sides of the border.

Normally the journey by car would be no more than ten minutes.

Mr McAleer said the closure 'has done absolutely nothing to improve security.
Even people of the unionist persuasion felt just as inconvenienced, but couldn't
really come out and say that'.

Now there are plans to reopen other blocked roads in the area.

Major's optimism - Page SEVEN

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              465 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 5, 1994

WRECKERS WHO COULD YET SABOTAGE THE CEASEFIRE;
Commentary

BYLINE: Ian Aitken

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGE; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1107 words


IT IS probably bad taste to say such a thing at so historic a moment, but there
was something deeply comic as well as strangely comforting about at least one
aspect of the complex and confusing drama which surrounded last week's
announcement of the IRA ceasefire.

No, I don't mean Tony Benn's invitation to Gerry Adams to address a fringe
meeting during the Labour Party conference next month, comic though that is to
anyone who has followed Mr Benn's career. I mean the brief but intense brouhaha
which followed the decision to allow four IRA prisoners in British jails to
finish their sentences in Northern Ireland prisons.

No sooner had this arresting bit of news become public than the media exploded
into the wild frenzy of recrimination examined by Roy Greenslade in today's
Media Guardian pages. The move was widely portrayed as either a disgraceful
concession to the IRA or an act of grotesque political insensitivity. In either
case, it was expected to provoke furious reaction among the Unionist community
in Northern Ireland, leading to acts of "loyalist" retaliation which might
threaten the ceasefire.

That was certainly the interpretation adopted by the BBC's World Tonight
programme on Radio 4. Interviewers worked hard to get a succession of Ulster
interviewees to say something supporting it. To the great credit of the people
concerned, they failed utterly, and by the end of the show the presenter
conceded that the expected backlash did not seem to be materialising after all.

Alas, this did not reach the attention of most of the rest of the media, which
had been encouraged by the Prime Minister's somewhat premature announcement that
he was "livid" about the transfer. Though it was already apparent that Mr Major
had no cause to be livid, and that most people saw the move as a perfectly
reasonable reflection of an established humanitarian penal policy, the next
day's papers were still walloping the same drum.

The moral is that even the most passionate Unionists still have more common
sense about the problems of their island than London headline writers. It is, as
I said, a comforting discovery which justifies optimism about the prospects for
the peace process. Moreover, it looks rather as if a similar degree of maturity
exists on the other side of the sectarian divide, since there has so far been no
violent response to the single "loyalist" killing of a Catholic the day after
the ceasefire was announced. These events jogged my memory about an earlier and
even bloodier terrorist war which I reported more than 30 years ago. Since I
managed to prattle on about Cuba last week without incurring rebuke, perhaps I
can push my luck a little further this week and reminisce about the Algerian war
of independence and its relevance to the present time.

I hasten to add that there is very little direct comparison between Algeria and
Northern Ireland. For a start, Algeria's Muslim population vastly outnumbered
the French settlers, while Northern Ireland's Catholic community is very
definitely the minority in the Six Counties. Moreover, France's war in Algeria
was a colonial war; whatever the Irish republicans may say, Northern Ireland is
certainly not a British colony, and therefore can't be given away.

The thing to be grasped about Algeria is that President de Gaulle
comprehensively double-crossed the French settlers there.  They had assumed that
the man they, and the mutinous French army, had put into power would be on their
side. This belief was only strengthened when he told them (with unnoticed
ambiguity) that "Je vous ai compris." Yet within less than three years he had
done a deal with the Muslim National Liberation Front (FLN) granting Algeria
independence from the spring of 1962.

The sense of betrayal among settlers and army officers alike was awesome in its
intensity. There were huge demonstrations, in one of which I saw almost a
hundred protest marchers shot dead in a fashionable shopping street by Arab
troops whose nerve cracked. The reaction was the formation of a bizarre assembly
of army deserters, retired French generals, ex-Foreign Legionaires and a
peppering of French settlers. It called itself the Secret Army Organisation, or
OAS, and it set out to match FLN in terrorism.

At the same time, the FLN announced its own ceasefire while it awaited the magic
moment when De Gaulle's promise of independence would become reality. Before
long, the OAS realised that its only hope of preventing this event was to launch
terrorist attacks on the Muslim population of such horrific cruelty that they
would be provoked into retaliating against French civilians.

In this way, the OAS hoped to force the French army back on to the streets
against the Muslims, thereby wrecking the peace accord. A whole series of
ghastly attacks followed, including the bombing of a hospital and the
machine-gunning of surviving patients. A car bomb slaughtered scores of Arab
dock workers queuing for work a few days later.

The braying 'hee-haw of French ambulance horns soon became the familiar music of
the Algiers streets. There were almost nightly mortar attacks on the packed
Casbah; school teachers were shot in their own playgrounds; and we journalists
were repeatedly interrupted as we dictated our reports by a sepulchral voice
warning us: "L'OAS veille." On one occasion we were held at gunpoint in the
hotel bar by three German ex-legionaires while a former French officer tried to
threaten a colleague into helping the OAS.

But the most remarkable feature of these events is that the discipline of the
Muslim population held firm. Knowing what the OAS was trying to achieve, there
were virtually no counter-attacks. The only lasting effect of the campaign was
to make the French settlers so terrified of victimisation once the army had
withdrawn that virtually all of them fled the country.

It is small comfort for the victims of the IRA and the Protestant
paramilitaries, but neither have yet plunged so deeply into calculated depravity
as the OAS did then. But both Mr Major and Mr Reynolds are plainly conscious of
the risk that hard-line extremists on one side or the other could attempt to
sabotage the current ceasefire by pursuing similar shock tactics.

Were that to happen, Britain's hysterical tabloid press would unwittingly boost
their efforts. But it begins to look as if ordinary people in both communities
of Northern Ireland are less gullible, and would react with the same
self-discipline as the people of Algiers did in 1962. It is the most hopeful
evidence yet that both sides really do want peace.

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              466 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               September 5, 1994

Republicans say blast will not deflect them from the peace process. UVF in car
bomb attack on Sinn Fein party offices

BYLINE: John Cooney, Stephen Mcgregor, Parliamentary Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1128 words


SINN Fein said last night that a car bomb attack on its headquarters would not
deflect it from the Northern Ireland peace process.

The loyalist UVF said later they carried out the bomb attack on Sinn Fein's
offices in the Falls Road, west Belfast.

But a Sinn Fein councillor insisted they would not be intimidated by death
squads.

The attack and response came on a day when Prime Minister John Major said he
wanted a clear assurance that the IRA would end violence for good and hours
after a rally at the scene.

Sinn Fein's president, Mr Gerry Adams, had told thousands of supporters that
Protestants had nothing to fear from the peace process and said he hoped his
words would be heard across the peace line on the Shankill.

Within hours two cars roared up to the party's offices in the Falls Road and one
screeched to a halt by the gable wall of the building in Sebastopol Street.

Men were seen running to the other car, which sped off. Within seconds the car
bomb exploded in a blast heard and felt across west Belfast and in the city
centre.

As fire crews, ambulance officers, and members of the security forces sped to
the scene local people gathered to view the wreckage which seemed to embody the
damage to the peace process.

The Falls Road library, directly opposite the side entrance to the Sinn Fein
building, appeared worse hit than the intended target itself. Parts of the car
used as the bomb littered the side street and lay on the Falls Road.

Sinn Fein's national chairman, Mr Tom Hartley, standing at the scene, said the
attack was a clear attempt to derail the peace process. "There weren't many
people about at this time of night, thank God," he said. "This is all about
derailing the peace process and the events of the last few days.

"But we will not be intimidated by the loyalist death squads nor will we be
deflected from the peace process.''

However, the mood of the crowd was not vengeful or angry. No-one had been killed
or injured and the attack was seen as a victory in the republican propaganda
offensive.

One man had just watered the plants at the front of his home minutes before the
bomb went off. He said: "There was pandemonium. People were running everywhere
and for a while a number of children were missing. We didn't know where they'd
gone."

Armed police kept onlookers at bay while black smoke billowed from the burning
car. Pieces of twisted metal, bits of car upholstery, and other debris littered
the area.

The west Belfast SDLP MP, Dr Joe Hendron, last night pleaded for the
paramilitaries to stop.

He said: "Never before has there been such a cry for peace -- Catholic,
Protestant, unionist and nationalist. People in that area and along the peace
line are living in fear.

"I would beg the paramilitaries to stop the violence. This is not going to
achieve anything."

The republican splinter group, the INLA, are expected to announce an end to
their campaign some time this week, but the loyalists have still to decide what
they intend to do.

The UFF has already killed once since the start of the ceasefire -- Catholic
John O'Hanlon, shot dead as he helped repair a friend's car at Skegoniel Avenue,
north Belfast, last Thursday night.

Meanwhile, Sinn Fein supporters yesterday used bulldozers to remove concrete
barriers to reopen two roads at the Irish border.

The response of the UK Government will be examined by republicans and loyalists.
Troops have moved in to thwart previous attempts to reopen the roads.

The huge barriers had blocked the stretches at Lecky Bridge and Derryvollen
between Rosslea, County Fermanagh, and Clones, County Monaghan.

The unofficial border crossings were among dozens sealed more than 20 years ago
because they were suspected of being used by IRA gunmen and bombers as escape
routes.

The RUC and police in the Republic stayed away as a crowd of 100, including
former priest Patrick Ryan, who is wanted in Britain on bomb plot charges,
reopened the roads. At one stage he stood on the Northern Ireland side of the
border.

Members of the pressure group involved said the action -- which had full Sinn
Fein backing -- would be the first real test of the British Government's
attitude to the ceasefire.

Yesterday's crowd hoisted Irish tricolours and cheered as the first car was
driven along the muddy laneway and across the river Finn just downstream from
the bridge.

Mr Peter McAleer, Sinn Fein councillor for Clones, said: "It could be said that
this is symbolic, but I expect the Army to return and maybe close it

again in the next couple of days.

"After the ceasefire it will be interesting to see how they react and if there
is any goodwill around. Usually the Garda are about, but not today."

Troops have prevented 36 previous attempts to reopen the road at Lecky Bridge.
Soldiers have moved in and blocked it off within days.

With the British Government still harbouring doubts about the permanence of the
IRA ceasefire, the Irish Foreign Minister, Mr Dick Spring, will travel to
Belfast for an emergency meeting tonight with the Secretary of State for
Northern Ireland, Sir Patrick Mayhew.

At the meeting at Stormont Castle Mr Spring will explain to Sir Patrick the
reasons why the Irish Government believes that the IRA's 25-year-old military
campaign is over, and why a similar ceasefire by Northern Ireland's loyalist
paramilitaries is essential to copper-fasten the truce.

This will be the first face-to-face meeting of members of the two Governments
since the IRA's announcement of a complete cessation of military operations five
days ago, and it could be crucial in maintaining a common approach by London and
Dublin to the peace process.

In a plea last night to Unionists and loyalist paramilitaries, Mr Spring said
there was "no hidden agenda seeking to sell out the Unionist community".

He added: "The process of reconstruction and reconciliation must reflect the
fact that there are areas of great poverty and distress in loyalist Northern
Ireland as well as in nationalist Northern Ireland."

Further assurances were made to Unionists yesterday when on Irish radio Prime
Minister Albert Reynolds said that, while he looked forward to meeting Mr Adams
within 10 days, there was no question of either London or Dublin agreeing to
Britain's withdrawal from Northern Ireland without the consent of a majority of
the people there.

Mr Major said in London the IRA would have to do "just a little more" before the
Government could enter talks within three months with Sinn Fein leaders.

"I am not sure it's quite sufficient yet, but there has been progress and we
need just a little more," Mr Major said.

Writing on wall11

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              467 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           September 6, 1994, Tuesday

A new financial map for Ireland; Alan Murdoch describes an extra benefit the
peace process may bring

BYLINE: ALAN MURDOCH

SECTION: BUSINESS & CITY PAGE; Page 16

LENGTH: 926 words


MORE than 200 leading Irish- American executives packed the Irish Consulate in
New York at the weekend to hear Dick Spring, Dublin's foreign minister, map out
his hopes for a future in which business opportunities oust the bomb and bullet.

Turning Armalites into ploughshares is beginning to preoccupy a replacement army
of bankers and business forecasters on both sides of the Atlantic.

Under the banner of the International Fund for Ireland, US federal aid to areas
affected by the Troubles - essentially the North and the border areas of the
Republic - is currently worth around $ 20m a year.

But the gathering considered a potentially far more lucrative idea - imitating
the Jewish-American bond, which was designed to raise funds for the Israeli
economy. The suggestion has the support of a number of Irish-American business
figures, including influential members of the New York Comptroller's Office, who
hope to secure state approval for the scheme.

As Mr Spring was speaking people in County Monaghan, on the Irish border, were
trying to turn his words into reality, opening roads blocked by the Army. They
were premature - soldiers have since closed them again. But such gestures
demonstrate how radically the financial and economic map of Ireland may soon be
redrawn.

Short-term hopes are focused on increased cross-border trade, but business
organisations are looking in the longer term to boost direct North-South
business links.

The ceasefire in any case has coincided with tentative progress in this
direction. Dublin's Irish Business and Employers' Confederation is close to
completing proposals for a five-year joint business development programme with
Northern Ireland's Confederation of British Industry.

They want to create a ''business corridor'', a special development zone running
for the 100 miles between Dublin and Belfast.

Two years of collaboration between the two bodies have highlighted engineering,
services, clothing, textiles and tourism as the sectors best placed to benefit
from increased cross-border links. They place special emphasis on the
possibilities for new employment created.

The background has been a growing realisation that economic co-operation does
not need to wait for new political structures.

Ulster Bank's Sir George Quigley has fostered this with a report on the business
potential of ''the single Irish market''. And Albert Reynolds, the Irish prime
minister, has claimed peace could yield 75,000 new jobs and double the home
market for Northern business.

Traditionally the balance of trade has been in favour of the larger,
export-based Southern economy. Exports from the South to the North, at Ir pounds
648m last year, were 56 per cent greater than those from North to South. While
companies such as Guinness in food and drink and Dublin-based banks have long
been active in the North, the level of interest shown in the Southern market by
Northern Ireland-based firms is much smaller. The Troubles have left them
heavily reliant on trade with Britain - they also do less business with EU
partners than their Southern counterparts.

Not all the consequences of peace will necessarily be employment-creating - tens
of thousands of security jobs seem set to go if peace becomes permanent.

A recent study by the Dublin economic consultants Davy Kelleher McCarthy, which
focused on quantifiable costs and benefits, estimated 46,000 jobs were lost in
foreign-owned industry in Northern Ireland between 1973 and 1990, a fall of 53
per cent in the total. This compared with a rise of 27 per cent in the Republic.

Yet Northern Ireland's economy has been supported by what is in effect an annual
subsidy from Whitehall amounting to pounds 3.3bn - a figure which does not
include the cost of deploying troops. The subsidy is equivalent to the entire
income tax take in the Republic.

DKM's analysis gives a grim insight into the effect of fear and suspicion in
depressing cross-border trade. Fear of terrorist attack has slowed
infrastructural investment in utilities, notably in the failure to link the
island's two gas networks.

In Northern Ireland tourism has fared worst of all business sectors. Its
revenues sank by 63 per cent between 1968 and 1972. By 1988 real revenues were
still only at 83 per cent of their 1967 levels.

While the in-fashion South has enjoyed a surge in European visitors since the
late Eighties, the North remains heavily dependent on British visitors - 58 per
cent of the total, against just 28 per cent from the Irish Republic and only 14
per cent from other countries.

Tourism could be one of the main beneficiaries of the mooted Irish-American
bond. But the success of the ceasefire is critical to both. Previous bond
schemes have encountered suspicion among conservative Irish-Americans that their
money could end up paying for terrorist weaponry, while few wealthy tourists are
attracted to war zones.

But both sides of the border need investment. While the Republic's gross
domestic product is steaming ahead at nearly 5 per cent this year, growth has
been concentrated in large multinationals. Domestically owned industry has been
flat.

There are home-grown financing opportunies, however. As Sinn Fein itself noted
in a recent report on the economics of a united Ireland, 32 per cent of the Ir
pounds 9.2bn held in the Republic's pension funds is invested outside the
country. Economic convergence should persuade at least some of that money to
come home.

(Photograph omitted)

(Graphic omitted)


LOAD-DATE: September 06, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1994 Independent Print Ltd

                              468 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           September 6, 1994, Tuesday

Loyalists opt for 'wait and see' approach; David McKittrick expects Ulster's
main paramilitary groups to delay their decision on ending violence

BYLINE: DAVID MCKITTRICK

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 2

LENGTH: 456 words


LOYALIST paramilitary groups yesterday signalled that they may take weeks or
even months to decide whether they will follow the example of the IRA and
declare a cessation of violence.

Both the major assassination groups, the Ulster Volunteer Force and the Ulster
Defence Association, are opting for a ''wait and see'' approach while they
monitor the progress of the IRA ceasefire and its political developments.

Although rumours abound that a loyalist ceasefire could be declared within the
next few days, the decision - after a weekend of discussion - is understood to
be that they are not yet ready to fit the final piece into the jigsaw of the
Northern Ireland peace process.

This will come as a disappointment to the many observers who had hoped for a
quick and positive loyalist response to last week's move by the IRA.

The loyalist waiting game means that all sides, particularly the British
Government, will be even more intensely aware that they could pay a heavy price
for any mistakes or false steps in the developing peace process.

Sinn Fein spokesmen have made it clear that republicans are determined not to be
provoked into retaliation by incidents such as the UVF car bomb explosion close
to the party's Falls Road office on Sunday night.

Republicans are well aware, in fact, that they can benefit politically from such
clear demonstrations of the fact that republicans were never the only source of
violence. There is no sign presently that either of the loyalist groups is
intent on any large-scale violent offensive aimed at forcing the IRA to abandon
its ceasefire.

But the indications are that occasional UVF and UDA attacks can be expected to
continue. Since these normally take the form of assassination attempts, this
means that fears in nationalist areas, particularly in Belfast, will remain high
in spite of the stoppage of IRA violence.

The situation will make unusual demands on the RUC and the Army, which now find
themselves primarily concerned with dealing with loyalist terrorists rather than
the IRA.

Loyalist concerns centre on seeking assurances that Northern Ireland's
constitutional position and relationship with Britain will not be weakened in
any political negotiations that lie ahead. They want to make sure that the IRA
ceasefire is permanent, and that it was not brought about by any secret deal
with the Government.

On a more immediate practical level, the loyalists want to make sure that the
Irish National Liberation Army is to follow the IRA's example. There have been
conflicting reports about the attitude of the INLA, the small independent
republican organisation which was responsible for killing two senior UVF members
earlier this year.


LOAD-DATE: September 06, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1994 Independent Print Ltd

                              469 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                           September 9, 1994, Friday

Sun Alliance to close 60 Swinton branches

BYLINE: Sarah Bagnall, Insurance Correspondent

SECTION: Business

LENGTH: 440 words


SUN Alliance, one of the UK's largest composite insurers, is axing 200 jobs and
closing 60 Swinton broking offices. The group also plans an aggressive drive to
become a key player in the direct writing market, in which it sells insurance
direct to customers over the telephone.

The insurer, under the chairmanship of Sir Christopher Benson, already has a
presence in the UK direct writing market, with 1.25 million customers. It
intends to set up further operations in Germany, Spain and Italy.

Roger Taylor, chief executive, said: ''I would like the first of our continental
European ventures to be opened in early 1996. But these will be far broader than
just providing motor and household insurance.'' Sun Alliance is looking at
providing a range of health insurance products.

The closure of the Swinton branches will cost Pounds 8 million and reduce the
number to 630. Sun Alliance is setting up a central telemarketing office for
Swinton, which will deal direct with customers, passing them on to the relevant
branch when necessary. Sun has decided that its switch to telemarketing means
that it needs fewer branches of Swinton in the high street.

Mr Taylor's remarks came as he unveiled a sharp increase in pre-tax profits,
from Pounds 61.7 million to Pounds 180.2 million, in the six months to June 30.
The dividend is increased from 5.25p to 5.5p, paid out of earnings of 18.2p a
share, up from 5.2p last time. The results were broadly in line with market
expectations.

The general insurance operations made an underwriting loss of Pounds 36.8
million, down from Pounds 153.1 million last time, while investment income rose
by Pounds 8.8 million to Pounds 186.1 million. Life profits rose by Pounds 6
million to Pounds 44.3 million.

The improvement in the general insurance result was driven by a sharp turnround
in Britain. The British operation made an underwriting profit of Pounds 33
million, its first for five years, compared with a loss of Pounds 100.6 million
last time. The result benefited from a Pounds 26 million reduction in mortgage
indemnity losses, to Pounds 34 million, and an Pounds 18 million fall in weather
losses, to Pounds 23 million. Last year's loss also suffered from costs of
terrorist attacks in the City of London.

Denmark, which accounts for about half the insurer's European business, saw
underwriting losses rise from Pounds 14 million to Pounds 24 million. Mr Taylor
said that this was a disappointing result and that it reflected a poor rating
environment and reserve strengthening. However, rate increases are now being
achieved and the result is expected to improve.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1994 Times Newspapers Limited

                              470 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          September 10, 1994, Saturday

Britain set to accept IRA's word on peace

BYLINE: DONALD MACINTYRE Political Editor

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Page 1

LENGTH: 654 words


THE Government is close to accepting the IRA cessation of violence as permanent,
which could clear the way for talks to take place within three months.

There is a a growing conviction in Whitehall that ministers are satisfied IRA
violence has ended for good. The special Cabinet committee on Northern Ireland
is likely to reconvene next week after indications that the Northern Ireland
Office now believes the Republicans have met the principal demand after
declaring they are ''totally and absolutely committed to peaceful and democratic
methods''.

A further indication that the parties have moved closer towards removing the
obstacle in the way of exploratory talks between the Government and Sinn Fein
came yesterday when John Taylor, Ulster Unionist MP for Strangford, said his
''gut reaction'' was that the IRA ceasefire was ''for real''.

A number of key officials and ministers now regard a series of statements by
Republican leaders culminating in Tuesday's joint statement by Albert Reynolds,
the Irish Taoiseach, John Hume, the SDLP leader, and Gerry Adams, president of
Sinn Fein, as having the potential to allow talks within three months.

However, there were clear signs in Whitehall last night that any declaration
that the IRA have met the Government's demands depends first on Mr Major's
personal decision and second on a meeting of the Cabinet committee.

One Cabinet minister, while encouraged by Mr Taylor's remarks - which were
described as ''personal'' by an official Ulster Unionist spokesman - last night
said the Prime Minister was right to ''proceed gradually'' and to watch the
''developing situation''. There have been indications of edginess among some
Unionist-minded ministers about the political outcome of the peace process.

It was also clear last night that the Government's opposition to an application
by Mr Adams for admission to the US is softening. One government source
suggested that while the visa would depend on the purpose of the visit, it
should not be assumed that the UK would make representations against it as it
did in February.

Even if the roadblock to talks is removed, they seem unlikely to take place
before the Conservative party conference in October, which is due to hold a full
debate on Northern Ireland.

Dick Spring, the Irish Foreign Minister, addressing last night's meeting of the
British Irish Association in Oxford quoted from Tuesday's joint statement,
adding: ''It is no small matter . . . that a significant constituency which has
hitherto been outside the pale of political negotiation have now proclaimed a
new era in which they are 'totally and absolutely committed to democratic and
peaceful methods of resolving our political problems'. Any group or party
standing over such a statement is entitled, in turn, to respect for its
democratic mandate, even if we don't like aspects of the politics they
practice.''

Mr Spring also used his address to call for the Northern Ireland ''security
apparatus'' to be ''reduced speedily in proportion to the threat it is meant to
address''. The Ulster Unionist leader James Molyneaux - whose views will weigh
heavily on Mr Major's decision of when and whether to make an official
declaration that he accepts the IRA - has continued to argue that Mr Adams
should accept the whole of paragraph 10 of the Downing Street declaration, which
calls not only for a commitment to peaceful means but also a ''permanent''
renunciation of violence.

Some Ulster Unionists have started to focus more sharply on the task of
''verification'' of the IRA's intentions once talks eventually begin. One
purpose of the talks, once they take place, is the handing-in of arms by the
IRA.

Reg Empsey, a senior Ulster Unionists' official, said last night on Channel 4
News that after a suitable period ''they can discuss how they hand over the
sinews of war, and that is the real test.''


LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1994 Independent Print Ltd

                              471 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 13, 1994

SMALL BLAST WITH A BIG MESSAGE

BYLINE: David Sharrock In Belfast

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 573 words


THE attack at Connolly Street railway station in Dublin yesterday was a small
explosion intended to convey a large message: that the Ulster Volunteer Force
has perfected bomb making and is ready to use its skills on the Irish Republic
in the event of any move towards a united Ireland.

The UVF's response to the IRA's ceasefire declaration has been to talk peace
while continuing the war. The organisation, whose leadership is regarded as more
politically-minded than that of its sister loyalist organisation, the Ulster
Defence Association, has now carried out three bomb attacks, all using
commercial explosive and all aimed at what it would describe as specific
"pan-nationalist front" rather than sectarian targets.

Four days after the IRA ceasefire began, the UVF left a car bomb primed with
10lbs of ICI-manufactured Powergel 900 outside Sinn Fein offices in Falls Road,
causing damage to buildings but no injuries.  On Saturday, a Sinn Fein
councillor's home in Magherafelt, Co Londonderry, was targeted by a booby-trap
device containing 5lb of explosive. It was spotted by the councillor's daughter
and defused.

Yesterday's attack suggests that, as predicted by the paramilitaries, the Royal
Ulster Constabulary, the Garda and the British and Irish armies, the loyalists
have learned from the IRA's campaign: the UVF copied IRA tactics in issuing a
clutch of false bomb alerts to maximise the chaos.

The UDA, which uses the cover name of the Ulster Freedom Fighters when it
carries out attacks, has meanwhile stressed that loyalist violence can no longer
be regarded as merely reactive to IRA violence.

One senior figure has said the IRA is an irrelevance to him, with "Dublin" now
the chief enemy. This shift can be attributed to the establishment of what
Unionists call the pan-nationalist front, represented by the Social Democratic
and Labour Party leader, John Hume, Irish prime minister Albert Reynolds and
Sinn Fein president Gerry Adams.

Yesterday's bomb was meant to demonstrate that if the IRA can make progress
towards its goal of driving Britain from Ireland by exploding bombs in London,
then the UVF believes it can halt such a development by adopting the same
tactics.

Loyalist paramilitaries are also aware that while the British Exchequer may feel
the pain of IRA bombs in the City, it can afford to pay. The Irish Republic has
smaller resources. A UVF source recently suggested two American deaths would be
enough to wreck the Republic's vital tourist industry.

Last week, a statement from the Combined Loyalist Military Command, an umbrella
leadership group, suggested that the joint framework document for a political
settlement in Northern Ireland now being prepared by the British and Irish
governments would have to be studied before a decision about calling a ceasefire
could be made.

That leaves at least a month in which loyalist paramilitaries might continue
their campaign, possibly avoiding crude sectarian attacks and concentrating on
the murder of Sinn Fein members and the creation of a state of fear in the Irish
Republic.

- Two more of the so-called Ballymurphy Seven, accused of an IRA murder attempt
following a coffee-jar bomb attack in Belfast, were freed amid chaotic scenes at
Belfast crown court yesterday when their alleged confessions were thrown out.

The last three go on trial on Thursday. They have been in custody for three
years.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              472 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 13, 1994

N IRELAND: TERROR, TURBULENCE AND TROUBLES;
For 25 years, Unionists and nationalists have been locked in violent
disagreement over the future of their country

BYLINE: Martin Bright

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN EDUCATION PAGE; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 891 words


TODAY the IRA cease-fire is two weeks old and already the British Army has
scaled down its operations in Northern Ireland.  The people of this country have
lived in fear of violence for 25 years. But the roots of the conflict go back
much further.

From the Act of Union in 1800 until 1920 the whole island of Ireland was ruled
directly from Britain. Most of the population was Catholic although there was a
significant minority of Protestants. These pro-British 'loyalists' lived mainly
in the province of Ulster in the north-east.

Limited self-government was allowed in 1914, but was postponed indefinitely
following the outbreak of world war one (1914-18).  In April 1916 a small group
of Nationalist activists proclaimed a republic in Dublin. This 'Easter Rising'
was crushed by British troops. The Irish Republican Army (IRA) was formed in
1919 and began a guerrilla war against British rule.

In 1920 the Government of Ireland Act divided the island and planned separate
parliaments for the North (six of the nine counties of Ulster), which had a
Unionist majority, and South (26 counties).  Some republicans were not happy
with the settlement and the newly formed Irish Free State drifted into civil war
in 1922. By May 1923, the republicans had been defeated. The Free State
eventually left the Commonwealth and became the Republic of Ireland in 1949.

The British parliament took little interest in Northern Irish affairs. The
Northern parliament, Stormont, was dominated by the Unionist Party, as was the
civil service. Unemployment was proportionately higher among the Catholic
minority; and Protestants also had preferential treatment in the allocation of
council houses. The Unionists even tampered with electoral boundaries
('gerrymandering') to give them political control in areas where Catholics were
in the majority.

In 1967, inspired by the success of the black civil rights movement in 1960s
America, the non-violent Northern Ireland Civil Rights Association was set up.
It organised demonstrations calling for better housing and equal political
status for Catholics in the province.

But some Unionist leaders claimed that the movement was infiltrated by IRA
gunmen committed to a united Ireland. In a Protestant backlash, loyalists
ransacked Catholic homes, forcing them to flee in their thousands. In 1969
British troops were called in to protect the Catholics.

By 1968 the IRA had opted for socialist politics; but some Catholic victims
criticised it for not protecting their community.  A 'provisional' council of
the IRA met and decided to switch its focus to the North and the armed struggle.
Membership of the 'Provos' grew. As unrest continued, the emphasis of the
British Army switched from protecting the Catholics to confronting the IRA.

In 1971 the Northern Ireland government introduced internment, which allowed
suspected paramilitaries to be held without charge. But many innocent people
were detained, causing much ill-feeling. In Londonderry on January 30 1972, the
Army opened fire on civil rights protesters demonstrating against internment,
killing 13.

In the following months, the violence on all sides escalated to unprecedented
levels. In March, the British government imposed direct rule from Westminster
and dissolved the discredited Stormont parliament. Meanwhile, the IRA campaign
spread to the mainland and the 1970s saw a series of horrific bomb attacks in
major English cities.

In 1974 the Labour government introduced power-sharing in the province - an
assembly including republicans and Unionists.  Legislation was also brought in
to outlaw religious discrimination. But many Protestants opposed these moves and
went on strike, forcing the assembly to be dissolved.

A similar attempt by British and Irish prime ministers Margaret Thatcher and
Garret Fitzgerald to create a Northern Ireland assembly collapsed in 1984 after
the shooting of a Unionist politician and a boycott from the Unionist parties.

In November 1985 the British and Irish governments negotiated the Anglo-Irish
Agreement, which allowed the Republic of Ireland a say in Northern Irish
affairs. This concession proved to be extremely unpopular in Unionist circles,
particularly as the Irish constitution contained a territorial claim to Northern
Ireland.

Last September the nationalist leader John Hume and Gerry Adams, the leader of
Sinn Fein - the political wing of the IRA - produced a joint strategy for an IRA
cease-fire which they presented to the Government. A month later, it was
revealed that the British government had been secretly communicating with the
IRA leadership since 1989.

On December 15 John Major and Albert Reynolds, the Irish prime mini- ster,
issued the Downing Street Declaration. The Irish government agreed to consult
its people on its territorial claim, and the British government agreed that the
people of Northern Ireland should decide their own future. The declaration also
agreed to include Sinn Fein in talks about the future of the province - if the
IRA agreed to a permanent end to its armed campaign.

The Downing Street Declaration paved the way for the IRA cease-fire which
started at midnight on August 30. Last week, the loyalist paramilitaries set out
their own conditions for a cease-fire, but these have yet to be met.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              473 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               September 14, 1994

Dedication of Reynolds

SECTION: Pg. 14

LENGTH: 713 words


THE Irish Prime Minister has set himself the most strenuous of tasks in his
search for peace in Northern Ireland, but his dedication cannot be doubted.
Even if his achievements go no further than the ceasefire, even if that does not
last for ever, his contribution to the cause of peace will have been
incontestable. For every day the killing halts that is a gain for humanity.
There are many in Dublin and Belfast who shake their heads with fear and doubt,
but Mr Reynolds remains indomitably committed to a process that has prospered in
part because he and Mr Major have established a bond; it has survived recent
irritations, and their telephone conversation last Saturday appears to have
calmed Irish anxiety about the British response to the ceasefire. In an
interview with The Herald yesterday, Mr Reynolds repeated the various assurances
he has given the loyalist community. The interview was conducted in a Dublin
suddenly sobered by the UVF attempt to detonate a large bomb on a train in
Connolly Station. It failed fully to explode because the explosive was old. Had
it done so, the results would have been dreadful. The loyalist extremists sent a
sombre signal that peace has not yet broken out all over. As Britain knows to
its cost, a civilised society has no complete defence against terrorism, but in
Dublin, as in London, there is determination not to be deflected by the
terrorist threat. Indeed, loyalist opinion has strongly condemned the attack,
not just because of its indiscriminate nature but also because it plays into the
hands of those who would abandon the Unionist cause.

Mr Reynolds is utterly convinced that the IRA ceasefire is permanent, of
historic weight similar to the end of the Civil War. He believes that the
Republican movement has chosen the democratic road and that this decision is
irrevocable. The British analysis remains more cautious. It is noted that though
the Provisionals have stopped violence and, as the Taoiseach noted, have not
retaliated in a number of instances, they continue to operate as an
organisation, tracking potential targets and sustaining their large payroll of
officers, pensioners, and dependants. The British are apprehensive that if the
peace process yields no significant dividends in the long run then Republican
hard-liners will reassert themselves. Already there is muttering from the
guardians of the dubious shrine of the gun.

Irish opinion has been a little irritated by the British caution in general and,
in particular, the RUC's insistence on re-closing border roads opened as a
tangible mark of peace. This is a matter for the RUC's own discretion, and does
not represent British Government policy; but it gives a hint of how intractable
the supreme problem of a peace -- the question of policing -- may become. On the
other hand, the British have been a little alarmed by the haste with which Mr
Reynolds has brought Sinn Fein into the circle of legitimate politics, and will
be relieved by the Taoiseach's statement that the Forum, which he has created as
a kind of "waiting room" for Sinn Fein, will not cause any delay in finalising
the framework document, which will lay the ground rules for a multilateral
settlement and is due to be agreed in October.

For students of Scottish devolution, the powers and functions of the new
parliament in Belfast will provide a fascinating study. Out goes what is
inelegantly called majoritarianism and in comes consensus. The assembly will,
through its committee structure, avoid the domination of the minority by the
majority, although the full doctrine of Mutual Veto -- to be found, for example,
in the Belgian Constitution -- does not appear to have emerged. One difficulty
is that the Nationalists may expect the framework document to be more specific
than the Unionists would desire. The British would probably prefer to let the
new parliament determine much of the details, and will be reassured by Mr
Reynolds's subscription to the principle that without consent new institutions
will not work. Mr Reynolds recognises that the road to peace will be hard and
long and that there may be many setbacks; but the prize is great. He has earned
the trust of Mr Major and the Unionists, too, can have confidence in his
sincerity.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              474 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                         September 14, 1994, Wednesday

Bridge protest divides border communities; An unofficial opening of a road link
has led to hopes of economic growth and loyalist fears about security.

BYLINE: MARY BRAID

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 3

LENGTH: 716 words


AS LIGHT faded, Sean Sweeney, 35, squinted north across the tiny shallow river
flowing before a mess of displaced concrete and twisted girders.

Focusing beyond the remains of the Lackey Bridge - daubed with ''Britain's
border, Ireland's torture'' - the farmer pointed to the road on the other side
which once linked Co Monaghan in the ''Free State'' with Fermanagh, one of its
six lost northern counties.

''There's a lot of bitterness out there,'' he said. ''And who can blame them? An
RUC man and a UDR man were killed just up that road.''

Terrorists are responsible for more than 100 murders on the Fermanagh border
since 1969. Hundreds of crossings along the 220-mile border were closed more
than two decades ago to keep communities safe.

Mr Sweeney appreciates their fear but last weekend he was one of 40 protesters,
armed with spades and mechanical diggers, who reopened the Lackey Bridge
crossing for the third time since the IRA's ceasefire. Although there were a few
Sinn Fein supporters, he claims most of the protesters were ordinary people.

''Farmers have to travel 15 miles to visit fields just across the river and the
border policy has never provided security. When those men died this road was
actually closed. Shutting these roads just adds to the general bitterness.''

Half a mile away in Clones, in the Irish Republic, Donald MacDonald and Paddy
Boylan, leaders of the local business community, are praying for the opening of
the border. They say the economic future of their town depends on it.

''The border has slowly strangled Clones,'' said Mr MacDonald in the coffee shop
in his drapery store. ''There has been no chance of development in the border
region with the security presence, violence, different currencies, different
exchange controls and VAT and excise differentials. When history looks back on
this policy it will judge it provocative, antagonistic and counter-productive.
It was useless as a security measure and has only attracted violence to the
area.''

Locals believe Dublin- based politicians have long treated the border towns,
often IRA recruiting grounds, as pariahs.

Twenty local businesses have folded in the past few years, including a
supermarket owned by the family of Clones's favourite son, the boxer Barry
McGuigan.

For regeneration, the town looks north to Fermanagh, and its potential for
tourism. A 20-minute drive across the border in Lisnaskea, Fermanagh's second
largest town, that potential has also been recognised. Lisnaskea is more
prosperous than Clones but years of cross- border violence have also stunted its
growth. Eleven shops have closed in the past five years.

The two towns are in the early stages of developing a rare self-initiated joint
strategy on tourism, encouraged by generous EC grants for cross-border
initiatives. A permanent cessation of violence could triple tourism.

''Both towns face the same problems,'' said June Jordan, the Protestant owner of
the Ortine Hotel and prime mover in the joint border initiative. ''Both are
run-down and need development.'' But Mrs Jordan is less impatient about roads
reopening. For a county bordered by the Republic on three sides and devastated
by 25 years of atrocities, the closed border offers some sense of security. She
lists the atrocities. The monthly bombings, the 19-year-old boy beaten by the
IRA and forced to drive explosives to an Army checkpoint, the friend who never
recovered after her son was shot before her eyes, the local farmers driven from
their land by terrorist ''ethnic cleansing'' and the bomb attack on the school
bus which injured Catholic and Protestant children.

In Clones, Mr MacDonald and Mr Boylan believe the violence is finally over.
Peter McAleer, a Sinn Fein councillor in Clones, says that Protestants have
nothing to fear. Asked if Sinn Fein is hijacking the border road protests, he
claims the organisation is simply ''showing leadership and trying to persuade
youngsters there is an alternative to the armed struggle.''

But the Unionists of Lisnaskea are rattled. They say Sinn Fein is talking peace
but encouraging people to take the law into their own hands. They see the action
as at best insensitive and at worst a sinister attack on their security.

(Photograph omitted)


LOAD-DATE: September 14, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1994 Independent Print Ltd

                              475 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Standard (London)

                               September 16, 1994

FURY AS IRA GUNMAN IS FREED BY US JUDGE

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 920 words


A CONVICTED IRA gunman was celebrating his freedom today after a US judge
blocked his extradition to Britain.

James Joseph Smyth headed straight for Molly Malone's Dublin Pub in San
Francisco last night safe in the knowledge that he was beyond the reach of
British justice.

The Government was urged to immediately appeal against the ruling by federal
district judge Barbara Caulfield who ordered the release of Smyth, being held in
a federal prison in Pleasanton, California.

The Government wanted the return of Smyth to complete a 20-year sentence for the
attempted murder of a prison officer and to face trial for taking part in an
armed mass escape from the Maze prison in 1983 in which two prison guards were
shot and others were stabbed and beaten.

But Judge Caulfield said Smyth, 40, who was arrested in San Francisco in 1992
after spending nine years on the run, would be punished on the basis of his
political opinions if he was returned to Northern Ireland.

In May last year Judge Caulfield requested some of Whitehall's most sensitive
documents about the province, including papers on the Stalker inquiry into the
alleged shoot-to-kill policy.

The Government blocked their release and found itself having to prove that Smyth
would be safe in Britain's custody.

"The punishment, detention and restrictions on his personal liberties that James
Smyth would face upon his return to prison in Northern Ireland are adequate
resons to deny certification of extradition," Judge Caulfield said.  Federal
prosecutors representing the British Government at the California hearing said
they would be appealing against the decision.

Sinn Fein member Smyth, who before his arrest had been working as a house
painter in the States for eight years, said he would push for the release of
three fellow Maze escapees held in US prisons - Kevin Artt, arrested in June
1992 in San Diego, Paul Brennan and Terry Kirby, both arrested in the San
Francisco-Oakland Bay Area in 1993 and 1994 respectively. Their extradition
hearings are pending. Smith told reporters: "I plan on staying here 'til the
British leave Ireland."

But as the celebrations continued in the US, there was fury in Northern Ireland
at the judge's ruling.

The Ulster Unionist Party security spokesman Ken Maginnis said today: "The
British Government should seek to overturn the ruling. I think it is another of
the perverse decisions that we have from time to time over the years in relation
to IRA prisoners."

Mr Maginnis, MP for Fermanagh and South Tyrone, said: "I do hope that the
Government appeals this case and this decision can be reversed.

"Other decisions have been reversed in the past and I hope it can happen again.
It is right and proper that these criminals should be brought to justice."

However, Smyth's victory could open the door for the release of the other three
Maze men, whose extradition hearings are pending.

Artt was sentenced to life imprisonment for the murder of the Maze's deputy
governor Albert Miles, shot dead at his home in 1978.

Brennan was jailed in the same year for possessing a bomb and Kirby was jailed
for life, also in 1978, for the murder of a 77-year-old garage attendant.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              476 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 17, 1994

BRITAIN MAY APPEAL AGAINST US REFUSAL TO RETURN IRA FUGITIVE

BYLINE: Paul Myers And David Sharrock In Belfast

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 186 words


THE Government last night was considering an appeal against a US court ruling
which blocks the extradition of a convicted IRA gunman who escaped from the Maze
prison in Northern Ireland nine years ago.

James Joseph Smyth, 40, was released on Thursday after Judge Barbara Caulfield
ruled: "The punishment, detention and restrictions on his personal liberties
that James Smith would face upon his return to prison in Northern Ireland are
adequate reasons to deny certification of extradition."

The extradition treaty stipulates that the courts can halt extradition where
there is risk due to religion, nationality or political opinions.

Mr Smith had served five years of a 20-year sentence in the Maze for the
attempted murder of a prison guard and his wife.

In 1992 he was arrested in San Francisco after Scotland Yard and the Royal
Ulster Constabulary asked Californian authorities to carry out fingerprint
checks in predominantly Irish areas.

Mr Smith, who had been working as a house painter for eight years, was charged
with making a false declaration while applying for a US passport.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              477 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 17, 1994

CONTRADICTIONS DUMPED IN THE DUSTBIN OF HISTORY;
The oxygen of publicity goes back on air

BYLINE: Edward Pilkington

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 995 words


FROM the beginning - October 19, 1988 - it was exposed as bizarre and confused.

Broadcasters were told that a Sinn Fein councillor, speaking as a representative
of the party, would not be permitted to talk on screen or radio even about the
weather. On the other hand, if speaking with a councillor's hat on about the
state of the roads the censorship rules would not apply.

Douglas Hurd, then Home Secretary, glossed over the inherent contradictions in
the order which had been triggered by an upsurge of IRA activity including the
bombing of a coach at Ballygawley that August which killed eight soldiers. "The
terrorists themselves draw support and sustenance from access to radio and
television. The Government has decided that the time has come to deny this easy
platform to those who use it to propagate terrorism," he said.

Behind the order lay the imprint of Margaret Thatcher who in 1985 tried to have
a Real Lives documentary, On the Edge of the Union, banned on the grounds that
it indirectly furthered terrorism. In her famous phrase, she said: "We must not
give them the oxygen of publicity."

In stark numeric terms the ban has had the effect Mrs Thatcher intended. In the
first year Sinn Fein's appearances on British television plummeted by 63 per
cent.

On the second anniversary of the notice the Government and the republican
movement reached uncharacteristic agreement on its evident impact. Sinn Fein's
Richard McAuley said: "In terms of minimising interest in Britain and denying
people access to information about Ireland I think it has been successful."

The Government has had to contend consistently with the contradictions becoming
ever more apparent.

In September 1992 the voice of the former MP Bernadette McAliskey was replaced
by subtitles. She fired back that the move was "defamatory, derisory and
dangerous," a view which found an unlikely bedfellow in Peter Bottomley, a
former Conservative Northern Ireland minister.

Though the broadcasters bowed to the censorship restrictions, in time they
became more confident in flouting its spirit.  Actors were brought in to speak
the words of Sinn Fein leaders and their imitations grew more and more precise.
By the end the ban had become all but superfluous.

It is thought that in recent months the Government has been waiting for a way
out which would not lose it face. The opportunity came first with Dublin's
lifting of its long-standing broadcasting ban in January.

Then, with the announcement of the IRA ceasefire last month it was just a matter
of time before the order was confined to the dustbin of history.

The following is an edited text of the Prime Minister's statement.

I HAVE come to Northern Ireland today to talk directly to the people. More than
two weeks have now passed without IRA violence.

The longer it lasts, the more hopes will rise that we may have an unparalleled
opportunity for progress. But I know also that many people in Northern Ireland
still have suspicions and doubts.

They are worried and uncertain. Are the IRA sincere? What will the Government
do? These are the questions in people's minds.  Our first objective has always
been to secure a permanent end to all violence.

This cessation of violence (by the IRA) has not been bought. No price has been
paid for it. The principle guiding us remains that of democratic consent. There
have been no secret deals made directly or indirectly, no secret assurances
given, no nods, no winks, no tricks with mirrors. And, most importantly after 25
years of bloodshed and terror, we have not lowered our guard.

I dearly want to see peace established on all sides. But I need to be certain of
the commitment to peace of the IRA and Sinn Fein.

First, we need to be able to assume sensibly that Sinn Fein and the IRA are now
genuinely committed to end violence permanently.

They have made statements which point in the right direction. We need to know
from their words and their actions that this is a firm and unequivocal decision.
They are nearly there. I hope they will have the courage to remove ambiguities
and make the clear statement everyone is waiting to hear.

My second point concerns the outcome of the three-stranded political talks. The
aim of these talks is to reach agreement on new political arrangements within
Northern Ireland, and on the future relationships between the two parts of the
island and between the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland.

It is vital that we should move forward with the widespread consent and
confidence of the people of Northern Ireland. They, and the parties engaged in
the talks, want to be sure that the outcome will not be imposed upon them
without their democratic consent.

There will be siren voices telling them they will be tricked. I want to tell
them that they will not be tricked.

So, for the avoidance of any doubt, I want to make clear that the Government
will submit the final outcome of the three-stranded process of talks to the
electorate in Northern Ireland for approval in a referendum.

My commitment means that no one can go behind your backs - not today, not
tomorrow, not at any time.

I have already said that I am still looking for a clearer indication that the
IRA's violence is over for good. But it is not only their violence that has
scarred the life of Northern Ireland. INLA and the loyalist paramilitaries
should also end their campaigns. There is now not a shred of justification for
it.

This brings me to my third point. The broadcasting restrictions were brought in
to stop supporters of terrorist organisations from using television and radio to
justify violence.

I believe the restrictions are no longer serving the purpose for which they were
intended. Ways have been found to circumvent them.

But, most importantly, we are now in very different circumstances from those of
1988, when the restrictions originally came in.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              478 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               September 17, 1994

Broadcasting move and referendum pledge puts pressure on terrorists Major's
double-edged gauntlet Major in referendum pledge

BYLINE: Stephen Mcgregor, Parliamentary Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1305 words


THE Prime Minister last night threw down the gauntlet to both sides in the Irish
conflict to prove that violence had come to an end, and promised a referendum to
the people in the North.

He lifted the broadcasting ban on Sinn Fein, but made clear he wanted evidence
from the loyalists that they also had ended the campaign of terror. The move was
welcomed by the Irish Prime Minister, Mr Albert Reynolds, as a contribution to
the peace process.

Mr Major, on a visit to Belfast, referred to the fact that more than two weeks
had passed without IRA violence, and said the longer that lasted the more hopes
would rise that there was an "unparalleled opportunity for progress".

He pledged there had been no secret deals, no nods and no winks given to the
IRA, and he also promised that, if there were an eventual outcome to the process
of talks on the future of Northern Ireland, the people of the province would be
given the chance to vote on this in a referendum.

However, in a Sky News phone-in, Mr Martin McGuiness, a member of Sinn Fein's
ruling executive and the man believed by the Northern Ireland Office to be
closest to the IRA, warned Mr Major's attempts to get an IRA commitment to a
permanent ceasefire were "totally counter-productive".

He said: "John Major and the British Government are not going to dictate to
republicans what they should say, and he certainly isn't going to dictate to me.
This gameplay that he is on to is totally counter-productive. I think if he
persists in it, as each day goes by he is digging a deeper hole for himself."

The Prime Minister's statement in Belfast followed a Cabinet meeting on Thursday
at which it was agreed to maintain a "softly, softly" approach towards the IRA's
declaration of a cessation of violence.

The announcement that the broadcasting ban is being lifted is not a surprise,
because it increasingly has been seen as an irritating irrelevance, but the
timing is significant: it is the first gesture the Government has been seen to
make to Sinn Fein, and therefore the IRA, since the declaration.

Mr Major, however, was uncompromising in his use of words. "The approach we have
taken is scrupulously fair to both sides of the community in Northern Ireland,
seeks to recognise their legitimate aspirations and does not favour one side or
another.

"I dearly want to see peace established on all sides, but I need to be certain
of the commitment to peace of the IRA and Sinn Fein."

The Prime Minister demanded to know whether the IRA now had given up violence
for good, telling one reporter at the Belfast news conference: "Go and ask Sinn
Fein directly if there are any circumstances in which they will take up violence
again." The clock towards involving Sinn Fein directly in the peace process was
not yet ticking.

On the other side of the coin, Mr Major said it was not only the IRA's violence
which had scarred the life of Northern Ireland. He said that the Irish National
Liberation Army and the loyalist paramilitaries also should end their campaigns.

He continued: "There is now not a shred of justification for it. The loyalists
should make good their earlier statements that their violence would end when IRA
violence was halted. They should now respond to the many appeals to them from
political, church, and community leaders."

On the broadcasting ban, he said: "All paramilitaries, and those who speak on
their behalf, now have an opporunity to tell us directly, not under the cover of
an actor's voice, that they are truly committed to peaceful methods only and to
their being no resumption of violence in the future."

On the referendum on the future of the province, he made clear it would be up to
all the people in Northern Ireland to make a choice on any full package of
proposals for constitutional change.

Mr Major said: "My commitment means that no-one can go behind your backs. Not
today, not tomorrow, not at any time. You can forget this talk of secret deals,
it will be for you to decide."

Within an hour of Mr Major's comments, Mr McGuinness told Channel 4 News he
believed "the ceasefire will hold in all circumstances'', but said he could not
say "anything is permanent for all time?" On the referendum, he said it was
clear the conflict would not "be resolved unless that resolution is on an all
-Ireland basis".

Sinn Fein president Gerry Adams, in a recorded interview, spoke on Channel 4
News, not about the Prime Minister's announcements, but about the IRA ceasefire.
"I think what Sinn Fein wants to do is to build a permanent peace.  That
requires all of those involved in armed actions to get involved in the process
of demilitarisation." He was reported as "taking a few days off".

Sinn Fein northern chairman, Mr Mitchel McLaughlin, was asked on BBC Radio 4's
PM programme to say whether the ceasefire was permanent. Interviewer Chris Lowe
said: "In all circumstances for all time Mr McLaughlin, yes or no?"

Mr McLaughlin replied: "In all circumstances -- you understand the English
language as well as anyone else." He had said Mr Major has "had all the
clarification on that issue that he needs and is going to get".

Unionists, nervous at the rapidly-developing peace process, welcomed the
referendum pledge, which gives their voting majority the final say. It
effectively copper-fastens Northern Ireland's constitutional link with the rest
of the UK.

Since the IRA ceasefire, the Rev Ian Paisley's Democratic Unionist Party had
been pressing for a referendum as the only way to assure Unionists they were not
being pushed into a united Ireland.

The deputy leader of the DUP, Mr Peter Robinson, the East Belfast MP, said: "It
is an advance. Let us have no doubts about that." Mr Robinson said he believed
the broadcasting ban had been ineffective but removing it unfortunately showed
that Mr Major had de facto accepted the word of the IRA "before guns are handed
over or anything".

Mr Alex Salmond, leader of the Scottish National Party, welcomed the
announcement of a referendum. "Quite clearly, the Prime Minister's refusal of
the same democratic right to the people of Scotland now looks untenable -- and,
for that matter, he has some explaining to do on his rejection of a poll on
Maastricht. You cannot pick and choose when it comes to self-determination."

In Dublin, the Government in a statement issued on behalf of Mr Reynolds
welcomed Mr Major's announcement as a contribution to the consolidation of the
peace process, writes John Cooney.

An Irish Government spokesman said Mr Reynolds was pleased that there had been
"a substantial start" to a programme of reopening roads between the Republic and
Northern Ireland, and he also welcomed the lifting of the broadcasting ban.

While Mr Reynolds obviouly did not wish to play down the importance of Mr
Major's response, there was still some disappointment that he had not endorsed
Dublin and Washington's belief that the IRA ceasefire is permanent.

Mr Reynolds, in Hong Kong en route to Australia, was quoted as saying that "the
holding of referendums, north and south of the border, on any substantial new
agreement is a logical development of the Downing Street Declaration."

By using the word "substantial", Mr Reynolds is interpreted as signalling he
would have reservations about an agreement which would provide for an assembly
in Belfast underpinning the Unionist link to Britain, but without accompanying
new cross-border institution to meet nationalist demands for an All-Ireland
dimension in the new political arrangements.

Irish Foreign Minister Dick Spring, in China, welcomed the initiatives without
qualification but said his Government had stated a referendum would need to be
acceptable to the people of both Northern Ireland and the Republic.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Mr Major faces the media in Belfast as he prepares to lift the
broadcasting ban.Picture: PA

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              479 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               September 17, 1994

US judge blocks extradition

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 390 words


A CONVICTED IRA gunman was celebrating his freedom yesterday after a US judge
blocked his extradition to Britain.

James Joseph Smyth headed straight for Molly Malone's Dublin Pub in San
Francisco, safe in the knowledge that he was beyond the reach of British
justice.

The Government is to appeal against the ruling made by federal district judge
Barbara Caulfield.

This was confirmed in San Francisco by assistant-attorney Mark Zanides,
representing the British Government, who added: "The extradition should go
forward."

Smyth had been held without bail in a federal prison in Pleasanton, California.

The Government wanted the return of Smyth to complete a 20-year sentence for the
attempted murder of a prison officer and to face trial for taking part in an
armed mass escape from the Maze prison in 1983, in which two prison guards were
shot and others were stabbed and beaten.

Judge Caulfield said Smyth, 40, who was arrested in San Francisco in 1992 after
spending nine years on the run, would be punished on the basis of his political
opinions if he was returned to Northern Ireland.

In May last year, Judge Caulfield requested some of Whitehall's most sensitive
documents about the province, including papers on the Stalker inquiry into the
alleged shoot-to-kill policy.

The Government blocked their release.

"The punishment, detention and restrictions on his personal liberties that James
Smyth would face upon his return to prison in Northern Ireland are adequate
reasons to deny certification of extradition," Judge Caulfield said.

Smyth, who before his arrest had been working as a house painter in the United
States, was greeted with hugs, kisses, and cheers by supporters in the Irish
public house.

Smyth, a Sinn Fein member, said he would push for the release of three fellow
Maze escapees held in US prisons -- Kevin Artt, arrested in June 1992 in San
Diego, Paul Brennan and Terry Kirby, both arrested in the San Francisco-Oakland
Bay Area in 1993 and 1994 respectively.

Artt was sentenced to life imprisonment for the murder of Mr Albert Miles,
deputy governor of the Maze, who was shot dead at his home in 1978.

Brennan was jailed in the same year for possessing a bomb and Kirby was jailed
for life, also in 1978, for the murder of 77-year-old garage attendant.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Freed to hugs: James Smyth is greeted after his release.Picture: REUTER

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              480 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           September 23, 1994, Friday

Law Report: Exclusion order is upheld; Regina v Secretary of State for the Home
Department, Ex parte McQuillan. Queen's Bench Division (Mr Justice Sedley). 9
September 1994.

BYLINE: YING HUI TAN, Barrister

SECTION: LAW PAGE; Page 30

LENGTH: 804 words


Although the reasons for executive decisions which restricted fundamental
freedoms and rights should be closely scrutinised by the courts, if such a
decision was made in the interests of national security, that was sufficient to
preclude any inquiry by the court into the rationality of the decision and the
decision had to be accepted by the court without further scrutiny.

Mr Justice Sedley dismissed an application by Kevin McQuillan for judicial
review of an exclusion order against him.

The applicant, aged 34, lived in Belfast with his wife and three children. He
was a former member of the Irish Republican Socialist Party, a legal
organisation. He had been the target of two serious assassination attempts in
recent years. His house had been bombed by the Ulster Freedom Fighters.

In 1993 the Home Secretary made an exclusion order against the applicant under
the Prevention of Terrorism (Temporary Provisions) Act 1989 prohibiting his
entry into Great Britain. The applicant, who wished to move to Britain because
of the threat to his life, applied for the order to be revoked. The Home
Secretary refused on the ground that the applicant had been concerned in the
commission, preparation or instigation of acts of terrorism connected with the
affairs of Northern Ireland, and that his exclusion appeared to be expedient to
prevent further acts. He said further detailed reasons were not possible in the
interests of national security.

The applicant applied for judicial review of the Home Secretary's decisions on
the grounds that (1) they contravened articles 2 and 3 of the European
Convention on Human Rights - everyone's right to life shall be protected by law
and no one shall be subjected to inhuman treatment; (2) under domestic law,
national security did not render the issue non-justiciable and (3) under the
European Treaty the applicant could not be denied an unfettered right of free
momvement within the UK.

Frances Webber (BM Birnberg & Co) for the applicant; Neil Garnham (Treasury
Solicitor) for the Home Secretary.

MR JUSTICE SEDLEY said freedom of movement, subject to the general law, was a
fundamental value of the common law. The power given by Parliament to the Home
Secretary to restrict freedom of movement was a Draconian measure. The courts
would scrutinise his reasoning closely and draw the boundaries of rationality
tightly round his judgment. The same was true of the right to life, which
attracted the most anxious scrutiny by the courts of administrative
decision-making.

Once it was accepted that the standards articulated in the European Convention
were standards which both marched with those of the common law and informed the
jurisprudence of the European Union, it became unreal and potentially unjust to
continue to develop English public law without reference to them.

Accordingly, the legal standards by which the decisions of public bodies were
supervised could and should differentiate between those rights recognised as
fundamental and those which, though known to law, did not enjoy such a
pre-eminent status. Once that point was reached, the standard of justification
of infringements of rights and freedoms by executive decision must vary in
proportion to the significance of the right at issue.

But national security would always throw up special questions. The applicant's
testimony was evidence of a real and continuing threat to his life, with the
further consequence that the effect of the exclusion order was to subject him to
the inhuman treatment of being for all practical purposes confined to the one
part of the UK where his life and his family's safety were most at risk.

The Home Secretary's judgment was that he had been so involved in acts of
terrorism as to make it expedient to exclude him from Great Britain
notwithstanding the threat to his life and the inhuman treatment involved. If
the interests of national security were such as to prevent the court from
knowing what it was that had moved the Home Secretary to make the exclusion
order, it was impossible to balance both sides to decide whether the Home
Secretary's decision lay within the band of rational decisions available in a
case which potentially called the right to life in question.

The weight of authority demonstrated that the formula used by the Home Office in
its grounds for making the order and for not giving detailed reasons was
sufficient to halt any further scrutiny by the court. The interests of national
security were sufficiently invoked to preclude any further inquiry by the court
into the legitimacy of the Home Secretary's conclusion that it was expedient in
order to prevent acts of terrorism connected with the affairs of Northern
Ireland to make and not to revoke the exclusion order. The application could not
succeed.


LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1994 Independent Print Ltd

                              481 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                           September 23, 1994, Friday

Major shuns amnesty for IRA prisoners

BYLINE: Philip Webster in Pretoria, Ian Brodie in Washington and Nicholas Watt

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 469 words


JOHN Major ruled out an amnesty for IRA prisoners yesterday.

Speaking in Pretoria at the end of his three-day visit to South Africa, the
Prime Minister rejected any comparison between the Northern Ireland and South
African situations.

Dismissing one of Sinn Fein's key demands since the IRA ceasefire three weeks
ago, Mr Major said there was no parallel with the release of political prisoners
in South Africa. He said: ''In the United Kingdom people are not in jail as
political prisoners. They are in jail because they have committed crime. They
have been sentenced by an independent judicial process and they must serve their
sentences.''

Mr Major again called on Sinn Fein to provide confirmation that it had given up
violence for good. The officials who would eventually sit down and talk to Sinn
Fein needed to know for sure that the IRA would not suddenly decide to pick up
arms again. ''I think they are moving towards it. I am pleased about that,'' Mr
Major said.

He said that after this had been done, there would be a period of up to three
months for preliminary talks. Round-table political talks would follow, and
whether Mr Adams took part in those would be up to Sinn Fein.  ''He may well be
there,'' he said.

The threat from Loyalist paramilitaries will be assessed by Sir Patrick Mayhew,
the Northern Ireland Secretary, and Dick Spring, Ireland's Deputy Prime
Minister, in London today. Sir Hugh Annesley, the Chief Constable of the RUC,
and Patrick Culligan, the Irish police commissioner, will brief the two
ministers.

Traders in Belfast said yesterday that the IRA ceasefire had led to an 8 per
cent increase in business as shops scaled down security measures.  Visitors from
England and the Republic of Ireland, who would have avoided Belfast a few weeks
ago because of the threat of IRA bomb attacks, were now back shopping in the
city.

At Belfast's showpiece Castle Court shopping centre the atmosphere has relaxed
considerably since the ceasefire. The IRA bombed Castle Court three times before
it opened in 1991, but the weekly bomb threats have now stopped.

However, elsewhere Belfast is less relaxed. The security forces have just
started to build a peace line in north Belfast to separate Catholics and
Protestants.

President Clinton justified his Administration's continued active interest in
Irish affairs yesterday. At a Democrat fundraising dinner he said: ''People in
Northern Ireland still like the United States involved, along with Great Britain
and Ireland, to try to work through this.'' Mr Clinton's aides are aware that
some critics have wondered whether Washington is stepping on British
sovereignty.

The President also hailed John Hume, who was in the audience, as a ''symbol of
peace and hope'' for his work towards the ceasefire.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1994 Times Newspapers Limited

                              482 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           September 25, 1994, Sunday

Men of violence move closer to their old enemies; Moderation seems to be
breaking out all over Belfast

BYLINE: By DAVID MCKITTRICK, Ireland Correspondent

SECTION: BRITAIN PAGE; Page 2

LENGTH: 817 words


ONLY weeks after warnings from Protestant clergymen and community workers that
Loyalists were in a feverish and dangerous state, unexpectedly moderate signals
are being sent out from sections of the Unionist population of Northern Ireland.

The uncertainty and tension originally generated by the IRA cessation of
violence has been replaced by an atmosphere of debate about the future, which
suggests to some observers that some Unionists are attempting to redefine their
identity.

Curiously, some of the most progressive noises are coming from hardline
districts, particularly the Shankill Road area of Belfast where an IRA bomb
killed nine local people last year. Edward Kinner, a Shankill community worker
who has served a life sentence for killing a Catholic, went on local radio this
week to say he would meet Sinn Fein: ''I don't think I would have any objections
to talking to them. Had people been prepared to talk to them sooner the violence
might have ended sooner.''

Such radical thinking is all the more surprising in view of the Protestant mood
at the end of August. At that point the Rev Godfrey Brown, a former Presbyterian
moderator noted for his caution and restraint, said: ''I must reflect the
tremendous sense of fear and betrayal in the Unionist community, particularly
the working-class Unionist community - the fear that they are about to be sold
down the river because of some deal that is being done behind closed doors.''

There is still much uncertainty abroad, and there are still many hardline
opinions to be heard. The Rev Ian Paisley's supporters continue to claim a
sell-out is under way as part of a longterm British plot to disengage.
Crucially, the Loyalist paramilitary groups have yet to follow the IRA and
declare their own ceasefire, and there have been several unsuccessful Loyalist
bombing attempts in recent days.

The bomb attacks have been the work of the Ulster Volunteer Force, but
paradoxically much of the new thinking comes from those associated with it,
stressing the need for talks and for new beginnings. In particular, a number of
former UVF prisoners, some of whom killed Catholics in the 1970s, emerged after
long jail sentences, educated, politicised and open to new ideas.

The phenomenon caused one commentator to ask this week: ''Could it be that we're
past the figureheads now and into the people?''

Edward Kinner's appearance, on BBC Radio Ulster's Talkback programme, generated
about 130 telephone calls, most of them supportive. He said he was hopeful that
a new working-class Unionist party would emerge because Shankill people felt
they had been totally misrepresented by the political parties.

He added: ''The Unionists in the past have done all sorts of sabre-rattling and
every time there's been any attempt to make any kind of social change they've
described it as a sell-out or a threat.

''The feeling in the past was basically that all they had to do was bring round
a flute band and play some party tunes and people would come out and vote for
them. Hopefully that will change. As a result of saying 'No' and being negative,
I think we've got farther away from our British position.''

On the other hand, the Ulster Defence Association, the other main Loyalist
paramilitary group, is showing few signs of enthusiasm for a conversion from
terrorism into politics. The general feeling is that it is the UDA which has
held up a Loyalist ceasefire announcement.

But against that, there have been other signs of more flexibility in Unionist
thinking.

This week a group of senior Ulster Unionist MPs spent several days in Washington
meeting US vice-president Al Gore and other figures: several years ago most
Unionists would simply have denounced the Americans as pro-nationalist and
refused to speak to them.

In Belfast, meanwhile, four Unionist councillors met a group of senior
politicians from the Republic and took them up the Shankill, where they met Mr
Kinner and others. Many such visits by southerners have in the past been
boycotted by Loyalists.

In Belfast city hall's council chamber, notorious for its rancorous debates, a
motion urging Loyalists to declare a ceasefire and urging all to work for an
honourable settlement was passed unanimously. This caused local journalist Jim
McDowell to write a story with the memorable opening line: ''Peace at last broke
out in Belfast city hall last night.''

Cynics contend that many of these changes are more presentational than real; it
may also be argued that in such a volatile and fluid situation opinions could
harden up again as quickly as they have apparently eased. But for the moment it
can at least be said that there are new stirrings where previously there was
none; and that they raise the possibility that some of the grassroots may be
less hidebound than their conventional political rep-

resentatives.


LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1994 Independent Print Ltd

                              483 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                           September 25, 1994, Sunday

Sudan's offer to France - Carlos or Nidal

BYLINE: By David Leppard

SECTION: Overseas news

LENGTH: 695 words


FRANCE rejected a dramatic offer to capture Abu Nidal, one of the world's most
notorious terrorists, during secret talks with Sudan, security sources have
revealed.

The French were told that Nidal who is suspected of masterminding more than 90
international terrorist attacks since the 1970s, killing dozens of people was
staying as a guest of Carlos The Jackal in the Sudanese capital Khartoum this
year. He is said to have been seeking Carlos's help in obtaining residence in
Sudan. The Palestinian terrorist has been trying to find a safe refuge since
Colonel Muammar Gadaffi decided last year that he could no longer allow him a
safe haven in Libya.

French agents were offered the choice of kidnapping one or the other terrorist.
They chose Carlos because he had been implicated in the murder of two French
intelligence agents in 1975.

The complex deal is revealed in documents passed to MI6 and seen by The Sunday
Times. They show the decision to capture Carlos instead of Nidal last month
followed weeks of intense negotiations between high-ranking French and Sudanese
intelligence officers.

Both governments have denied that any deal was offered for the capture of Illich
Ramirez Sanchez, the Venezuelan assassin. But the documents show the deal
involved the French giving the Sudanese satellite photographs that led to the
bombing of refugee camps in southern Sudan, causing civilian casualties.

The documents say the scheme was negotiated by Philippe Rondot, an Arab expert
at DST, the French intelligence agency, and Brigadier al-Tayeb Ibrahim Kheir,
the Sudanese interior minister.

The deal is said to have involved:

Giving Sudan's military chiefs access to photographs from a Nato satellite that
is partly funded by Britain, pinpointing bases run by rebels.

Arranging for Sudanese intelligence officers to attend commando training at
secret camps in the south of France.

Helping to block the imminent expulsion of Sudan, which is heavily in debt, from
the International Monetary Fund.

Facilitating the purchase of Airbus planes through a French bank.

Supporting Sudan's human rights record, even though the country has a history of
abuses and is classified as a terrorist state by America.

The documents disclose that, contrary to official statements by the French
authorities, Carlos has agreed to co-operate with French investigators since he
has been in custody at the top-security La Sante prison in Paris.

The 44-year-old terrorist once boasted that he had been responsible for the
deaths of 83 people, including 15 in France. He is now said to have given a
detailed account of his involvement in the murder of the two French agents in
Paris in 1975. The documents also suggest that he has confessed to a bomb attack
on the offices of an Arab magazine in Paris that killed two people in 1982.

During the 1970s Carlos lived in London, where he was involved in the attempted
murder of Edward Sieff, then head of Marks & Spencer. A senior Scotland Yard
anti-terrorist officer said last week that the British authorities were waiting
for permission to interview Carlos. The negotiations to capture him began
shortly after he arrived in Khartoum last November.

Any suggestion of a deal has been denied by Charles Pasqua, the French interior
minister. Shortly after the arrest he said only ''twisted minds'' could imagine
a secret deal. But the intelligence documents suggest that an unofficial deal
may have been made between intelligence officials rather than at ministerial
level.

The arrest of Carlos was a triumph for Pasqua and Rondot. But it was also a coup
for the hardline Islamic Sudanese government, which needed the satellite
pictures to help fight rebels in the Christian Sudanese People's Liberation
Army. Security sources say the pictures were acquired earlier this year. Since
February the Sudanese air force has repeatedly bombed rebel positions and
refugee camps in the south of the country.

One attack near a hospital in the village of Aswa, which is surrounded by
refugee camps, led to the death of a 12-year-old girl. In a raid on the village
of Pageri, a woman was seriously injured.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Carlos The Jackal; Abu Nidal

                    Copyright 1994 Times Newspapers Limited

                              484 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Daily Mail (London)

                               September 26, 1994

Adams reigns on his bogus parade;
 (1) SINN FEIN CHIEF FINALLY TALKS OF PERMANENT SOLUTION, BUT AMERICA HEARS
NOTHING ABOUT THE VICTIMS OF TERRORIST BOMBS AND BULLETS (2) Kenned leads the
plaudits as U.S. falls for the 'man of peace'

BYLINE: George Gordon, Peter Rose, Paul Eastham

SECTION: Pg. 6, 7

LENGTH: 2987 words


A TRIUMPHANT Gerry Adams went barnstorming in the United States yesterday in the
guise of a man of destiny.

He proclaimed: 'I am not interested in a temporary suspension of hostilities. I
want to see a permanent peace.'

He also hinted that the time had come for him to visit Britain and speak
directly to the British people.

Adams is on an eight-city tour in which he will be hailed as a hero and credited
by supporters as the man who stopped the war in Ulster.

When he reaches New York on Wednesday, 51 councillors will sit outside City Hall
to hear Mayor Rudi Guiliani read a proclamation in his honour and watch him
being given the keys to the city. In New York, they named a street after IRA
killer Joe Dougherty, and Adams's supporters want something similar for him.

In Boston, the Sinn Fein leader was met with placards saying he had been
nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize. It was an extraordinary reception for the
man banned from the U.S. for so many years as a spokesman for terrorists.
Senator Edward Kennedy was one of the first to embrace Adams when he got off the
plane at Boston. Kennedy, struggling for re-election, needed Adams as much as
Adams needed him and they both made prime-time television.

In the small town of Glastonbury, Connecticut, a priest said Mass in a football
field and politicians and local dignitaries sat down in rows of hard-backed
chairs.

The atmosphere was unreal, almost like some victory celebration. There was no
mention of the bomb victims, the orphans, or the countless citizens limping
through the streets of Belfast with bullet holes in their knees.

Yet it was from small towns like Glastonbury that the funds for the bombs and
bullets flowed, and Adams was there to say 'Thank you' for the support.  They
hailed him as 'one of the greatest politicians of our time'.

Senator Christopher Dodd and numerous members of Congress introduced him from
the platform after Mass. They basked in the reflected glory, frequently pointing
out that they had all helped him get his visa to the U.S.

It was in an ABC TV interview that Adams said for the first time that he wanted
the peace to become 'permanent'.

He went on: 'I have spent my life searching for a permanent peace.

'I want to see the British troops permanently out of my country and I want to
see the prisoners permanently out of prison. I am not interested in temporary
suspensions of hostilities.'

He told his audience in Glastonbury that American opinion had forced the British
government to stop using actors to record his words. The time had come, he said,
to go a step further and allow him to speak to the people of Britain.

During his tour of New York in February, he cleverly used the broadcasting ban
as a smear against Britain's claims for freedom of speech.  Now, on his second
visit, he was using his travel ban as another argument against London.  He said:
'The British government should lift the exclusion order on me and other Sinn
Fein representatives if they are not afraid of peace, if they are not afraid of
debate, if they are not afraid of information.

'Other people in Ireland have taken risks in this. Mr Major needs to square up
to that also.'

Adams said Sinn Fein's electoral mandate had been recognised by President
Clinton and Irish Prime Minister Albert Reynolds. Therefore, he went on.  'Why
can't John Major, if only for the sake of the British people, grasp the nettle
and seize the opportunity for real peace talks in Ireland?'

Adams brushed aside suggestions that London could not be sure the terrorists had
thrown down their weapons for good.

He insisted: 'In my view, Mr Major knows absolutely the IRA's intentions . .  .
I am sure he must have a sense of history, that he could be the British Prime
Minister who, with everyone else, can actually bring about a lasting, permanent
peace in our country.'

Adams said he had been asked if he would now renounce the extremists of Noraid
and other organisations in favour of moderates. He replied: 'No, because these
are the people who kept the flame burning for 25 years.'

He said the ceasefire decision had been taken by the men and women of the IRA,
and that decision had removed any excuses for not talking. 'You are now the
guardians of the peace process.'

The moment should be seized and Britain should start by 'disinvolving' itself in
Irish affairs. 'I want to go back to an Ireland that is free of British troops
and free of conflict.'

Adams was returning to Boston last night. His tour will also take him to
Detroit, Cleveland and San Francisco. The organisers, Noraid, said the purpose
was to explain to Irish-Americans the details of the ceasefire and to rally
support for the political efforts of Sinn Fein.

Last night Downing Street, asked if Adams's words represented a significant move
forward, said: 'We haven't seen those words and neither has the Prime Minister.
Until he has, we will not be commenting.'

Comment: Page EIGHT

The minders with a history of IRA violence

By PETER ROSE

GERRY Adams portrays himself as a peacemaker but his entourage has a history of
terrorism.

The records of seven of his aides, some of whom have accompanied him to the
States, speak for themselves.

Bodyguard Terence 'Cleeky' Clarke was jailed for his part in one of the most
horrific IRA murder cases to come before the courts.

In 1988, the world watched on TV as Corporals Derek Wood and David Howes, of the
Royal Signals, were abducted to be beaten and then shot dead after straying into
the path of an IRA funeral in West Belfast.

Clarke, chief steward in charge of marshalling the procession, was seen jumping
on to Corporal Wood's back just before he was murdered.

Jailed for seven years for causing the soldier grievous bodily harm, he showed
no regret.

Mr Justice Murray told him: 'If you had taken the right course at the right time
you could have stopped the attack.'

Previously, Clarke was convicted of possessing a revolver and imprisoning four
officers during an attempted jailbreak from the Maze in 1974.

Two years before that he was led away to jail for contempt shouting: 'Up the mad
bombers'.

Two of Adams's closest aides, Richard McAuley and Aidan McAteer, were granted
visas to the U.S. despite a Whitehall warning about their backgrounds.  McAuley,
Sinn Fein's publicity director in Ulster, was given ten years in the Seventies
for a Belfast bomb explosion. The judge described him as 'very much an active
terrorist'.

McAteer, said to be Sinn Fein's top policymaker, got 12 years in 1975 for a
bomb-and-gun attack on the Army. He refused to recognise the court, which found
him guilty of possessing explosives, a pistol and ammunition, and of IRA
membership.

Just before Adams flew to Boston, he held a press conference organised with the
help of mother-of-three Rita O'Hare, his party's publicity director in the
republic.

Three times she has beaten attempts to extradite her to Ulster to stand trial
for the attempted murder of warrant officer Frazer Patton in Belfast in 1971.
Captured after being shot in the head, thigh and stomach during a gun battle,
she was given bail after treatment and fled to Dublin.

She has admitted taking part in the Patton shooting, but an Irish court ruled
the offence political and said she could not be extradited.

In 1975 she was jailed in Dublin for three years for smuggling explosives into
Portlaoise Prison.

Adams was accompanied to Dublin airport by another bodyguard, his driver Paul
'Chico' Hamilton.

In 1979 Hamilton was jailed for 12 years for the attempted murder of a British
major, wounding, and possessing a rifle and ammunition. He was also convicted of
being in the IRA.

Another bodyguard, James McCarthy, was found guilty in 1977 of possessing
weapons and ammunition.

Chauffeur Francis Gildernew, who drove Adams during his first trip to New York
last February, is also expected to be at the wheel this time.

He got 12 years in 1976 on explosives and IRA charges. He served eight in
Northern Ireland before moving to America. The FBI tried unsuccessfully to have
him thrown out.

Mates shock tactics raise ghost of JFK

By PAUL EASTHAM

MICHAEL MATES, in America to counter the Adams propaganda offensive, made a
searing attack on Edward Kennedy for greeting the Sinn Fein chief as a
'peacemaker'.

Mr Mates declared: 'I must say I am slightly surprised that he of all people,
who has lost two brothers to an assassin's bullet, should be welcoming somebody
with quite such open arms who has been supporting that sort of thing for years.'

Some Tory MPs were last night critical of Mr Mates's sharp tone, despite their
anger at scenes showing Adams and Kennedy being cheered by about 100 IRA and
Sinn Fein supporters at a joint news conference.

They felt Mr Mates should have been more diplomatic and sensitive to the fact
that the senator is in the midst of a tough re-election fight in America's Irish
dominated North-East.

While Adams was being feted by coast-to-coast TV, the visit of the former
Northern Ireland Minister appeared a disappointment.

Mr Mates received only a handful of requests to appear on TV and radio.

But Mr Major appears to have scored a victory with President Clinton, who has
ruled out meeting Adams during his current trip.

The U.S. Ambassador to London, Admiral William J Crowe Jnr, indicated on BBC 1's
Breakfast with Frost that the President did not believe the Sinn Fein leader
deserved equality with other Irish politicians until it was clear that the IRA's
ceasefire was permanent.

Nationalist SDLP leader John Hume and Ulster Unionist MPs were invited to the
White House this week, although only Mr Hume met Mr Clinton.

Asked whether Mr Clinton's senior staff would meet Adams at the White House, the
Admiral said: 'I am not sure that is the plan at all.

'The appropriate level hasn't been decided yet. I am not so sure he will get to
the White House.'

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC:  (1) Clinton: 'Gave backing' (2) Buddies in arms: Adams (above left)
and Kennedy head for a news conference in Boston. Left, both men smilingly
answer reporters' questions (3) Mates: Searing

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              485 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                          September 29, 1994, Thursday

Adams and Mates clash in Ulster television debate

BYLINE: By Nicholas Watt, Ireland Correspondent

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 334 words


GERRY Adams, the Sinn Fein president, clashed with Michael Mates, a former
Northern Ireland minister, in a television debate on the future of Northern
Ireland last night.

In the first meeting between Mr Adams and a leading member of the Tory party
since the IRA ceasefire, the two angrily interrupted each other.

The debate for BBC2's Newsnight was filmed in New York during Mr Adams's
two-week tour of America. Mr Adams, who is banned from mainland Britain,
welcomed the chance for a discussion with Mr Mates but said that they should be
able to talk in London. The MP indicated that the Government would consider
lifting the exclusion order on him.

Mr Mates told Mr Adams that the British public was sceptical about the IRA
ceasefire because of the terrorists' 25-year campaign. Mr Adams replied: ''You
are a person who has served in the uniform of the British Army in my country and
you are a person who defended the killing of Irish citizens.''

At the end Mr Mates said: ''This is what democratic debate is about, it is about
disagreeing. Mr Adams isn't used to it. I hope he will become used to it. I hope
he will understand that other people have a different point of view which must
be settled by argument, by the wishes of the majority, and never by the use of
force.''

Before the television broadcast began, the two had shaken hands and Mr Adams
said: ''That wasn't so painful, was it?''

Meanwhile, Martin McGuinness, a senior Sinn Fein member, said yesterday he would
never describe the IRA ceasefire as permanent. He also said in an interview in
the Belfast Telegraph that he would be laughed out of the room if he called on
the IRA to hand over its weapons.

Douglas Hurd, the Foreign Secretary, told the United Nations in New York
yesterday that Britain was not yet satisfied that the IRA ceasefire was
permanent, but that ''we are on a good road''. He again called on Mr Adams to
use his American tour to make absolutely clear that IRA violence had ended for
good.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1994 Times Newspapers Limited

                              486 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                           October 1, 1994, Saturday

OUT OF THE SHADOWS TO HONOUR CHINOOK DISASTER VICTIMS

BYLINE:  Roger Williams and Tim Moynihan, PA News

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 796 words


Britain's intelligence community emerged from the shadows today for the biggest
gathering in its history, in memory of colleagues who died in the Chinook
helicopter crash three months ago.  All 25 passengers killed on the Mull of
Kintyre in western Scotland - the RAF crew of four also died - were senior
counter-terrorism experts on their way from Belfast to a security conference at
an Army base near Inverness.  Today's memorial service in Canterbury Cathedral,
conducted by the Archbishop of Canterbury Dr George Carey, was regarded as
unique.  Dr Carey told the congregation that the intelligence experts who died
in the disaster played a large part in the moves towards peace in Northern
Ireland.  "I believe that it is in no small measure due to the work of those
whom we honour in this service that progress has been made towards peace," Dr
George Carey said.  He said the high level of security at the service "reminds
those of us who do not live under the constant threat of a terrorist attack just
what it is some of you have to face day after day".  The service was organised
by the Army Intelligence Corps in memory of five members, one of them recently
retired, who died.  Officially the event was not linked with any of the other
victims, but many of their families and associates were among the 700 attending.
The dead included six MI5 agents, including the only woman on board, ten RUC
Special Branch figures and nine army officers. The service was arranged at a
time when the security services are slowly emerging from generations of total
secrecy during which much of their work went officially unacknowledged.  But
habits - and continuing concerns - of a lifetime meant that many of the
colleagues and families chose to enter the great medieval building through its
many side entrances, avoiding crowds outside the main gateway from the centre of
the city.

There the ancient wooden gates to the Cathedral Close were firmly locked,
causing bewilderment among thousands of visitors who arrived during the day
expecting to see one of Britain's top tourist attractions.  High security, which
had closed the precinct for more than 20 hours before the service, extended to a
ban on any notice explaining the reason for the closure - or even the fact that
the Cathedral was shut.  The occupants of a police car, parked in the crowded
approach to the gates, watched as tourists rattled it and walked away.  Other
visitors, in dark suits, discreetly rang a bell and showed passes before being
admitted through a small gate.  Leading those showing their new, more public
face was MI5 chief Mrs Stella Rimington, first holder of that post to have the
appointment announced by the Government.  She walked past a small media
gathering allowed to witness the arrivals, from the Archbishop's Old Palace to
the Cathedral's Great West Door.  Dressed in navy blue coat and hat, with bright
multi-coloured silk scarf, she smiled as she was welcomed to the Cathedral by
the Dean, the Very Rev Dr John Simpson.  Moments later Northern Ireland
Secretary Sir Patrick Mayhew followed her inside.  Others named as attending the
service included the Chief Constable of the Royal Ulster Constabulary, Sir Hugh
Annesley.  Eleven members of the bereaved families - including the father and
sister of the Chinook pilot - were said to be arriving by another door, to
maintain their privacy.  Hundreds of other members of the congregation, many in
uniform, arrived by the main South West Door in view of the media party.  The
Duke of Edinburgh, Colonel in Chief of the Intelligence Corps, was represented
by General Sir Charles Guthrie, chief of the General Staff and Colonel
Commandant of the Corps.  The Duke of York, a personal friend of one of the five
from the Corps, Major Roy Pugh, was represented by Rear Admiral John Lang.
During the service five candles were lit, in memory of those who died, by Lance
Corporal Andrew Cheshire of the Intelligence Corps.  One flame was lit as each
of the five names were read out by Second Lieutenant Nick Tuppen, the most
recently commissioned officer in the Corps.  The first lesson was read by
General Guthrie and the second by Captain Karen Miller, staff officer to one of
those killed.  The Dean, officiating at the service, was assisted by Chaplain
General to the Forces, the Rev James Harkness of the Church of Scotland, and the
Roman Catholic parish priest of Canterbury, the Rev Father Michael Bunce, also
took part.  The band of the Scots Guards provided the music, with the Cathedral
choir and organist.  The five Intelligence Corps dead have been named as
Lieutenant Colonel Richard Gregory-Smith, Lieutenant Colonel George Williams,
Lieutenant Colonel John Tobias, Major Roy Pugh and Major (retired) John Haynes.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ADVANCED-DATE:  September 6, 1994, Tuesday

                  Copyright 1994 The Press Association Limited

                              487 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            October 4, 1994, Tuesday

Leading Article: Time to bring home the debate

SECTION: COMMENT PAGE; Page 15

LENGTH: 424 words


BRITONS tuning in to radio or television tomorrow morning can expect to hear
news of a fiery debate between Gerry Adams and Ken Maginnis, the Ulster Unionist
MP. Last week saw a similar clash when the Sinn Fein leader locked horns with
Michael Mates, a former Northern Ireland minister.

These debates are welcome developments. At last, the testing rituals of
democratic politics include even Mr Adams. Instead of relying on IRA violence to
advance his cause, he now must justify himself in the mass media against able

adversaries.

Yet there is something farcical about these events. After a long conflict that
has claimed more than 3,000 lives, one might have expected the IRA's chief
apologist to face vigorous public cross- examination in London and Belfast.
Instead, the United States is playing host to the debates. British audiences
have the bizarre experience of watching the politics of this country unravel on
another continent.

The continuing ban on Mr Adams from entering Britain is partly to blame. So is
the apparent reluctance of the British media and politicians to tackle Mr Adams
in Belfast, since he cannot come to London. But a more deep-seated problem lies
behind the lack of a public debate here: indifference.

Most people in Britain are, and perhaps always have been, strangely unconcerned
about John Bull's other island. They may feel bemused, angry, even a little
guilty about Northern Ireland, but any sense of involvement is passing and often
superficial.

Even at the height of the IRA's mainland bombing campaign, there was never a
serious debate in Britain about the province's future.

In an era when old disputes have suddenly been settled, a solution to problems
of Northern Ireland has been slow to materialise. Eastern Europe, the Middle
East and South Africa have all seen dramatic progress, but Ulster has come late
to the top of the political agenda.

Yet, since the IRA ceasefire at the end of August, politicians, the media and
public alike have remained reluctant to seize the moment and have a completely
new kind of discussion.

The debate is dragging its feet here in Britain, while in the United States and
Republic of Ireland, it is alive and fervent. British indifference to Northern
Ireland allowed injustice to fester unchallenged for generations, and so provide
a recruiting ground for the IRA.

The danger now is that paralysis here will hold up the peace. Britain should
play its proper role, and not simply look on as Washington and Dublin take the
lead.


LOAD-DATE: October 04, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1994 Independent Print Ltd

                              488 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 13, 1994

LOYALISTS ORDER A CEASEFIRE;
End to 25 years of Ulster terror

BYLINE: David Sharrock In Belfast And Patrick Wintour

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 758 words


LOYALIST paramilitaries will announce a ceasefire today to match the IRA's
announcement six weeks ago, heralding the first period in more than 25 years
that Northern Ireland will be free from the threat of politically inspired
violence.

The announcement, expected to be effective from midnight, will come from the
Combined Loyalist Military Command, an umbrella group for loyalist
paramilitaries, at a press conference this morning.

The move has been timed to have maximum impact. Later today the Conservative
Party conference will debate Northern Ireland, and the promise of an end to
loyalist violence would play well for John Major during his address tomorrow.

In a brief statement last night the Progressive Unionist Party - which is
believed to be close to the Ulster Volunteer Force - and the Ulster Democratic
Party - which has links to the Ulster Defence Association - called an
"unprecedented" press conference today. It is understood that the purpose is to
deliver the loyalist paramilitaries' response to the IRA ceasefire.

The CLMC is expected to announce that a loyalist ceasefire will hold permanently
providing IRA violence does not resume.  This, loyalists argue, will make it
more difficult for dissident republican elements to resume activities since they
would shoulder the blame for a collapse in the peace process.  The UVF and UDA
may also demand to be represented in future political talks.

Last night, Sir Patrick Mayhew, the Northern Ireland Secretary, said a loyalist
ceasefire was welcome and long overdue, adding that it must be unconditional.
"We would look at it in precisely the same way as we look at the republican
ceasefire announcement."

The Ulster Unionist MP David Trimble said he was delighted that a loyalist
ceasefire was imminent, and hoped the Irish National Liberation Army would also
lay down its arms. "But this means a step has been taken to a complete and
permanent cessation of violence in Northern Ireland."

The prospects of a ceasefire are said to have dramatically improved since the
Northern Ireland Office took the highly unusual step of arranging for two
delegations of influential loyalists to visit paramilitary prisoners in the Maze
prison on Monday.

After a meeting with the officers commanding of the UVF and UDA prisoners it is
understood that a ceasefire received majority backing.

A protestant minister who has been involved in peace negotiations with loyalist
paramilitaries said last night that he expected a positive response within the
next 24 hours. Rev Roy Magee said the Maze meetings played a crucial role.

"The loyalist paramilitary leadership needed to get into the Maze in order to
inform their prisoners, both the sentenced and remand prisoners, as to how they
thought the process was going. That assisted greatly," he said. The Ulster
Unionist leader James Molyneaux offered yesterday to meet loyalist paramilitary
leaders if they needed reassurances about Northern Ireland's constitutional
position.

Mr Molyneaux told the Belfast Telegraph he believed the Government would enter
talks with Sinn Fein before Christmas, but the negotiations would not touch
constitutional matters.

Loyalists have killed more people in Northern Ireland than the IRA in the last
three years and have been urged by politicians and church leaders from all sides
to call a halt to the violence in the absence of IRA activity. In the 25 years
of the Troubles loyalists have been responsible for some 950 deaths, nearly a
third of all the fatalities.

The expected announcement contrasts with the CLMC's most recent statement in
which it laid out its conditions for calling a ceasefire. These included
assurances that the republican splinter group, the Irish National Liberation
Army, would also call a ceasefire and details of the framework document
currently being drafted by the British and Irish Governments on the political
future of Northern Ireland.

But in the six weeks since the IRA called a halt to its campaign of force to
drive Britain from Ireland it is understood that the confidence of loyalist
leaders has grown and that they are now receptive to assurances that no secret
deals have been struck.

The Northern Ireland Secretary, Sir Patrick Mayhew, will come under pressure at
Bournemouth to act as a persuader for retention of Northern Ireland within the
United Kingdom in the face of suggestios that the Government is neutral on the
future of Northern Ireland.

Loyalists see violence to have paid off, page 4

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              489 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            October 14, 1994, Friday

How long before the bullets fly?

BYLINE: CONOR CRUISE O'BRIEN

SECTION: COMMENT PAGE; Page 19

LENGTH: 1079 words


THE ''halt to hostilities'' announced yesterday by the loyalist paramilitaries
deserves to be welcomed to exactly the same extent as the ceasefire announced by
the IRA on 31 August. Both afford relief to the people of Northern Ireland, for
a period of unknown duration. In both cases, the welcome has to be guarded, and
there is no reason for any relaxation of security vigilance, or for rewarding
either sets of murder-gangs with political concessions.

Both sets of private armies remain in being, in possession of formidable
arsenals, and committed to incompatible political objectives. Neither has
conceded anything more than a temporary and conditional ceasefire.

In fact there is nothing that can properly be called a ''cessation of violence''
- even a temporary one. Both sets of paramilitaries have for years maintained
regimes of mainly sub-lethal terror over the communities within which they are
based. The IRA not only continued this form of terrorism after its ceasefire,
but intensified it. Punishment has been inflicted through severe beatings with
hurley sticks and baseball bats, or breaking people's arms and legs with iron
bars.

These routine forms of terror attract little notice outside the province. Even
inside Northern Ireland, they seem to be regarded as normal by the authorities.
Families Against Intimidation and Terror, the brave Belfast-based organisation
that monitors these activities, has shown that there were more IRA
punishment-beatings during September than in the eight months of this year up to
the ceasefire.

In IRA terms, this increase is logical. Within the communities that it dominates
- as distinct from the world at which it aims its propaganda - the message the
IRA wants to convey is that it has not gone away, and has no intention of going
away. This message is best conveyed during the ''cessation of military
operations'' by the use of hurley-sticks, baseball bats and iron bars. And
petrol bombs.

The loyalist paramilitaries have been enforcing a similar reign of terror in
Protestant areas. Up to now their ''punishment squads'' have been using
firearms, as the IRA squads used to. The loyalist paramilitaries tend to imitate
the tactics of the IRA so they toomay discontinue the use of firearms for
''punishments''. The punishments themselves are unlikely to be discontinued, on
either side.

The IRA and the loyalist paramilitaries have tactical similarities, but their
objectives are radically different. The IRA remains a revolutionary
organisation: loyalists are counter-revolutionary. The IRA's avowed objective
remains the break-up of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland: the objective of loyalist paramilitaries is to avert the attainment of
the IRA's objective.

Were the IRA to go out of business, the loyalist paramilitaries would also do
so. Nationalists have suggested that this is not so. One of the dogmas of the
pan-nationalist consensus (consisting of Fianna Fail, Irish Labour, the SDLP,
Sinn Fein and Cardinal Daly) is that loyalist violence is ''always proactive,
never reactive''. This dogma runs counter to common sense.

Nationalist ideology prefers to think of loyalist killings as having no
political content, being exclusively sectarian in motivation, so that they can
be seen as totally separate from the IRA's campaign and never as responsive to
it. In reality, both sets of murders are both sectarian and political in origin,
and are responsive to one another.

Unfortunately, the IRA is not about to go out of business, though Mr Major
appears to be vaguely under the impression that it is. He seems to regard the
IRA as more or less analogous - in respect of political violence - to a bunch of
reformed drunks, now recuperating under the care of Alcoholics Anonymous; it may
soon be sufficiently recovered from its old bad habits to be able to talk with
him about how to surrender its weaponry, including three tons of Semtex, to the
RUC.

The IRA is not a bit like that. It will not discuss handing over even a part of
its estimated 100 tons of weaponry as long as British troops remain in Northern
Ireland. In fact, the IRA has no intention of disarming at all since its weapons
will still be needed to fight Protestants after the British withdraw (assuming
this happens). The loyalist paramilitaries are, of course, acutely aware of
this, and have no intention of disarming either. What we have at the moment
therefore is a truce and no more.

The Sinn Fein leadership does not seriously pretend otherwise. Gerry Adams, in
America, said the armed struggle might resume in two or three years. Martin
McGuinness, vice-president of Sinn Fein, said, about the same time, that ''the
IRA would laugh me out of the room'' if he were to propose that they should hand
over their arms. Last week, Mitchell McLaughlin, the northern chairman of Sinn
Fein, stated the position of Sinn Fein-IRA with great precision, though in the
coded political jargon of his movement. He said: ''If the current political
condition persisted, and there was no democratic, political alternative, the
Irish people would have the right to continue the conflict. The crucial question
at the moment was whether the British would disengage from Northern Ireland.''

The IRA will not proceed directly from the present cessation of military
operations to a straightforward resumption. There will be a grey interim period,
to be filled by the development of what Danny Morrison calls ''the unarmed
strategy'': that is, a determined attempt to destabilise Northern Ireland
through a series of street protests and civil disobedience activities, conducted
at a level of violence approximating to that of the punishment squads. This will
lead, in Belfast, to clashes between Catholic and Protestant mobs, and these in
turn to the breakdown of both the ceasefires. The IRA will put the blame for its
own resumption on Britain's failure to play its part in the peace process by
disengaging from Northern Ireland.

The two ceasefires now in force rest on opposing and incompatible assumptions.
The loyalist ceasefire is based on the assumption that ''the Union is safe''.
The IRA ceasefire is based on the assumption that the same Union is about to be
dissolved. Any political move that strengthens the loyalist ceasefire endangers
the IRA ceasefire, and vice versa. The maintenance of the double ceasefire, over
a prolonged period, therefore seems unlikely.


LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1994 Independent Print Ltd

                              490 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                October 18, 1994

Military to be scaled down further in Northern Ireland

BYLINE: Stephen Mcgregor, Parliamentary Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 816 words


DEFENCE Secretary Malcolm Rifkind gave a strong indication yesterday that the
role of the military in Northern Ireland could be further scaled down if the
Government was convinced terrorism was at an end.

He told a Commons debate on the 1994 defence estimates that, for example,
soldiers had been patrolling for some weeks in regimental headdress instead of
combat helmets, and that a number of closed border crossing points had been
reopened.

Mr Rifkind added: "These measures have been very much welcomed by many ordinary
members of the public in Northern Ireland. In the coming months, provided the
terrorist threat permits, the General Officer Commanding, in consultation with
the Chief Constable, intends to implement further measures to reduce the impact
of the Armed Forces' operations on the ordinary people of Northern Ireland."

Details were sketchy but officials pointed to the possibility that soldiers on
active service in Northern Ireland might find themselves spending more time in
barracks and less time on the streets and that they may carry less in the way of
heavy weaponry.

The Defence Secretary told the House that there now had been no terrorist
attacks by the Provisional IRA for more than six weeks and that the Government
also was very encouraged by the announcement last week of a ceasefire by the
Loyalist paramilitaries.

He added: "We very much hope that all these groups intend a permanent end to
violence, and we are assessing whether we can yet make a working assumption that
this is so. In any case we cannot -- dare not -- assume that now or in the near
future there will suddenly no longer be a need for military support to the Royal
Ulster Constabulary.

"It is a matter for the Chief Constable and the GOC Northern Ireland to judge
how their forces should be deployed in the present circumstances but the
Government must ensure they have the necessary resources available to ensure the
security of the people of Northern Ireland."

"I very much hope that, in time, the security situation will permit us to reduce
force levels, but it would be irresponsible to do so prematurely."

The debate took place against the background of a continuing row over the future
of the Rosyth naval base. Mr Rifkind said he was "very conscious" of the
difficulties the Government's decision on the Rosyth naval base would cause in
terms of jobs and support services, but his attitude was denounced by the
opposition parties.

Ms Rachel Squire, Labour MP for Dunfermline West, argued that the strategic and
operational advantages of using the east coast naval base at Rosyth had been
ignored, with implications for oil, gas, fisheries protection, and "the
unpredictability of the world climate we now live in".

She said it was believed that the cuts being proposed at Rosyth and elsewhere
could weaken Britain's "extended readiness", and attacked the costings and
consultation on which the Government's decisions had been reached.

Ms Squire said promises had been broken by Ministers and she strongly attacked
the way the workforce had been treated.

Dr David Clark, Labour's Shadow Defence Secretary, attacked Ministers' treatment
of defence workers throughout the country, stating that while most nations
recognised the need for a defence industrial base, this Government did not.

Renewing his call for the establishment of a defence diversification industry,
he said: "The Tories are content to let our defence industry disappear as if it
had no relevance to Britain."

To coincide with the debate, Rosyth workers and shop stewards lobbied MPs at
Parliament, including the SNP's parliamentary leader Mrs Margaret Ewing. She
said later: "I am delighted to reiterate the SNP's wholehearted support for the
Rosyth workers in their struggle to retain Rosyth as a fully-operational naval
base. The SNP is in no doubt as to the strategic importance of Rosyth to
Scotland's defences and the economy."

For the Liberal Democrats, defence spokesman Menzies Campbell called for the
proposals for the future of Rosyth to be reassessed, taking into account both
strategic and operational considerations.

He also criticised the long-term consequences of the Government's policies on
defence-based communities, stating: "There is a feeling that the Government has
no strategy for managing that change and is content simply to leave that to the
market."

Commons Defence Select Committee chairman Tory Sir Nicholas Bonsor (Upminster)
welcomed the fact that the forces were "no longer on the down-slope of cuts" and
said a period of stability was "the most we can ask of the Government at this
time, given the financial limitations.

"However, the defence committee has concluded -- and I believe it to be correct
-- that we have not got the level of defences for this nation which in the long
term they are likely to require."

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              491 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           October 20, 1994, Thursday

Rabin rages against fanatical terrorism

BYLINE: RICHARD DOWDEN, Diplomatic Editor

SECTION: INTERNATIONAL NEWS PAGE; Page 14

LENGTH: 488 words


FROM the moment that he joined some 30 journalists for breakfast at the Hyde
Park Hotel in London yesterday there was only one topic on his mind.

Yitzhak Rabin, the Israeli Prime Minister, relegated the peace process to a
couple of passing comments and raged against what he described as ''this ugly
way of fanatical Islamic terrorism''. He said: ''Terror is part of the way of
life in the Middle East, and it is done in spite of efforts of Arab countries to
reduce it. Ninety per cent of terrorist activities against Israel are by Hamas
and Islamic Jihad.''

He described yesterday's bomb attack in Tel Aviv as part of a world-wide
campaign that that used suicide bombers motivated by religious fanaticism: such
fundamentalism had taken over Sudan, and was threatening Algeria and Egypt.

Referring to the political difficulties he now must face in pursuing the peace
process, Mr Rabin said security was the overriding concern of almost every
Israeli and the biggest ''justifiable'' obstacle to a final peace deal. ''When
these incidents happen, there's a lot of accusations against me, and there's no
doubt it shifts the whole public against me and against the implementation of
the peace accord.''

Although he did not suggest that any recent attack was linked to the PLO, Mr
Rabin said Yasser Arafat was now responsible for preventing such incidents. But
he laid the blame for last week's bungled mission to rescue the kidnapped
Israeli soldier on Palestinian intelligence reports, and scorned the PLO's lack
of administrative capability and accountability. ''The problem is that it has
never had real responsibility for the lives of people. It has never been in a
position to be responsible to feed them, to house them, to take care of
education. Gaza and Jericho is their first taste of such responsibility.''

And in almost gratuitous reference to the difficulty of dealing with Israel's
Arab neighbours, he said: ''If we waited for democracy to prevail in Arab
countries as it prevails in Western democracies, we will have to wait more than
150 years . . .''

Mr Rabin's breakfast remained untouched. He was told of the bomb attack minutes
before the breakfast and left London later in the morning, cutting short his
visit to Britain after a brief meeting with Tony Blair, the Labour leader.

Because of the unexpected departure, the British Defence Secretary, Malcolm
Rifkind, who was due to meet Mr Rabin in London, will today fly to Tel Aviv to
begin discussions on Anglo-Israeli defence co-operation, including the
possibility of the RAF buying an Israeli air-launched cruise missile.

Mr Rifkind said yesterday that ''progress in the Middle East and the new
situation in Gaza have resulted in Israeli proposals to sell arms to the UK on
the same basis as anyone else''. A British embargo on arms sales to Israel, in
place since Israel's invasion of Lebanon in 1982, was lifted recently.


LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1994 Independent Print Ltd

                              492 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                October 21, 1994

IRA men guilty of conspiring to plant bombs in London

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 640 words


TWO IRA terrorists -- the first to be tried at the Old Bailey since the
ceasefire was announced -- yesterday were convicted of plotting a bombing
campaign.

Gerard Mackin and Derek Doherty showed no emotion as the jury of seven men and
five women found them guilty after ten-and-a-half hours of deliberation.

The jury have still to reach a verdict on a third Irishman -- Thomas McAuley --
accused of taking part in the London bombing plot.

Mackin, 33, and Doherty, 23, both of no fixed address, and Mr McAuley, 37, a
plasterer, of Lido Square, Lordship Lane, Tottenham, London, all denied
conspiring to cause explosions between January and October last year.

Twelve bombs were planted in north London over seven days last October. No-one
was seriously hurt but there was widespread damage, according to Mr Nigel
Sweeney, prosecuting. The men behind the bombing campaign intended that more
bombs should go off later, Mr Sweeney alleged.

The court has heard that, after the three were arrested, police discovered high
explosives and bomb-making equipment in a flat they were using and, hidden
behind the bath panel in Mr McAuley's Lido Square flat, found 10 Provisional IRA
bomb devices, 10 detonators, five kilos of Semtex, and 16 incendiary devices.

Both Mr McAuley and Mackin had known each other in the Ardoyne area of Belfast,
where they had lived before going to London in 1985, according to the
prosecution.

Mr McAuley has stated that he had no idea there was bomb-making equipment under
the bath. He had no connection with terrorism, he told the jury.

"I honestly did not know it was there. I was surprised when the police told me,"
Mr McAuley told the jury in evidence. He said he had never been involved in
terrorism.

His counsel, Mr Ronald Thwaites, QC, accused Mr Justice Alliott of bullying and
badgering Mr McAuley. Mr Thwaites said the judge had sent signals to the jury
that he did not like Mr McAuley or believe a word of his case.

Mackin and Doherty are not expected to be sentenced until the jury returns its
verdict on Mr McAuley.

The first four bombs in the campaign were planted in Finchley on October 1, and
three exploded. Passers-by were hit by flying glass but no-one was seriously
hurt. On October 4, six more bombs were planted in three pairs.

The first pair exploded in Tottenham Lane, Hornsey, damaging premises. No-one
was hurt but a man on his way to work "had a particularly fortunate escape",
said Mr Sweeney.

The second pair, in Archway Road, caused considerable damage but again hurt no
-one.

Only one of the third pair in Highgate High Street went off. A man walking along
the street saw a dog running off with a bag. He examined it, thought it was a
home-made doorbell, and put it down again. As he walked away, there was an
explosion.

The final two bombs went off on October 8, one near Staples Corner and one in
West End Lane, West Hampstead, both causing much damage.

Mackin had been a target for MI5 surveillance for some time.

The head of the MI5 section responsible for investigating and countering IRA
terrorism in Britain -- "Mr Z" -- confirmed that Mackin was being watched by MI5
in April last year on the day of the Bishopsgate bomb, which killed one man and
injured 44.

Ironically, Mackin was legitimately working round the corner from Bishopsgate
that day. As a result of the enormous amount of damage in the area, he was
called back to help repair water mains. There was no suggestion he had anything
to do with that blast.

Six months later -- on October 8 -- he was still under surveillance but his
shadowers lost him for a while on the night of the October 8 blasts.

The jury were sent to a hotel for a second night.

They return today to continue their deliberations on the case of Mr McAuley.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              493 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                October 22, 1994

IRA men jailed for 25 years for bombings

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 455 words


THE first two IRA terrorists to be tried at the Old Bailey since the September 1
ceasefire were jailed for 25 years each yesterday for plotting a bombing
campaign.

Mr Justice Alliott told Gerard Mackin and Derek Doherty: "It is no thanks to you
that members of the public were not killed or maimed."

On Thursday the jury of seven men and five women had convicted both men of
taking part in the bombs plot.

However, after a second night at a hotel, jurors could not agree a verdict on a
third Irishman, Mr Thomas McAuley, who was also accused. He will now face a
retrial.

Mackin, 33, and Doherty, 23, both of no fixed address, and Mr McAuley, 37, a
plasterer, of Lido Square, Lordship Lane, Tottenham, north London, all denied
conspiring to cause explosions between January and October last year.

Twelve bombs were planted in north London over seven days last October.

No-one was seriously injured but there was widespread damage and at least two
people had lucky escapes, according to Mr Nigel Sweeney, prosecuting.

The men behind the campaign intended more bombs would go off later, Mr Sweeney
alleged.

After their arrests, police discovered high explosives and bomb-making equipment
in a flat Mackin and Doherty were using, the court heard.

Hidden behind a bath panel, police found ten IRA bomb devices, ten detonators,
five kilos of Semtex, and 16 incendiary devices.

Mackin had been a target for MI5 surveillance for some time.

The head of the section responsible for investigating and countering IRA
terrorism in Britain -- "Mr Z" -- confirmed that Mackin was being watched by MI5
on the day of the Bishopsgate bomb in April last year in which one man was
killed and 44 injured.

Ironically, Mackin was legitimately working round the corner from Bishopsgate
that day.

As a result of the massive damage in the area, he was called back to help repair
water mains.

Although he was arrested by police at the time, he was later released. There was
no suggestion he had anything to do with the Bishopsgate blast.

Mr McAuley denied knowing anything of the bombs or bomb-making equipment and
said he had never been involved in terrorism. His counsel, Mr Ronald Thwaites,
QC, accused the judge of bullying and badgering Mr McAuley during his evidence.

Mr Justice Alliott had sent signals to the jury that he did not like Mr McAuley
or believe a word of his case, claimed Mr Thwaites.

The capture and conviction of Mackin and Doherty has been heralded as an example
of the "close and friendly" relationship which had developed between security
services since MI5 took over intelligence-gathering responsibilities about IRA
activities on the mainland in 1992.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              494 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           November 1, 1994, Tuesday

NatWest tower and Cruft's 'among IRA bomb targets'

BYLINE: IAN MACKINNON

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 4

LENGTH: 373 words


An alleged IRA quartermaster arrested in possession of enough Semtex explosive
and detonators for 17 bombs was also found to be carrying an extensive list of
political, military and economic targets in Britain, an Old Bailey jury was told
yesterday.

One of the targets written on cigarette papers found on Feilim O'Hadhmaill, 35,
was a concert by the Royal Marines Band which lost 11 members in an IRA bomb
attack at Deal, Kent, in 1989, the court heard.

The Solicitor General, Sir Derek Spencer, told the court that the hit-list
showed the terrorists intended to maintain their onslaught on the City of London
with possible attacks on the Stock Exchange, the NatWest tower and Lloyd's.

O'Hadhmaill, 35, a sociology lecturer accused of spearheading the operation,
also had details of the national insurance headquarters in Newcastle upon Tyne,
the DVLC driving licence centre at Swansea, the VAT office at Southend and the
Post Office Tower.

Sir Derek said the Birmingham-born father of two had, only weeks before his
arrest in February, moved from Belfast to work at the University of Central
Lancashire, Preston, as a cover. He had travelled to the south of England and
picked up a car which, according to the prosecution, the IRA had packed with
17kg of explosive and shipped from Northern Ireland.

But officers from MI5 and the anti-terrorist squad tracked O'Hadhmaill when he
drove the car to a wood near his home in Accrington, Lancashire, and seized him
as he was about to unload the explosives, detonators and a pistol.

Lists of targets which also included details of Cruft's Dog Show at Birmingham,
the Badminton Horse Trials and a horse show at Windsor, were written on the
cigarette papers found on O'Hadhmaill, Sir Derek said.

Times of Cabinet meetings and Prime Minister's Question Time were also given.
Other potential targets included gas and oil installations at Teesside, Hull,
Bacton in Norfolk, and east London, and the Humber Bridge. There was information
on RAF bases and a reservoir at Kielder in Northumberland.

O'Hadhmaill is accused of plotting an explosion between 1 January last year and
22 February this year. A plea of not guilty has been entered. The trial
continues today.


LOAD-DATE: November 01, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1994 Independent Print Ltd

                              495 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                November 8, 1994

MUSLIM TERRORISTS 'RECRUITED AT UK UNIVERSITIES'

BYLINE: Angella Johnson

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 567 words


ISLAMIC fundamentalist groups are turning increasingly to British universities
for recruits to train for kidnapping and other terrorist acts around the world,
the Indian High Commissioner said yesterday.

L. M. Singhvi claimed that Ahmed Sheikh, the London School of Economics student
accused over the kidnapping of three Britons and an American in India, was only
one of many young idealists wooed on campuses across the country.

London colleges like LSE and the School of Oriental and African Studies were
identified as breeding grounds for candidates.  "We now have concrete
information to prove that a large number of young people are being recruited
from here by different organisations," Dr Singhvi told a press conference.

Ahmed Sheikh's training had been funded by the Pakistani government which also,
he alleged, supplied cash and false documents to terrorist groups operating
inside India. They were involved "as deep as could be", he said.

He pointed out that terrorist groups like Harkat-Ul-Ansar, a fundamentalist
organisation, had its headquarters in Lahore.  "The conclusion is inescapable
that this terrorist group functions under tutelage and in clear consultation
with intelligence organisations in Pakistan."

Pakistan's High Commissioner in London, Wajid ul-Hasan, dismissed the claim that
his government funded the training Mr Sheikh allegedly received. "I strongly
deny Pakistan has anything to do with Mr Sheikh. He is a British national."

The LSE also denied being used as a recruiting ground. Iain Crawford, a
spokesman, said there was no evidence that terrorists had a foothold there. He
said other London universities had banned certain Islamic groups from operating
on their grounds.

Mr Sheikh, aged 20, who is of Pakistani origin, had developed contacts with the
fundamentalist group Convoy of Mercy, based in Finchley, north London. The group
aims to bring atrocities in Kashmir to public notice.

According to Mr Singhvi, Mr Sheikh was taken to Bosnia this year, where he met a
member of Harkat-Ul-Ansar and went with him to Pakistan for further
indoctrination. On July 26 he flew to Kosth, in Afghanistan, with another member
of the group, for training in terrorist acts.

He was sent later to Delhi with instructions to kidnap westerners - in
particular US, French and British nationals. Mr Sheikh, an economics
undergraduate from Wanstead, east London, was shot in the shoulder by Indian
police during an operation last week to free three hostages.

Dr Singhvi said: "This was a young man who has been exploited in this manner, he
has been manipulated and was given the mission of kidnapping.

"He was given the training and skill to engage in shootouts and was given the
ultimate mandate of carrying out the beheading of people if necessary.

"His LSE background must have helped him persuade people to go for a ride, to
visit a village. He is giving names of organisations and individuals and the
literature they used."

Dr Singhvi said he planned to ask Britain for tougher measures to monitor and
stamp out the activities of terrorist organisations recruiting under the Islamic
banner.

Mr Sheikh's brother, Awais, later accused the Indian authorities of torturing
his brother. "There's still no independent evidence that he was involved in this
kidnapping apart from the alleged confessions falsely extracted."

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              496 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                           November 8, 1994, Tuesday

IRA MAN USED PEACE OVERTURES TO ESCAPE BOMB PLOT CHARGE

BYLINE:  Pat Clarke, PA News

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 821 words


The English born commander of IRA operations on mainland Britain used the Irish
peace initiative to try to escape a charge of plotting a major bombing campaign
when he appeared at the Old Bailey.  College lecturer Dr Feilim O'Hadhmaill was
set to spearhead terror attacks on strategic targets in Britain early this year,
but was caught red-handed unpacking enough high explosive for 17 bombs.  Inside
his wallet, wrapped in clingfilm, were 15 cigarette papers containing hit lists
of potential military, political and economic targets. O'Hadhmaill was to
distribute the bombs to active service units in Britain "for targets which he
would select," said Solicitor General, Sir Derek Spencer, QC, prosecuting.  He
had been in England less than six weeks - and had taken a post at the University
of Central Lancashire in Preston, teaching social policy.  "It provided him with
an admirable cover for the other side of his character - not the academic - but
a very skilled active operator in a major bombing campaign," Sir Derek told the
court.  The lists on the cigarette papers, screwed up into a ball the size of a
pea, were in O'Hadhmaill's handwriting and also contained codes for calling
other terrorists. They used football teams, horse and dog racing as a basis to
pass on information. The term "mother in law" meant enemy.  Police also
discovered O'Hadhmaill had buried a waterproof bin in a copse 600 yards from his
home in Bold Street, Accrington to hide the explosives stockpile. Throughout his
trial, O'Hadhmaill did not challenge allegations assertions that he was a member
of the IRA or in possession of the explosives.  But he pointed out that he was
not charged with possession. Instead he faced the more serious charge of
conspiracy to cause explosions, which he denied.  In a surprise defence, his
counsel argued that at the time he was being shadowed by MI5 and the police -
last January and February - was the very time the IRA were formulating their
response to the Downing Street declaration.  It would have made no sense to have
a major campaign on the mainland during the early part of this year.  "What this
case is really all about is the intentions of the IRA," said his counsel Ben
Emmerson. "He has not denied he would be prepared to do what the IRA wanted him
to do." But the jury had to be sure the IRA had hammered out a "settled plan to
set a major bombing campaign in England this year," he added.  There had been a
de-escalation of IRA activities leading up to the August ceasefire and the IRA
had not targeted military targets since 1992, claimed Mr Emmerson.  But the
Solicitor General disagreed and took the unusual step of applying for further
evidence to be called to refute defence claims the IRA campaign had been all but
over by the start of the year.  Sir Derek argued the IRA had launched mortar
attacks on Heathrow in March this year - presenting it as "a spectacular
escalation." There had been incendiary attacks on stores and a bicycle bomb in
Bognor Regis in August.  O'Hadhmaill was to have spearheaded a separate major
bombing campaign planned earlier - but it was thwarted by a police and security
services operation, said Sir Derek. They had swooped on him after watching him
pick up a car - sent by sea from Northern Ireland.  Semtex and other equipment
were hidden in a secret compartment - along with a pistol and ammunition. The
car arrived at Fleetwood but was taken to a motorway service area at South Mimms
for collection by O'Hadhmaill.  "It was for him to select whatever strategic
targets - the choice was his," Sir Derek alleged.  O'Hadhmaill was a prominent
and senior member of the IRA who had come to the attention of the security
services years ago. Educated and highly intelligent, he is considered by
authorities to have been the most important figure on mainland Britain at the
time.  O'Hadhmaill was born in Birmingham but returned with his parents to
Northern Ireland as a small child. He is married with two children.  Born with
the name Hamill, he had adopted officially the Gaeliic version of his name.  He
went to St Mary's grammar school in Belfast and then to the University of Ulster
where he obtained a BSc and a doctorate in philosophy.  He held positions in
Northern Ireland as a lecturer or tutor which included a temporary university
lectureship in sociology.  That post ended in July last year when he undertook
research work at Queen's University Belfast and work for the Open University and
other courses, the court heard.  He had a deep interest in sociology, "things
Gaelic and in the political, social and economic problems of the island of
Ireland".  At the start of his trial, O'Hadhmaill claimed he was a political
prisoner and should not be before a criminal court.  "The actions I have
committed were political actions which result from the on-going conflict - which
result from Britain's colonial conquest of Ireland."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1994 The Press Association Limited

                              497 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                November 9, 1994

BOMB PLOT LECTURER JAILED FOR 25 YEARS;
Terrorist makes plea for peace as Old Bailey judge says he fails to understand
how academic could become reconciled to killing

BYLINE: John Mullin

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 392 words


A UNIVERSITY lecturer said to be the most senior terrorist on the British
mainland was yesterday jailed for 25 years after an Old Bailey jury took 100
minutes to find him guilty of conspiracy to cause explosions.

Feilim O'Hadhmaill, a lecturer in social policy at the University of Central
Lancashire in Preston, said in a speech from the dock he hoped the peace process
"leads to a permanent end to the war in my country and the establishment of a
lasting and just settlement."

O'Hadhmaill, aged 36, born in England to Irish parents, said: "Let us hope your
government has finally got the message and is now prepared to leave us in peace
once and for all."

Police arrested him in February after an extensive surveillance operation, less
than six weeks after the doctor of philosophy arrived in Britain.

They found 17 kg of Semtex, 17 detonators and two booby trap car bombs hidden in
a Datsun sent over from Northern Ireland.  O'Hadhmaill, removing the cache when
arrested, argued there was no conspiracy because the IRA was already engaged in
the peace process.

He told Mr Justice Rougier he regretted there had been war between the IRA and
British government for 24 years, and that innocent civilians had been killed "by
all sides".

O'Hadhmaill, married with two young sons, said: "I don't want my children to
grow up in the kind of society that I did: one filled with bigotry, racism,
bitterness and burnings."

He had never given away any details of any IRA operations, and he remained
"unbowed and unbroken."

Mr Justice Rougier said he was unable to understand how anyone with
O'Hadhmaill's academic background could reconcile themselves to the killing of
men, women and children.

"I do not know how you managed to persuade yourself that the end justifies the
means."

O'Hadhmaill said in a statement read to the court during summing up by his
counsel: "With all due respect, as far as I am concerned, I have committed no
crime. I should not be before a criminal court.  The actions I have been accused
of are political actions which result from the ongoing conflict which follows
from Britain's colonial conquest of Ireland. I am a political prisoner."

O'Hadhmaill admitted IRA membership. He was charged 15 years ago with murdering
an RUC constable, but the case was dropped through lack of evidence.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              498 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                November 9, 1994

Lecturer behind IRA bomb plot is jailed for 25 years

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 652 words


AN IRA commander was jailed for 25 years by a British judge yesterday -- as
Dublin was considering releasing some notorious terrorists by Christmas.

English-born Dr Feilim O'Hadhmaill was sentenced for spearheading a major IRA
bombs plot on mainland Britain before the August ceasefire.

O'Hadhmaill, 36, a social policy lecturer at the University of Central
Lancashire, Preston, was "caught red-handed" after taking delivery of a car sent
to Britain from Northern Ireland, the jury had been told.

Seventeen kilos of Semtex explosive and other bomb-making equipment were hidden
inside the vehicle, the prosecution said.

In his wallet were cigarette papers containing "hit lists" of political,
military, and economic targets, and codes for communicating with members of
active service units in Britain.

O'Hadhmaill had been known to the security services for some time and police
believe that such a high-ranking officer was sent to the mainland in a bid to
combat the IRA's recent loss of ground.

The judge trying O'Hadhmaill, Mr Justice Rougier, made it clear that a tough
approach by the English courts to convicted terrorists remains unchanged.

O'Hadhmaill yesterday departed from maintaining the IRA tradition of silence
before sentence.

He said he hoped the peace plan for Ireland "leads to a permanent end to the war
in my country and the establishment of a lasting and just peace settlement". He
regretted the deaths caused to innocent civilians "by both sides".

O'Hadhmaill, from Accrington, Lancashire, said he had come into court at the
start of his trial "unbowed and unbroken and I will be going out the same way".
He added: "I deeply regret being captured and I suppose congratulations are due
to the security forces."

The judge replied: "There can be very few people who do not regret the bitter
hostilities and pray the peace initiative will ultimately succeed."

However, he added he did not understand how someone with O'Hadhmaill's
philosophical background could reconcile themselves "with the killing of men,
women, and children who you have no personal quarrel with".

O'Hadhmaill did not challenge that he was a member of the IRA or that he was in
possession of the explosives.

He tried to escape conviction on the charge of plotting to cause explosions --
which he denied -- by using the peace initiative itself.

In a surprise defence, his counsel argued that the time he was being shadowed by
MI5 and the police -- last January and February -- was the very time the IRA was
formulating its response to the Downing Street declaration.

The explosive stockpile could merely have been there in case of need if the
peace process broke down.

It would have made no sense to have a major campaign on the mainland during the
early part of this year, claimed Mr Ben Emmerson, defending.

However, the Solicitor General, Sir Derek Spencer, disagreed. He argued that the
IRA had launched mortar attacks on Heathrow in March this year -- presenting it
as "a spectacular escalation". There had been incendiary attacks on stores and a
bicycle bomb in Bognor Regis in August.

O'Hadhmaill was born in Birmingham but returned with his parents to Northern
Ireland as a small child. He is married with two children. Born with the name
Hamill, he had adopted officially the Gaelic version of his name.

He went to St Mary's grammar school in Belfast and then to the University of
Ulster, where he obtained a BSc and a doctorate in philosophy.

He held positions in Northern Ireland as a lecturer or tutor which included a
temporary university lectureship in sociology. He went to England in January to
take the post at Preston.

"It provided him with an admirable cover for the other side of his character --
not the academic -- but a very skilled active operator in a major bombing
campaign," Sir Derek had told the court.

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Feilim O'Hadhmaill: "Caught red-handed" Picture: Press Association

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              499 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                           November 11, 1994, Friday

POLICE WARN JEWISH GROUPS OF TERROR THREAT

BYLINE:  Padraic Flanagan, PA News

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 407 words


The Jewish community in Britain is being urged to step up security in response
to threats of a long-term terror campaign by Middle Eastern extremists.
Hundreds of synagogues and community centres are advised to adopt
high-technology security measures to counter the threat.  The warning was made
in a letter from David Veness, assistant commissioner and overall head of
Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist squad and Special Branch, to the Board of
Deputies of British Jews.  The letter is being circulated among Jewish
communities across Britain.  In the letter, released by Scotland Yard to PA
News, Mr Veness writes: "We must think in the longer term.  "The menace of
terrorism motivated by rejection of peaceful co-existence in the Middle East is
real." He adds: "It is my firm recommendation that the vulnerability of
potential targets should be reduced by significantly enhanced security measures
to combat a threat with which we will all have to cope for the forseeable
future." In the letter Mr Veness advises the Board to adopt Home Office
suggestions on security against terrorist attacks.  He tells the Board many of
the measures are familiar beacuse of IRA attacks on mainland targets.  Middle
Eastern attacks were less frequent, he goes on, and comparable measures to
counter this terrorist threat had not always been taken at possible targets.
Closed circuit television and video recorders, entryphones and other measures,
he suggests, could also halt anti-Semitic attacks as well as terrorists.  Mr
Veness lists six areas where security could be improved, including guard
patrols, stopping and searching people, better internal security and greater
vigilance. Other suggestions include the use of protective film over windows and
bomb curtains to protect against blasts.  The letter was written in the wake of
bomb attacks on the Israeli embassy and a north London Jewish centre last July.
Police protection for potential targets was increased after the bombs and is
being continued.  Spokesman for the Board, Michael Whine, told the Times
newspaper that Jewish leaders do not regard those attacks as isolated incidents
but as first blows in a new terror campaign.  He told the newspaper: "What we
and the police are saying is that there is a long-term and ongoing threat to
Jewish communities as well as Israelis.  "The terrorist threat is coming from
Iran and its surrogates and other elements in the Middle East."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1994 The Press Association Limited

                              500 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     The Times Higher Education Supplement

                               November 11, 1994

Limits of tolerance; Opinion

SECTION: Issue 1149, Pg.13

LENGTH: 784 words


Is Britain's liberal and secular academic tradition coming under fire? It would
appear so. Last week, there were stories that an Islamic fundamentalist party,
Hizb-ut-Tahrir, had been stirring up hatred against Jewish and homosexual
students at the School of Oriental and African Studies. It is not the first time
the group has hit the headlines.

This week, it also emerged that Ahmed Sheikh, the man who allegedly lured three
Britons to captivity in India, is a British-born student until recently enrolled
at the London School of Economics. He was recruited by another Islamic group,
Harkat-Ul-Ansar.

These could be isolated incidents. On the other hand, they could be the tip of a
very long minaret. Arrests in France this week show the extent of the problem
there and in recent months the French press has accused British universities of
providing havens for Algerian fundamentalists.

On Monday, the Indian High Commissioner claimed that Islamic terrorist groups
are actively recruiting in British universities, though he produced little
evidence. Now the School of Oriental and African Studies, like the LSE, has
rightly banished the anti-semitic and homophobic Hisb-ut-Tahrir from its campus.

What makes British universities vulnerable is their commitment to free speech,
part of their raison d'etre. And, lest there be any doubt, laws passed in the
1980s insist that they uphold it, providing a platform for all views 'within the
law'. This law, passed by and mainly used by Conservative politicians, applies
to all.

The universities' defence against extremists on campus depends not on their own
discretion but on the race relations and public order laws. Paradoxically, their
ability to cope responsibly with such extremist groups has been substantially
weakened by party politicians acting in their own narrow and highly partisan
interest.

There are important distinctions to be made. Anyone must be free to think
whatever they like. Provided they do so in moderate and non-inflammatory terms,
they should also be free, above all in universities, to say what they think.
Political correctness has gone too far on many American campuses, leading to a
limpness of debate that is unhealthy. Such freedom must extend to students and
to staff as well as to visiting speakers who pick universities as useful places
to air controversial views.

We should not be afraid of forthright discussion: it is one of the foundations
of our university tradition and one which must be defended even if it is
uncomfortable. But freedom of speech and tolerance of views depends on
intolerance of certain kinds of behaviour. The behaviour, not the views, is the
crucial issue. Incitement to racial hatred or to riot, recruiting people to
engage in terrorist acts and exploiting young people for motives which are
concealed are not acceptable.

The Islamic fundamentalist groups are exploiting students for their own
political ends. They are not interested in engaging in an intellectual debate.
Many Islamic students in our universities come from countries with little
tradition of democracy and free speech. They are inevitably vulnerable to the
excitement of encountering ideas they have not been able to hear before.

No wonder moderate Islamic governments are concerned at what may happen to their
students here and are, like Malaysia, anxious to provide for their education at
home - at least until the student reaches the level of postgraduate.

The fundamentalist groups are also recruiting among first-generation British
Muslims - well-educated young people, brought up in this country, who may be
grappling with difficult questions of their own cultural identity. Tensions
within these groups can be explosive - and very helpful to the recruiting agent.

Part of the difficulty arises because Islam does not distinguish between the
religious and the secular, while our universities' rational and scientific
traditions require separation of faith and reason. As Wang Gung Wu, vice
chancellor of the University of Hong Kong, pointed out in The THES in the summer
(August 26) this leads to difficulties - particularly in the humanities and
social sciences where pursuit of objectivity can come into conflict with
transmission of traditional values.

Serious efforts are being made, for instance in Malaysia (page 17), to address
these dilemmas. They need to be addressed in our universities too. That does not
mean, however, that we should abandon our own values of toleration and free
speech. It does mean we should assert them with confidence, defending them
against those who would exploit what can easily appear to be weakness in order
to advance intolerance.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Magazine

                      Copyright 1994 TSL Education Limited



---- End of Request ----
Download Request: Select Items: 501-1000
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  20:55:43

