



Download Request: All Documents: (1-299)
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  21:10:58
Send To:







Terms: (terror! )


Source: UK Publications
Project ID: None



                               1 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                           January 1, 2000, Saturday

THE DECADE - 1980S: 1980-1989

SECTION: Pg. 38

LENGTH: 918 words


Where American troops failed miserably with their attempt to rescue 53
diplomatic hostages from the US Embassy in Iran, three weeks late on May 5,
1980, the British SAS gained international recognition for the spectacular
assault on the Iranian Embassy in London.

By the end of the year the former actor Ronald Reagan ushered in a new era of
gung-ho diplomacy after crushing Jimmy Carter in the Presidential elections.

Britain became obsessed with two subjects: unemployment, which topped two
million in 1981, and the relationship between Prince Charles and a young nursery
teacher called Lady Diana Spencer.

A spate of assassinations began when John Lennon was shot dead in December 1980.
A few months later President Reagan survived after being shot in the chest by a
former disc jockey called John Hinckley. In May 1981 Pope John Paul II also
survived after being shot by a Turkish gunman.

In Britain the inner cities burned as rioters ran amok in Handsworth, Toxteth
and Brixton.

Turmoil in the Labour party saw the defection of the Gang of Four to form the
SDP.

Domestic gloom was lifted by the Royal Wedding in July 1981 watched by 700
million television viewers.

1982 was the year of the Falklands War which among other things rescued the
political fortunes of Margaret Thatcher, who was later to survive the IRA
bombing of the Grand Hotel in Brighton.

The early 1980s saw the death throes of the Cold War, from the boycott of the
Moscow and Los Angeles Olympics to the protests at Greenham Common and the
emergence of Solidarity in Poland. By 1989 the Berlin Wall had come down and it
was all over.

This was also the decade of disasters from the fire at Bradford Football Club to
Hillsborough to the Herald of Free Enterprise to Piper Alpha.

In Britain and America Thatcher and Reagan presided over the rise of the yuppies
and their "greed is good" mantra.

Elsewhere ET phoned home, Salman Rushdie was placed under a fatwa, Britain was
lashed by storms in 1987 and we became aware of Aids.

Yosser Hughes: "Gizza job. . . I can do that." Boys from the Blackstuff (1985)
by Alan Bleasdale.

"We shall not be diverted from our course. To those waiting with bated breath
for that favourite media catch-phrase, the U-turn, I have only this to say: You
turn if you want; the lady's not for turning." Margaret Thatcher, speech at
Conservative Party Conference in Blackpool 1980.

"My fellow Americans, I am pleased to tell you I just signed legislation which
outlaws Russian forever. The bombing begins in five minutes." Ronald Reagan in a
radio microphone test in 1984.

"I would understand better this type of hi-tech approach if you demolished the
whole of Trafalgar Square and started again with a single architect responsible
for the entire layout, but what is proposed is like a monstrous carbuncle on the
face of a much-loved elegant friend. . . Why can't we have those curves and
arches that express feeling in design? What is wrong with them? Why has
everything got to be vertical. straight, unbending, only at right angles - and
functional?" Prince Charles, 1984.

FAIRYTALE: The nation was filled with romance as we watched Prince Charles kiss
his new bride Princess Diana on their wedding day on July 29, 1981.

TRAGEDY: The space shuttle Challenger explodes shortly after lifting off from
Kennedy Space Center on January 28, 1986. All seven crew members died in the
explosion, which was blamed on faulty o-rings in the shuttle's booster rockets.
The Challenger's crew was honoured with burials at Arlington National Cemetery.

EXPLODE: A fire burns on the Borth Sea oil rig Piper Alpha after an explosion in
July 1988 which killed more than 160 people.

DISASTER: Oil spills from the crippled tanker Exxon Valdez on March 24, 1989,
after the vessel ran aground on Bligh Reef in Alaska's Prince William Sound. The
spill of at least 11 million gallons was one of the worst environmental
disasters in US history.

AP Photo/Anchorage Daily News, Erik Hill

BRAVE: A Chinese student blocks a line of tanks heading east on Beijing's
Changan Blvd, after Chinese forces crushed a pro democracy demonstration in
Tiananmen Square on June 5, 1989. The man, calling for an end to the recent
violence and bloodshed against pro-democracy demonstrators, was pulled away by
bystanders and the tanks continued on their way.

LEFT: Thousands fill downtown Bucharest, Romania, on December 22, 1989, for a
demonstration in the uprising that toppled the Communist dictator - the uprising
culminated with his execution on Christmas Day of that year. Who was he?

AP Photo/Rompress

FREEDOM: A man hammers away at the Berlin Wall on November 12, 1989, as the
border barrier between East and West Germany was torn down after 28 years,
symbolically ending the Cold War.

FEED THE WORLD: Some 72,000 pop and rock fans pack out Wembley Stadium in London
for the Live Aid concert on July 13, 1985. Singer Bob Geldof initiated two
day-long simultaneous concerts - one in England and one in America - which
raised more than $ 50 million to aid famine relief.

RADIATION: Young children rest in a hospital ward in Syekovo, a village near the
Chernobyl nuclear plant on April 21, 1990. Four years after the April 26, 1986
Chernobyl accident, these children were suffering intestinal problems from
exposure to radiation. A Soviet newspaper has said scientists still expect
thousands of deaths from radiation released in the Chernobyl explosion and fire.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2000 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                               2 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                           January 1, 2000, Saturday

THE DECADE - 1970S: 1970-1979

SECTION: Pg. 37

LENGTH: 972 words


This disjointed decade began with the US invasion of Cambodia in April 1970 and
ended with the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan in December 1979. Internationally,
it was an era of terrorism, hijacks and coups.

In Britain the political scene was dominated by uncertainty and an unprecedent
amount of industrial action. After his surprise election victory in 1970, Ted
Heath quickly took Britain into Europe.

In 1973 the country went on a three-day week as coal miners, power workers and
train drivers went on strike. A year later Mr Heath went to the polls asking
"Who governs Britain" and the public answered "anyone but you."

Wilson returnded to Downing Street for a couple of years before resigning in
1976. His successor, Jim Callaghan, fared little better when it came to taming
the unions and spent his last year in office presiding over the Winter of
Discontent.

He was replaced by Britain's first woman Prime Minister, a former Education
Secretary called Margaret Thatcher.

In America the reputation of politicians reached a new low with the resignation
of Richard Nixon from the White House over the Watergate scandal. US foreign
policy was also in tatters with the fall of Saigon and the advance of Khmer
Rouge in Cambodia in 1975 proving American influence was nearly impotent.

Terrorism dominated the headlines from the attack on the Israeli competitors by
Arab guerillas at the Munich Olympics via the Birmingham pub bombings to the
murder of Louis Mountbatten by the IRA.

Culturally the Sex Pistols and Star Wars had varying degrees of influence.
Saturday Night Fever made John Travolta an international star and Jaws did for
swimming what Psycho had done for showers.

Princess Anne got married (and avoided being kidnapped), Ian Botham and
Sebastian Coe arrived on the sports scene and the country became decimalised.

"Ladies and gentlemen, I stand before you tonight in my red chiffon evening
gown, my face softly made up, my hair gently waved. . . the Iron Lady of the
Western World? A cold war warrior? Well, yes - if that is how they wish to
interpret my defence of values and freedoms fundamental to our way of life."
Margaret Thatcher in a speech at Finchley, 1976.

"Who loves ya, baby?" Telly Savalas in Kojak (1973-78).

"I've made mistakes, but in all my years of public life, I have never profited
from public service. I've earned every cent. And in all my years in public life
I have never obstructed justice. And I think, too, that I can say that in my
years of public life that I welcome this kind of examination because people have
got to know whether or not their President is a crook. Well, I'm not a crook.
I've earned everything I've got." Richard Nixon, 1973.

"Sexual intercourse began

In nineteen sixty-three

(Which was rather late for me) -

Between the end of the Chatterly ban

And The Beatles' first LP."

High Windows (1974) by Philip Larkin

"Labour isn't working." Conservative Party Slogan 1978-79.

PARA-MILITARY: On January 30, 1972 a member of the Parachute Regiment clashes
with a rioter in Northern Ireland during the illegal civil rights march which
resulted in the deaths of 14 people and became known as Bloody Sunday.

MAIDEN VOYAGE: This British-assembled plane takes off from Filton, near Bristol,
on its first flight in December 1971. Name it?

NAKED TRUTH: Far left, a streaker hurdles the stumps at Lords during a Test
match in August 1975.

Right, Diane Matthews, 23, makes a gesture for Women's Lib in May 1972, when she
burnt her bra in protest of a decision that women were not eligible to join the
magic circle.

WONDERFUL WORLD: Jazz musician Louis Armstrong holds his trumpet as he spends a
quiet moment in a Las Vegas dressing room in this September,1970 photo.

SOWETO SACRIFICE: Mbuyisa Makhuba carries fatally-injured Hector Petersen in
Soweto, South Africa, June 16, 1976, after police opened fire on students.
Petersen was the first victim of the "Soweto uprising" which gave birth to the
movement that defeated apartheid. This picture was taken for the now defunct
"World" newspaper, banned in 1977. AP Photo/The World, Sam Nzima

CIVILIAN SUFFERING: Phan Thi Kim Phuc, center, with her clothes torn off, flees
with other South Vietnamese children after a misdirected aerial napalm attack on
suspected Viet Cong hiding places on June 8, 1972. A South Vietnamese plane
mistakenly dropped its flaming napalm on South Vietnamese troops and civilians.
Kim Phuc became a symbol of the civilian suffering of the Vietnam War.

SAINT IN THE MAKING: Mother Teresa, head of the Missionaries of Charity, cradles
an armless baby girl at her order's orphanage in Calcutta, India in 1978. A
champion among the poor in India, Mother Teresa, an Albanian, went to India in
1928 to teach at a convent school, taking her final vows as a Roman Catholic nun
in 1937, and opened her House for the Dying in 1952. Her devotion to the
destitute children of Calcutta set a new standard of compassion for humanity.
She died September 5, 1997, at the age of 87.

TRICKY: Following his resignation, US President Richard Nixon flashes the V
-for-victory sign on the South Lawn of the White House on August 9, 1974. The
image may be the most enduring picture ever of the US presidency. It was the low
ebb of the presidency - Nixon was on his way out, having resigned his office at
noon that day as it became clear the House of Representatives would impeach him
for Watergate misdeeds.

WINTER OF DISCONTENT: The scene in London's Leicester Square in February 1979 as
public service workers went on strike, leaving rubbish piled up in the streets.

SUMMER OF DROUGHTS: Staines Reservoir during the 1976 drought.

IRON LADY: Margaret Thatcher outside N10 Downing Street after winining the 1979
General Election.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2000 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                               3 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           January 1, 2000, Saturday

DUKE WAS CONSIDERED FOR ULSTER PEACE TALKS

SECTION: Pg. 17

LENGTH: 265 words


THE secret files reveal that Wilson's Labour Government considered asking the
Duke of Edinburgh to chair all-party peace talks on Northern Ireland.

Round table talks, with the Duke occupying the sensitive role played some 30
years later by ex-US Senator George Mitchell, was just one of the increasingly
desperate ideas put forward as the province descended into sectarian violence in
1969.

Papers show ministers even suggested expelling Northern Ireland from the United
Kingdom, only to draw back because they feared an invasion by the Irish
Republic.

Prince Charles was also at the centre of cabinet discussion with ministers
reportedly alarmed at speeches made by the 20-year-old who had been studying in
Aberwystwyth.

Terrorist

They believed he was being influenced by Welsh Nationalists.

But equally, they were concerned about a possible terrorist attack by Welsh
nationalists during Charles' investiture as Prince of Wales in 1969.

Wilson's sensitivity to the Government's economic record, particularly with the
devaluation of the pound, was underlined when the Queen's 1968 Christmas
broadcast was altered at the behest of senior officials.

Part of the text, written for the first time by the Queen herself with the Duke
of Edinburgh, was changed to drop a reference to Britain's

"economic difficulties".

The following year however, in what may have been a hint of royal displeasure,
the Queen announced the traditional broadcast was being dropped in favour of
televised coverage of the Christmas Day service at St George's Chapel, Windsor.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2000 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                               4 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                January 1, 2000

IT TURNED OUT TO BE A SPECTACLE, BUT IN THE NICEST WAY POSSIBLE

BYLINE: FROM ROBERT JOBSON AT THE DOME

LENGTH: 858 words


CYNICS of the last century said it would be a shambles, but the opening of the
Dome proved a spectacular showcase for Britain's millennium party.

A constellation of stars, a magnificent theatre, the Beatles anthem All You Need
Is Love and a prayer for the future signalled the birth of the new millennium
and farewell to the last.

As the country exploded into celebration and colour, the GBP 758million Dome was
at its heart. Inside, the Queen, Tony Blair and other VIPs joined 10,500 guests.

Detailed plans called for eight children from Meridian school in Greenwich,
South London, to help Her Majesty officially open the dome 15 minutes before
midnight with the touch of a button - but no speeches.

Two choristers were expected to be the last voices heard in the Dome moments
before pictures of Big Ben striking midnight were beamed to the audience.

Arriving by boat, the aptly named Millennium of Peace cruiser, from the River
Thames, the Queen was due to be helped by schoolchildren before tugging on giant
golden ropes to reveal the Dome in all its glory for the first time.

The spectacle, including performances by pop group The Corrs and singers Jools
Holland and Mick Hucknall, was due to begin with David Wigwam, 13, and Sumudu
Jayatilaka, 20, singing a special musical version of the Millennium Resolution,
composed by newly knighted John Tavener.

David, head chorister of St Peter's parish church in St Albans, Hertfordshire,
and Sumudu, who was brought up in Scunthorpe, joined hands over the Millennium
Star, a 203-carat flawless diamond which will be on display at the Dome.

Laser beams were set to illuminate the diamond as it took centre stage at the
show in the moments before midnight. Guests included the Duke of Edinburgh,
Princess Anne and her husband Commodore Timothy Laurence, Cabinet ministers and
other senior politicians.

The thousands inside will hear the midnight chimes of Big Ben and see pictures
of the River of Fire, which will sweep down the Thames from Tower Bridge to
Vauxhall Bridge.

After joining in the singing of Auld Lang Syne, Dome guests will sit back and
enjoy a spectacular show featuring aerial acrobatics Abigail Yeates, 30, and
John Paul Zaccarini, 29. The pair, who posed naked together for pre-night
publicity shots, promised to wow the crowd with a daring ballet on bungee ropes.

The night to remember will end with a new arrangement of the National Anthem by
composer Jonathan Dove, sung by Birmingham-based diva Ruby Turner.

A fanfare will greet the royals when they arrive and they will be escorted to
their seats by Mr Blair and his wife Cherie. Before the Queen's arrival guests
will be "warmed up" by comedian Stephen Fry. Among the invited members of the
public were two parents who lost their 12-year-old son in an IRA bomb blast.
Colin and Wendy Parry have worked tirelessly as ambassadors for peace since
their son Tim was killed in their home town of Warrington, Cheshire, in 1993.

THE couple will join others nominated for their community work and help for
others, including Kate Beddard, of Wolverhampton, who has been dubbed best
mother in the world.

The Archbishop of Canterbury, Dr George Carey, will give a blessing, and three
Barnardo children will read prayers before the Archbishop says the Lord's
Prayer. The trio, Howard Comrie, 11, Joanne Metcalfe, 11, and Tyron Charles, 10,
all attend the New Testament Church of God in Leeds and Bradford.

To music from an 82-strong English National Opera Orchestra, various artists
including Welsh soprano Rosemary Joshua will perform before the Beatles enduring
song All You Need Is Love is played. The singers will be backed by a 276-strong
choir actually made up of nine individual choirs. Jools Holland and his rhythm
and blues orchestra will also play before the Queen's arrival.

Together with the show performers, who include 484 carnival players, there will
be more than 1,100 people performing on the night. After the ticket fiasco which
left thousands of guests having to queue for tickets, the company in charge of
the event was hoping that everything would go well.

Jennie Page, chief executive of the New Millennium Experience Company, said the
atmosphere within the Dome was "quite nervy" in the countdown to the opening.

"We knew it could be completed with a fair wind, although it's taken thousands
of people working the most amazing hours with phenomenal dedication to achieve
it," she said.

Perhaps to help those nerves, organisers did their best to ensure it went with a
swing by ordering 10,000 bottles of champagne, donated by one of the sponsors
Tesco. Elsewhere hundreds of thousands of revellers were expected on the streets
of London to celebrate, turning the capital into a giant playground.

Other attractions were expected to be in full swing, including a makeshift
fairground outside Buckingham Palace along The Mall.But there were
disappointments such as the failure of the big wheel London Eye. It emerged that
Health and Safety Executive officials would have banned the use of the wheel if
the operators had not cancelled the launch.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2000 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                               5 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           January 1, 2000, Saturday

THE INDEPENDENT TRAVELLER: LOOK BACK IN GRATITUDE;
 SIMON CALDER THE MAN WHO PAYS HIS WAY

BYLINE: Simon Calder

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 976 words


THINGS CAN only get worse. From the travel point of view, that statement has
appeared correct for each of the five New Years since I took this job. We
travellers have never had it so good. Almost anywhere you could want to go is
accessible more easily, safely and cheaply than ever. Surely this happy state of
affairs cannot last?

Perhaps it can. Mass tourism was born in the 20th century, when developments
from the Holidays With Pay Act to the Jumbo Jet enabled us to see more of the
world. By 1999, someone earning the average UK wage could travel to the other
side of the of the world for a week's pay. Once our travel horizons ended at the
British seaside; then we tentatively began to explore Europe; now a fortnight in
the Caribbean is barely worthy of comment.

In the past few years the pace at which our frontiers have expanded has
quickened - partly because geo-political barriers have fallen. Today, for
example, you can read on page 5 a guide to 48 hours in Prague.

Yet a decade ago, a visit to the Czech capital involved at least two days
immersed in a bureaucracy possibly devised by Kafka. When your visa was finally
secured, you had to struggle to find a seat on one of the infrequent, overpriced
flights to the Czech capital. Today, there are no visa rules and 50 planes each
week between Britain and Prague.

A year ago, there was no sign that sanctions against Libya would end; now there
are regular flights between Gatwick and Tripoli, and adventurous companies
operate trips there.

Britain's package-holiday industry deserves credit for making exotic
destinations affordable. From Gatwick and Manchester you can jet off to India
and Sri Lanka, Gambia and Kenya, Colombia and Costa Rica - actually, the last
two were tried in the Nineties and turned out to be dismal failures, but you get
the idea. The world is cheap.

Two key indexes show how prices have fallen. Twenty years ago, the lowest cost
of a return flight from London to Paris was around pounds 60. While prices for
almost everything else have more than doubled, the fare has remained the same -
the only change has been that governments now take a quarter of the fare in tax,
and there is the added option of a non-stop train.

To Australia, the difference is even more striking. In 1987, the cheapest flight
I could find to Sydney was pounds 775 return, travelling on Garuda via most of
the airports in the eastern hemisphere. Today, a quick trawl around the bucket
shops should find you something for well under pounds 600, requiring just a
single stop en route.

u

CLOSER TO home, the ending of duty-free within Europe has not led, thankfully,
to an extra pounds 15 on the cost of a holiday flight or the loss of 160,000
jobs - which is what the industry predicted. Instead, it has been a benefit to
many travellers as airports and ferry companies cut their big profit margins -
you can now buy duty-paid goods for a lot less in Heathrow than Hounslow.

u

THERE ARE some clouds threatening to obscure the sun beaming down benignly upon
us. When I talked to Richard Branson for today's "Someone's Got to Do It"
feature on page 7, he expressed fierce opposition to airline alliances such as
Star and Oneworld, on the grounds that they are anti-competitive. Since then, he
has sold almost half of Virgin Atlantic to Singapore Airlines - which is set to
become the latest member of the Star Alliance.

u

EVENTS OVER the past year suggest that tourists are increasingly becoming soft
targets, being caught in campaigns by guerrillas against governments.

The further you stray from the beaten track, the more you are susceptible to a
range of health hazards - most notably strains of malaria that develop
resistance as quickly as scientists devise new drugs. And a rather different
danger - a growing world homogeneity which means you can find an identical
burger and soft drink in San Salvador as in Salford.

Travellers are partly to blame: as the customers of McDonald's opposite the
Pantheon in Rome show, there is nothing quite like home from home. As the world
becomes cheaper to reach, tourism threatens to cheapen it. But it is more of a
force for good than evil, so let's hope it gets better.

u

IN GUATEMALA City on a midwinter's day, a Cubana flight overshot the runway and
more than a dozen people died. On Christmas Day, everyone aboard a Cubana flight
died when it ploughed into a mountain in Venezuela.

These latest tragedies suggest Cuba's national airline is in even worse shape
than previously thought. Cubana is now alarmingly far ahead of other carriers in
the grisly league table of fatal accidents, having suffered eight in the past 25
years. And while aviation safety standards are improving steadily, the Cuban
airline's record is getting worse, with four fatal crashes in the past three
years alone. On average, one in 40,000 departures ends in disaster - compared
with better than one in a million on most airlines.

When, in the past, I have tackled Cubana about its abysmal record, the response
has been persuasive: due to the American economic blockade, the airline has had
to rely upon Soviet-built aircraft which have a poorer safety record than
Western planes. With one exception - a bomb attack by US-based terrorists on a
DC-8 - all the disasters have involved Tupolev, Ilyushin and Antonov planes. On
transatlantic services, the airline uses American-built DC-10s almost
exclusively.

It was one of these aircraft that ploughed into a suburb of Guatemala City on 21
December. Cubana is scheduled to fly from Gatwick to Havana this afternoon. Were
I a passenger booked upon flight CU 401, I would still travel - flying, even
with Cubana, is still safer than other forms of transport. But I trust the Civil
Aviation Authority is looking closely at the airline's safety standards.

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2000 Independent Print Ltd

                               6 of 299 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           January 1, 2000, Saturday

20TH CENTURY QUIZ;
 WHICH HISTORIC EVENT HAPPENED IN WHICH YEAR?

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 1833 words


THE hundred events below all relate to different years of the 20th century. Can
you work out when each event occurred? Fill in your numbers on the grid.

1.U.S. President John F. Kennedy was assassinated as he rode in an open car
through Dallas, Texas.

2.Russia became the first country to successfully launch a man-made satellite
into space. Sputnik I was followed a month later by Sputnik II, carrying the
first animal in space, Laika the dog.

3.King Edward VIII abdicated in order to marry Wallis Simpson.

4. England beat West Germany 4-2 to win football's World Cup final at Wembley
Stadium.

5.The British National Health Service, a new national insurance scheme and other
welfare reforms came into operation.

6.The assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand triggered chain of events which
culminated in World War I.

7. The SAS stormed the terrorist-occupied Iranian Embassy in Knightsbridge,
London.

8. Nazi leader Adolf Hitler became Chancellor of Germany.

9. The Berlin Wall, erected in 1961 to separate East and West Germany, was
demolished after the collapse of the Communist regime.

10. Inventor John Logie Baird gave his first public demonstration of television.

11. Major earthquake destroyed most of San Francisco, killing more than 1,000
people.

12. The Warsaw Pact was signed, forming the Eastern Bloc nations into Communist
military alliance.

13. First successful human heart transplant carried out in Cape Town by
Christiaan Barnard.

14. Two British archaeologists became the first humans to look into the tomb of
the Pharaoh Tutankhamun for more than 3,000 years.

15. The Beatles received MBEs in recognition of their international success.

16. British Prime Minister, Winston Churchill, announced the end of hostilities
in Europe, and three months later World War II was officially declared over.

17. First non-stop flight over the Pacific by Clyde Pangborn and Hugh Herndon.

18. Nelson Mandela sentenced to life imprisonment for sabotage and plotting to
overthrow the South African government.

19. The Lumiere brothers announced they had developed a process practical enough
to make colour photography commonplace.

20. Medical student Roger Bannister became the first person to run a mile in
under four minutes.

21. Bob Geldof brought together rock superstars for Live Aid to raise money for
famine victims.

22. Adolf Hitler published Mein Kampf, a book he had dictated in prison.

23. England battered by winds gusting up to 110mph. The Meteorological Office
came under fire for its failure to predict the hurricane.

24. After years of campaigning for independence by Mahatma Gandhi and others,
British rule in India came to an end after 163 years.

25. The Panama Canal was opened by an explosion of dynamite, removing the last
obstacle between the Atlantic and Pacific oceans.

26. An IRA bomb intended to destroy the British cabinet exploded at the Grand
Hotel, Brighton.

27. Notorious U.S. criminals Bonnie Parker and Clyde Barrow were shot dead after
an ambush in Louisiana.

28. Britain sweltered in a summer heatwave which caused a severe drought and the
introduction of water rationing.

29. Prohibition of the manufacture and sale of alcohol came into force in the
US.

30. The Prince of Wales married Lady Diana Spencer in St. Paul's Cathedral,
London.

31. The first winter Olympic Games were held in the French Alps at Chamonix.

32. A band of Arab terrorists attacked members of the Israeli Olympic team in
the athletes' village near Munich, Germany.

33. King George VI and Queen Elizabeth were crowned at Westminster Abbey.

34. The ground-breaking censorship case involving the D.H. Lawrence novel Lady
Chatterley's Lover ended, with the jury ruling that the book was not obscene.

35. Charles Lindbergh became the first person to fly solo across the Atlantic.

36. The second Olympic Games of the modern era were held in Paris.

37. Assassination of civil rights campaigner Dr Martin Luther King in Memphis,
Tennessee.

38. The inaugural session of the United Nations General Assembly took place in
London.

39. Duke of York, later to become George VI, married Lady Elizabeth Bowes -Lyon,
now the Queen Mother, at Westminster Abbey.

40. Pounds, shillings and pence replaced by decimal currency.

41. NATO - the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation - formed to act as a defensive
peace alliance.

42. On what became known as Black Thursday, the day of the Wall Street crash,
nearly 13 million shares changed hands on the New York Stock Exchange.

43. Louise Brown, the world's first test-tube baby, was born by Caesarean
section at Oldham District General Hospital.

44. Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor, Hawaii, caused the US to enter World War
II.

45. First Model T Ford, the first car intended for mass production, was produced
in Detroit, USA.

46. Explosion of a nuclear reactor at Chernobyl in the Soviet Union caused
dangerous levels of radiation to be released into the atmosphere.

47. Sydney Harbour Bridge opened in Australia.

48. Fidel Castro became President of Cuba after overthrowing the dictator
General Fulgencio Batista.

49. The Entente Cordiale, a historic agreement between Britain and France, was
signed.

50. Cambodia fell under the control of the Communist Khmer Rouge forces which
were led by evil Pol Pot.

51. The Titanic sank in the North Atlantic on her maiden voyage, with the loss
of more than 1,500 lives.

52. Nelson Mandela released from prison in South Africa, immediately becoming
deputy president of the ANC and committing himself to negotiations with the
government over a non-racial constitution.

53. The D-Day landings on the beaches of Normandy code-named Operation Overlord,
were successfully carried out by Allied troops.

54. Barings PLC, Britain's oldest merchant bank, went bankrupt when Nick Leeson
lost more than pounds 600m.

55. Russian Revolution took place, culminating in the abdication of the monarch
Tsar Nicholas II, and the eventual installation of a Bolshevik government under
Lenin.

56. A 51-day stand-off near Waco, Texas, between federal agents and members of
the Branch Davidians religious cult ended in tragedy as the cult's compound was
destroyed by fire.

57. Operation Dynamo, the mass evacuation from Dunkirk, rescued 225,000 British
troops.

58. A Pan Am Boeing 747 jumbo jet en route from London to New York crashed in
the village of Lockerbie, Scotland.

59. Professor Ernest Rutherford revealed he had successfully split atoms by
artificial means.

60. Manchester United's 'Busby Babes', in a fatal plane crash on Munich airport
runway.

61. Eighth Army defeated the German Afrika Korps at the Battle of El Alamein,
Egypt.

62. The Soviet Union's Major Yuri Gagarin became the first man to fly
successfully in space.

63. Queen Victoria died at Osborne House on the Isle of Wight.

64. U.S. President Ronald Reagan proposed a new Strategic Defence Initiative,
known as 'Star Wars', to provide anti-ballistic missile space defence system for
America.

65. The Lusitania, a US liner, sank off the Irish coast after being torpedoed by
a German submarine.

66. The Queen and French President Francois Mitterrand formally inaugurated the
Channel Tunnel.

67. The Korean War started after communist North Korea invaded the independent
south.

68. Robert E. Peary became the first man to reach the North Pole.

69. Margaret Thatcher, leader of the Tory party, became Britain's first woman
Prime Minister.

70. Penicillin, a mould which attacks harmful bacteria, was discovered
accidentally by Professor Alexander Fleming.

71. U.S. astronaut Neil Armstrong, commander of Apollo 11, became the first man
on the moon.

72. Edmund Hillary and Sherpa Tensing became the first to reach the summit of
Mount Everest.

73. Albert Einstein first proposed his special Theory of Relativity.

74. The Gulf War started after Saddam Hussein failed to meet the deadline to
withdraw from Kuwait.

75. In the face of a German invasion of Poland, Britain declared war on Germany,
a conflict that escalated to become World War II.

76. Elvis Presley died at his Graceland mansion in Memphis.

77. Norwegian Roald Amundsen beat Captain Robert Scott to become the first to
reach the South Pole.

78. Ceasefire declared in the Vietnam War, and a peace treaty drawn up in Paris,
leading to withdrawal of US troops.

79. The King and Queen opened the Festival of Britain on the South Bank of the
Thames.

80. Benito Mussolini became 'Il Duce', the leader of Italy's National Fascist
Party.

81. The European Union announced a worldwide ban on the export of British beef
products amid fears of BSE, or 'mad cow' disease.

82. Sir Malcolm Campbell became the first person to achieve a land speed of more
than 300mph in Bluebird.

83. The Cuban missile crisis was triggered by the discovery that Russian nuclear
warheads were being secretly installed in Cuba.

84. The Boer War was officially declared over.

85. Sexual harassment suit brought against President Bill Clinton led to an
investigation into his relationship with former White House intern Monica
Lewinsky.

86. Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain arrived in Britain after a meeting with
Adolf Hitler, describing the peace accord as promising 'peace for our time'.

87. The Queen had an 'annus horribilis' as Andrew and Charles both announced
separation from their wives and a fire destroyed much of the interior of Windsor
Castle.

88. Talking motion pictures were demonstrated for the first time by U.S.
inventor Thomas Alva Edison.

89. Ill-fated flight of the US space capsule Apollo 13, crippled by an explosion
in its service module, ended happily with a splash-down in the Pacific Ocean.

90. Germany admitted defeat and signed the armistice to end World War I.

91. Diana, Princess of Wales, Dodi Al Fayed and their driver were killed in a
car crash in Paris.

92. RAF bombers of 617 Squadron, which became known as 'dam busters', attacked
and breached two German dams.

93. The Falklands War was initiated by Argentina's full-scale military invasion
of the Islands, and ended in British victory ten weeks later.

94. The Easter Rising, a rebellion against British rule, took place in Dublin,
Ireland.

95. Richard Nixon resigned from the Presidency in the face of impeachment for
'high crimes and misdemeanours' in Watergate scandal.

96. Football's first World Cup competition was held in Uruguay.

97. King George VI died, his eldest daughter becoming Queen Elizabeth II at the
age of 25.

98. A military conflict developed after the nationalisation of the Suez Canal
Company by Egypt was followed by an Anglo-French attempt at intervention.

99. The Wright brothers flew their plane for the first time.

100. NATO air strikes forced Yugoslav President Slobodan Milosevic to withdraw
his troops from the province.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Castro; Churchill; Diana; Gandhi; Victoria; Elvis; Edward VIII

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.

                               7 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                January 1, 2000

Laser beams in a new dawn;
 Dawn of 2000 Millions join the fun as world dances to midnight chimes

BYLINE: Mervyn Hancock

SECTION: News, Pg.2/ 3

LENGTH: 989 words


THE Millennium arrived with an explosion that was felt across the world.

As midnight struck in Britain millions of people - including hundreds of
thousands in the West - celebrated the dawn of the year 2,000 with the biggest
parties ever seen.

The jubilation was repeated around the globe with events that will live in the
memories forever.

The Millennium was greeted in spectacular style in London where more than three
million people took to the streets.

But while many of Britain's big cities were heaving with thronging party- goers
some areas reported pubs and clubs were no busier than a normal Friday with many
people thought to have seen in the New Year at home.

In the South West emergency services said fewer people than expected had
ventured out to join the celebrations.

Police in Avon and Somerset reported just "one or two" arrests by midnight.
Celebrations in Gloucestershire were described as "peaceful and quiet".

One of the first babies of the millennium to be born in Britain arrived at five
minutes past midnight in Dundee - the first of a set of twins.

A baby boy was born at 14 minutes past midnight in Gloucestershire Royal
Hospital, Gloucester. Mother Patsy Darch and baby Thomas from Tredworth were
doing well.

Although there were no early signs of the dreaded Millennium Bug, the night did
not go without a hitch.

Some guests heading for the Millennium Dome were forced to wait for more than
seven hours to collect their prized tickets and at one point police had to close
two bridges across the River Thames because of the sheer volume of people.

The grand National Lottery draw was delayed by technical problems.

Mobile phone customers in part of Britain lost their service last night when the
Vodafone network crashed due to the volume of calls.

The big party began on a small South Pacific atoll called Millennium Island -
and then hour by expectant hour a new era swept across the planet.

Grass-skirted dancers on a coral beach, a massive 2 million worth of fireworks
in Sydney Harbour, the sounding of ancient bells in the Far East, and for some
just silent prayers - around the world billions of people joined in a
satellite-linked pageant to say Welcome Year 2000.

It was just 10am in Britain when finally the grass-skirted dancers sang in
Micronesian, illuminated by moonlight and the licking flames of glowing torches
on a dark tropical beach of Kiribati's usually uninhabited Millennium Island.

The world's first industrialised country to hail the new era was New Zealand ,
and at 11am GMT a starfield of fireworks flushed its midnight sky with purples,
oranges and violets.

Two hours later, Sydney, Australia, treated a million onlookers to an elegant
harbourside show of fireworks.

Ailing Russian President Boris Yeltsin resigned abruptly 12 hours before 2000
arrived in Moscow, surprising the world.

And on a remote Afghan tarmac, hijackers freed 155 hostages who had spent a
terrifying week as captives on a grounded Indian Airlines plane.

Fears about terrorism and technology clouded the world's millennial revelry.
Nations, airlines and computer users girded for eruptions of the Y2K bug. Police
worldwide braced for terrorist attacks.

But New Zealand, regarded as a Y2K test case for the industrialised world, began
2000 with no reports of glitches.

"The lights are still on," said Basil Logan, chairman of the Y2K readiness
commission.

In London security chiefs used a bunker, designed for controlling emergency
services in the event of major disasters or nuclear attack, to monitor parties
and events across Britain.

The millennium's arrival ends what is perhaps human history's most turbulent
century, one of unprecedented strides in science and technology, as well as
upheaval and violence on an unprecedented scale.

With that parentage, the 21st century begins against a backdrop of apprehension
- about terrorism, technology and humanity's place in an increasingly confusing
world. Leaders around the world called for calm and co -operation.

UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan welcomed the infant century's hope but warned of
its "new dangers - or old ones in a new and alarming form."

More than 200,000 people packed Singapore's glittering Orchard Road shopping
boulevard for a party featuring pop bands, dance performances and local TV
stars. Filipinos set off thousands of fireworks, blanketing Manila with smoke.

People bet on horses in Hong Kong, prepared for 2,000 weddings in Thailand and
streamed into the temples of Angkor in Cambodia.

For Bethlehem, the moment meant freedom for 2,000 doves, flying into the
floodlit night outside Christ's traditional birthplace.

Last up as the millennium cascaded across the globe? French Polynesia, which
sits just opposite Kiribati on the international date line. Not everybody was
celebrating.

What was believed to be the first baby of the millennium, a boy, was born in
Auckland, New Zealand, at 12:01am (1101 GMT), Waitakere Hospital said.

In Allentown, Pennsylvania, Sarah Knauss' life ended. According to the Guinness
Book of Records, she was the world's oldest person - 119 years old.

She died quietly in a nursing home, some 33 hours before seeing her third
century.

Bristol hosted the biggest street party in the West which saw thousands of
people march on the city centre for a lantern parade, a major rock concert
starring Roni Size and two firework spectaculars.

None of the major utilities had had any Millennium bug problems .

SWEB spokesman Derek Lickorish said that shortly after midnight just one or two
of the company's 1.4 million customers were without power which was business as
usual.

He said: "We had 150 staff on stand-by and fortunately none of them were
needed."

Bristol Water spokesman Jeremy Williams said: "We have not had any problems
connected with the Millennium Bug."

Staff were due to be stood down just after 1am.


LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2000 Bristol United Press

                               8 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                            January 2, 2000, Sunday

MILLENNIUM PEOPLE: SNAPS THAT TELL THE STORY OF A CENTURY

SECTION: FEATURES

LENGTH: 353 words


THEY speak more than a thousand words...and some pictures just stick in your
mind forever.

Even if you weren't around at the time, they represent a milestone that everyone
recognises as part of our history, part of our culture.

Some are happy - like the unforgettable moment Bobby Moore lifted the World Cup
for England.

Many are unbearably sad, like the haunting pictures of tragic Princess Diana.

But we'll never forget them.

Here are just some of the images that shook and shaped the last hundred years...

THE TITANIC

She was the biggest, proudest ship that ever sailed. But on April 14, 1912, more
than 1,500 lives were lost when the "unsinkable" Titanic hit an iceberg on her
maiden voyage

BLITZ

St Paul's Dome, 1940 - defying German bombs

A-BOMB

War ends in horror of Hiroshima, 1945

CHURCHILL

Winnie's wartime symbol of victory

MONROE

Wow! Leggy Marilyn in the scene from The Seven Year Itch that launched a million
peroxide blondes

BEATLES

The Fab Four - John, Paul, George and Ringo - rocked the 60s and changed pop
music forever

PROFUMO

Christine Keeler in THAT pose from the 1'963 scandal

KENNEDY

JFK assassin Lee Harvey Oswald is gunned down by Jack Ruby in 1963

WORLD CUP

On top...Bobby Moore holds the trophy aloft in 1966 after England's amazing 4 -2
defeat of West Germany

MOON

One small step for Buzz Aldrin...and a giant leap for the 1969 space programme

FALKLANDS

Flying the flag as our soldiers

retake 'The Malvinas' in 1982

THATCHER

The day the Iron Lady melted...with tears glistening in her eyes Margaret
Thatcher leaves Number 10 in 1990 after being ousted as Britain's first woman
Prime Minister

LOCKERBIE

A terrorist bomb kills 259 aboard Pan-Am Flight 103 - and 11 on the ground - in
1988

BLAIR

Blair we go - Tony and family

storm Downing Street in 1997

GAZZA

Tears of a clown... Paul Gascoigne weeps as England lose to Germany in the 1990
World Cup

DIANA

One of the first public glimpses of the princess who stole - and eventually
broke - the heart of the nation

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.

                               9 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Mirror

                            January 2, 2000, Sunday

TRAGEDY AND TRIUMPH;
 THAT WAS THE MILLENNIUM THAT WAS

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 48

LENGTH: 212 words


1997

PRINCESS Diana was killed, aged 36, in a car crash in Paris, along with her
lover Dodi Fayed. Her death on August 31 was followed by unprecedented scenes of
public mourning all around Britain.

Britain handed over Hong Kong to the People's Republic of China, ending more
than 150 years of colonial rule.

1998

NORTHERN Ireland was devastated by the worst terrorist act in 30 years when an
IRA bomb ripped through Omagh, killing 29 people and injuring more than 220.

David Beckham was sent off for kicking an opponent in the World Cup, and England
lost.

Viagra (right), invented by UK scientists to cure impotency, became available on
the NHS for some patients.

1999

MANCHESTER United became the first football club to achieve treble glory by
winning the Premiership, FA Cup and the European Champions' League.

Scotland and Wales got their own Parliaments again.

Hereditary peers lost their vote in the House of Lords.

2000

BRITAIN ushered in the Third Millennium with a massive network of parties and
firework displays.

The focus of the nation's celebrations was the pounds 758 million Millennium
Dome in Greenwich, South London, where the Queen, the Prime Minister and a host
of special guests saw in the New Year.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 1998: Twenty-nine people died in the Omagh bomb horror; 1997: The
funeral of Diana and the crashed limousine; 1999: Manchester United manager; Sir
Alec Ferguson shows off the three trophies that his side won - a feat never
before achieved

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.

                              10 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Mirror

                            January 2, 2000, Sunday

270 ARE KILLED IN LOCKERBIE DISASTER;
 THAT WAS THE MILLENNIUM THAT WAS

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 46, 47

LENGTH: 593 words


1983

GAY killer Dennis Nilsen jailed for life after butchering 15 young men at his
North London home.

Margaret Thatcher was re-elected PM. Actors Sir Ralph Richardson and David Niven
died. Neil Kinnock became Labour Party leader.

1984: Actors Richard Burton and James Mason died. The BMX craze hit Britain. IRA
bombed Tory Party conference hotel in Brighton.

1985

BOB Geldof led the Live Aid rock charity event at Wembley and USA. A TV audience
of 1.4billion raised pounds 100million for famine victims.

Sir Clive Sinclair unveiled the C5 electric car. Miners, led by Arthur Scargill,
called off a bitter year-long strike. 40 soccer fans died in Bradford blaze, 40
dead after Liverpool fans ran riot at Heysel stadium.

1987

THE London Stock Exchange fell by 25 per cent on Black Monday, October 19.
Archbishop's envoy Terry Waite was kidnapped in Beirut. 200 died after Herald of
Free Enterprise capsized. Thatcher elected for a third term. Michael Ryan shot
14 people dead in Hungerford. Hurricane left a trail of destruction across
Southern England. 30 killed in King's Cross Tube fire.

1988

ON December 21, Pan Am Flight 103 was blown up over the village of Lockerbie,
Scotland. All 244 passengers and 15 crew aboard the 747 jet were killed, as well
as 11 people on the ground. The SAS shot dead three members of the IRA in
Gibraltar. 150 killed in blaze on Piper Alpha oil rig in the North Sea. Pubs
could open all day from 11am-11pm.

1989

94 Liverpool supporters were killed and 170 injured at Sheffield's Hillsborough
stadium. Sixty killed when Marchioness river boat sunk on the Thames. Ten Marine
bandsmen were killed by an IRA bomb at Deal barracks in Kent. Guildford Four
freed. Nigel Lawson resigns as Chancellor. Interest rates hit 15 per cent.

1990

MARGARET Thatcher quit as Conservative leader. Gazza cried as England lost
football World Cup semi-final to West Germany. Poll tax riots in London.
Government gave pounds 2.2million for research into Mad Cow Disease. Customs
seized what was said to be parts of a "supergun" bound for Iraq. IRA car bomb
kills Tory MP Ian Gow.

1991

BRITAIN went to war against Saddam Hussein after Iraq invaded Kuwait. An air
offensive, lasting six weeks, destroyed one-third of Iraqi equipment and killed
300,000 people. IRA mortar attack on 10 Downing Street. Dame Margot Fonteyn
died, aged 71. Birmingham Six were freed. Poll Tax was finally ditched. Helen
Sharman became Britain's first astronaut.

1992

PRINCESS Anne and Captain Mark Phillips divorced (Anne went on to marry
Commander Tim Laurence). Comic Benny Hill died. John Major won the General
Election. John Smith became Labour leader. Church of England voted to allow the
ordination of women priests. Windsor Castle was damaged by fire.

1994: Channel Tunnel opened by Queen.

1995

ROSEMARY West was given 10 life sentences for the murders of 10 young women,
including two of her own children and her husband Fred's lover at 25 Cromwell
Street, the House Of Horrors. Fred West hanged himself in his prison cell before
he could stand trial. Nick Leeson brought down Barings bank, with losses of more
than pounds 800million.

1997

TONY Blair, 43, became youngest Prime Minister this century when the Labour
Party swept to power in a landslide victory, ending 18 years of Tory rule as the
number of Conservative seats in the House of Commons was halved to 165.

British nanny Louise Woodward was convicted of killing US baby Matthew Eappen
but won her freedom in an appeal.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 1985: Bob Geldof raises pounds 100m with Live Aid; 1989: 94; Liverpool
fans die at Hillsborough; 1988: 270 people are killed as Pan Am; Flight 103 is
blown up over Lockerbie (above and left); 1990: Margaret; Thatcher quits as Tory
leader; 1991: British troops with captured Iraqi soldiers as we fought Saddam
Hussein in the Gulf1995: Mass murderers Fred and Rose West1997: Cherie Blair
hugs husband Tony as he sweeps to power

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.

                              11 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                            Derby Evening Telegraph

                                January 3, 2000

REASONS TO BE CHEERFUL

SECTION: Sport: GENERAL, Pg.24

LENGTH: 937 words


1966: Geoff Hurst's unforgettable hat-trick helped England to clinch the
football World Cup at Wembley Stadium.

Their 4-2 victory over Germany turned each player into a hero and, arguably,
remains the benchmark by which each British sporting success is measured.

1974: Considered the greatest ever British Lions, the all-conquering '74 team -
including the great half-back pairing of Gareth Edwards and Phil Bennett - had
nonetheless been expected to lose their series to the Springboks in South
Africa.

But the Lions defied all the odds to win three of the four Tests with the other
match drawn.

1981: Ian Botham led England to Ashes glory after they had lost the first Test.

In possibly the most thrilling Ashes series ever, Botham smashed 149 to turn
round the third Test at Headingley, took five for 11 at Edgbaston then rounded
things off with 118 at Old Trafford to help wrap up a stunning 3-1 triumph.

1984: Jayne Torvill and Christopher Dean produced one of the most dramatic
achievements in the history of British sport when their interpretation of
Ravel's Bolero secured perfect marks - and the gold medal - in the Winter
Olympics at Sarajevo.

1985: Tony Jacklin took Britain's Ryder Cup team to their first victory over
America since 1957.

Glory at The Belfry was secured after a successful long putt from Sam Torrance
on the 18th green.

1988: Underdogs Great Britain unexpectedly won Olympic hockey gold in Seoul,
defeating the favoured West Germany 3-1 in the final for their first gold in the
event since 1920.

The match captured the imagination of millions of early risers across the
country.

1996: Damon Hill, following in the footsteps of his famous father Graham, became
world Formula One champion by winning the final race of the season in Japan.

He pipped his Williams team-mate Jacques Villeneuve of Canada to the title after
being denied glory two years earlier in a collision with Michael Schumacher.

1992: At the age of 32, British sprinter Linford Christie ran the race of his
life in Barcelona to win athletics' ultimate prize - 100 metres Olympic gold.
His time of 9.96 seconds smashed an eight-year American dominance in the event.

1999: Although other British teams have won the European Cup, none did so in
such dramatic circumstances as Manchester United in Barcelona.

With United trailing 1-0 to Bayern Munich with the clock showing 90 minutes,
Teddy Sheringham side-footed home a corner after the German defence failed to
clear and just a minute later, Ole Gunnar Solskjaer guided home from a
Sheringham header to complete a sensational turn -around.

1999: Lennox Lewis was crowned Britain's first undisputed world heavyweight
champion of the century in a November re-match with Evander Holyfield.

After the controversial draw in New York in March, Lewis put the record straight
by unanimously outscoring Holyfield on points, the momentous and historic
victory earning Lewis the WBA and IBF crowns to add to his WBC belt.

Lewis was a comfortable winner on all three judges' cards, although those
ringside believed it to be a lot closer than the 115-113, 116-112, 117 -111
score.

Horrors in the name of sport

Bradford: In 1985, on the last day of the League season, a fire in the
76-year-old wooden stand at City's Valley Parade ground claimed 56 lives and
there were hundreds of injuries. It led to a clampdown on wooden stands
throughout soccer.

Epsom: The 1913 Derby will be forever remembered for the death of Emily Wilding
Davison, the Suffragette who threw herself at the king's horse Anmer and died of
her injuries four days later.

Fastnet: Force 10 gales brought chaos to the finale of the Admiral's Cup yacht
race in 1979 and the problem was exacerbated by the lightweight rudders which
could not deal with the onslaught. The death toll was 15.

Heysel: In 1985, before the European Cup final between Liverpool and Juventus at
the Heysel Stadium in Belgium, trouble broke out in a section of terracing
behind the goal which was occupied jointly by fans of the English and Italian
clubs. Thirty-nine supporters died.

Hillsborough: In 1989, 96 Liverpool fans died in a horrific crush before the FA
Cup semi-final against Nottingham Forest at Sheffield Wednesday's ground. An
enquiry by Lord Justice Taylor blamed police operation failings and the terraces
for the tragedy and the recommendation was for grounds to become all-seater.

Ibrox: In 1902, 25 fans were killed during the Scotland v England international
after a wooden stand collapsed but in 1971, 66 fans died towards the end of the
Rangers v Celtic game on January 2 after a huge crush on a staircase leading out
of the terrace.

Los Angeles: In September 1980, 24-year-old Welshman Johnny Owen challenged
Mexican Lupe Pintor for the world bantamweight title. Knocked out in the 12th
round, he died in a Californian hospital in November.

Munich: In February 1958, the plane carrying Manchester United players,
officials and journalists back from a European game in Belgrade crashed on take
off. In all, 23 members of the United party were killed and manager Matt Busby
was critically ill for many weeks after the crash.

Munich: The 1972 Olympics will be remembered for a terrorist attack at the
Olympic village. Palestinian guerillas killed two Israeli athletes in cold blood
and took nine hostages. The terrorists were taken to Furstenfeldbruk airport by
helicopter but in a gun battle, nine hostages, a German policeman and five
kidnappers were killed.

Imola: Triple world champion Ayrton Senna died after his Williams-Renault
crashed at the San Marino Grand Prix in May 1994.

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: ENGLISH HERO: Ian Botham has recently been voted the favourite
cricketer of the century. Linford Christie with his medal at Barcelona.
Liverpool fans scramble to escape the crush at Hillsborough in 1989. Motor
racing lost one of its greatest ever exponents when Ayrton Senna died at Imola.

                     Copyright 2000 Derby Evening Telegraph

                              12 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                            Derby Evening Telegraph

                                January 4, 2000

the fight to save peace in our time

SECTION: Public Services: ARMED FORCES

LENGTH: 1427 words


Northern Ireland Enters The New Millennium With Its Peace Process Delicately
Intact. The Move Towards The End Of The Conflict Affects Not Only The Residents
But Those Who Are Posted There To Maintain The Peace. Reporter Mark Prissell And
Photographer Marc Dewhurst Visited The Worcestershire And Sherwood Foresters
Regiment, Which Has Posted 600 Soldiers And Their Families To Omagh To Oversee
The Peace Process. They Report On The Soldiers' Changing Role Since The
Battalion Last Served In The Town 10 Years Ago.

LASTING peace is tantalisingly close in Northern Ireland - but Derbyshire
soldiers serving in the troubled province still have a tough and dangerous job
to do.

More than 600 members of the Worcestershire and Sherwood Foresters are settling
in to their new surroundings after their recent arrival in Omagh.

The regiment last served in the town 10 years ago, at a time when murders,
bombings and shootings were an all-too-regular occurrence in Northern Ireland.

During that stay, a car packed with explosives was left at the barrack gates but
fortunately it did not explode.

These days, the climate is one of hope as people from both sides of the
religious divide get used to the talking instead of the killing.

But terrorists from both sides retain their weapons and the Continuity IRA has
not declared a ceasefire. The danger is still there.

The point was reiterated by the regiment's commanding officer, Lieutenant
Colonel Robert Jordan, who addressed the troops at a recent party on the base.

He said: "Peace is holding at the moment, but it's anyone's guess as to what's
going to happen.

"Sometimes terrorists don't take note of festive holidays, so remain alert."

The location of the regiment's base is a constant reminder of what can happen
when the talking stops.

It is a short walk from the centre of Omagh where in August, 1998, one of the
conflict's worst atrocities took place.

A 200-300kg car bomb exploded in the quiet market town with a population of just
20,000 people, killing 29, injuring a further 220 and devastating property.

The casualty list was even worse because coded warnings were received saying the
bomb was going to explode at the courthouse at the top of the main street.

People were herded away to what they thought was safety - but they ended up in
the heart of the explosion. The bomb had been placed at the bottom of the
street.

The death toll represented the single worst incident within Northern Ireland
since the beginning of the conflict.

Lt Col Jordan said the outrage, orchestrated by the Real IRA, has fused
relations between the local community and the army, which helped in the
aftermath of the explosion.

He said: "The signs are very hopeful and the climate is right - people are ready
to see change.

"There's a peace process going on and we'll see what happens, but the potential
for violence remains, so there's still a job for the British army and RUC."

Major Mark Holden, the regiment's second in command, who is on his fifth tour of
Ireland, said: "We have to be prepared for the unexpected.

"There are elements who are intent on disrupting the peace process and we're
ever on guard. But, despite this, things are positive and the change has been
considerable."

The Woofers, 95 per cent of whom are drawn from Derbyshire and Nottinghamshire,
are made aware of this from the moment they arrive, as are their families.

They are told where they can or cannot go in Omagh to relax - for example some
pubs, run by an anti-English element, are out of bounds for the soldiers' own
safety.

Some parts of town are also off limits, as are parts of other areas, such as
Belfast.

People who drive into Omagh also have to check their cars for bombs before
returning to base.

And in some shops, soldiers and their wives have got a frosty reception.

The general rule is not to broadcast who your employers are. Some even lie if
asked.

This even applies to civilian workers on the base who are natives of Omagh,
which has invisible boundaries which split Protestant and Catholic areas.

Maureen Monteith (57), who works on the base as a librarian, said she loves her
job but she only tells family and close friends where she works.

Despite this, she is hopeful about the future: "We all get on together in Omagh
99 per cent of the time.

"We've had several bombs over the years but the last one really was quite
devastating, it had the most impact.

"Everybody knows somebody who was killed - be they friends or people who served
you in the shops - including me.

"I was on holiday at the time but my son had been where the bomb went off just
three minutes before, which brings it home to you, it was so close.

"We've lived with the troubles for all these years and now we want peace - it's
the least we deserve."

A changing role for army in the province

THE history of the Northern Ireland conflict is complex and riddled with
religious bigotry and violence.

In recent years, ceasefires have come and gone and bombings became an
all-too-familiar occurrence. But times are changing.

The army's principal role in the troubles began in 1969 when it was called in to
help support the Royal Ulster Constabulary.

Police officers were unable to cope with the scale of violence between Catholics
and Protestants, and the army took over the RUC's role until 1977.

It then handed back power to a strengthened police force and since then the army
has been in the province to assist them.

Since the troubles began, there have been thousands of deaths in the province
and mainland Britain.

This includes six Worcestershire and Sherwood Foresters, victims of terrorism.

On April 10, 1998, the path to lasting peace began with the signing of the Good
Friday agreement after multi-party talks at Stormont.

This included a clause that the wishes of the majority of people in the province
would be recognised, whether they wanted to stay linked to Britain or become
independent.

From midnight on December 1 last year, direct rule came to an end when powers
were devolved to the new Northern Ireland Assembly.

Later that day, the IRA said it would appoint a representative to meet a
decommissioning body to tackle the issue of terrorists giving up their weapons.

But the army says it still has a role, and there is no end in sight to its
presence in the province.

Soldiers working alongside police

THE armed soldiers are still here, picking their way through urban streets or
patrolling countryside near the Republic of Ireland boarder.

You could be forgiven for thinking this practice would have been halted as the
peace process gained momentum.

But Derbyshire soldiers are today watching each other's backs as they carry out
their job - to support the police, the Royal Ulster Constabulary.

The Woofers are split into five companies whose roles rotate regularly.

One is on leave, another guarding the Omagh base and a third mounts frequent
patrols in the town itself and surrounding areas. These are based on camp.

The other two are located in four cramped, heavily guarded bases, where soldiers
keep a watch on the dangerous boarder territories.

Details of the patrols are secret but they are frequent and a helicopter is
always on hand to fly troops to remote locations.

Armour-covered carriers lie in wait at the bases for violent disturbances. The
soldiers march with their SA 80 guns and each carries radio equipment.

Soldiers from the Woofers have had stones thrown at them, been spat at and
kicked by young children - but there has been nothing more serious.

The terrain can be difficult, with troops making their way through forests and
boggy land, up to their waists in water.

Major Ben Richards, who is in charge at Lisnaskea base, said: "Things are going
well at the moment. This is classic rural farming land which before had quite a
lot of terrorist activity but things have quietened down considerably."

Terrorists used to come from the Republic to "serve" in Northern Ireland and
weapons were smuggled across the boarder.

Major Richards said: "We're always alert but things have quietened down a great
deal. It's a lot different from the way things used to be.

"The army is here to support the police - everything we do is with the police
and we patrol with them.

"We give the police protection and the local population reassurance. By and
large the boys are well received and people are used to seeing us here."

Operations include searching cars, helping enforce arrest warrants and keeping
an eye out for weapons dumps and known terrorists.

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: HOPES FOR FUTURE: The Strule Bridge in Omagh, decked with floral
tributes in the days following the August 1998 car bomb which killed 29 people.
Ben Polkey and Robert Gardner keep up with the news. (From left), Lee Robinson,
Michael Herbert, Danny McGeady and Stuart Laurie. (Left) Stuart Laurie and
Michael Herbert.

                     Copyright 2000 Derby Evening Telegraph

                              13 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            January 4, 2000, Tuesday

WE HAVE NOW ENTERED THE SECOND AMERICAN CENTURY;
 'UNLIKE ANCIENT ROME, AMERICA HAS NO EMPIRE. BUT PAX AMERICANA DOES MIRROR PAX
ROMANA'

BYLINE: Rupert Cornwell

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1212 words


BELIEVE IT or not, the amateur prophets do get it right. A hundred years ago, we
were playing the same game, picking the winners and losers of the next century.
Even Lord Salisbury, the then prime minister, subscribed to a Darwinian view of
nations and acknowledged they were split between the "living" and the "dying".
Circumstances were in some respects similar. The great powers were at peace with
each other and an earlier era of "globalisation" was under way. But, even then,
the smart money was on the US as top nation.

By dint of its empire, fleet and financial investments, Britain in 1900 was
still primus inter pares in a multi-polar world. But the irredeemable pessimist
Salisbury was not the only one to suspect that it could not last. A few seers
tipped Germany, which had already moved ahead of Britain by most industrial (if
not military) indicators. In the Far East, Japan was flexing its muscles. But
most pundits subscribed to the prediction made decades earlier by Alexis de
Tocqueville that the US and Russia were "marked out by the Will of Heaven to
sway the destinies of half the globe".

And so it proved, though, as revolution gripped Russia and isolation masked the
fact that the US had become the strongest power on the planet, it did not seem
so at first. However, within 25 years Europe had self- destructed again and the
bi-polar world was there for all to see. After another 50 years, Communism
crumbled in its turn and the two had shrunk to one. We have truly lived an
American Century - with every prospect of another one to come.

From Paris to Moscow and Peking, the fashionable yearning is for a return to a
multi-polar world, but that prospect is receding. Even 10 years ago, you could
talk of five competitors for global supremacy: the US, China, Japan, the Soviet
Union and Western Europe. But, on even the most charitable assessment, the five
have now shrunk to three.

Japan, weakened by long economic stasis, is surely too small, too culturally
separate and too dependent on outside resources to contend. Russia's two
revolutions of 1917 and 1991, marking the birth and death of the Communist
superpower, may have provided the dates that truly define the 20th century. But,
despite its vast territories and resources, Russia is surely out of the game for
decades. It is able to command attention thanks only to a vestigial spoiling
role bestowed upon it by a rusting nuclear arsenal. Eliminate Russia and
substitute China for Japan, and the contenders in 2000 are much as they were in
1900: the US, the old powers of Europe in their new incarnation as the EU, and
China. But for the foreseeable future, America rules.

In fact, the most intriguing parallel lies not 100 years ago but 2,000 years ago
- the very milestone of history which has prompted the present onrush of
navel-gazing in the first place. Then too, a single dominant, relatively benign
power held sway in the Western world. It resembled the US in its military,
economic and technological pre-eminence, its knack of replenishing itself from
those it conquered, and in its ability to assimilate. Unlike ancient Rome, the
US holds no empire by force of arms. But in many ways Pax Americana mirrors Pax
Romana. Take for instance, the prize of citizenship, Rome's way of enlisting the
talents and loyalties of the most valuable of its new subjects. America's way is
the fast-track green card for computer programmers from India and elsewhere,
which allows it to secure the skills needed to service the information age. Both
polities saw immigration as a strength, not a weakness.

So what can threaten America? A collapse like that of the Soviet Union is
unimaginable. Unlike the Romans and, more recently, the Spanish, French and the
British - the US does not carry the burden of physical empire. Unlike modern
Russia and China, it must cope with no pockets of internal revolt or civil war.
Unlike China, its government does not have to force everything within the
straitjacket of an obsolete, irrelevant ideology to survive.

America's most obvious rival is Europe. But here too it has massive advantages.
By any criteria, Europe has progressed astoundingly since its mid -century
Armageddon; today's EU, and its voluntary pooling of sovereignty, is an
experiment unmatched in history. But for all its collective economic might and
new single currency, it lags far behind the US in political and cultural
cohesiveness. In the short and medium term, enlargement will only widen that
gap. In France, and some other countries, fears of the American "hyper- power"
will increase the desire for a European super -state as a counterbalance. In
Britain, the effect will be the opposite, reinforcing the temptation to glide in
America's slipstream.

In economic terms, too, the US seems shielded from the most obvious turbulences
of the new century: pollution and competition for resources such as food, oil,
land and, above all, water. With little trouble America could support a
population of double its present size. A couple of decades ago, the talk was of
military overstretch and relative US decline. Defence spending today looks in
step with its overall economy, yet America's military lead on the rest of the
world, perhaps soon to be crowned by a national missile defence system, has
never been greater.

Of course, the American model of hurly-burly capitalism within a strict and
respected regulatory framework, is not the elixir of economic life. Sooner
rather than later the high-tech market bubble will burst; conceivably, a
withdrawal of foreign capital will cause a Wall Street crash. But in the larger
sweep of things, that will make little difference. Trouble on Wall Street means
trouble everywhere; from London and Frankfurt to Tokyo and Peking. In a period
of rapid change, a nation's economic trump card is flexibility, and flexibility
is the essence of the US model.

Nor is America's success in exporting and internationalising its culture likely
to falter. The dominance of English, already the lingua franca on the Internet,
in air travel and almost everything that crosses national borders, will surely
become more pervasive.

In this age, above all others, nothing is set in stone. But, short of natural
calamity or a "terrorist suitcase" nuclear attack wiping out half a dozen big US
cities, the main danger lies within. When Henry Luce, the founder of Time
magazine, first coined the phrase "The American Century" in a famous essay 60
years ago, the notion implied responsibilities as well as rewards. But today,
America increasingly assumes superiority as a birthright.

A sense of duty has been supplanted by smugness, modesty by arrogance.
Increasingly, it either ignores the world, or crudely tries to thrust the
American model upon it. The tiny relative size of the US international aid
budget is one manifestation of its disdain; others are its recurring contempt
for the United Nations and its habit of preaching to the world rules of
behaviour from which it exempts itself.

History and human nature alike suggest that American hegemony cannot continue
forever. Imperial Rome ruled the roost for roughly 300 years. In ways we cannot
foresee, this second American Century may prove to be the last.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2000 Independent Print Ltd

                              14 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 12, 2000

Sport in brief

SECTION: Guardian Sport Pages; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 384 words


Sailing

Paul Cayard's AmericaOne beat Italy's Luna Rossa, skippered by Francesco di
Angelis, by eight seconds yesterday to move into an almost unassailable lead for
a place in the final. Should Cayard beat Peter Gilmour, steering the Nippon
Challenge's Asura, in today's race he will seal first place. Asura beat America
True and Stars & Stripes defeated Le Defi. Bob Fisher in Auckland Rallying

The Dakar-Cairo Rally is to bypass Niger and resume in Libya next Tuesday after
a massive air lift, the organisers said yesterday. They had reported 'a serious
risk of an external terrorist attack' on the endurance race while it was in
Niger where the next three stages were scheduled. Jean-Claude Killy, president
of the company organising the race, said some 1,500 people and 300 vehicles
would be flown from Niamey, where the sixth stage was completed with a win for
Carlos Sousa in a Mitsubishi. 'It's going to take us four or five days with two
or three big Antonov 124 transports," Killy said. There are still 150 cars, 127
motorcycles and 64 trucks in the race. Boxing

Canada's amateur association has ruled that it will allow a Sikh fighter,
Pardeep Nagra, to enter bouts despite having a beard. After a legal battle
lasting several months, the association revoked an earlier decision to exclude
Nagra from competition in Canada and recognised that there were religious
grounds preventing him from shaving off his beard. Its rules require boxers to
be clean-shaven because facial hair might injure an opponent's eyes. Bowls

Tony Allcock, 44, rolled back the years with a vintage display to reach the last
32 of the World Indoor championship in Norfolk yesterday. The Gloucester player
showed he has lost little of his skill with a 74, 74, 72 victory over Martin
Pulling of Grantham.

Allcock said: 'I haven't had much opportunity to play recently as my father died
over the festive period and was buried just last week. However, after all this
time I still enjoy top-level bowls and the minute that stops I will know it is
time to quit.' Ron Wyllie Hockey Great Britain beat Ireland 40 in a women's
friendly international in Terrassa in Spain yesterday. The Scot Rhona Simpson
scored twice, Tina Cullen added the third and Lucilla Wright completed the
scoring. Pat Rowley


LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              15 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 13, 2000

Extradition refused as 'unjust and oppressive';
The decision Home secretary has wide discretion

BYLINE: Clare Dyer Legal Correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 458 words


Clare Dyer Legal Correspondent

Jack Straw took his decision not to extradite General Pinochet to Spain under a
section of the 1989 Extradition act which requires him not to extradite an
alleged offender if he believes it would be 'unjust or oppressive" to do so.

The move was last used in March 1998, when Mr Straw decided not to extradite
Roisin McAliskey to Germany to face charges in connection with an IRA bomb
attack on a British army base.

In both cases the decision was taken on medical grounds, although it may be done
on others, such as that the offence was trivial or the accusations were not made
in good faith, or because of the passage of time since the alleged offences.

The home secretary's discretion not to surrender someone after the magistrate
has committed them for extradition is wide. He is required to consider the
personal circumstances of the alleged offender and any new evidence since the
committal.

In the McAliskey case, Mr Straw faced allegations that he was acting on
political rather than medical grounds, to appease Sinn Fein. Gen Pinochet's
supporters have accused Mr Straw of acting politically in not freeing the ailing
ex-dictator sooner.

In fact, Mr Straw has strictly followed the letter of the law. Lawyers believe
the general would have had a good chance of being freed on 'unjust or
oppressive" grounds during his forthcoming application for habeas corpus. Mr
Straw may simply have accelerated the process.

Lawyers expected him to argue that it would be unjust or oppressive to surrender
him to Spain because of the passage of time; that witnesses had died or memories
had faded. A second likely argument was that he had been allowed to enter
Britain freely and return to Chile several times, lulling him into a false sense
of security. Gen Pinochet is also entitled to the normal doctor -patient
confidentiality unless he chooses to waive it, which he has declined to do.

Campaigners for his extradition complained yesterday that without access to the
medical reports, it would be difficult to mount a high court challenge to Mr
Straw's decision. With 'unequivocal and unanimous" reports from four
distinguished doctors that Gen Pinochet is unfit to stand trial, success is
unlikely.

Given the specialties of the doctors asked to examine the general, it may be
that the ageing process and his strokes have impaired his ability to follow
court proceedings and instruct his lawyers, making it difficult for him to have
a fair trial. A trial could result in a breach of the European Convention on
Human Rights.

In criminal cases tried in Britain, it is not unusual for prosecutions to be
avoided or discontinued if the accused is in poor health, or old and frail.


LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              16 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 13, 2000

Alarm at gunboat demand for plutonium's return trip

BYLINE: Paul Brown Environment Correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 428 words


Paul Brown Environment Correspondent

Japan's biggest nuclear power company yesterday demanded that Britain send two
gunboats on a 40,000 mile round trip to pick up a shipment of British-produced
plutonium which it refuses to load into its reactors on safety grounds.

The British government is so alarmed at having to spend millions on sending the
ships that it is dispatching a delegation to plead with Japanese ministers to
veto the plan.

The demand, by Kansai Elec tric Power, that British Nuclear Fuels collect the
fuel it shipped to Japan with false safety documents, is the latest blow to the
troubled nuclear company.

It needed Japanese orders to justify opening a pounds 300m plant to make
plutonium-based mixed oxide fuel, but now seems doomed not to get any.

The mixed oxide plant, mothballed for 18 months, was on the verge of gaining
permission to operate last autumn when the documents scandal came to light.

At the time BNFL denied that any of the fuel it had sent to Japan was involved,
but before Christmas the Nuclear Installation Inspectorate revealed that the
company was not being honest.

BNFL was forced into an abject apology to the Japanese and the energy minister,
Helen Liddell, called in the BNFL chairman, Hugh Collum, and its chief
executive, John Taylor, for a reprimand.

She talked of the government's 'very grave concerns' about the falsification of
quality control data.

Yesterday ministers ordered Anna Walker, the director general of energy at the
DTI, and Lawrence Williams, chief inspector of the NII, to go to Japan to talk
the government out of sending the fuel back.

Both governments fear censure if the fuel, from which plutonium could be
extracted to make weapons, was shipped around the world again.

Under nuclear proliferation safeguards, plutonium shipments have to be
accompanied by armed vessels. BNFL armed two transport ships and trained crews
to fight terrorists to deliver the fuel in the first place.

Yesterday the DTI, which sees its plans to privatise 49% of BNFL and raise
pounds 1.5bn for the taxpayer fading fast, confirmed that it was anxious to
avoid shipping the fuel back .

A spokeswoman said the fuel should be dealt with in Japan. Surprisingly the DTI
found itself on the same side as Green peace which said it was mad to risk
sending the fuel back.

Pete Roche, the nuclear campaigner, said 'Both countries have more plutonium
than they can ever use. It's mad to ship it round the world, needlessly risking
terrorist attack or environmental problems.'


LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              17 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Mercury

                            January 23, 2000, Sunday

BOOK REVIEW: SAS HEROES FACE THE MAD MULLAHS

BYLINE: Richard Williamson

SECTION: Pg. 44

LENGTH: 623 words


IT seems likely that SAS training not only includes yomping over mountains and
shooting the eye out of a gnat at half-a-mile but also a crash course on how to
write a book.

They are all at it, which is odd for what was once meant to be the most
secretive unit in the British Army.

Direct Action (Orion pounds 9.99) is Brummie ex-trooper Johnny 'Two Combs'
Howard's second novel about the brave boys from Hereford.

When the Russian bear went into hibernation thriller writers had to look round
for another mega-villain and they found him in the shape of the mad mullahs of
the Middle East.

Howard's target is Osama bin Laden, public enemy number one as far as America is
concerned and reputedly the arch-terrorist of our times, launching his
atrocities from a hideway in Afghanistan.

After two bomb attacks on British and American embassies it is decided to take
him out. Cruise missiles have failed in the past so it means sending in ground
troops for the big raid.

For political reasons it must be a joint Anglo-American operation involving men
from Delta Force and the SAS.

While the troops train and prepare for mission impossible two ultra brave
operatives go in ahead to recce the country. Where Howard is good is on the
technology and armaments, the methods and practices of special forces but then
he was a member, so he should be.

There may be more here than you need to know about communications, satellites,
missiles, rifles and hand grenades but it does lend an air of authenticity.

He is especially good at the tensions within the forces involved, especially
between SAS troopers and their officers, known disparagingly as 'Ruperts'. No
surprise to find that most of the officers are clots and their men are tough,
self-reliant, intelligent guys. Howard (inset), it seems, has an axe to grind.

We also get the contrast between British and American methods: they have more
technology and cheer a lot but we have oodles of experience and tend to take the
mickey.

Howard conjures up a convincing Afghan wilderness and is adept at mixing the
real world with the fictitious.

He's also brave enough to plunge into the complex relationships within the
Muslim world. If you get confused about The Taliban versus the Mujahideen and
Sunnis versus Shi'ites then Howard has no fears.

The weakness is that there are no individuals you can really identify with, only
the teams at work.

But if the SAS in action is what turns you on then Howard is as good as any of
the others at telling a stirring Hereford tale.

Fundamentalism has also taken over from communism as the arch-enemy in Patrick
Robinson's techno-thriller HMS Unseen (Arrow pounds 5.99).

Ben Adnam is cold and eerily calm but he is still a fanatic, even if he doesn't
go in for a lot of ranting.

An Arab who masqueraded for years as an Israeli naval officer and who even went
for training in Britain, Ben finds himself spurned by Iraq and turns to Iran
with a diabolical plan.

For the Iranians it is a strike against The Great Satan, better known to you and
me as America and its partner Britain. For Ben the real point is to wreak
revenge on an ungrateful Saddam Hussein by making him take the blame.

The plan involves the hi-jacking of a British submarine and using it to launch
devastating terrorist attacks. But where does a stateless terrorist go when not
only the British and American security agencies are on his tail but also his own
employers?

Robinson has the formula just about right, balancing an abundance of technical
detail with an enigmatic villain.

The only problem is that we spend so much time in his company that you might
start feeling sorry for the villain and that just won't do.

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: IN THEY GO... the heroes of the SAS - great characters for thriller
writers

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2000 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              18 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 24, 2000

Guardian Unlimited

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 532 words


Ken and Glenda Ken Livingstone has moved to cement his developing alliance with
former transport minister Glenda Jackson by promising to appoint her his deputy,
and as chairwoman of the Metropolitan police authority and roving ambassador for
the capital, if he is elected mayor of London 4 Record deal Britain's EMI and
the record labels of US group Time Warner are to merge in a deal worth pounds
12bn, creating Warner EMI 5 Angry reaction Sinn Fein has reacted angrily to
Ulster Unionist claims that Peter Mandelson, the Northern Ireland secretary,
would refuse Sinn Fein's two MPs access to the Commons until the IRA began to
decommission its weapons 8

Pope seeks mercy The Pope has called on George W Bush, governor of Texas and
leading Republican presidential contender, to halt tomorrow's execution of a man
who committed murder at the age of 17 11 Madrid protest A million people have
marched through Madrid to show their anger at Friday's ETA car bomb which killed
an army lieutenant 12

Sink the pink The Wall Street Journal Europe is undergoing a multi-million pound
expansion designed to thwart the efforts of the Financial Times to establish
itself as the premier global business newspaper 20 Analysis

Policy making The government says it looks for facts and evidence before making
up its mind, but Tony Blair's commitment on health shows old-fashioned political
considerations matter as much as ever 2 Comment

Madeleine Bunting Brands are increasingly colonising our souls 15 Peter Preston
Ordinary people have provided much of the momentum for the miraculous
rapprochement between Turkey and Greece 16 Leaders

Statement of intent It is time for the government to come clean on its attitude
to the pound Clause for thought The furore over Clause 28 shows that Scotland
cannot escape its bigoted past but also the strength of devolution 17

Obituaries E W Swanton, doyen of cricket writers

Darryl's life Darryl Fuller is 16, has been expelled from school after school
and is unemployed. What does the future hold for him? 2 The Sabine Durrant
Interview Nicky Clarke, hairdresser to the rich and famous 4 Poetic licence Can
a male writer, however accomplished, ever describe a orgasm? 6 Small is
beautiful Jonathan Glancey has fallen in love with a shed 12

guidemonday Mark Lawson on C4's new series on sexual organs

Birthday greetings As Newsnight celebrates 20 years, Jeremy Paxman ponders BBC
bureaucracy, Birtism and being a bit less abrasive 2 Shock tactics Barnardo's
new advertising campaign is disturbing and controversial - but does it work? 4
Sergeant breaks ranks John Sergeant was contemplating a move to the Antiques
Roadshow. Until ITN asked him to become their new political editor 8 New media
Online advertising is predictable and irritating. But all that is about to
change www.guardian.co.uk Looking for something from the weekend? Search our
archive for free www.guardian.co.uk/archive Golden Globe latest All the winners
and losers from the Golden Globe awards in LA www.filmunlimited.co.uk

Guardian Newspapers Ltd, 119 Farringdon Road EC1R 3ER.

Telephone: 0171-278 2332

Fax: 0171-837 2114

www.guardian.co.uk.


LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              19 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                                 New Statesman

                                January 24, 2000

Two nations on the nuclear brink; Relations between India and Pakistan, say
diplomats, are now worse than they ever were between the US and the Soviet
Union. John Elliott reports

BYLINE: John Elliott

LENGTH: 1237 words


America, a retired Indian diplomat said to me a few days ago, is 'the main
beneficiary' of India's great Christmas hijacking drama. This, he explained, was
because the US could now strut round the west, whipping up support for pushing
India and Pakistan into a settlement on Kashmir before these two nuclear states
stumble into another crisis.

The remark says more about India's ultra-sensitivity to US interference than it
does about Kashmir; but the diplomat had a point. Certainly there are no rival
beneficiaries, apart from hijackers, who have shown that they can sometimes win
concessions (in this case, the release of prisoners). India has not gained
because its poor handling of the eight-day hijack of one of its national airline
flights has only underlined its frighteningly bad disaster management. Pakistan
has not gained either. It is being loudly accused by India and other countries
(armed with wire-tap intelligence from the US) of abetting terrorism by helping
the hijackers. And the people of Kashmir, for whose independence the hijackers
were campaigning, have not gained because peace is no nearer in their beautiful
mountain valley of Srinagar.

But what the hijack did do was to increase sharply international concern about
the two countries' relations which are now at their worst since the last of
their three wars in 1971. 'There is less interaction and less understanding of
each other's perceptions and capabilities than the US and the Soviet Union ever
had, even at the height of the cold war,' says a western diplomat.

The risk of a nuclear conflict has not led to a reduction in border warfare
since the two countries carried out nuclear tests in May 1998. Instead, Pakistan
is being more openly aggressive, stirring up problems in north-eastern India as
well as the north-western border state of Kashmir. Despite a soldier-to-soldier
appeal to Pakistan's military ruler, General Pervez Musharraf, from General Sir
Charles Guthrie, chief of the British defence staff, there are no signs that
Pakistan will stop its terrorist attacks. Not surprisingly, the British
government has decided to continue its ban on arms sales to Pakistan.

What particularly worries Britain and America is that India seems bad at
handling crises. The Indian government was slow to react when the hijacking
began, allowing the plane to land and then take off from India's northern city
of Amritsar. The government remained on the back foot through most of the crisis
and dealt very insensitively with the relatives of those on board. The basic
problem was India's hierarchical, seniority-bound bureaucracy. Officials were
scared to take decisions or go ahead with meetings without authorisation from
the prime minister's office or the cabinet office.

This was the fourth major example in two years of India's bungled
disaster-management. The list starts with its insensitive mishandling of
international diplomacy immediately after the nuclear tests. The dilatoriness of
intelligence forces and top army officers then allowed Pakistan's troops and
Afghan militants to infiltrate across the border, seize territory around the
Kashmir town of Kargil and prompt the first armed conflict in history between
two nuclear states. Then, last October, the eastern state of Orissa bungled its
reaction to a hurricane which devastated coastal regions and caused 20,000
deaths. Orissa's state administration collapsed and local and national
politicians played politics instead of mobilising assistance.

As for Pakistan, the west is concerned about its crumbling debt-laden economy
and the real intentions of its military ruler. It is also worried about close
links between Pakistan and the Taliban government in Afghanistan, and evidence
that the Taliban is broadening its jihads (holy wars) to areas like Chechnya.

So we have two conflict-prone nuclear states which are slow and uncertain when
it comes to managing a crisis. No wonder the west is desperate to reduce the
tension. But if it wants a settlement on Kashmir, it will be disappointed. There
is no prospect of any such settlement for at least a generation, and maybe for
20 years or more. The two countries' sections of Kashmir are divided by a
500-mile line of control (or temporary border) that was fixed in 1949. India
would probably accept a permanent settlement which recognised this line as the
official border. But Pakistan is determined to acquire extra territory, notably
the Srinagar valley, and to that India would never agree, short of defeat in
war. Nor will it agree to ask the Kashmiris themselves what they want - it has
resisted a plebiscite since the 1950s.

So there is a stalemate which no amount of international diplomacy and
intervention will break in the foreseeable future. Equally, there is no prospect
of either country responding to international pressure to reduce its nuclear
capability. There is a faint possibility that they will both sign the
Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty in the next two months before President Clinton
visits the region on a trip planned for the end of March. But that will not stop
them developing their nuclear capabilities; India, in particular, sees its
nuclear weapons as an essential protection against possible attack by China, as
well as Pakistan.

For decades, the US sided with Pakistan in preference to India, which it
misunderstood and distrusted.

That has changed as India has opened up its economy and, in the past two years,
emerged as a responsible non-aggressive nuclear power, in sharp contrast to
Pakistan's corrupt and crumbling economy and its terrorist activities. (
Britain's Labour government, and especially Robin Cook, who started off as a
resolutely pro-Pakistan Foreign Secretary, has made a similar switch in the past
two years.) However, neither the US nor any of the multilateral agencies want to
break links with Pakistan, not only because it is such a precarious nuclear
state, but also because there is a serious risk of creeping Islamic
fundamentalism taking over the government and army. Furthermore, the US owes
Pakistan for help both during the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan and in
relations with China, and it needs it now for links with the Middle East.

India's immediate problem is how to deal with the situation in Srinagar where
there are almost daily attacks by militants on army installations and other
official establishments as well as civilians. Some Indians would like to see
Israeli-style raids on terrorist camps across the Pakistan border; but it is
unlikely that India would be willing to face the risk of either failure or
international criticism. Others would like to see an India-led economic blockade
- a ban last week on cotton imports from Pakistan could be seen as the first
step in such a campaign, though the official reason was that the cotton was
contaminated with pests.

The long-term solution is for the unsolvable issue of Kashmir to be put on one
side while the two countries develop closer economic and other ties. But
Pakistan's current stance prevents that happening. The west therefore needs to
take the long view and recognise that there is no chance of a quick fix.

Its best hope is to accept that the conflict will go on and to persuade both
countries to develop adequate nuclear control systems. In that way, it will at
least minimise the chances of a future crisis turning into a nuclear disaster.


LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                        Copyright 2000 New Statesman Ltd

                              20 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                January 25, 2000

11 VICTIMS OF WEST RAPIST;
 Crimewatch helps in Britain's biggest sex crime manhunt

BYLINE: Wendy Best

SECTION: News, Pg.1

LENGTH: 613 words



THE hunt for one of Britain's worst serial rapists was today being dramatically
stepped up with a nationwide appeal in a bid to catch him before he strikes
again.

Detectives have for the first time linked the notorious Batman rapist to at
least 11 brutal attacks on women in the West over the past decade.

In what has become the biggest rape investigation in the country, the attacker's
reign of terror will tonight be featured on the BBC's Crimewatch programme in a
fresh drive for clues.

It is a year since the Batman rapist last abducted and attacked a woman, but
with police anxious that he could strike again and become more violent, they are
desperately hoping tonight's appeal will provide a breakthrough.

The rapist is now being linked to ten attacks in Bath and one in Bristol since
1991 by Avon and Somerset police.

Chilling

The attacker earned his nickname when he dropped a Batman baseball cap - an
important clue - during an attempted abduction in Bath in January of last year,
the last occasion on which he struck.

Detectives will tonight reveal details of the attacks and provide a chilling
picture of how the rapist operates, wielding a knife and often returning his
victims to the same spot from where he abducted them, and also forcing them to
wear tights during their ordeal.

Officers hope someone who recognises "this very specific sexual behaviour" will
provide the crucial call leading to his arrest.

Police spokesman Inspector Keith Jones said yesterday: "There's always the
possibility that this man could strike again so that's why we need the public to
help us before he has that opportunity." Today in the Western Daily Press, two
victims of the attacks tell of their ordeals in the hope that someone will come
forward. One says: "He's twisted, needs to be found and locked up".

The man is described as white, born between 1962 and 1968, between 5ft 8ins and
5ft 10ins tall and slim. Along with the Batman cap, a pink hair- band used to
blindfold the Bristol victim is also a vital clue.

Striking features of the rapist include his determination to pick a victim - if
one attempt fails he will try to rape a second woman on the same day. Three
times he has struck twice on the same night after a failed abduction attempt.

The rapist uses a very specific hunting ground in the Widcombe and Bathwick
areas of Bath near the university and then drives his victims to secluded
locations in the south of the city. Inspector Jones said: "Crimewatch represents
an important stage in a long and complex inquiry. I would encourage as many
people as possible to watch tonight and if you know anything please ring
Crimestoppers on 0800 555111.

"If you have been a victim we need to know and we have specially-trained
officers who can speak with you. It doesn't matter how long ago, it could
provide valuable information."

The attacks being linked are five abductions and rapes, five attempted
abductions and one serious sexual assault on women aged in their teens to 49.

The investigation team is keeping an open mind about possible links with the
disappearance of hospital clerical worker Melanie Hall, who vanished in June
1996 after a night out with friends in Bath.

Labour councillor Betty Perry, chairman of Bath and North East Somerset council,
said: "I would urge people to watch it and if something is triggered in their
minds ring the police and maybe we can solve this. But Bath is a safe place."

Detectives have set up an e-mail address for people wanting to pass on
information - incidentroom.bath@arsom.police.uk

There is a 10,000 reward for information leading to the conviction of the
rapist.



LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2000 Bristol United Press

                              21 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                          January 26, 2000, Wednesday

REDGRAVE CONDEMNS RUSSIANS;
 CHECHNYA TURNED INTO A GHETTO SAYS ACTRESS

BYLINE: John Deane Special Correspondent

SECTION: FOREIGN NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 676 words


Actress Vanessa Redgrave yesterday accused the Russian military of turning the
whole of Chechnya into a Second World War style "ghetto" from which there was no
escape for besieged civilians.

Ms Redgrave also called on Western governments, including Britain's, to
recognise the Chechen government and apply pressure on Moscow to allow
humanitarian agencies access to Chechnya.

The actress made her remarks at the House of Commons at the launch of a new
campaign - the International Campaign for Peace and Human Rights for Chechnya -
designed to highlight the impact of Russia's military campaign against Chechnya.

Russian troops and Chechen rebels in the breakaway republic are locked in a
bitter and bloody struggle for the capital, Grozny.

The Russians marched into Chechnya last September after armed incursions by
Islamic militants into the neighbouring region of Dagestan.

Militants were also blamed for a series of apartment block bombings in Moscow
and elsewhere which killed about 300 people.

Ms Redgrave claimed that the Russian forces were failing to allow civilians the
chance to flee the fighting.

She said: "Russia's government has transformed the whole of Chechnya into a
ghetto. There are no humanitarian corridors along which to flee. If anyone does
get out, it is a miracle.

"We have to demand that our governments demand access for humanitarian agencies
to enter, and security guarantees."

Ms Redgrave said that after what the Russian forces had done to Chechnya, they
had lost any right to govern the breakaway republic.

"The Chechens cannot live under Russia any more than the Jews of Europe could
live under German rule. They have to have their own rights and existence."

Ms Redgrave was close to tears as she concluded by saying: "I salute them, the
brave, poor citizens of Grozny and Chechnya."

Ms Redgrave was accompanied by her actor brother Corin, and politicians
including former deputy Labour leader Lord Hattersley and Islington North's
Labour MP Mr Jeremy Corbyn.

Corin Redgrave told the launch meeting that the Russian forces had created a
desperate situation.

"It's an almost unimaginable situation ... as the Russian army and air force
pour everything it has in the way of death and destruction down on those who
lack even sufficient food and water."

Mr Redgrave dismissed the Russian argument that the operation was designed to
counter a terrorist threat, insisting: "Russia is fighting an entire country."

For the international community to accept the Russian justification for the
campaign was to turn a blind eye to "an international crime of enormous
proportions", he argued. "We cannot be onlookers, bystanders in the face of that
crime."

Ms Redgrave has a long history as a political activist. Last year the long -time
political firebrand was one of an array of international stars who flew to
Kosovo to stage a series of concerts for returning refugees of the war.

She was active in Ban the H-Bomb protests, and later in protests against the
Vietnam war, as well as giving her support to the PLO and a variety of far -left
causes. Later, the EU's commissioner for external affairs, Mr Chris Patten,
acknowledged that the prospects of any kind of settlement in Chechnya were
bleak.

He defended the EU's own actions against Russia - limited restrictions on aid
programmes - and questioned whether the United States had done enough to put
pressure on Moscow.

Mr Patten said: "What we have to balance ... establishing a sensible, co
-operative relationship with Russia, which is one of the greatest countries in
the world, with the great displeasure felt by most people in the European Union.

"What we have been trying to get from the Russians is an assurance that
humanitarian relief can operate in the region in security ... we would very much
like to be a part of an international humanitarian operation."

He added: "We are very keen to see an Organisation for Security and Co-
operation in Europe presence on the ground in the region."

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Carnage: Russian interior troops seek protection behind a tank during a
fight against Chechen rebels in Grozny.

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2000 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              22 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                      January 27, 2000, Thursday Edition 1

World round-up

SECTION: INTERNATIONAL NEWS, Pg. 22

LENGTH: 591 words


   USA: Washington will appeal a World Trade Organisation ruling against its
import duties on leaded steel bars from Britain.

An official said the appeal would be lodged at a meeting of the WTO dispute
settlement body in Geneva today.

A three-member WTO panel ruled last month that the US was wrong to impose import
levies using the argument that the bars' producer, British Steel plc, was still
subsidised by the government. British Steel was privatised in 1988.

USA: A four-month-old boy suffocated on a container from a Burger King Pokemon
toy that was left in his cot in Indianapolis. The fast food chain recalled all
the toys last month after a similar death in the US.

Romania: British pastor Andrew John Robert Badler, 50, reportedly of the
International Penticostal Church, has been arrested in Bucharest on suspicion of
paedophilia after being found in an apartment with two teenage boys, police
said. Badler, who was known by the boys as a pastor, denied any wrongdoing.

SPAIN: Universities across the land fell silent for five minutes as students and
faculty protested a car-bombing blamed on the Basque separatist group ETA which
killed one man last Friday in Madrid. "The university has always been a place
where dictatorship and lack of freedom were fought," said the chairman of the
Spanish Association of University Deans.

Saudi Arabia: Twelve Filipinos arrested for attending a Bible study session have
been freed, a diplomat said. Four Filipinos, the Bible class leaders, remain in
jail, he added.

USA: Actress Brooke Shields may come face-to-face today with a man accused of
stalking her for three months. Los Angeles prosecutors say Mark Bailey, 41, was
armed when he followed the former wife of tennis star Andre Agassi between
October and January 10 this year. A preliminary hearing will hear from witnesses
and decide if there is enough evidence to try Bailey.

SAUDI ARABIA: A murderer became the first national to be publicly executed this
year. Amash Mohsen al-Qahtani was beheaded in the capital Ryadh. Last year at
least 99 people were beheaded.

USA: A 60-stone woman who was injured in the house she hadn't left for three
years was taken to a hospital by firemen who used a mattress and pulleys to lift
her out of a window. The Philadelphia woman, in her 50s, had fallen as she got
out of bed. Her injuries were not serious.

INDIA: Security precautions, militant threats and a few explosions combined to
clear the nation's streets and subdue the country's Republic Day celebrations.
Nigerian president Olusegun Obasanjo was the guest of honour at the national
parade in the capital, New Delhi. But many watched the celebrations marking the
50th anniversary of India's constitution on TV.

JAPAN: Authorities took emergency steps to stop a wave of hacker attacks at
government websites after another message accusing the nation of denying wartime
atrocities appeared on a ministry homepage. Hackers have broken into government
websites at least three times since Monday.

Pakistan: Six supreme court judges defied an order by the ruling general to take
a new oath protecting the military from legal action. The refusal is the biggest
challenge so far to the military's rule, which began on October 12 when the army
threw out the government of Nawaz Sharif. Sharif's trial on criminal charges was
delayed yesterday after his lawyers argued the court should first decide on the
legality of the takeover - under the new oath justices would be prevented from
hearing such a challenge.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2000 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              23 of 299 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            January 31, 2000, Monday

HUNDRED YEARS OF KILLING

BYLINE: Oonagh Blackman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 159 words


ASSASSINATION has been a Republican trademark for more than a century.

Their first high profile victim was the new Irish Chief Secretary Lord Frederick
Cavendish, stabbed to death by Fenians as he walked in Dublin's Phoenix Park in
1882.

When the latest troubles began in 1968 the IRA chillingly demonstrated its
ability to hit targets in Britain. Security was dramatically stepped up at the
Houses of Parliament in 1979 after senior Tory Airey Neave was killed by a car
bomb as he drove out of the Commons car park.

Five months later Earl Mountbatten was blown up aboard his motor boat. Prime
Minister Margaret Thatcher and half the Cabinet had an amazing escape when the
Grand Hotel, Brighton, was bombed during the Tory party conference in 1984.

Ian Gow, another pro-Unionist Tory MP and friend of Mrs Thatcher, was also
killed by a car bomb in 1990.

And Downing Street was hit by mortars during a Cabinet meeting in 1991.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: VICTIM: Airey Neave was blown up

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.

                              24 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                            February 6, 2000, Sunday

SAS READY TO SMASH REBEL IRA BOMB PLOT

BYLINE: Nigel Nelson, Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 268 words


HIT squads from Britain's elite SAS regiment were on standby last night to crush
splinter IRA groups planning an horrific new bombing campaign.

Security chiefs fear the imposition of direct rule from Westminster this week
will trigger a fresh wave of terrorist outrages.

MI5 agents and Special Branch detectives are keeping a round-the-clock watch on
breakaway gangs who want to wreck the peace process.

If there is any sign of the terrorists preparing to launch an attack, the SAS -
the troops most feared by the Provisional IRA during their 27-year war - will be
called in to ambush them.

Northern Ireland Secretary Peter Mandelson confirmed yesterday the renegades are
under close surveillance.

"We are watching them like hawks," he said.

"We know who they are, where they are and what they are doing.

"Woe betide anyone who puts their heads above the parapet to attack what we have
achieved for public safety in Northern Ireland or elsewhere.

"They will suffer a very serious response if they do." At least 200 dissidents
have now split from the Provos to set up the Real and Continuity IRA. But
Intelligence chiefs believe the two organisations are essentially the same. They
have a full arsenal of weapons and are just looking for an excuse to return to
violence.

Yesterday Ulster Unionist leader David Trimble and Sinn Fein boss Gerry Adams
met to try to break the deadlock. The IRA said in a statement yesterday that it
would not be pressured into decommissioning.

They added that their guns were silent and the peace process was under no threat
from them.

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WARNING: Mandelson; DEADLOCK: Adams

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.

                              25 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                February 7, 2000

SECTION: Guardian Foreign Pages; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 797 words


Banned protein found in French cattle feed

A damning report by EU experts said yesterday that traces of outlawed meat and
bone meal were still finding their way into French cattle feed last year, and
warned that French farmers may be under-reporting cases of mad cow disease.

Notification of suspect cases 'occurs with a certain hesitation, and a
considerable delay in some cases', it said. The report will embarrass the French
government, which has defied its European partners by maintaining its ban on
British beef on the grounds that safety measures introduced in Britain in the
wake of the BSE crisis were still not foolproof - and that it was putting
consumers' health first.

The ' report, from an EU veterinary mission to France last June, said that 4.2%
of samples of cattle feed analysed in the first five months of 1999 contained
'traces' of meat and bone meal, while 1.4% contained 'more than a trace'.

Animal proteins were banned from cattle feed in 1996 after nearly a decade of
testing found that meat and bone meal from cattle was the most likely cause of
transmission of BSE, or bovine spongiform encephalopathy.

The French agriculture ministry declined to comment on the report yesterday. But
a spokesman said France planned to set up a screening programme in the next few
weeks to check that cattle ready for slaughter were not infected with mad cow
disease. Jon Henley, Paris Iran asks for support in fighting terror

After a series of explosions in the heart of Tehran, the Iranian government
yesterday called on the world community to help it fight the Iraqi-based
opposition group that claimed responsibility.

A print worker was killed and six others injured when mortar rounds hit the
eastern gate of the presidential palace on Saturday, damaging nearby government
buildings.

The Mojahedin-e Khalq, an armed group classified as terrorist by the US, says it
was behind the attack. Based in Iraq and going under a variety of names
including the National Council of Resistance, it has worked for nearly two
decades to overthrow Iran's Islamic system.

Tehran's foreign ministry said: 'We demand (a) firm, serious and non-selective
response from the international community, mainly countries which claim to be
fighting terrorism.'

Saturday's attack - coinciding with annual celebrations marking the 1979 Islamic
revolution - seemed to be an attempt at destabilisation ahead of parliamen tary
elections on February 18, when reformist adherents of President Mohammed Khatami
hope to displace conservative MPs who dominate the parliament. Geneive Abdo,
Teheran New light shed on Ben Barka mystery

A former French secret agent said yesterday that the killing of an exiled
leftwing Morroccan opposition leader, Mehdi Ben Barka, in Paris 35 years ago was
an accident.

Ben Barka was kidnapped on the Left Bank in October 1965. Antoine Lopez, now 76,
was sentenced to eight years in jail in 1967 for his role in the affair. But he
told Le Parisien newspaper that Ben Barka died 'accidentally' at the hands of a
French gangster, Georges Boucheseiche, at a house south of Paris, soon after the
arrival of Morocco's then interior minister, General Mohammed Oufkir.

'Boucheseiche told me how Ben Barka had flown into a rage when he set eyes on
Oufkir,' Mr Lopez said. 'He told me how he had delivered a first blow to Ben
Barka, who was not even knocked out. Boucheseiche then jammed him by the throat
and snapped his neck.' Jon Henley, Paris Barak sticks to Lebanon plan despite
killing An Israeli soldier was killed and seven injured yesterday in a roadside
bombing while on foot patrol inside south Lebanon, the fifth such death there in
less than two weeks. Hizbullah guerrillas claimed responsibility and a few hours
later Israeli jets fired several missiles in two retaliatory bombing raids on
Jebal al-Botom, a southern area from which guerillas are thought to launch
attacks. Ehud Barak, Israel's prime minister, who was visiting Jordan,
reiterated his pledge to withdraw Israeli troops from south Lebanon by July. Mr
Barak is demanding that Syria, the power in Lebanon, rein in Hizbullah. AP,
Marjayoun, Lebanon Handful of votes could decide who leads Finns

Partial results in Finland's presidential election yesterday showed the
opposition leader Esko Aho ahead by a hair's breadth in his run-off against the
leftwing foreign minister, Tarja Halonen, according to the electoral
commission's figures.

Based on 50% of the vote, the count gave the 45-year-old Mr Aho 50.5% and his
rival 49.5%. But with such a tiny margin, Ms Halonen, a single mother aged 56,
was not abandoning hopes of becoming the country's first woman president. Martti
Ahtisaari, 62, is stepping down after a six-year term. Reuters, Helsinki


LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              26 of 299 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            February 7, 2000, Monday

TERROR HIJACK JET FLIES INTO BRITAIN

BYLINE: John Todd

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 198 words


A HIJACKED jet with 160 people on board was heading for Britain early today.

Stansted Airport in Essex was put on alert after the Boeing 727 - seized by 20
terrorists during an internal flight in Afghanistan - flew over western Europe.

Earlier, terrified passengers and crew of the Ariana Airlines flight had been
taken on a roller coaster ride across thousands of miles of the former Soviet
Union.

The ageing plane touched down in Uzbekistan, Kazakstan and Moscow before the
hijackers demanded maps to direct them to western Europe.

At each of the stopovers they demanded food and fuel in exchange for a total of
22 passengers. The hostages include 20 women and up to 24 children. All of those
released were men.

It is understood the hijackers are demanding the freedom of Afghan opposition
figure Ismail Khan, who has been in a jail since 1997.

Ariana Airlines maintenance conditions are considered to be very poor - a victim
of Afghanistan's bankruptcy and 20 years of war.

The airline was put under United Nations sanctions and banned from flying
international routes after the ruling Taliban party refused to hand over terror
suspect Osama bin Laden.

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.

                              27 of 299 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            February 7, 2000, Monday

HIJACK JET LANDS AT STANSTED;
 3AM NEWS LATEST: ARMED TERRORISTS HOLD 160 HOSTAGES

BYLINE: John Todd, Ian Miller And Aidan Mcgurran

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1, 4

LENGTH: 369 words


A HIJACKED jet with 160 hostages on board dramatically landed in Britain early
today.

Stansted Airport went on full alert as the Boeing 727, seized by 20 gunmen in
Afghanistan yesterday, touched down just after 2am.

An Essex police spokeswoman said: "The aircraft has landed and is taxi-ing along
the runway. It will be isolated and directed to a safe area. Officers will try
to make contact with the hijackers and begin negotiations."

In the darkness, the flashing lights of the aircraft could be clearly seen.

It came to rest at a secluded spot on the north side of the airport, half a mile
from the main terminal.

Several police cars and fire engines were on standby nearby. A Home Office
spokeswoman said: "The police will be trying to make some sort of contact with
the hijackers and begin negotiation to establish what they want.

"Obviously, we are hoping for a peaceful solution to this situation. At this
stage, we are not aware of any demands or requests from those on board the
aircraft."

The hijackers had released 19 hostages since seizing the jet on a flight from
Kabul to the Afghan city of Mazar-e-Sharif yesterday.

They flew across thousands of miles of the former Soviet Union, landing in
Uzbekistan, Kazakstan and Moscow, where the ageing plane was refuelled before
heading for Britain. At each of the stopovers the terrorists demanded food and
fuel in exchange for a total of 22 passengers. The hostages include 20 women and
up to 24 children. All of those released were men. It is understood the
hijackers are demanding the freedom of Afghan opposition figure Ismail Khan, who
has been in a jail since 1997. In the past, Stansted has been selected to take
hijacked aircraft heading for Britain. It is first choice because planes can be
kept well away from the terminal building and other aircraft while negotiations
are carried out with the hijackers. Ariana Airlines maintenance conditions are
considered to be very poor - a victim of Afghanistan's bankruptcy and 20 years
of war. The airline was put under United Nations sanctions and banned from
flying international routes after the ruling Taliban party refused to hand over
terror suspect Osama bin Laden.

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TAKE-OFF: Jet prepares to leave Moscow last night

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.

                              28 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                February 8, 2000

ADAMS' 11TH-HOUR DASH TO SAVE PEACE

BYLINE: BY SARAH WOMACK POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT

LENGTH: 518 words


SINN Fein chief Gerry Adams flies to London today for eleventh-hour talks with
MPs as they rush through new laws suspending the Ulster Assembly.

But the trip - with Sinn Fein ministers Martin McGuinness and Bairbre de Brun -
was seen by some as a panic move amid mounting public anger at the IRA arms
deadlock.

Irish nationalist John Hume added to the pressure yesterday by calling on the
IRA to stage a weapons handover for General John de Chastelain, head of the
decommissioning body.

In words which could have come from any Unionist, Catholic Mr Hume said: "I
believe that if the IRA were to arrange that an amount of Semtex was to be left
in a certain location, the current difficulties could be swiftly overcome." But
Sinn Fein dismissed his appeal.

Chairman Mitchel McLaughlin said: "I think it's hard to imagine a more
inappropriate moment to make that particular suggestion, given the confusions,
the tensions and the pressure that's on at the present time." Meanwhile, a
renegade Republican group responsible for Sunday's bombing of Mahon's Hotel in
Irvinestone, Co Fermanagh, warned of more attacks.

Despite pleas from Mr Adams to disband, the Continuity IRA said it would
continue its campaign until Britain agreed to end its rule of the Province. "We
intend to continue to progress our war effort regardless of how British rule in
the six occupied counties is remodelled," the organisation said.

Back on the political front, Tony Blair intends to mothball the Assembly at the
weekend unless the IRA gives a commitment to disarm, with a timetable, in the
next four days.

Emergency legislation will be rushed through all its Commons stages today, and
is expected to clear the Lords on Thursday. Suspension of Ulster's power-sharing
executive would follow on Friday or Saturday.

Saturday is a crucial day because First Minister David Trimble faces the Ulster
Unionist Council, his party's ruling body.

His resignation letter came into effect last Friday but is being kept by Sir
Josias Cunningham, the party president, for activation at the weekend if the
Assembly is not shut down.

Sinn Fein, however, is considering legal action to fight the suspension. It
argues that Ulster Secretary Peter Mandelson will break the Good Friday
Agreement if he reimposes direct rule.

Sinn Fein says the only relevant deadline is May 2000 - the agreement's date for
decommissioning to be completed.

THREAT OF THE BREAKAWAY TERRORISTS The Continuity IRA is the smaller of two
dissident Republican groups opposed to the 1994 ceasefire.

It hasn't inflicted the carnage that the Real IRA visited on Omagh two years ago
but its terrorist capability isn't underestimated. A CIRA bomb was the first
terrorist act to undermine the ceasefire when a hotel in Fermanagh was
devastated in July 1996. Eight months earlier, a massive van bomb was
intercepted in Co Monaghan and, in 1997, the CIRA destroyed the centre of
Markethill, in Co Armagh.

Despite setbacks and several arrests, the group, which police estimate to number
50 activists, continues to pose a major threat.

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2000 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              29 of 299 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           February 8, 2000, Tuesday

OUR WAR GOES ON;
 ULSTER TERRORISTS' GRIM THREAT

BYLINE: Nigel Morris And Jeff Edwards, Chief Crime Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 498 words


RENEGADE Republican terrorists last night threatened: "The war goes on", less
than 24 hours after their latest bombing.

The grim warning of more attacks came as Sinn Fein leaders Gerry Adams and
Martin McGuinness flew to London in a bid to break the deadlock over disarmament
which is threatening the peace process.

The breakaway Continuity IRA said: "We intend to continue to progress our war
effort regardless of how British rule in the six occupied counties is
remodelled.

"This progression shall continue until such times as there is a British
declaration of intent to withdraw." Their bomb blast at a hotel in Irvinestown,
Co Fermanagh, on Sunday night piled the pressure on all sides to agree a formula
for disarmament before the Government suspends Northern Ireland's power sharing
executive.

But Mr Adams will today deliver a grim warning on the chances of the Provos
surrendering their guns.

He will tell a meeting in the Commons that he cannot guarantee the IRA will
start giving up its arsenal.

And he will warn that the chances of decommissioning will vanish if the Good
Friday agreement is put on ice.

MPs will today rush through a move to suspend the new Stormont assembly because
of the arms deadlock. It will become law by the weekend, delivering a hammer
blow to the peace agreement.

John Hume, leader of the Nationalist SDLP, stepped up the pressure on the IRA,
saying a voluntary move on disarming would be "very, very helpful".

He added: "I would like to see them making a gesture that would demonstrate they
are committed to decommissioning."

He called on the IRA to give up some explosives to General John de Chastelain's
disarmament commission: "I believe if the IRA were to arrange with him that an
amount of Semtex was left in a certain location, the current difficulties could
be swiftly overcome."

But Sinn Fein chairman Mitchel McLaughlin immediately dashed hopes of a handover
saying: "It's hard to imagine a more inappropriate moment to make that
particular suggestion."

Unionist leaders said the latest bombing underlined the need for an immediate
start to IRA disarmament.

Security spokesman Ken Maginnis said: "These guns and explosives and detonators
can't be kept safely stored away indefinitely. Bombings like this prove the
point." Meanwhile police in the mainland went on full alert for renewed IRA
attacks.

Special Branch and anti-terrorist officers are certain that the Continuity IRA
and the closely aligned Real IRA have stockpiled weapons in Britain.

Several known terrorists under surveillance by Scotland Yard have been spotted
carrying out reconnaissance on likely bomb targets.

A senior Yard source said: "We know there are several terrorist cells here and
we know they have been travelling around by bus, tube and on foot checking out
various targets in London.

"These people don't let the grass grow under their feet. They are always
plotting, waiting for the word to strike."

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ATTACK: Police search for clues yesterday after the latest terror bomb
blast at a hotel; NO GUARANTEES: Adams

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.

                              30 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                     February 9, 2000, Wednesday Edition 1

Monty's letter goes on parade -;
PETER FAIRLEY looks at an exhibition, and one special item, which evokes
poignant memories

BYLINE: Peter Fairley

SECTION: ENTERTAINER, Pg. 10

LENGTH: 444 words


   IT might just be a scrap of paper but to men like Sir Ralph Carr Ellison it
is a priceless memento and something to be treasured.

Sir Ralph, Lord Lieutenant of Tyne and Wear, picked out the letter when he paid
a visit to Newcastle's Discovery Museum and its permanent exhibition, A
Soldier's Life.

It was written in 1949 by Field Marshal Bernard Montgomery, the victor of El
Alamein and one of Britain's most successful military leaders of the Second
World War.

The thank-you note was sent to the men of the Northumberland Hussars and pays
tribute to the regiment's fighting skills.

For years, while Sir Ralph served with the Hussars, it had pride of place on the
officers' dining table.

When the museum asked him to select one object from the display to add to its
Millennium collection, Objects of Desire, the old soldier in him came to the
fore.

He said: "If I had an unlimited choice I would nominate all the mementoes in the
gallery, but I think that's the one that brings back the most special memories
for myself. In fact it was written just two months before I was sworn in.

"For the whole of my service the letter sat, framed, on the officers' dining
table. It was a great tribute to the regiment and meant a lot, even to us that
didn't serve in the regiment in the war."

Monty's letter was written on August 18, 1949, and pays tribute to the men of
the Hussars that served under him during the war.

An excerpt reads: "... 50 Div went with me from Alamein to the Rhine and of the
very many fine units it contained, the Northumberland Hussars were second to
none."

A Soldier's Life has been one of the most popular attractions at the museum
since it opened almost five years ago.

It shows life in the ranks over 200 years and leans heavily on the archives and
memorabilia of two North East cavalry regiments, the Hussars and the King's
Royal Hussars. Laid out on theme lines, rather than chronological order, it is
very different from the dry military museums of the past.

You pass through mock barrack gates to meet a full-size model horse which
introduces you to the gallery.

Each display focuses on a particular aspect of service life and proves that even
if weapons and tactics have changed, the biggest peace time enemy for any
soldier is boredom.

It also shows civilian life in times of war, rationing and how loved ones at
home fared.

One of the most poignant exhibits is a scene showing a nurse writing to her
fiance in the trenches in the First World War.

The modern soldier is not forgotten, with a replica "sangar", a sandbag shelter
used during the Troubles in Ulster against terrorist attack.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: POPULAR SHOW: visitor David Gormley, from Darlington, with some of the
military exhibits at the Discovery Museum

                Copyright 2000 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              31 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                           February 11, 2000, Friday

BIRMINGHAM POST COMMENT: HIJACKING THE SYSTEM

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 541 words


Let us be quite clear, what happened at Stansted Airport was an act of terrorism
not a mass application for asylum.

As the Chief Constable of Essex David Stevens pointed out: "I can categorically
state when you find four knives, two detonators, two grenades and a knuckle
duster, in my opinion that is a hijack."

This is not to say we have no obligations towards the refugees who may or may
not have escaped from a desperate situation in their own country.

But it is important to remember these obligations should always be secondary to
our duty to enforce the rule of law.

If we appear too lenient in our handling of this incident it will send out the
wrong messages to the international community.

A weak-willed response would only add to Britain's reputation for being a "soft
touch" for those intent on abusing our hospitality.

It would imply that terrorism, or, as has been suggested in this instance, sham
terrorism, is acceptable.

And it would promote the idea that trickery and subterfuge are appropriate
methods of gaining asylum in this country.

Unfortunately, the theory that Britain is an open door for all and sundry has
gained currency because of the actions of successive Home Secretaries.

Although Mr Jack Straw has said he wants to see all those on the Afghan plane
removed from this country as soon as is practicable, the precedent for such
swift action is scant.

All six members at the centre of Britain's last hijack drama are now living in
this country as asylum-seekers. The gang held 197 passengers and crew hostage on
board a Sudanese Airbus in 1996. Despite being convicted at the Old Bailey in
1997 they were released on appeal and immediately applied for asylum.

Nor does it help when the Minister spouting a tough line on illegal immigration
is the same Minister who has presided over a 53 per cent increase in asylum
seekers over the last year.

In 1998 to 1999 Britain accepted more applications for asylum as a percentage of
the national population than Germany, France and Spain.

The "tough signal" being transmitted around the world is Britain is the national
equivalent of the American sit-com Cheers - the place where every immigrant,
regardless of their status, knows the name of a social security officer.

It is crucial Mr Straw executes his promise and ensures the passengers of the
Afghan 747 are sent home. More importantly, this needs to be done quickly.

The reason why the previous hijackers are still in Britain is because of the
huge backlog of 100,000 cases being considered by the Immigration Service.

It has become customary for applicants to wait several years for their cases to
be decided.

The Government should address this situation as soon as possible.

It would be totally unsatisfactory if we discovered four years down the line
that the Afghan terrorists were still waiting for their case to be heard.

Any such delay not only encourages illegal asylum seekers but penalises those
with a genuine case.

It costs pounds 7,800 a year to support a single adult seeker. It would be far
better if this money were spent supporting the needy rather than patronising the
bogus enjoying an unnecessarily long stay at Hotel Britannia.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2000 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              32 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           February 15, 2000, Tuesday

Exploding the great nuclear myth

BYLINE: Bronwen Maddox

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 904 words


Bronwen Maddox explains why plutonium has failed to turn the British into
plutocrats

It would be too kind to call the Thorp nuclear fuel plant at Sellafield the
Millennium Dome of British industry. The Dome, at least, led to the cleaning up
of a filthy piece of land, and to the long-overdue extension of the Jubilee
Line.

Sadly, British Nuclear Fuels' plant resembles the Dome only in the worst
respects. It was conceived with the grandiose aim of creating a national
showcase; it is making much less money than hoped; the Government is in a pickle
trying to flog it off to the private sector.

Thorp is an extraordinary illustration of how governments can become entrapped
into a cascade of wrong decisions. The danger now is that Labour, hoping for a
splashy partial privatisation of BNFL, will throw away the first chance in a
decade to ask whether Thorp really should still be running.

Thorp, which cost more than Pounds 2 billion to build, is a cavernous plant, a
quarter of a mile long, filled with gleaming pipes and pools. It reprocesses
nuclear waste, taking the spent fuel from nuclear power stations, and extracts
the plutonium, which can be reused by some types of reactor.

The argument before Thorp started operating in 1994 accurately foresaw the two
main problems. First, Thorp was designed when uranium was expensive, but the
price then plummeted with the collapse of the Soviet Union and Western
disenchantment with nuclear power. The attractions of paying for expensive
reprocessed fuel were fading fast even as the first fluid began flowing through
the pipes.

Secondly, there was no easy way to get the plutonium - easily made into bombs -
back to the main customers in Japan and Germany, without a small navy
accompanying it to ward off terrorist attacks. But for Britain to stockpile
plutonium in Sellafield would also attract fury from around the world, not least
America.

The question of whether to scrap the gleaming, new plant before it even opened
was given serious thought by Michael Howard and John Gummer, successive
Secretaries of State for the Environment. Once the button was pressed, the whole
plant would become radioactive, and would eventually need expensive
decommissioning. Many argued that simply storing used nuclear fuel in Sellafield
might be a much more profitable option for Britain, Germany and Japan, the main
countries involved. But none of the countries dared initiate that discussion,
for fear of the financial penalties for breaking the contracts.

The bizarre saga of threats and arm-twisting between government departments,
beyond parody even by Yes, Minister, has been chronicled by William Walker of St
Andrews University, in his book Nuclear Entrapment. In the end, DTI and Foreign
Office ministers - though not all their officials - determined that it should go
ahead, despite the Department of the Environment's concerns, to preserve a
"national champion" and to protect relations with Japan.

All the unresolved problems have now returned as fiasco. BNFL, faced with the
problem of unwanted plutonium piling up at Sellafield, built a Pounds 300
million plant to turn it into mixed-oxide fuel or "Mox". Mox is useless to
terrorists but useable by some special nuclear reactors. This, BNFL hoped, it
could safely ship to Japan.

But Japan may not now want BNFL's Mox. Having received a trial batch, the
Japanese have fiercely objected, claiming that BNFL has twice falsified the
paperwork.This could cost Britain millions of pounds.

Farce threatens. No one wants plutonium - so build a Mox plant, the BNFL
argument goes. If no one wants Mox? Some are now even suggesting that BNFL
should build a special new reactor of its own to eat up Mox.

It is surely now time to face the original problem: what to do with the waste
from nuclear reactors. The real value to Germany and Japan of the BNFL deal is
that it takes nuclear waste off their hands for some time. They have been paying
for Britain to store their waste, in the guise of reprocessing. They don't
really want it back, in any form.

So would it be cheaper for Britain simply to store the waste - and charge the
other countries for that service? Thorp's finances are not easily accessible.
But Gordon MacKerron, an economist at Sussex University, reckons that the answer
is very possibly yes. He says that the costs of running Thorp and dealing with
the liquid waste it churns out are very likely still greater than the costs of
storing used nuclear fuel.

The Trade and Industry Select Committee is about to take a look at just that
question. It may still find the financial details to make that calculation with
confidence elusive, particularly with a privatisation at stake.

But the row with Japan may hold the key to escape. It may make it possible to
raise behind the scenes, between the three countries, the question which has
been taboo for a decade: whether it might be in each country's interests to
scrap the Mox plant and to shut down Thorp.

That would not be the end of BNFL, which has busily bought itself a large
portfolio of nuclear equipment and treatment businesses. But if the Government
tackled the questions that have been ducked in the dance of the past decade, it
might then have a company with a clear future, unblemished by corrosive
uncertainty, which it could offer for sale with confidence.

bronwen.maddox@the-times.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2000 Times Newspapers Limited

                              33 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                          February 17, 2000, Thursday

BREACH OF CEASEFIRES WOULD SPELL DISASTER;
 ANY RETURN TO VIOLENCE BY THE PROVISIONAL IRA WILL EFFECTIVELY DOOM THE ENTIRE
POLITICAL PROCESS, SAYS RUC CHIEF CONSTABLE RONNIE FLANAGAN IN THIS INTERVIEW
WITH IAN GRAHAM

BYLINE: Ian Graham

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 904 words


THE IRA's withdrawal from contact with General John de Chastelain's
decommissioning body and cancellation of all offers made on arms has plunged
Northern Ireland into renewed crisis and raised concerns in some quarters that
the Provisionals could resume their campaign of violence.

The RUC Chief Constable Sir Ronnie Flanagan insists he has no intelligence to
indicate the IRA are preparing to call off their 31-month ceasefire.

Q. But if they did what would happen?

A. It is likely the IRA would attempt to strike first with a major bomb attack
on a prestige target in mainland Britain - London is always their preferred
target. They have always believed a single blast in the capital is more likely
to bend the Government to their will than a dozen in Northern Ireland.

Q. Would they get the support of the nationalist population?

A. Hardliners will always follow them but people have got used to peace and they
would be unlikely to give the same level of aid - safe houses, weapons stores
and the "turning of a blind eye" they enjoyed in the past.

Q. What would the loyalist paramilitary groups do?

A. When the IRA's 1994 ceasefire was ended after 17 months with the Docklands
bombing, the main loyalist terror groups largely maintained their ceasefires.
But a fresh IRA campaign would put them under intense pressure to retaliate,
particularly if the IRA started bombing and killing within Northern Ireland.
Certainly there would be no chance of them decommissioning weapons.

Q. What about the dissident republican groups?

A. The Real IRA, which carried out the worst atrocity of the Troubles, the
slaughter of 29 people in the Omagh bombing, would be highly likely to call off
their ceasefire. The Continuity IRA, who bombed a Co Fermanagh hotel less than a
fortnight ago and who have been blamed for recent alerts, could be expected to
step up operations.

Q. Would the IRA prisoners given early release under the terms of the Good
Friday Agreement automatically be sent back to jail?

A. No. Only those who resumed acts of terror or were suspected of doing so would
be returned to the jail to complete their sentences.

Q. How many prisoners have been given early release and what restrictions are
put on them?

A. So far 313 prisoners have been let out early: 159 republican, mostly PIRA,
and 144 loyalist. Only 95 - 50 loyalist and 43 republican - who were serving
life sentences remain on licence for the rest of their lives and remain under
threat of a return to jail at any time even if they are merely suspected of
renewed terrorist activity.

Q. What about the rest?

A. They remain on licence only until the time they would have served 50 per cent
of their sentence - the normal release time - and many have already passed that
point and would not be recalled to jail even if there was a suspicion of
wrong-doing. Only if they were convicted in the courts of a new offence would
they then be jailed in the normal way.

Q. What would happen to the political process and the now-suspended devolved
power-sharing administration?

A. It would appear to be doomed. Unionists refuse to share power with Sinn Fein
while the IRA refuses to decommission its weapons. They certainly would not
entertain Sinn Fein in Government if their IRA allies were back on a terrorist
footing.

Q. Could a way be found around that impasse?

A. Unionists would be happy to re-establish an administration without Sinn Fein,
but to date neither the nationalist SDLP nor the British or Irish governments
have been prepared to endorse the idea.

Q. What would happen on the security front?

A. The relaxed low level of security enjoyed by Northern Ireland for more than
two-and-a- half years would end. High-profile army and police patrols would
resume, security cordons would again be thrown around towns and cities. Planned
troop withdrawals would be cancelled and planned cuts in the RUC put on hold.

Q. What about the Patten Report on the future of policing?

A. The Government has declared an intention to press ahead and implement the
Patten Report including the change of the RUC name and emblems. Ministers could
be forced to shelve the whole plan or only partially implement it. Certainly the
proposed near halving of RUC numbers would have to be scrapped and going ahead
with the name change would enrage loyalists - and force members - even more than
they are at present. However, much of the report contains plans for changes in
policing which the RUC itself proposed and those elements which are not linked
to policing a "normal" peaceful society could be introduced.

Q. What would be the economic implications?

A. Terrible. Unemployment has hit a 16-year low but growing inward investment
both by foreign companies and those in mainland Britain, and that by local
firms, would tail off, causing serious damage to an economy which, if not
actually booming, is doing better than many other regions in the UK. Large
numbers of graduates who now remain in Northern Ireland to help boost the
economy would seek work elsewhere. Others currently drawn to the Province would
think twice about moving.

Q. What about tourism?

A. It would nose-dive. Recent confidence and relative political stability have
seen an upturn in the number of visitors, but it still has not returned to the
level achieved in 1995, immediately after the first IRA ceasefire.

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BRUTAL REMINDER: the IRA's Canary Wharf bomb brought the 1994 ceasefire
to an end after 17 months

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2000 Century Newspapers Limited

                              34 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                          February 17, 2000, Thursday

DOOMSDAY NIGHTMARE FEARS OF RUC CHIEF;
 FLANAGAN PAINTS GRIM PICTURE SHOULD PROVO CEASEFIRE BREAK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 253 words


THE grim consequences of a return to violence by the IRA were outlined last
night by the RUC Chief Constable.

Sir Ronnie Flanagan painted a bleak picture of a renewed armed conflict, if the
IRA's ceasefire breaks.

He predicted the Provisionals would begin by launching major bomb attacks on the
British mainland, dissident republican terrorists would then step up their
operations, putting pressure on loyalist terror groups to react.

Sir Ronnie also said that IRA prisoners freed under the Good Friday Agreement
could only be returned to prison if they resumed acts of terror or were
suspected of doing so.

In a frank interview, he added that a return to violence would mean the end of
the peace process and spell disaster for the economy.

The Provisionals withdrawal from contact from General John de Chastelain's
decommissioning body has raised concern of the resumption of an IRA armed
campaign.

If this were to happen, Sir Ronnie said: "It is likely the IRA would attempt to
strike first with a major bomb attack on a prestige target in mainland Britain.

"They have always believed a sinister blast there is more likely to bend the
Government to their will than a dozen in Northern Ireland.

"A fresh IRA campaign would put intense pressure on loyalist terror groups to
retaliate, particularly if the IRA started bombing and killing in Northern
Ireland."

However, Sir Ronnie said he has no intelligence which suggests the IRA are
preparing to call off their 31-month ceasefire.

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SPEAKING OUT: Ronnie Flanagan says the IRA would probably bomb major
mainland targets

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2000 Century Newspapers Limited

                              35 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               February 19, 2000

Memoirs of a teenage Trot;
In 1984 the miners were on strike, the IRA bombed Brighton's Grand Hotel, and
Gary Younge, aged 15, joined the revolution. But it couldn't last

SECTION: Guardian Saturday Pages; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 2405 words


Between my first kiss and my first A level there came Trotsky. I am sure I would
have met him sooner or later, plastered against the wall in a student union bar
or on a street corner hiding behind a petition. But he came to me on a sunny day
in Hyde Park. It was 1984; the year of the miners' strike, the IRA bombing of
the Grand Hotel in Brighton, and Ronald Reagan's victory in the US presidential
elections. I was 15 a self-important teenage vegetarian who felt that all was
not quite right with the world. I had spent most of the day wondering around
London with a Socialist Workers Party banner for company, protesting against the
visit of the South African president, PW Botha. I had been avoiding the eyes of
paper sellers and policemen, when a young man with acne caught me unawares and
offered me a copy of Young Socialist. I bought it, read it in less than five
minutes all the articles were basically the same 'Thatcher is horrible, miners
are great, socialism is even better' and thought little more about it. A few
weeks later I pulled the paper from the bottom of my bag, wrote to the editor
and asked if I could join the revolution with much the same degree of
forethought as others in my peer group applied to join fan clubs. I was bored.
It was something to do. And there would probably be girls there too, so, who
knows, I might even come by a second kiss. Given the range of anti-social
behaviour available to a hormonally besieged adolescent, there were worse things
I could have turned my attentions to than the overthrow of capitalism. I would
be lying if I said that I was aware of precisely what I was getting into. I knew
I was joining some kind of socialist outfit. I suspected it was the younger
section of the Labour Party as it happened it was the youth wing of the Workers
Revolutionary Party. This was not a problem for me. After all, if you're going
to go into politics at that age you might as well get some cred and join
something nobody's ever heard of. When I discovered they were Trotskyists this
did not bother me much either. I didn't really know what Trotskyism was. I
scarcely knew who Trotsky was. The leader of the Red Army who had been ousted
and later executed in exile by Stalin had, it turned out, left a legacy for
those who supported socialism but could not stomach the Soviet Union. I knew him
better as Snowball from George Orwell's Animal Farm. In my naivety I presumed
that, since socialism was underpinned by the notion of solidarity , those who
believed in it would club together especially given that they were relatively
small in number. I didn't know at the time that there were at least 57 varieties
of hard-left party, some with less than 57 members in total. How could I know
that there was a significant difference between the Revolutionary Communist
League of Britain (RCLB Maoist) and the Revolutionary Communist Party of Great
Britain Marxist -Leninist (RCPGBM-L pro-Albanian)? In short, I didn't know very
much. But then I didn't have to. The WRP credo was fairly straightforward.
Britain in 1984, they believed, was more or less at the same stage as Russia in
1916 a nation on the brink of revolution. All that was needed to push it over
the edge was a general strike. If we could get everyone out together, we could
bring the nation to a standstill, form some soviets, replace the police with a
workers militia and then Bingo!  capitalism would be dead before you could say
Fourth International. The simplicity of the thesis was a great source of
comfort. The party was providing such a comprehensive and unwavering world view
that I felt I would never have to work out anything again. It provided a reason
for everything that was bad from the famine in Ethiopia to racist policing about
capitalism. For every problem there was only one solution revolution. Every
issue could be shoehorned into this single transferable analysis, it seemed.
Concerns with details of policy, from taxation to nuclear disarmament, were
little more than micromanaging. This sense of self -confidence, bolstered by a
similar lack of self-knowledge, lent a distinctly cult-like air to the entire
enterprise which, as is the way with cults, I only really became aware of when
I'd left. Moreover, the party's uncompromising and often unreasonable stance on
most issues dovetailed neatly with the petulant, know-all stage I was going
through. If adults ever hit me with the phrase: 'You think you've got the
answers to everything don't you?' I would think, but never say: 'I do actually.
Seizing state power from the bourgeoisie and placing it in the hands of the
working class as the first step towards a more just world.' I actually pitied
those who missed the big picture. I lamented the wasted lives of all the adults
who tried to work out their views on individual issues on a case-to-case basis.
They were playing dot-to-dot; I had the huge, broad brush. And I was clearly not
alone in this. My guess is that there were about 2,000 members, including
high-profile actors such as Vanessa Redgrave and Frances de la Tour. The two
main leaders were a Sri Lankan called Mike Banda and a Londoner, Gerry Healy.
Their arrival at the microphone during meetings was always met with reverent
hush that went beyond the demands of average party discipline. I remember little
about Banda's speaking style, but Healy's was unmistakeable. He would shout and
scream into the microphone, ranting fluent gibberish. And as he prodded the air
with his little finger, his face would get redder and redder until his entire
bald head was a small, round pate of scarlet. Commitment to the party was total.
If Britain was about to explode into revolution then it followed that a
revolutionary party had to be ready and waiting in the wings. And if the party
was to be ready then its members had to be at battle stations at all times, with
no excuses and definitely no time off for good behaviour. It meant that
everything births, deaths, marriages, exams, you name it had to take second
place to the preparations under way for the glorious and imminent day when we
would not so much inherit the earth as nationalise it, collectivise it and then
forbid anyone from inheriting anything ever again. 'The needs of the individual
must be subordinated to the needs of the party,' chimed the mantra. And it was
observed religiously. I spent about three nights a week and at least half the
weekend selling papers, attending meetings and organising events. No birthday,
no party, no football match could compete with the demands of the revolution;
you simply did not blow out workers' power for a disco or a date. I had a
purpose in my life that felt both beyond and above school and parents. Raised
under the strictures of Caribbean matriarchy, I felt little need for more
discipline in my life but I welcomed my first dalliance with a tradition
possessing its own flag (red) and its own anthem (The Internationale). And it
was exciting too. Unusually for the hard left, its youth base was greater among
the working class than among students. While there was a general tone of
seriousness that affected everyone in the party, life in the Young Socialists
most, on average, only a few years older than me was a rowdy kind of fun. Not
only did it provide an instant group of friends but also a limitless amount of
things to do with them. We went to the picket lines in Nottingham, to conference
in Blackpool and countless demonstrations in London, all of which meant coach
trips and the underage beer-drinking and snogging that went with them. The older
members, however, were apparently a different story. The demands of party work
undoubtedly played havoc with their personal lives. A mixture of teachers,
council workers and actors, they were, for the most part, a humourless bunch of
drones who wore a harried and haggard look which suggested that Armaggedon, not
revolution, was just around the corner. They were socially disabled incapable of
talking about anything else but the party because they had long since shut
everything else out of their lives. The fact that nobody else wanted a general
strike not only confirmed our cult status, it gave us a messianic edge. Our
detractors were either capitalist lackeys like the TUC or just plain chicken,
like the Communist party, which did actually want a general strike, but only for
24 hours. Thanks to our superior analysis, we were in the possession of a
valuable and exclusive truth the world, as we knew it, was about to end. However
implausible this may seem now, it did not strike me as a completely unreasonable
proposition then. Where class conflict is concerned, 1984 was a spectacular
year. With bloody pitched battles between the police and pickets at Orgreave,
courts sequestrating union assets, bailiffs removing Greenham Common protesters
and showdowns brewing between leftwing councils and the government over
rate-capping, the idea that parliamentary democracy was in crisis and preferred
foul means rather than fair to crush dissent did not seem a fanciful one. Nor
did it seem odd to suggest that, if the miners were going to win, they were
going to need the help of other unions. But then I was at infants' school when
the miners brought down a Conservative government and had not yet been born when
students brought central London to a standstill over Vietnam. I had no idea that
I was witnessing a violent but regular episode of the never-ending bump and
grind between labour and capital. I would soon learn that, while 1984 may have
been spectacular, it was by no means exceptional. It was nothing like Russia in
1916. For the following year saw not revolutionary upheaval but the biggest
defeat the British working class had suffered in over half a century. And by the
time the miners went back to work, my revolutionary career was already winding
to a close. I can trace the beginning of its demise to a meeting in the party
headquarters in Clapham. A red-faced Healy was raging on at the top of his voice
and I was watching the clock. I had told my mum I would be back by 6pm. It was
already five, I was an hour and a half from home and Healy had only just
started. He finally wound up an hour later and, as I made for the door, a burly
man stopped me and told me they weren't letting anyone out during the interval.
I explained the situation, but he wouldn't budge. I asked if I could just go out
and call home and tell my mum where I was. 'The phones around here are bugged,
comrade,' he said sternly. 'I don't give a shit if they find out that I'm going
to be late home,' I said. But the doorman was not for moving. I got back at 10pm
in tears and in trouble. A few weeks later I went on a weekend school trip to
Howarth as part of my A-level English syllabus on Wuthering Heights. When I
returned, my mother, who had just about had it with the revolution by this time,
told me that the party had been ringing constantly. I called the WRP organiser
and received a vicious tongue -lashing. 'You can't just piss off to Yorkshire
without telling anyone,' he screamed. 'Don't you know that the state are picking
people up left, right and centre at a time of crisis like this?' 'Like who?' I
asked. 'Never mind who,' he shouted, and then delivered a stern lecture on party
discipline. By this stage I had had enough. The miners were trickling back to
work, the revolution was clearly not around the corner and I was sick of
grown-ups playing soldiers. The security blanket of intellectual certainty I had
felt when I had joined no longer comforted me. Any suggestion that there was
more to politics than class struggle like race and gender was met with fierce
rebuke. I was 16 and had already outgrown the revolution. When I did turn up I
started to feel harassed. When I refused to go paper-selling one weekend I was
accused of being an MI5 agent; when I expressed a casual interest in Fidel
Castro I was told that I only liked him because he was black. I started making
excuses for not going to meetings and concentrated more on my school work
instead. I had been taking an evening course in French and had entered myself
for A-levels. I told the WRP that I would need some time off party work for
revision. My request was refused. That was the final straw. I knew that if I
didn't intervene at this stage my mother would, and I would rather have taken on
the self-appointed representatives of the working class than her any day. I
called when I knew the local organiser would be out and told his flatmate I was
leaving the party. I didn't sleep that night, so tortured was I by the
portentousness of my actions. The next day he came round and lectured me again
on party discipline. Revolutions don't come without hard work, and hard work
needed sacrifice, he said. He sounded like a clergyman trying to save a
marriage. But he might as well have been talking to the stack of pamphlets that
was always sitting in his car. My mind was made up. 'I'm leaving,' I told him.
'Nobody leaves this party, Gary,' he said. 'They either get kicked out or they
die.' Given that I am still here to tell the tale, I can only presume that I was
expelled in my absence. I had as few qualms about leaving as I did about
joining. My nine months in the WRP were a great political and personal
education. In time I would learn the damage of dogma, the power of rhetoric and
the fact that politics is not just an extracurricular activity. I discovered
that, when it came to debate, shades of grey suited me better than black and
white, but that complexity should never be used as an excuse for inaction. And
while I never joined a Trotskyist party again, my experience did not leave me
with a vitriolic disdain for Trotskyists although I do think that Trotsky
himself would be rather disappointed by many of those who struggle in his name.
In any case, five months after I was 'kicked out', Healy would suffer the same
fate. Accused by Banda of 'cruel and systematic debauchery' after abusing his
influence to coerce younger, female party members into bed, and secretly buying
himself a pounds 15,000 BMW with party funds, his expulsion made 'Reds in the
bed' tabloid headlines. Banda's attack coincided with a 180-degree shift in the
party's politics, towards Labour under Neil Kinnock. The Redgraves sided with
Healy and split to form a separate group, the Marxist party. The hard left had
just sprouted a 58th variety.


LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              36 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          February 24, 2000, Thursday

Russia watches British Muslims

BYLINE: Giles Whittell in Moscow and Daniel McGrory

SECTION: Overseas news

LENGTH: 457 words


British Muslims supporting the Chechen rebel cause pose a threat to Russia
serious enough to warrant regular intelligence-gathering on their activities,
the Russian Ambassador to London claimed yesterday.

As Robin Cook, the Foreign Secretary, met acting President Putin in Moscow, the
envoy, Yuri Fokin, said that the threat to Russia from British Muslims did
exist, although it should not be exaggerated.

He added that his embassy was working with British authorities to inform Moscow
"about the activity of a number of members of this community".

Russian fears of pro-Chechen activists within Britain's Islamic community stem
from a London meeting of British Muslims last year at which the Chechen war was
discussed and a Russian television crew covering the event was beaten up.

Moscow's view of Britain as a hotbed of Chechen sympathisers was bolstered this
week when Shamil Basayev, a field commander whose foot was recently blown off by
a mine, issued a fatwa against Mr Putin, offering $ 2.5 million (Pounds 1.5
million) to anyone who killed him. The offer was made on a pro-Chechen Internet
site with a London telephone number given for inquiries.

Russia's security forces have been on alert all week, claiming a heightened
threat of terrorist attacks on cities and military installations as Chechens
marked yesterday's anniversary of Stalin's mass deportation of their forebears
to Kazakhstan on February 23, 1944.

There were also reports yesterday of a plot to assassinate Mr Putin at today's
funeral of Anatoli Sobchak, the former St Petersburg mayor under whom Mr Putin
served in the early 1990s. The plot was uncovered and foiled by the FSB,
successor to the KGB, according to Echo Moskvi radio.

The report could not be confirmed, however, and it echoed many others issued by
the FSB on flimsy evidence, possibly as part of a broader effort to keep public
fear of Chechen-inspired terrorism at fever pitch in the run-up to next month's
presidential election. Mr Fokin said that the British Government's criticism of
Russian tactics in Chechnya has been more muted than that from other Western
countries because of terrorism in Northern Ireland and the deaths of two Britons
and a New Zealander beheaded by Chechen hostage-takers last year.

"Britain knows from its own experience how it feels when apartment buildings are
bombed and when no-one knows where the next one will go off," he told Noviye
Izvestia. Russia blames the Chechen war on unidentified terrorists who destroyed
three blocks of flats in Moscow and elsewhere last September, killing nearly
300.

LINKS

www.amina.com/ Chechen Republic

www.fco.gov.uk/ Foreign and Commonwealth Office

www.gov.ru/ Russian Government


LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2000 Times Newspapers Limited

                              37 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                               February 27, 2000

HAGUE PUTS DOWN THE WELCOME MAT FOR KEN

BYLINE: BY JONATHAN OLIVER

LENGTH: 858 words


KENNETH Clarke, the pro-European former Chancellor, is returning to the Tory
fold following a reconciliation with William Hague.

Mr Clarke is set to be offered a heavyweight role in the next election as the
Tory leader struggles to improve his party's popularity.

In a public display of unity Mr Clarke last week met Mr Hague's press secretary,
Amanda Plattell, in a popular Westminster bar. Mr Clarke's outspoken views on
the single currency have left him on the fringes of the Tory party since Mr
Hague defeated him for the Tory leadership in 1997.

But the cigar-smoking MP for Rushcliffe is still enormously popular with voters
and Mr Hague is keen to bring him in from the cold. A senior Tory Central Office
source said: "Ken could never be offered a job in the Shadow Cabinet. William
cannot have anyone who has such radically different views on Europe.

"Nevertheless Ken is a great campaigner and we hope he can be encouraged to
become more active in support of the party."

Mr Clarke's friends have recently been urging him to bury the hatchet. At a
recent meeting, the pro-European Mainstream Group of Tory MPs resolved to settle
their differences with the Eurosceptics and swing behind Mr Hague.

"There is no point in bickering any more," said one Europhile MP. "The European
issue has been settled, at least until after the election. We have got to do
what we can to help William and Ken has got to help too."

Mr Clarke was seen as a traitor by fellow Tories after he and Michael Heseltine
appeared on stage with Tony Blair at the launch of the Britain in Europe
campaign. However more recently the former Chancellor has been careful not to
offend his Conservative colleagues.

Despite Labour's recent embarrassments, the Tories have shown little signs of
recovery. A survey last week revealed that more than half the voters were
dissatisfied with the Government.However 50 per cent said they would still vote
Labour in a general election, leaving the Tories trailing on 29 per cent.

New adoption hope CHILDREN in care are being given new hope by a pioneering
adoption project. At present thousands of children must live in care homes or
with foster parents for up to five years while adoption procedures are
completed.

Now a pilot scheme run by the Goodman Project in Manchester is so successful
that similar operations are planned for London and Brighton. Under the plan, a
couple who want to adopt are trained first as foster parents and look after a
child. If a court eventually rules the child should be adopted, the foster
parents can become its adoptive parents.

Michael's TV mocking MICHAEL DOUGLAS was humiliated on American TV over the age
gap between him and Catherine Zeta Jones, 30. The 55-year-old star sat in
silence as chat show host Jay Leno made jokes like: "He was making Wall Street
while she was watching Sesame Street." Leno tried making amends by telling him
people were jealous. Douglas shot back: "You included. Eat your heart out, man!"
Store's guide dog ban THE Somerfield supermarket chain has been found guilty of
discriminating against blind teacher Caroline Stanfield after her guide dog was
turned away from its store in Kilburn, North-west London twice in a week. Ms
Stanfield, 33, from West Hampstead, said: "I told them I wasn't going to be
intimidated and would take the matter further."

Following the ruling at the Central London County Court, a Somerfield spokesman
said: "We deeply regret the upset and inconvenience caused to Ms Stanfield. We
were horrified that such a mistake could be made and can only begin to apologise
for the poor level of service." Compensation will be decided at a later date.

Plea to Livingstone JOHN Prescott will tomorrow appeal to Ken Livingstone not to
run against Frank Dobson for London mayor. But the plea is likely to be rebuffed
and many Labour MPs believe Mr Livingstone will announce this week that he is
standing as an independent. He yesterday predicted a "meltdown" in Labour
support and claimed Mr Dobson is "stained as the stooge of Downing Street".

French PM stoned French Prime Minister Lionel Jospin was pelted with stones
yesterday after he condemned Arab militia as "terrorists" and backed Israel in
its battle against militants in southern Lebanon. He was sent fleeing for cover
during the protest by around 2,000 students at Bir Zeit University outside the
West Bank town of Ramallah.

French and Palestinian security agents surrounded him and bundled him into his
Mercedes, but some students jumped on the bonnet before it sped off. M Jospin,
who has been visiting Israel and the Palestinian territories, had earlier
condemned Hezbollah, and "terrorist" attacks against Israeli soldiers or
civilians.

Singer death probe AN INQUIRY has been launched into the death of actor Max
Beesley's mother during routine hospital treatment. Singer Chris Beesley, 63,
whose stage name was Chris Marlowe, died in August after being admitted to a
Manchester hospital for minor surgery. Max, 27, who starred in the BBC's Tom
Jones, was recently on holiday in the Seychelles with Spice Girl Mel G.

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2000 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              38 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                               February 27, 2000

SINISTER MENACE OF THE CYBER SABOTEURS HELL-BENT ON BRINGING US TO OUR KNEES

BYLINE: By Ken Hyder

LENGTH: 1386 words


THE threat of a cyber attack that could cripple Britain in hours sounds like
science fiction - but it is now a frightening possibility that the Government
must learn to deal with, and quickly.

The cyber saboteurs' first target would be British Telecom. Armed with nothing
more lethal than laptop computers, the enemy hackers would aim to bring down the
national telephone network centre at Oswestry, Shropshire, which routes calls to
all parts of the UK.

Experts say this would be no simple computer virus attack but a "full-on
intrusion" by a military trained team bent on breaking in openly to destroy a
multitude of files and eventually all the hard disks of the centre's computers.

BT no longer has a "master computer" in overall control of its operation, but
taking out several key computers could trigger a chain reaction of shutdowns
throughout the country.

The entire BT system could be knocked out for days. With computer lines, faxes
and telephones down the damage to the economy would be enormous. The City could
lose deals worth hundreds of billions of pounds. Emergency services would also
be severely hit, especially hospitals and ambulances.

The next cyber-hit would be on the Air Traffic Control System, which handles
more than 5,000 civilian flights a day. The result: more chaos and the danger of
air crashes.

But civilian disruption is not the primary aim. The "cyberteurs" would try to
worm their way into Pacnet, a back-up communications system which the Government
and military agencies would switch to if BT's phone system went down.

Pacnet, a little-known facility based on a cellular radio network operated by
Vodafone, provides Government departments and key organisations with secure
phone-lines and a private Internet.

Electronics giant Racal is responsible for the encryption Pacnet uses to protect
itself from eavesdroppers. But the computers running it are vulnerable to
attack.

The intruders might try to get into Pacnet undetected, using special "sniffer"
programmes to obtain passwords. Once in they would send out false information
and instructions purporting to come from central government.

Another target is the Telehouse building, in London's Docklands, which is the
nerve centre for Britain's Internet traffic.

MI5, aware of all these possibilities, regularly conducts "controlled
penetration tests" to protect against attacks. They have advised the Government
that Semtex-based terrorism and conventional warfare will gradually be
supplanted by cyber-terrorism.

The realisation that Serb agents hacked into Britain's defence computer systems
during the Kosovo war a year ago has prompted the secret service to boost its
army of computer-spies to protect what is called the Critical National
Infrastructure. This is made up of complex computerised systems that run energy
and water supplies, banking and finance, telecommunications and transport.

One security expert commented: "Old style wars were about hitting the enemy
physically, through attacks on the armed forces. Now an enemy doesn't need to do
that - they can hit the economic infrastructure directly, over the Internet,
without exposing their troops to harm - and without it costing anything more
than a few telephone calls."

Hackers recently launched successful assaults aimed at knocking out Internet
services such as Yahoo! and e-Bay. One consultant said: "The world doesn't come
to an end just because Yahoo! goes down for a couple of hours..." But the
attacks showed that individuals can cause havoc with a minimum of resources.

One hacker in Belgium recently proved he could have shut down the country's
electricity supply and was persuaded to call off his threat only at the last
minute. Security chiefs fear that their foreign opposite numbers are cultivating
amateur hackers for more sinister purposes.

SECURITY bosses are also concerned by the emergence of the lone cyberterrorist,
possibly a government agent using a small laptop computer hooked up to the
Internet via a mobile phone. Such a spy could complete an attack within seconds,
dispose of his equipment - and vanish.

The agencies closely involved in building Britain's cyber defence network have
had to acknowledge that they do not have enough in-house expertise. Security
vetted consultants have been brought in to help. A Government policy has been
hammered out at Cabinet Office level to protect vulnerable targets.

Working alongside MI5 are experts from the Communications and Electronics
Security Group at GCHQ in Cheltenham, specialist Army units such as the SAS and
highly experienced private sector consultants. MI5 itself now has more than 200
high-tech specialists in its IT department.

The Government has recently established the National Infor-mation Security
Co-ordinating Centre - an umbrella group for network security measures.

Officers watch the close-knit world of hackers, who are often the first to
detect flaws in computer systems. Agents testing national defences use exactly
the same methods as the real hackers. The SAS still carry out the physical
testing of defences - but now they take a civilian computer specialist with
them.

A leaked threat assessment report drawn up by MI5 has warned Whitehall of the
danger presented by hackers. The report also pointed out that despite the end of
the cold war, Russia's domestic, foreign and military intelligence agencies
remain a serious threat.

The speedy chain of events in Moscow last autumn which made ex-KGB man Vladimir
Putin Russia's acting president have reinforced this view, as did the Kremlin's
behind-the-scenes backing for Serbia during the Kosovo conflict.

In that war, both sides carried out cyber attacks, with Britain's offensive
co-ordinated by MI6. The topic is so sensitive that no agencies will discuss it.
But it is understood that each side planted viruses in the other's computer
systems.

Computer trade insiders claim that some of the most damaging viruses come from
KGB men now living in Bulgaria.

There is no such thing as a totally safe computer system, although according to
Peter Sommer, of the London School of Economics, considerable efforts are being
devoted to developing better "intruder alarm" systems. While the Government is
not unduly concerned about mischievous attacks on websites, there is one area -
banking and finance - which is vulnerable to criminal and cyber attack.

Last month an unsuccessful offensive was launched against the Bank of Japan's
computers. The Japanese government has since asked for urgent specialist help
from the US.

One worry is that international crime gangs can well afford to hire the skills
needed for money-laundering, banking fraud and blackmail. A great deal of
computer theft hits British banks, but they fear publicity will hit customer
confidence. A lot of low-level hacking takes place undetected every day. One
private investigator told how easy it is to employ freelance hackers to provide
details of an individual's bank account. He said: "There are several such
hackers on the Continent. You tell them about the individual, and a week later
they come back with a printout. It costs around GBP 2,000."

Another concern for MI5 is the danger of British employees trying to turn
crucial knowledge into cash.

Mr Sommer said: "Not the least of the Government's problems in securing the
infrastructure is that much of it is in the hands of private companies - key
ministries have computers run by private companies which are not even UK-owned."

MI5 also faces a very contemporary problem - recruiting and keeping the best
computer brains. Some of their IT staff could earn up to six times more in the
private sector.

Against this background, some countries have set up special intelligence units
whose job is to plan cyber attacks. Recent reports suggest that Russia, China,
Iran and Iraq are trying to sign up IT experts made redundant from the former
East German Stasi secret police.

One senior source working on CNI protection said: "The wars of yesterday were
fought by the flower of each nation's youth, the wars of tomorrow will be fought
by a handful of anoraked nerds - and we won't expend shell cases and blood, but
mouse clicks and amps."lAdditional reporting: Nick Anning

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2000 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              39 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                            March 1, 2000, Wednesday

ISLAMIC TERROR SUSPECT SEIZED

BYLINE: Richard Warburton

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 689 words


Police and MI5 officers swooped on three Birmingham properties yesterday in a
hunt for Islamic terrorists.

A man was being questioned last night in connection with alleged "Islamic
extremist terrorist activities" outside the UK after the raids on two houses and
a bookshop.

About 60 West Midlands Police officers, some of them armed, along with anti
-terrorism specialists were involved in the operations.

A number of vehicles were also searched as they executed warrants under the
Prevention of Terrorism Act.

Last night police and the Home Office refused to reveal details but there was
speculation the raids may have been linked to the conflict between Pakistan and
India over the disputed territory of Kashmir.

The man was arrested in connection with firearms offences at the Maktabah Al
Ansaar Islamic Booksellers and Publishers in Ladypool Road, Sparkbrook, in the
heart of the city's Balti Belt, yesterday morning.

Police spent nine hours searching the small terraced property and at least ten
officers, some wearing blue overalls, took away bags containing what a
spokeswoman said were documents, a "large amount" of money and "electronic
equipment".

Books on display in the window of the shop included titles such as The Virtues
of Jihad, Declaration of War and Defence of the Muslim Lands.

Local residents last night said the shop had only been open for about six months
but there had been concerns about its activities.

One said: "We heard that the police found a gun there when they went in.

"No one seems to know much about the place but every time I went there to have a
look inside, the shop was shut. People suspected there was something going on."

Another said: "There have been rumours about the people living and working in
the premises since they turned up here about six months ago.

"People have said that guns have been seen coming in and going out and some
people have said there is a gun factory above the shop.

"No one knows a great deal about them as they haven't been here long and have
kept themselves very much to themselves.

"The whole street was shocked when about five police cars and three vans turned
up this morning and everyone has been asking a lot of questions as our lives
could have been at risk living next to these people."

But another Islamic book seller, who asked not to be named, said he believed the
raids may have been connected to the dispute in Kashmir.

"Personally I don't think the people at the shop are involved in anything but
there are young English-born Muslims who are interested in what is going on in
Kashmir and there has been talk that some have gone out there because they see
it as a Jihad (Islamic war)," he said.

"It's possible the Indian authorities may have asked the Government to
investigate people over here."

Concerns about Britons involved in Islamic terrorism were highlighted last year
when The Birmingham Post revealed that the region had become a key recruiting
ground for fundamentalists dedicated to the creation of an Islamic state in
Britain.

In August five Birmingham men were jailed in the Yemen after being convicted of
taking part in a terrorist plot to bomb British targets in Aden.

The defendants claimed they were in Yemen to improve their Arabic and said they
had been tortured into making false confessions.

Police last night said they could not give further details about yesterday's
operations but the investigation was continuing.

"A number of search warrants authorised under Prevention of Terrorism
legislation were executed in the West Midlands. They were issued in connection
with links to terrorist offences committed outside the United Kingdom," said a
spokesman.

"The West Midlands Police Operational Support Unit along with specialist
officers and the Security Service were involved.

"One person was arrested in connection with firearms offences. Investigations
are continuing and may take some time to complete. "

A Home Office spokesman said: "As a matter of course we do not comment on the
activities or otherwise of the security services."

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Raid scene: Police carry away bags of evidence from the Maktabah Al;
Ansaar bookshop in Ladypool Road, Sparkbrook, Birmingham.

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2000 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              40 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                            March 4, 2000, Saturday

FEARS OF NEW TERROR WAVE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1, 2

LENGTH: 411 words


PARAMILITARIES in Northern Ireland are "making preparations" to unleash fresh
violence, a Home Office report warned last night.

Weapons seizures have not dropped during the past year and terror groups have
been carrying out weapons and arms training, according to a review of terrorism
legislation.

In his annual report on the Prevention of Terrorism Act, Crown Court recorder
John Rowe said that during his "regular visits" to Ulster he was convinced there
was still a need for its tough powers.

He did not identify which terror groups were planning attacks, but stressed his
evidence was based on lengthy conversations with officials and members of the
security forces of all ranks.

The threat of fresh terror will be a blow to the strained peace process amid
fears that the breakaway Continuity IRA will carry out new outrages in protest
at the Good Friday Agreement.

In his report, Mr Rowe, who also accompanied security patrols, warned: "First,
paramilitary groups are still in existence, and they are known to have structure
and organisation and they apply expertise to their planning and management.

"Second, throughout 1999 there has been continuing incidents of deaths, injury,
and damage to property, carried out by paramilitary groups.

"Firearms, and ammunition, and bombing and explosive devices have been
discovered, and this, among other things, is clear evidence that paramilitary
groups have been making preparations to make violent attacks on the community."

Mr Rowe, a former chairman of the General Bar Council in England and Wales,
added: "There is evidence of weapons and arms training."

He said paramilitary organisations still exercised "significant influence" over
certain sections of communities in the Province.

"There is intimidation which is felt in many aspects of ordinary life.

"And these organisations foment disorder for their own ends.

"The paramilitaries have a continuing need for money, and there is plenty of
evidence of extortion and counterfeiting.

"And armed robberies average eight a week."

Some 369 people were detained in Northern Ireland and 12 people in England and
Wales in connection with terrorism in Northern Ireland, according to the report.

One hundred and twenty-six of the detainees were later charged with offences.

A further 87 people were detained in Great Britain in connection with
international terrorism, all but four of whom were later charged.

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2000 Century Newspapers Limited

                              41 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 March 4, 2000

Paramilitaries preparing for violence, says report

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 602 words


Home Office warns of new wave of terrorism in Northern Ireland

Paramilitaries in Northern Ireland are "making preparations" to unleash fresh
violence, a Home Office report warned last night.

Weapons seizures have not dropped during the past year and terrorist groups have
been carrying out weapons and arms training, according to a review of terrorism
legislation.

In his annual report on the Prevention of Terrorism Act, Crown Court recorder
John Rowe said that during his "regular visits" to Ulster he was convinced there
was still a need for its tough powers.

He did not identify which terror groups were planning attacks, but stressed his
evidence was based on lengthy conversations with officials and members of the
security forces of all ranks.

The threat of fresh terror will be a blow to the strained peace process amid
fears that the breakaway Continuity IRA will carry out new outrages in protest
at the Good Friday Agreement.

In his report, Mr Rowe, who also accompanied security patrols, warned: "First,
paramilitary groups are still in existence, and they are known to have structure
and organisation and they apply expertise to their planning and management.

"Second, throughout 1999 there has been continuing incidence of deaths, injury,
and damage to property, carried out by paramilitary groups.

"Firearms, and ammunition, and bombing and explosive devices have been
discovered, and this, among other things, is clear evidence that paramilitary
groups have been making preparations to make violent attacks on the community."

Mr Rowe, a former chairman of the General Bar Council in England and Wales,
added: "There is evidence of weapons and arms training."

He said paramilitary organisations still exercised "significant influence" over
certain sections of communities in the province. "There is intimidation which is
felt in many aspects of ordinary life. And these organisations foment disorder
for their own ends. The paramilitaries have a continuing need for money, and
there is plenty of evidence of extortion and counterfeiting. And armed robberies
average eight a week."

Some 369 people were detained in Northern Ireland and 12 people detained in
England and Wales in connection with terrorism in Northern Ireland, according to
the report.

One hundred and twenty-six of the detainees were later charged with offences. A
further 87 people were detained in Great Britain in connection with
international terrorism, all but four of whom were later charged.

Mr Rowe painted a picture of the UK as a favourable destination for terrorists
plotting attacks elsewhere in the world. "Our laws are liberal, as to the
freedom of expression and movement; there is full coverage of events in the
media; communities find it easy to settle here; and there is a high probability
that one can remain anonymous here," he said.

Earlier yesterday, Sinn Fein leader Gerry Adams warned against expectations of a
St Patrick's Day breakthrough in Washington on the Northern Ireland peace
process crisis.

He is one of a number of Ulster politicians due to meet senior figures from US
President Bill Clinton's administration at the White House later this month, and
he said: "I would caution any suggestion that there is going to be a Dayton-type
summit or a Washington bout of summitry. It will only lead to hangovers."

Mr Adams made his comments after talks lasting 90 minutes in Dublin with Irish
Prime Minister Bertie Ahern.

Mr Adams is also set for discussions with President Clinton's chief Northern
Ireland adviser Jim Steinberg in Belfast.

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Irish Prime Minister Bertie Ahern and Sinn Fein leader Gerry Adams in
Dublin yesterday Picture: FERRAN PAREDES/Reuters

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2000 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              42 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            March 4, 2000, Saturday

Republican 'hero' attacks Sinn Fein leadership

BYLINE: Christopher Walker

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 809 words


A LEADING republican has given the starkest warning yet of bitter disaffection
within Provisonal IRA ranks in a stinging attack on Gerry Adams.

Brendan "Darkie" Hughes, a former IRA chief in Belfast and Maze Prison hunger
striker, said that the republican movement had lost its "honesty, sincerity and
comradeship". He is the most senior republican to voice growing disenchantment
in the movement with Mr Adams's strategy.

In an ominous warning about the future of the IRA's ceasefire, Mr Hughes, who is
an icon within the terrorist group, said that the people were not "war weary",
they were "politics weary".

Mr Hughes's attack on the Sinn Fein leadership came as a Home Office report said
that paramilitaries in Northern Ireland were "making preparations" to unleash
fresh violence. Terrorist groups have been carrying out weapons and arms
training, according to a review of terrorism legislation.

Mr Hughes said, in a reference to the 1996 Docklands bomb, that the IRA had had
to break previous ceasefires to avoid being "sucked in" by the British.

"While I am not pushing for any military response, our past has shown that all
is never lost," he added.

Mr Hughes, commander of the Provisonal IRA prisoners during the 1981 hunger
strikes, when he became a republican hero for spending 53 days without food, was
interviewed for a collection of "radical" republican writing called Fourthwrite
2000. Even before the article was published yesterday, Irish commentators had
said that Mr Adams might face an internal assassination attempt for his
continued support for the Good Friday agreement in the way in which Michael
Collins was murdered by the IRA for signing the 1921 Anglo-Irish Treaty that
partitioned Ireland.

In a thinly veiled threat to the Sinn Fein leadership, Mr Hughes said: "We were
naive ever to have expected the Brits to get on the boat and go. But the things
that we cherished, such as a 32-county democratic socialist republic, are no
longer mentioned."

Mr Hughes also made the most open reference yet inside the republican community
to resentment over Mr Adams's holiday home, globetrotting lifestyle and healthy
income from his books.

"Amongst their number are those who have big houses and guaranteed incomes." He
added: "Of course, it was worth it for them. A few republicans have slotted
themselves into comfortable positions and left the rest of us behind."

Mr Hughes claimed that there were "many whispers" about members of the
republican movement taking "backhanders" from cowboy builders who were
exploiting ex-IRA prisoners.

He added, in remarks certain to have resonance when Sinn Fein holds its annual
conference in Dublin early next month: "With the war, politics had some
substance. Now it has none. The political process has created a class of
professional liars and unfortunately, it contains many republicans."

He said that the only advantage of the 1998 Good Friday deal was that Unionism
had changed, but he added: "The landed gentry has changed, but only because of
the war, not the agreement. The State that we set out to smash still exists.
Look at the RUC, for example."

He said that he would not be surprised if Sinn Fein accepted something less than
the total disbandment of the force.

Mr Hughes said that he had been reluctant to speak out previously.

He was asked what advice he would give to "people who are unhappy, but are
pulled the other way by feelings of loyalty". He responded: "Examine their
consciences. Take a good look at what is going on. If they agree, OK; if not,
then speak out."

In the Home Office report published yesterday, John Rowe, Crown Court recorder,
said: "There is evidence of weapons and arms training."

Mr Rowe, who accompanied security patrols to help to draw up his annual report
on the Prevention of Terrorism Act, added: "Firearms, and ammunition and bombing
and explosive devices have been discovered and this, among other things, is
clear evidence that paramilitary groups have been making preparations to make
violent attacks on the community."

He said he was convinced there was still a need for the tough powers in the PTA.

He did not identify which terror groups were planning attacks, but emphasised
that his evidence was based on lengthy conversations with officials and members
of the security forces of all ranks.

He also said paramilitary organisations still exercised "significant influence"
over certain sections of communities in the Province.

Some 369 people were detained in Northern Ireland and 12 people detained in
England and Wales in connection with terrorism in Northern Ireland, according to
the report - 126 of whom were later charged with offences. A further 87 people
were detained in Great Britain in connection with international terrorism, all
but four were charged.


LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2000 Times Newspapers Limited

                              43 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 8, 2000

Trimble claims Channel 4 put innocent lives at risk

BYLINE: Sarah Hall

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 607 words


Sarah Hall

Channel 4 placed at risk the lives of 'decent people' when it broadcast a
documentary about a spate of loyalist murders, Northern Ireland's first
minister, David Trimble, said in the high court yesterday.

The Nobel peace prize winner claimed the 1991 Dispatches programme, The
Committee, had suggested members of the Ulster Independence Committee, a
political movement dedicated to Ulster's independence, were connected to an
alleged committee of Protestant dignitaries and RUC officers who colluded with
loyalist death squads to arrange the murders of innocent Catholics.

The 'dishonest' way in which the programme had been edited - with quotes from
the IUC's head, the Reverend Hugh Ross, juxtaposed with an interview with a
loyalist fanatic - compounded this impression. 'By doing a programme about this
alleged committee that was responsible for murders and in the same context
mixing in Hugh Ross's group, known in Northern Ireland as the Ulster
Independence Committee, that exposed to attack members of Hugh Ross's
committee,' the Ulster Unionist leader said.

'While I wasn't a supporter, or associated with Hugh Ross's committee, there
were people on that committee that I knew, whom I knew to be decent people and
whose lives, I thought, had been placed at risk by Channel 4.'

Mr Trimble was giving evidence for the Sunday Times in its defence of a libel
action brought by the documentary's producer, Sean McPhilemy, over a 1993
article deriding the film as a hoax based on 'unsubstantiated rumours and
fabrications' from its main source, a loyalist fanatic, Jim Sands.

The programme had alleged that the committee had arranged, with the collusion of
the RUC, for Protestant death squads to carry out the killings of Catholics and
republicans.

No one was named, but in a book of the same name published in the US two years
ago, Mr McPhilemy listed the alleged members and accused Mr Trimble of
involvement. The Upper Bann MP was 'knowingly associating with and assisting
those responsible for the murder of his own constituents', he said, and was as
culpable for terrorist acts as the leader of Sinn Fein.

Yesterday Mr Trimble, who is pursuing a separate libel action against the
internet firm Amazon UK, which distributes the book in Britain, denied there was
'a shred of truth' in such allegations.

He said: 'To say that I was knowingly associating with and assisting people
responsible for the murder of my constituents is grossly offensive to me and
would be extremely damaging but for the fact that I have not met anybody in
Northern Ireland who takes this book seriously.'

He denied it was merely his 'entourage' who dismissed the allegations. They were
so 'incredible' that not even the Sinn Fein leader, Gerry Adams, or its chief
negotiator, Martin McGuinness, believed them.

Mr Trimble insisted the Orange Order, of which he had been a member since 1961,
was a fraternal organisation which did not promote sectarianism.

James Price QC, for Mr McPhilemy, said that 'fraternal" was not a word that
sprang to mind in the light of its insistence on marching in uniform through
nationalist areas - and asked if it was true that, after a silent march at
Drumcree in 1995, he had danced a celebratory jig with the DUP leader, the Rev
Ian Paisley.

Mr Trimble replied: 'I have never danced a jig with anyone, least of all Ian
Paisley. There was something you could describe as rejoicing, and yes, I did put
my hands together with Mr Paisley - but we certainly weren't dancing.'

The hearing, in which the Sunday Times denies libel and pleads justification,
continues.


LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              44 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 11, 2000

Blair courts outrage with Putin visit

BYLINE: Ian Traynor in St Petersburg and Michael White

SECTION: Guardian Foreign Pages; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 872 words


Tony Blair arrived in St Petersburg last night on a hastily arranged and
controversial private visit to get to know Vladimir Putin, Russia's new
strongman who looks likely to be the country's next long-term leader.

Amid widespread reports of Russian atrocities in the Caucasus, and only two
weeks before an election that will seal Mr Putin's grip on power by confirming
him as president, the British prime minister's visit attracted withering
criticism from human rights activists.

It was also certain to be exploited for Mr Putin's campaign by his election
strategists.

Mr Blair was unapologetic about the visit last night, making comments to the BBC
that appeared to go further than the remarks of his foreign secretary, Robin
Cook, in justifying his own trip last month.

'We have always made clear our concerns over Chechnya and any question of human
rights abuses there, though it is important to realise that Chechnya isn't
Kosovo,' Mr Blair said. 'The Russians have been subjected to really severe
terrorist attacks.'

While Downing Street stressed that the visit to Mr Putin's home town, at the
invitation of the Russian acting president, was too good an opportunity to miss,
Amnesty International urged Mr Blair to 'tell Mr Putin that the world will not
accept a Russia that turns a blind eye to systematic human rights abuse in
Chechnya', where Russia has been at war since September.

But such demands look likely to receive short shrift from the government. 'The
way to conduct ethical foreign policy in these circumstances is to complain
about abuses that occur and make sure action is taken,' Mr Blair told the BBC
before the visit. 'But it is still right that Britain has a strong relationship
with Russia.'

Nevertheless, the Conservative party challenged him to 'do more than Robin Cook
did' on his recent visit. 'This is a highly sensitive time for Tony Blair to be
lending his support to Vladimir Putin,' said the shadow foreign secretary,
Francis Maude.

'It can only be justified if he uses this opportunity to make it unequivocally
clear to Mr Putin that global stability depends on Russia maintaining the
standards of a civilised country.'

The Tories were surprised that the prime minister accepted what his advisers
called a 'Saturday night with the Putins' so close to Russia's crucial election,
although they were aware that the former Conservative prime ministers John Major
and Margaret Thatcher were also keen to befriend rising Kremlin stars.

Both leaders are expected to engage in charm offensives to day, aimed at warming
relations after a year of alienation between Russia and the west.

Mr Blair and his wife, Cherie, will spend the day with Mr Putin and his wife,
Lyudmila, visiting the Tsarist summer palace, Petrodvorets, outside St
Petersburg, and the Hermitage museum. They will then spend a night at the opera,
attending with the Putins the opening night of Sergei Prokofiev's War and Peace
at the Mariinsky theatre, better known as the Kirov.

'This is absolutely the wrong signal to be sending, making a private visit to
the opera at a time when war crimes are being committed with impunity by Russian
forces in Chechnya,' said Malcolm Hawkes of the New York-based Human Rights
Watch, which is monitoring the abuses in Chechnya.

'There are mass executions of civilians, arbitrary detention of Chechen males,
systematic beatings, torture and, on occasion, rape. There is the absolutely
systematic and rampant looting of Chechen homes by Russian troops; these acts
need to be condemned publicly in the strongest terms.'

But Mr Putin yesterday insisted that it was his 'historic mission to resolve the
situation in the Caucasus'. In the most revealing interview he has given as
acting president, he also waxed nostalgic about his long career as a KGB agent,
speaking fondly about his 16 years as a spy.

'There were many people who cooperated with the organs (of state security).
Cooperation with normal citizens is an important instrument for the functioning
of the state The agents are operating in the interests of the state.'

The Blairs and the Putins will be joined at the opera by James Wolfensohn, the
head of the World Bank.

While Mr Cook's agenda in Moscow last month included talks with opposition
leaders, as is the protocol on such official visits, Mr Blair's itinerary only
entails seeing Mr Putin. The government takes the view that Mr Putin is a
convinced 'westerniser', bent on making Russia more attractive to western - and
British - investment.

Despite describing Mr Putin as a liberal reformer and warming to the acting
president on a recent visit, Madeleine Albright, the US secretary of state, said
this week that the Clinton administration was not endorsing Mr Putin as the new
Russian president.

In the US last night, 98 senators asked Mr Putin in a letter to speak out
against anti-Semitism and other forms of religious intolerance.

The senators told Mr Putin they were concerned that anti-Semitism was rising at
local and national levels in Russia. They accused Communist party leaders of
using hate-filled rhetoric and asked the Russian leader to condemn the practice
'by your strong deed and word'.


LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              45 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                 March 12, 2000

Blair accused of endorsing brutal Putin at summit;
Damning evidence about terrorist bombs emerges as the British and Russian
leaders build bridges

BYLINE: Andy McSmith and Ian Traynor, St Petersburg

SECTION: Observer News Pages; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 542 words


TONY BLAIR yesterday risked the wrath of human rights groups by giving Russian
acting President Vladimir Putin, who has led a brutal onslaught on Chechnya, his
broad seal of approval.

Putin, who has just announced his intention to impose direct presidential rule
on Chechnya, robustly defended the policies which have reduced Grozny to rubble
and made it plain he would not bow to Western pressure to halt the offensive.

He surprised observers by asking for Western support to combat terrorism in his
country, citing the British experience in Northern Ireland as an example his
security forces could learn from. Britain has declined his request.

Blairs visit and the cordial tone of his meetings with Putin is being seen as a
coup for the Russian leader who will almost certainly be elected President this
month.

When the leaders emerged after two hours of talks in the Petrodvorets Palace,
Putin appeared to make a significant concession to Western outrage over the
slaughter in Chechnya. He claimed Russia was ready to listen and make
adjustments and would consider whether to allow international observers from the
Red Cross and other organisations into the war zone.

But the British delegation warned afterwards that no concrete concessions had
emerged from the talks. While Blair told Putin there should be objective
investigations of human rights violations in Chechnya and complained that
Russias response to Chechen secessionism was disproportionate, British officials
appeared to accept much of Putins argument. A Downing Street official said:
There is a terrorist insurrection on their territory.

Such a view of the Chechen conflict will delight the Russian leadership. The
Blair visit was the first time a Western leader has met Putin since he succeeded
Boris Yeltsin.

Putin, 47 to Blairs 46, made much of the things he said they had in common.
Heading off with his wife Lyudmila for an evening at the opera with the Blairs,
he described the Prime Minister as a very pleasant and a very appropriate
partner. Were both law graduates and of the same generation We consider the
Prime Ministers visit very significant Our countries are natural partners and at
critical periods in world history they always stood together.

Blair said it was a privilege to be in St Petersburg and refuted suggestions
that he was sending the wrong signal by meeting Putin only two weeks before
Russias presidential election and against the background of atrocities in
Chechnya. It is in the interests of the whole world that Russia is a successful
and engaged nation, said Blair. Weve had a very good and full discussion . . . I
want to say how much I have enjoyed that dialogue.

The meeting was condemned by Liberal Democrat foreign affairs spokesman Menzies
Campbell. He said: Under the direction of Mr Putin, Russian forces have
terrorised civilians in Chechnya. No matter what Mr Blair may have said to him,
Putin will be able to use the Prime Ministers visit as an endorsement of himself
and his policy.

Putin signalled on Friday that he intended to impose direct rule on Chechnya for
a couple of years after the election on 26 March and stressed that any talks on
Chechnyas future would not countenance secession.


LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2000 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              46 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Mercury

                             March 12, 2000, Sunday

IS LAW A FIRST STEP TO LOSING OUR FREEDOM?;
 FEARS ARE GROWING THAT NEW LAWS MAY CLASS THE IRA, ANTI-GM FOOD PROTESTERS AND
ECO-WARRIORS TOGETHER AS TERRORISTS

BYLINE: Bob Haywood

SECTION: Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1012 words


IT has long been said that one man's terrorist is another man's freedom
-fighter.

The Allies won the Second World War so we know the French Resistance heroically
defended democracy and freedom.

If Hitler had been victorious, the history books would have condemned them as
cowardly brigands seeking to overthrow the glorious Third Reich.

When South Africa was shackled by apartheid, the white Nationalist government
branded Nelson Mandela's ANC guerillas as Communist insurgents. Now, the world
hails them as heroic fighters who laid down their lives fighting a repressive
racist regime.

We understand that fledgling foreign governments may have a problem in
differentiating between terrorism and legitimate forms of protest.

But in Britain, with a democratic Parliament stretching back 1,000 years and our
Empire having once ruled one-third of the globe, we have always smugly thought
we could easily tell the difference.

But, according to the Labour government, there are sinister threats even to our
time-toughened democracy that can be quelled only by new anti-terrorist laws to
close loopholes in the present legislation.

The Terrorism Bill, which is expected to become law later this year, proposes:

A more modern definition of terrorism which includes ideological and religious
motivation for terrorist acts, at home and overseas

A new power for the Home Secretary to outlaw organisations involved in
international and domestic terrorism

Strengthened powers for dealing with finances raised in this country for
terrorism overseas

And a new offence of inciting terrorist acts abroad from within the UK

The new law, which will supersede the Prevention of Terrorism Act and the
general criminal offence of conspiracy, seems highly reasonable at first glance.

But there is growing concern among politicians, legal experts and civil
liberties groups that the Terrorism Bill will be a tentative step down the road
towards totalitarianism.

The fear is that the new law will be used against a whole raft of groups,
including Green campaigners, opponents of GM-modified food, animal rights
protesters and British-based fund-raisers for political groups opposing
tyrannical governments around the world.

Backbench Labour MP Jeremy Corbyn says that, if the legislation had been in
force when the ANC was fighting the apartheid regime in South Africa, its London
office would have been closed down.

The belief is that the State will be unable to resist using the legislation
against the likes of eco-warrior Swampy, Greenpeace's Lord Melchett and even the
supporters of animal rights campaigns like Save the Hillgrove Cats in
Oxfordshire, led by Birmingham couple Heather James and Greg Jennings.

The fears have been heightened by raids by armed police, MI5 and the Anti
-Terrorist Branch and Special Branch of the Metropolitan Police against a Muslim
bookshop and two houses in Sparkbrook, Birmingham. They were suspected of being
connected to 'international Islamic terrorism'.

As revealed in the Sunday Mercury last week, the swoop was a double fiasco.
Nothing remotely connected with terrorism was seized and the city's 125,000
Muslims were incensed at the suggestion that it was.

Steve McCabe, Labour MP for Birmingham Hall Green, has great misgivings about
the possible impact - deliberate or accidental - of the legislation.

He is a member of the Commons committee that scrutinised the Terrorism Bill and
he proposed amendments which he later withdrew after being assured by Home
Office minister Charles Clark that his concerns were groundless.

Mr McCabe said: 'I still believe there is a danger of the security services
going on 'fishing' expeditions against all kinds of groups.

'One of the provisions is to make it an offence to possess 'an article that the
authorities believe is connected with terrorism'. What does that mean and how
can someone prove their innocence in such circumstances?

'And since when have people under British law had to prove their innocence
rather than the prosecuting authorities having to prove their guilt?

'It will also be an offence to collect information that another might use for a
terrorist purpose and to fail to pass on that suspicion to the authorities which
smacks of Big Brother and could seriously impact on investigative journalism and
the freedom of the press.

'I shall be watching the progress of the Bill very closely indeed.'

Professor David Wilson, professor of criminal justice at the University of
Central England in Birmingham, said: 'The Terrorism Bill is an absolutely
appalling piece of legislation.

'It will expand the definition of terrorism from activities intended to
overthrow the State to any kind of direct action by ideological, religious or
political groups.

'Greenpeace campaigners involved in the destruction of GM-modified crops,
including Lord Melchett, and eco-warriors like Swampy, would be classified as
terrorists under the definition contained in the Bill.

'So too could anyone raising funds for overseas causes of which the government
disapproves. This Bill is inevitably going to become law and very few voices are
being raised against it.'

Ursula Bates, Midland representative for Animal Aid, which actively campaigns
against the export of live animals, said: 'There is concern among animal rights
campaigners about the possible implications of the Terrorism Bill.

'It contains Draconian powers which could be used against groups like Save the
Hillgrove Cats. Animal rights activists generally are already treated
appealingly by the police and things could get much worse.'

Even Home Secretary Jack Straw concedes there is a 'thin dividing line' between
Britain's security and the threat to our traditional liberties.

The fear is that this is a line we are about to step over.

Do we need new anti-terrorist laws - or is the new Terrorism Bill a step down
the road towards totalitarianism? Write and have your say at Talk About, Sunday
Mercury, 28 Colmore Circus, Birmingham B4 6AZ.

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CONCERNED... animal rights protesters ARMED ATTACKERS... IRA terrorists
have targeted Britain for many years FACING BAN... anti-GM foods protesters
could be prevented from marching UNDER THREAT... protesters like; Swampy could
be arrested under the terms of the new laws

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2000 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              47 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                                 New Statesman

                                 March 13, 2000

The New Statesman Special Report - Can a whistle-blower be wrong?; Richard
Webster on the reasons for scepticism about the North Wales tribunal's
conclusion that hundreds of young people were abused

BYLINE: Richard Webster

LENGTH: 3642 words


When, one evening in the middle of last month, William Malcolm opened the front
door of his flat to two visitors, he was shot dead with a single bullet through
his brain. According to newspaper reports, his neighbours cheered when they
heard the news, and a local mother said 'whoever did this deserves a medal'. In
1981, Malcolm had been convicted for unlawful intercourse with an under-age
girl. Six years ago, he had appeared at the Old Bailey on charges of rape,
indecent assault and cruelty, but the trial had been halted for legal reasons.

Some newspapers endorsed and even applauded Malcolm's extra-judicial murder. The
implication is that child sexual abuse is so repugnant a crime that we may be
justified in abandoning the normal processes of law. This sets a disturbing and
dangerous precedent and the examples go beyond the Malcolm case. Several MPs
have said that they will use parliamentary privilege to name 50 alleged child
abusers in north Wales. But the Tribunal of Inquiry into Child Abuse in North
Wales Children's Homes chaired by Sir Ronald Waterhouse, which reported last
month, refrained from identifying these people precisely because there was
insufficient evidence against them.

As Cleveland and the Orkneys should have taught us, it is possible for people to
be wrongly accused of child sexual abuse. In the current climate, however, a
mere allegation of abuse is widely treated as though it were proof of
wrongdoing. And when MPs themselves trample on the very principles of justice,
it places immense pressure on both judges and juries to convict even when the
evidence points to a defendant's innocence.

The North Wales tribunal, insofar as it has been criticised at all, has been
accused of not apportioning enough blame, not naming enough names. Almost
nobody, apart from BBC2's Newsnight, has questioned its broad conclusions, which
largely endorsed the horrifying allegations of sexual and physical abuse it was
set up in July 1996 to investigate. According to the Daily Mail, the tribunal
had uncovered 'Britain's worst-ever paedophile scandal'. The newspaper added
that '40 of the monsters are still at large'. Almost all newspapers featured the
role of the whistle-blower Alison Taylor. 'I nailed child sex perverts: Brave
Alison exposed abuse scandal' was the Sun headline. The Daily Telegraph carried
a picture of Taylor under the headline 'I had the proof but they wouldn't
listen'.

Confronted with alleged child abuse, the press abandons its critical faculties,
rather as it did with the convictions of supposed IRA bombers in the 1970s. The
comparison is a telling one. Just as those who campaigned then against
miscarriages of justice were accused of sympathy for the IRA, those who now
raise even the possibility of miscarriages of justice in child-abuse cases are
suspected of condoning abuse, or denying its existence.

But no matter how heinous the alleged crime, suspects deserve the proper
processes of law. And, in the case of north Wales, there must be reasonable
doubt not only about the guilt of many of those accused but also about whether
many of the alleged crimes took place at all.

From the very first day of its inquiries, the tribunal caused deep disquiet
among many lawyers. A tribunal is supposed to establish the facts, not to act
like a prosecuting authority. In the report that reviewed the workings of the
tribunal system in 1966, Lord Justice Salmon said that an opening statement
should be 'an impartial summary of the investigation and avoid any comments
which are likely to make sensational headlines'. It should not draw conclusions
'until the evidence is heard'.

Yet in his opening statement on 21 January 1997, the counsel to the North Wales
tribunal, Gerard Elias QC, said that the accounts given by those who complained
of abuse appeared to be 'cogent and very impressive'. If this testimony were
accepted, it would 'compel the conclusion that children in care in Clwyd and
Gwynedd . . . were abused physically and/or sexually on a scale which borders on
wholesale exploitation'. In press copies of the statement, these words were
printed in bold, and the sensational headlines they invited duly appeared.

From this moment on, some observers questioned whether the tribunal could ever
be relied on to uncover the truth. Only in its closing days, however, was a
full-scale attack launched upon its procedures. It was led by Anna Pauffley QC,
who represented some of the care workers involved, and it was apparently
supported by at least nine other members of the Bar. In unprecedented criticisms
of the government-appointed Treasury team conducting the tribunal, Pauffley
suggested that a policy of 'trial by ambush' had operated. There had 'been
little effort to achieve fairness' because the Treasury team 'had a case that
they were to pursue . . . From the first day of the tribunal the die had been
cast.' For many care workers, the tribunal had been 'the late 20th- century
equivalent of the medieval stocks'.

Any tribunal that is criticised in these terms by a leading barrister cannot and
should not command full public confidence. There are strong reasons for
believing that the story of North Wales remains untold, and that an inquiry set
up in response to fears about a cover-up may well have ended by itself covering
up the truth. If so, it was not done deliberately, but because of the tribunal's
supreme and misplaced confidence that it knew the truth before it had even
started to investigate.

Perhaps the only part of the story that is not in dispute is how it began. It
started in 1986 in Bangor, Gwynedd. It was here that a 42-year-old residential
social worker, Alison Taylor, who had been in repeated conflict with her senior
officer, Nefyn Dodd, approached a local councillor with allegations that Dodd
had physically abused young people in his care.

Taylor's allegations were referred to the North Wales Police. Taylor claimed not
only that abuse was taking place at the Ty'r Felin Assessment Centre, where Dodd
was officer-in-charge, but that it was being covered up by Gwynedd social
services. An investigation was now carried out by one of the most experienced
and respected officers in the force - Detective Chief Superintendent Gwynne
Owen, the head of North Wales CID.

After extensive inquiries, Owen could not substantiate any of the complaints.
Taylor had not claimed to have witnessed any of the assaults herself. She had
merely reported seven instances where residents of Gwynedd homes had supposedly
been assaulted. In one case, she said that a girl, Karen Hull, had been severely
beaten by Dodd and was bruised on her back and trunk. But when Karen was seen by
a woman police officer she made it clear that she had never been treated
unfairly. 'On no occasion,' she said, 'did Dodd lift a finger towards me or even
threaten to do so.'

In the autumn of 1986, Owen questioned Taylor's reliability in a report to the
Crown Prosecution Service. 'It is the investigating officer's opinion,' he
wrote, 'that many of the allegations were not spontaneous complaints made by
child residents, but rather the result of deliberate trawls and subtle
interrogation . . .'

In 1987 more complaints were brought forward by a young woman who subsequently
said that Taylor had contacted her. Owen investigated further. He then submitted
another report to the CPS which concluded: 'The officer's view regarding Mrs
Taylor remains unchanged and there is every likelihood that she will manipulate
others in the future to make similar complaints, in an effort to keep the matter
in the public domain, and in the belief that if sufficient mud is thrown some
will stick.'

Taylor was subsequently dismissed from Gwynedd social services. While contesting
her dismissal she wrote a series of letters to politicians, including Douglas
Hurd, Margaret Thatcher, John Major and her local MP Wyn Roberts. In these
letters she began to develop an entirely new allegation.

In 1986, Taylor had not claimed that she had actually seen any abuse. Yet when
she wrote to Margaret Thatcher on 17 January 1987, she had suddenly become a
first-hand witness. 'After several instances of seeing children abused myself,'
she wrote, 'I informed Mr Dodd that I would take action myself if it did not
cease italics added .' A year later, in a letter sent to the health minister,
Tony Newton, she gave a specific example. A particularly brutal assault had
supposedly been made on a boy called Lewis Harper. One weekend in 1980, after he
had run away and been returned, Lewis was called into the office: 'Mr Dodd
started to beat him about the head and body with his fists and with a cane that
was kept in the office. The boy was knocked to the floor, after which Mr Dodd
stood over him and told him to crawl towards him and lick his feet. Mr Dodd
continued beating Lewis until he complied. I witnessed this incident from start
to end.'

Since 1988 Taylor has repeated this allegation on innumerable occasions. But
crucial details have frequently changed, and an incident that at first involved
three people eventually involved six - including a teacher who was not even at
Ty'r Felin on the occasion Taylor originally indicated.

More tellingly still, Taylor subsequently said that she had informed DCS Owen of
this incident in 1986. However, her signed statement indicates that this was not
the case. Nor is there any evidence, other than her own testimony, that the
incident itself ever took place. There is clear evidence, however, that, after
making the allegation in her letter, Taylor contacted Lewis, who had recently
come out of prison. In an HTV documentary in 1991, and in a subsequent
statement, he made a number of allegations against Dodd. Although none of these
corresponded to Taylor's version of events, one bore some resemblance to it. The
HTV documentary also featured allegations made by a young man, Aidan Mitcham,
who had been in care both in Ty'r Felin and in Bryn Estyn, and who would play a
central role in Taylor's campaign.

By this time, Taylor had woven an altogether more complex plot. She now claimed
that Dodd was not an isolated abuser. He was part of a 'vice ring' that
stretched across North Wales from Gwynedd to Clwyd. The centre of this ring was
supposedly to be found at Bryn Estyn, a former approved school on the outskirts
of Wrexham, where Dodd had once worked and where Taylor had completed a
three-month placement in 1982. This development appears to have been inspired by
the conviction of the care worker Stephen Norris in 1990. Norris, who pleaded
guilty to a number of counts of sexual abuse, had once worked at Bryn Estyn.

Although this 'vice ring' supposedly involved physical abuse, its principal
concerns were sexual. The allegations brought forward against Dodd changed
accordingly. Previously accused only of violence, he was now portrayed as a
voyeur and a pervert. Taylor claimed that he was a devotee of child pornography
which he habitually left on his desk. She said that this information, too, had
been given to the police in 1986. In a document that was handed to a journalist
in 1991, she wrote: 'DCS Owen had information in my formal statement about the
extent and nature of the pornographic literature in J N Dodd's possession, but
does not appear to have acted.' This claim was entirely false. Taylor's 1986
police statement contained no reference to pornography. DCS Owen has confirmed
that she never mentioned it at any point.

But Taylor was now claiming that the North Wales Police were engaged in a
cover-up, and in 1991 she began to suggest reasons for it. She claimed, without
any basis in fact, that a senior police officer was facing an allegation that he
'was involved in a sexual relationship with a girl in care'. She also said that
another senior officer, whose duties had taken him to Bryn Estyn, was a regular
golf partner of the deputy head of Bryn Estyn, Peter Howarth.

Although Taylor had marked the end of her 1982 placement at Bryn Estyn by warmly
congratulating the head and his staff on their standards of care, she now began
- after nine years of silence on the subject - to portray the school as a hive
of sexual abuse. She said that, on her last day there, she travelled in a
minibus with two boys to Wrexham station. One of them, Matthew Elwys, who was
also allegedly leaving Bryn Estyn, told her that he had been sexually abused
throughout his stay by Howarth. The other boy supposedly made a similar
allegation.

Yet on the day Taylor says she thinks she left Bryn Estyn, Matthew Elwys was not
even there. He was on extended home leave in the north of England; he actually
left more than two weeks later. When I interviewed him in November 1996, he said
that he had never made any allegation. He did not remember Taylor and had never
been abused by Howarth. 'The man never touched me . . . Peter Howarth . . .
treated me right.'

By the end of 1991, however, Taylor had helped to trigger a third police
investigation. In the spring, she had taken some of her allegations, including
her claims about a police cover-up, to the leader of Clwyd County Council,
Dennis Parry. Parry immediately convened a meeting with Malcolm King, the
council's chairman of social services, and two senior council officers. Shocked
by Taylor's claims, and convinced by other developments that, in the words of
King, 'a smell was coming from Bryn Estyn', the four men eventually decided to
call in the North Wales Police. Crucially, however, Parry decided not to tell
the police either about Taylor's involvement, or about her claims concerning a
police cover-up.

The investigation, one of whose specific aims was to look into the possibility
that Bryn Estyn was the centre of a paedophile ring, would eventually become the
largest ever child-abuse inquiry. It was launched on 2 August 1991. Six days
later, having been in close touch with Taylor, Mitcham went to a police station
where he made a 25-page statement. As well as making allegations against Dodd,
Mitcham implied that at least four boys, including Matthew Elwys, had been
sexually abused by Howarth at Bryn Estyn.

The police now began to visit the young men Mitcham had named, and they soon
collected two allegations of sexual abuse against Howarth. One of the two
witnesses had a conviction for perverting the course of justice. The other would
subsequently be discredited. The police, however, appear to have construed their
complaints as evidence that Howarth was guilty.

At this point, the single most important event in the North Wales story took
place. Parry contacted the Independent on Sunday, and the story was given to a
young freelance journalist, Dean Nelson. He travelled to North Wales where
Taylor and Mitcham acted as sources and guides.

Mitcham at this point phoned a former care worker who claims he was told that
'we're out to get Howarth and Doddy'. During the tribunal, Mitcham actually
confirmed that a conversation along these lines had taken place. Taylor and
Mitcham now introduced Nelson to Paul Cairns and Josh Hall, two young men who
had both previously given statements to the police saying that they had not been
sexually abused. Both now made allegations of serious sexual abuse against
Howarth.

On 1 December 1991, the Independent on Sunday published the fruits of Nelson's
research. The story, with its claims of paedophile rings and police cover-ups,
relied heavily on Taylor's version of events. It even named the senior police
officer whose duties had taken him to Bryn Estyn, and implied, libellously, that
he was a member of a paedophile ring. The newspaper also published sexual
allegations against Dodd and a prominent picture of Howarth, whom it described
as a 'paedophile'. Finally, it reported Parry's assurance that Clwyd County
Council would look sympathetically on claims for compensation.

With the publication of this story, the long campaign of a solitary social
worker had become a national scandal. Stung by public criticism, the North Wales
Police intensified their search for complaints. Backed by an NSPCC helpline, and
conducted in the midst of local press stories about compensation, their trawling
operation rapidly developed a momentum of its own. It soon collected a large
number of allegations that were quite independent of Taylor. Meanwhile, Mitcham
and Cairns began to encourage other former Bryn Estyn residents to make
allegations. Mitcham himself recorded a conversation with one man, to whom he
had shown the picture of Howarth from the Independent on Sunday. 'What do you
want me to say,' asked the man, 'that he's fucked my arse?' He went on to make
an allegation of buggery against Howarth.

At dawn on 15 March 1992, no less than 16 former members of Bryn Estyn staff
were arrested. Most were released the same day. Howarth, however, was convicted
in 1994 and sentenced to ten years in prison. The chairman of the North Wales
tribunal refused to permit any barrister to question his guilt, and Howarth, who
had always protested his innocence, died in prison while the tribunal was
sitting.

Before Howarth was even convicted, Nelson had been sent back to North Wales to
find evidence that would substantiate the libel against the senior police
officer. He eventually found two deeply damaged young men who were prepared to
make allegations against him. A third witness, primed by the televised
allegations of the first two, was discovered by another journalist.

On the basis of their testimony, Private Eye wrote that the former policeman was
a paedophile. The Observer repeated this charge and subsequently suggested that
as many as 12 policemen were members of a paedophile ring in North Wales.

When Private Eye, the Independent, the Observer and HTV tried to defend the
libel action against them, it was shown in court that two of the three witnesses
had not even been at Bryn Estyn at some of the times they claimed. The methods
by which Nelson got an allegation from his first witness were subjected to
devastating criticism by the policeman's counsel, the Labour peer Lord Williams
QC. The jury found in favour of the former policeman. The defendants were left
to settle a huge bill for damages and costs.

It is partly because many journalists have never accepted the verdict of the
jury in the libel trial that quality newspapers in Britain have consistently
failed to investigate what really happened in North Wales. Instead they have
again and again endorsed a version of events similar to that which Taylor
herself created.

In this respect the report of the North Wales tribunal has at least made one
contribution to justice and fairness. It does not accept claims about a police
cover-up and specifically upholds the verdict of the jury in the libel case.
This part of its findings, together with its rejection of claims about a masonic
conspiracy involving the North Wales Police, should be welcomed.

The main failing of Waterhouse's report is that it does not recognise that the
same forces that destroyed the reputation of an innocent policeman played a
central role in the entire North Wales investigation and led directly to
Howarth's conviction. The report barely discusses the problem of false
allegations. It fails utterly to examine the dangers attending the kind of
police investigation that was carried out in North Wales. At no point does the
report even recognise the possibility that trawling operations, in which police
officers actively seek multiple allegations against particular suspects, may
lead directly to miscarriages of justice.

There can be no doubt at all that in North Wales, as in every other part of the
country, some children were abused while they were in care. There was some
sexual abuse and some physical abuse. It is right that this should be seen as a
matter for shame, and that all possible steps should be taken to improve
safeguards.

However, the Waterhouse Report implies that, during the 1970s and 1980s, abuse
took place in care homes in North Wales on an unprecedented scale. The evidence
suggests that the truth is almost the exact opposite of this: in North Wales it
is not child abuse but false allegations of child abuse that have been
perpetrated on an unprecedented scale.

The failure of journalists and others to uncover the true story of what happened
has already had catastrophic consequences. North Wales has been treated as a
model for other inquiries. Practically every police force in the country is now
engaged in retrospective trawling operations. A significant number of guilty
care workers have already been convicted as a result. But the level of false
allegations produced by such inquiries is disturbingly high. Chris Saltrese, a
solicitor who acted for care workers at the tribunal, believes that 80 per cent
or more of the serious sexual allegations collected in such operations are
false. Recently, in an interview on Radio 4's Law in Action, he suggested that
trawling operations had led to more wrongful convictions than any other form of
police inquiry in the history of British justice.

In Saltrese's view, as many as 20 innocent care workers are already in prison
from Wales and the North-west alone. He believes that, nationally, over a
hundred others may be facing multiple false allegations. If this is indeed the
case, we are in the midst of a witch-hunt of an unprecedented kind.

Historically, witch-hunts have always relied on judges and official reports to
give them power and authority. The tragedy of the Waterhouse Report is that it
has inadvertently endorsed, and will undoubtedly intensify, one of the biggest
and most dangerous witch-hunts there has ever been.

The names of those who were once in care have been changed. Richard Webster is
writing a book about the North Wales abuse allegations


LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                        Copyright 2000 New Statesman Ltd

                              48 of 299 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            March 14, 2000, Tuesday

BERTIE LEADS U.S. SUMMIT ON PEACE;
 NEW EFFORTS IN BID TO BREAK ARMS DEADLOCK

BYLINE: Joe Roberts

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 425 words


TAOISEACH Bertie Ahern is joining Northern Ireland's politicians in the United
States for talks on the peace impasse.

Efforts to move the process forward will be made during St Patrick's Day
celebrations.

Mr Ahern will play a leading role with Britain's Northern Secretary Peter
Mandelson during a series of meetings in Washington.

Last night Mr Mandelson said he believed real business could be done in the US.
He stressed the trip would be more than just a party.He said: "I'm going there
to have very serious discussions with all the people, representatives of all the
parties, who will be present there.

"There had better be some serious discussions to make the visit and the meetings
which are going to take place, properly worthwhile."

Ahead of the transatlantic exodus Mr Mandelson made a renewed call for
paramilitary decommissioning.

He said: "There can be no long-term stable future with stockpiles of illegal
arms, where paramilitary organisations are able to second-guess a politician if
and when they please."

There had to be a confidence among the electorate that the province was moving
forward to a "durable and unbreakable peace".

Mr Mandelson said people needed to know that political institutions being
established were permanent and that "nobody has a secret plan in their inside
pocket - or a gun in their belt - that they can pull out at some later stage
down the road."

The SDLP met separately with the Ulster Unionists and Sinn Fein for discussions
before setting off to Washington. Mandelson also met Cedric Wilson, leader of
the Northern Ireland Unionist Party, who claimed Mr Mandelson had disclosed his
intention to reinstate the suspended power-sharing executive without any prior
IRA decommissioning.

He said the plan was to wait for David Trimble to see off a leadership challenge
at the Ulster Unionist Party ruling executive meeting later this month before
forcing Unionists to accept government without decommissioning.

However, a Northern Ireland Office spokesman dismissed the claim. He said:
"Cedric Wilson's recollection of the meeting is not that of the Secretary of
State."

Meanwhile, Ulster Unionist security spokesman Ken Maginnis launched a stinging
attack on the British and Irish governments, blaming them for the recent upsurge
in terrorist activity.

He said: "It's a direct consequence of two governments having shamelessly failed
to display courage and integrity in the wake of the Republican Movement's
failure to adapt to the democratic process."

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SERIOUS: Britain's Peter Mandelson; HOPES: Taoiseach Bertie Ahern

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.

                              49 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 March 17, 2000

RELEASED TERRORIST ARRESTED AS BOMB IS FOUND

BYLINE: BY SARAH WOMACKPolitical Correspondent

LENGTH: 508 words


A convicted terrorist released early as part of the Ulster peace process was
arrested last night after a huge car bomb was discovered.

The dissident republican was one of three men detained when police uncovered 500
pounds of explosives. They believe the Omagh bombers - the Real IRA - were
behind the find.

The arrests sparked fears that some of Ulster's most brutal killers are
returning to their terror campaign. They also raised doubts over the Real IRA's
ceasefire which theycalled after the Omagh atrocity, the single most deadly
attack in 30 years of violence in Ulster.

The man, who has not been charged, was freed from the Maze under the
Government's "Early Release Scheme" set up after the Belfast Agreement. Another
of those arrested is believed to be the brother of a man shot dead by an IRA
commander after a fall-out in north Belfast in the summer of 1998.

Since the peace agreement was signed, 320 republican and loyalist paramilitaries
have been freed early. A further 120 are due to get out before July 28.

They were supposed to be released into a peaceful Northern Ireland but not a
single terrorist weapon has been given up.

Last night Shadow Northern Ireland Secretary Andrew Mackay said: "This
graphically illustrates why we have been right to demand Mr Blair stops the
early release of prisoners while there has been no decommissioning by
paramilitaries. Peter Mandelson must immediately revoke this prisoners' licence.

Lagan Valley Ulster Unionist MP Jeffrey Donaldson said: "The Government has
opened the gates and freed the bombers unto the streets who are now in the
position to renew their terrorist activities. The people of Northern Ireland are
now paying a high price for this utter folly."

The bomb haul came on a day when Britain said it would withdraw about 500
soldiers from the province, a move that has horrified Ulster Unionists.

Although Ulster Secretary Peter Mandelson said he welcomed the withdrawal he
admitted at a Washington news conference: "The dissidents still pose a threat."

Ulster Unionist Belfast councillor Jim Rodgers put it more strongly. He said the
reduction "greatly alarmed" him when there was a clear increase in activity by
dissident groups andmainstream paramilitary organisations.

Less than an hour before the announcement, Democratic Unionist Party assembly
member, the Rev William McCrea asked the Chief Constable to press for "an
adequate security level to protect the population" in the wake of recent
terrorist activity.

Mr McCrea said: "We believe it is certainly wrong timing because it is another
sop, and will be seen as another sop, to republicans."

Ulster politicians in Washington during this week's St Patrick's Day
celebrations, are expected to come under heavy pressure from President Bill
Clinton and the Irish and British governments to compromises for peace.The main
terrorist groups are sticking to the ceasefire but splinter groups have been
blamed for punishment beatings and attempted bombings of two British bases.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2000 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              50 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                 March 21, 2000

'Terror laws needed'

BYLINE: By Desmond McCartan

LENGTH: 285 words


EVIDENCE of plans for further terrorist attacks have justified the renewal of
special powers, the Government has made clear.

Home Office Minister Lord Bassam said there had been "a welcome reduction" in
terrorist activity in both Northern Ireland and Great Britain during 1999.

But, opening a brief debate in the Lords last night, he said that there had been
124 shootings and 82 bombing incidents recorded in Northern Ireland last year
"and there were still tragic and unnecessary deaths".

It had been a period of "mixed emotions", he added.

While full implementation of the Good Friday Agreement had dominated the
headlines, the year had been characterised by "periods of immense optimism
interspersed with the concern that the momentum generated by the signing of the
Agreement in April 1998 wa s slipping."

Referring to the annual review of the Prevention of Terrorism Act conducted by
John Rowe QC, he said there were still those in the Province who continued to be
"wedded to the old ways of violence and intimidation".

"And, tragically, there has been evidence that attacks on the community were in
preparation."

But he urged peers not to lose a sense of perspective. The overall level of
violence was "far below that experienced prior to the main paramilitary
ceasefires."

Lord Bassam said the Order would renew the powers for the last time, since new
permanent UK-wide anti-terrorist laws were set to come into force.

For the Tories, Lord Cope of Berkeley-he is a former NIO minister - said he was
satisfied that the threat remained "real and dangerous".

Liberal Democrat peer Lord McNally said the Agreement was the best hope for
achieving a lasting peace.


LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2000 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              51 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                            March 21, 2000, Tuesday

ALGERIAN TERRORISM CASE COLLAPSES AS AGENT IN FEAR OF LIFE REFUSES TO CO
-OPERATE

BYLINE: Pat Clarke Special Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 548 words


A case involving alleged Algerian terrorism - estimated to have cost UK
taxpayers up to pounds 3 million - was abandoned at the Old Bailey yesterday
after a security services agent refused to co-operate for fear of his life.

At the end of nearly two years of legal procedures, Mr Nigel Sweeney,
prosecuting said the Crown was 'driven' to offer no evidence against three
Algerians, Sofiane Kebilene, Farid Boukemiche and Sofiane Souidi, accused under
the Prevention of Terrorism Act.

Mr Sweeney told the court: 'We are not prepared to put the life of the source
and his family at risk.'

Kebilene and Boukemiche, both from Peckham, and Souidi, from Bermondsey, south
London, had denied possession of articles for suspected terrorist purposes on
May 22, 1998.

Kebilene and Souidi are in their early thirties and Boukemiche is in his late
twenties.

The prosecution had alleged a combined operation by the British security
services and police uncovered a terrorist cache in London - destined for use in
acts of political violence in Algeria.

Tins of baby food, stereo equipment and felt tip pens were to be utilised in a
bid to smuggle chemicals 'which could be used for both the making of explosives
and for use in poisons to kill people,' Mr. Sweeney told the jury, which started
trying the trio in October 1998.

Seven consignments including chemicals and other items were sent from Britain to
Algeria between 1992 and 1997, he alleged. After armed police swooped on
addresses in south London on May 22 1998, two Algerians were arrested. A third
was arrested in Bristol two months later.

'They were all in this country illegally and in possession of false identity
documents. They are either members or supporters of a group called the Groupe
Islamique Arme,' said Mr Sweeney.

They were concerned in obtaining materials, including chemicals and manuals on
explosives, weaponry and radio equipment, 'for the purpose of smuggling them
from this country to Algeria for use by the GIA in that country in connection
with acts of terrorism'.

But the jury was discharged in December 1998 after protracted legal arguments at
the end of the prosecution case made it impossible to continue at that stage.
The three were formally found not guilty by Judge Henry Pownall.

After the jury was discharged in December 1998, months of legal challenges were
made on behalf of the defence to the rules governing disclosure of evidence and
witnesses' identities. It culminated in trial Judge Pownall ruling that the
identity of the undercover intelligence source, who the defence wished to
examine, should be disclosed to them.

'Disclose of the source's identity would have put lives at risk, so the Crown
sought a compromise solution whereby the source would answer written questions
from the defence through an independent solicitor without the identity being
revealed,' said the Crown Prosecution Service about the decision. But the source
declined to do this. The Crown again approached the source but it again declined
to co -operate because of the risk.'

Kebilene and Boukemiche are still facing sentence on charges of possession of
false documents and Kebilene alone on deception charges, which they admitted.
They were remanded on bail. Souidi was freed.

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2000 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              52 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 21, 2000

Three-year terrorist case collapses

BYLINE: Richard Norton-Taylor

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1096 words


Richard Norton-Taylor

An unprecedented three-year terrorist case dramatically collapsed yesterday when
an MI5 informant refused to appear in court after evidence which senior
ministers tried to suppress revealed that Algerian government forces were
involved in atrocities against innocent civilians.

In a case that has implications for the terrorism bill now going through
parliament, Judge Henry Pownall ruled at the Old Bailey that evidence of MI5's
source was vital to the defence.

Without it, he said, there would be no admissible evidence to back up the
defendants' claims. The alleged terrorists, their lawyers argued, had sent
material to Algeria in self-defence against Algerian government forces.

The prosecution - which earlier admitted that the security services had bugged a
conversation between the three Algerian defendants and their lawyer at the
Belmarsh top security prison in south-east London - offered no further evidence.

The judge formally entered a not guilty verdict against Sofiane Kebilene, 33,
Farid Boukemiche, 29, and Sofiane Souidi, 33, accused of being supporters of the
Armed Islamic Group.

They were arrested by the police in London in the summer of 1997 after a five
-month surveillance operation by MI5. Ken McDonald QC, leading defence counsel,
said they were arrested after contacts between Algerian interior ministry
officials and officials at the British embassy in Algiers.

They were charged with possessing 'chemical containers , radio equipment,
manuals, documents, credit cards and sums of money, in circumstances which give
rise to a reasonable suspicion that the articles were in their possession for a
purpose connected with the commission, preparation or instigation of acts of
terrorism'.

It was the first time charges have been laid under section 16a of the prevention
of terrorism act described a year ago by Lord Bingham, the lord chief justice,
as undermining 'in a blatant and obvious way, the presumption of innocence'.
Almost identical clauses appear in the new terrorism bill.

Lord Bingham said that by reversing the burden of proof the section almost
certainly contravened the European convention on human rights. Despite his
judgment, backing up an earlier ruling by Judge Pownall, the director of public
prosecutions, David Calvert-Smith, was determined to press ahead.

The prosecution pursued the case despite secret documents showing British
intelligence believed the Algerian government was involved in atrocities,
contradicting the view the government was claiming in public.

Three cabinet ministers - Jack Straw, Geoffrey Hoon and Robin Cook - signed
public interest immunity certificates in an attempt to suppress the evidence.

When secret documents, mainly from the Foreign Office, were produced on the
orders of the trial judge - 18 months after the defence asked for them - they
were in marked contrast to the government's publicly-stated view, expressed by
the Foreign Office in 1998, that there was 'no credible, substantive evidence to
confirm' allegations implicating Algerian government forces in atrocities.

Nigel Sweeney, prosecution counsel, admitted yesterday that an MI5 source had
secretly testified that he had 'frequently seen people suspected of being
members of the GIA (the armed Islamic group) and the FIS (the Islamic Salvation
Front) beaten up, abducted and killed by the army.'

He said the Algerian army and police had 'written authority to do whatever
necessary against suspected members of the GIA and FIS'.

Documents the ministers wanted to suppress but read out earlier in open court
revealed that Whitehall's joint intelligence committee stated that
'responsibility for violence cannot be conclusively laid in one place There is
no firm evidence to rule out gov ernment manipulation or involvement in
terrorist violence'.

Sources had privately said some of the killings of civilians were the
responsibility of the Algerian security services, one document said.

Another document, dated January 1997, reports a British source as saying
'military security (in Algeria) would have no scruples about killing innocent
people My instincts remain that parts of the Algerian government would stop at
nothing'.

Other documents referred to the 'manipulation' of the GIA being used as a cover
to carry out their own operations. A US intelligence report - also read out in
open court - said there was no evidence to link 1995 Paris bombings to Algerian
militants, suggesting that one killing at the time could have been ordered by
the Algerian government.

One Whitehall document says that its suspicions about the activities of Algerian
government forces 'if revealed could open us to detailed questioning by NGOs
(non government organisations, such as human rights groups) and journalists'.

An estimated 100,000 people have been killed in Algeria since 1991.

Mr McDonald told the court last month that it would be an 'affront to the public
conscience to proceed'. The defence argued that it was impossible to get
witnesses to give evidence about the security situation in Algeria - something
Judge Pownall ruled was needed in the interests of justice. Determined to press
ahead with the trial, the prosecution last month trawled through Home Office
immigration files looking for an Algerian dissident who would give evidence on
behalf of the defence.

After the MI5 source refused to be identified, the prosecution sought a deal
whereby he would answer questions put to him by an independent solicitor. The
source still refused insisting the risks to him and his family were too great.

During the course of pre-trial hearings - held in open court but which could not
be disclosed until now the security services admitted bugging a conversation
between the defendants and their lawyer at Belmarsh.

The judge said the principle that such conversations were privileged was
important but there was evidence it happened only in a 'single incident' and may
have been 'wholly innocent'.

Gareth Peirce, lawyer for the defendants, said later that the law under which
they were tried 'should not exist'. The case had demonstrated the problems of
trying people in Britain on charges relating to the nature of foreign regimes
such as Algeria's - a difficulty Mr Sweeney acknowledged, but he insisted there
was strong prime facie evidence that the three men were guilty.

The men are applying for political asylum , though Kabilene and Boukemiche are
awaiting sentencing on charges of deception, which they admitted.


LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              53 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                            Manchester Evening News

                                 March 21, 2000

Hope springs from tragedy

BYLINE: PAUL BROSTER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 479 words


New youth centre to promote peace after IRA bomb



FLOWERS have been laid on the spot where two boys were killed by an IRA bomb
seven years ago.  The tributes marked the area in Bridge Street, Warrington,
where the bomb ripped through the precinct, killing Tim Parry, 12, and Johnathan
Ball, three, and injuring 56 others.

But sadness and remembrance turned to hope as parents of Tim and Johnathan
joined the Duchess of Kent and politicians including John Major to open a youth
centre promoting peace.  The GBP 3 million, wood-panelled complex, just a mile
from the spot where the children were killed, will host a series of programmes -
including invitations to youngsters from Belfast and Dublin - to help create
understanding.

For Tim's parents, Colin and Wendy Parry, the opening heralded the culmination
of seven years of fundraising for the base on newly-named Peace Drive.  The
NSPCC, which part-funded the scheme, will also use the complex as a regional
headquarters. Other facilities include a library, resource centre, performance
hall, cyber cafe and IT suite. As reported in later editions of yesterday's
M.E.N, leading politicians from both Britain and Ireland hailed the centre as a
symbol for peace.

John Major, Prime Minister at the time of the attack, said: The centre is a
triumph for human spirit following the brutal murder of their (the Parrys)
son...to have looked beyond their own tragedy...I am full of admiration for
them.'' Former Irish Taoiseach John Bruton added: Grief can often turn into
passivity or bitterness. In this case grief has been turned into something
wonderful.'' Former Irish Prime Minister Albert Reynolds said: I always ask
myself why Warrington was chosen for such a dreadful act. But this is a great
effort. It will drive political leaders forward to make sure peace is
restored.''

The parents of both victims said they would only be happy if the scheme brought
peace.  Johnathan's mum Marie taped a spray of pink carnations next to her son's
memorial in Bridge Street and wrote: You died in vain.''

Dad Wilf Ball, 66, said: Today has brought everything back to me and made me
very emotional. I still have to take every day as it comes to cope. The only
consolation there can be is if this brings peace.'' Earlier St Gregory's Roman
Catholic High School choir and musicians played songs as crowds joined in
prayers in Bridge Street to mark the anniversary.
   Lauren Waterworth, of Hindley,  gave a moving rendition of Tell Me Why.
Last night the events ended with a gala evening of celebration led by pop star
Rick Wakeman at the Spectrum Arena, including performances from comedian Joe
Pasquale and ex-Spandau Ballet front man Tony Hadley.
    The new centre is expected to open to youngsters in six weeks.
 Comment: Page 8



LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Royal occasion . . . The duchess with Tim's mother, Wendy, and
Johnathan's mother, Marie, (above) and (right) a girl looks at the flowers and
messages at the site of the bomb

                     Copyright 2000 Manchester Evening News

                              54 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 25, 2000

Race attack on athlete's partner

BYLINE: Nick Hopkins Crime correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 117 words


Nick Hopkins Crime correspondent

Ashia Hansen, the black athlete who is one of Britain's brightest hopes for
Olympic gold this summer, was last night in hiding with her white boyfriend
after a racist attack in which he was stabbed in the forehead and back.

West Midlands police said there was no evidence that Chris Cotter had been
targeted by a racist group, but campaigners warned there had been a surge in
extremist activity in Birmingham.

No one has claimed responsibility for the attack. The couple, the latest in a
long line of mixed-race couples to have been targeted by racists, have vowed
they will not return to Birmingham for fear of further assaults. Full story,
page 5


LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              55 of 299 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            March 25, 2000, Saturday

VOICE OF THE MIRROR: RACE THUGS BRING SHAME ON ALL OF US

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 207 words


YOU might think everyone in Britain was proud of Ashia Hansen.

She is a brilliant athlete, a world record-holder and a gold-medal favourite for
the Olympics.

Yet her life has been made a misery and her boyfriend viciously attacked.

For only one reason - she is black and he is white.

Race hatred has been in the news a lot over the past months yet this cruel
assault is still shocking.

The gang who attacked Ashia's boyfriend, Chris Cotter, and terrorised her are
horrible, mindless thugs. But their actions shame the decent majority.

We don't want to be tarnished by people who hate because of the colour of
someone's skin.

Britain is a nation of mainly tolerant people who are appalled by the sort of
treatment suffered by Ashia and Chris.

But we need to be intolerant about all racial prejudice. That is not being
politically correct for its own sake - it is helping to avoid the attitudes
which lead to racial attacks.

The brutes who attacked Chris Cotter must be caught and given long prison
sentences. An example must be made of them.

When Ashia runs for her country, she must know we are with her. Not just for her
sporting success but in solidarity against the racists who shame our nation.

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.

                              56 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             March 26, 2000, Sunday

TOP ATHLETES ON ALERT AFTER RACIST ATTACK

BYLINE: Robert Mendick

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 370 words


BRITAIN'S TOP athletes were warned by their governing body yesterday to adopt
tough security measures in the wake of the racist attack on the white boyfriend
of black Olympic gold medal hopeful Ashia Hansen.

UK Athletics will hold secret talks with police over fears of further attacks on
its leading track-and-field stars in the run up to the Olympics.

The governing body privately admits the large number of athletes enjoying mixed
race relationships makes them a target for far-right extremists.

Ms Hansen's boyfriend, Chris Cotter, was told by one of a gang of five racist
attackers: "We warned you not to mix with niggers," before being stabbed in the
back and slashed across the forehead. The couple have gone into hiding as West
Midlands police stepped up house-to-house inquiries in the Birmingham area where
Ms Hansen, one of the world's leading triple- jumpers, lived.

Police have to decide whether the attack was an isolated incident or part of a
wider campaign to target athletes whose profiles will inevitably be raised in
the run-up to the Olympic Games in Sydney.

The attack on Tuesday is not the first against mixed-race couples with a high
profile. In 1996, swimmer Sharron Davies and her then-husband, black former
athlete Derek Redmond, were sent a letter bomb concealed in a video cassette
after being targeted by the extremist group Combat 18.

UK Athletics said last night: "We want our athletes to be safe. We will look at
ways of working with the police to make sure it doesn't happen again."

A spokeswoman for the organisation said: "In Olympic year everything does become
so much more high-profile and there is so much more interest surrounding
athletes. I just especially hope racist groups don't think that is something
they can exploit."

Sources at UK Athletics privately admitted it is in talks with police to ensure
leading athletes are properly protected. "There are many, many black athletes in
the British team and quite a large number are in mixed- race relationships,"
said a source.

Ms Hansen has pleaded for the whole episode to be downplayed to allow her to
concentrate on her Olympic build-up and to deprive the attackers of undue
publicity.

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2000 Independent Print Ltd

                              57 of 299 DOCUMENTS



                              Screen International

                             March 28, 2000 Tuesday

American Beauty wins 5 Oscars including Picture

BYLINE: Mike Goodridge in Los Angeles

SECTION: ARTICLE; Categories.Industry / Corporate

LENGTH: 1145  words



HIGHLIGHT: As expected, American Beauty won the major Academy Awards last night,
including Best Picture, Best Director for Brit Sam Mendes and Best Actor for
Kevin Spacey.


As expected American Beauty won the major Oscars at the 72nd annual Academy
Awards ceremony, winning in five categories - Best Picture, Best Director, Best
Actor, Best Original Screenplay and Best Cinematography.

The $15m production which premiered at the Toronto Film Festival last year was
the first film to win the Best Picture Oscar for six-year-old movie studio
DreamWorks SKG. It also marked a personal victory for British theatre director
Sam Mendes who made his feature debut with American Beauty. It was the first
time a debut film director has won an Oscar since Kevin Costner for Dances With
Wolves in 1990. Mendes is now the sixth filmmaker in Academy history to win the
director prize with their very first go behind the cameras.

Kevin Spacey won his second Oscar for American Beauty ' he previously won the
supporting actor prize in 1995 for The Usual Suspects. "This is the highlight of
my day. I hope it is not all downhill from here," he joked. Spacey had won the
SAG award but Denzel Washington had also been a favourite for The Hurricane.
Washington won the Golden Globe over Spacey.

But in the best actress category, American Beauty fell short. Hilary Swank
completed all but a clean sweep of actress awards for her portrayal of Brandon
Teena in Boys Don't Cry, a Killer Films/Hart Sharp Productions picture backed by
the Independent Film Channel and distributed by Fox Searchlight domestically and
20th Century Fox internationally. A heavily pregnant Annette Bening had won the
SAG award for American Beauty a fortnight ago, casting doubt on what was once
considered a shoo-in for Swank; but it was Swank's win on the night.

Pedro Almodovar won the Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film for All
About My Mother (see separate story), bringing Spain its third victory in this
category.

As expected Angelina Jolie won the best supporting actress Oscar for Girl,
Interrupted. For her performance as the sociopathic inmate at a mental
institution, she beat Australia's Toni Collette and the UK's Samantha Morton to
the prize as well as Catherine Keener and Chloe Sevigny, who had taken the
Independent Spirit Award in the same category on Saturday for her role in Boys
Don't Cry.

Britain's Michael Caine won his second best supporting actor Oscar for The Cider
House Rules, an award that was greeted with a standing ovation. Caine, who won
previously in 1986 for Hannah And Her Sisters, thanked Harvey and Bob Weinstein
and Meryl Poster at Miramax Films, director Lasse Hallstrom and producer Richard
Gladstein as well as paying generous tribute to his fellow nominees Haley Joel
Osment, Tom Cruise, Michael Clarke Duncan and Jude Law. The category was one of
the most hotly contested of the evening.

John Irving won The Cider House Rules' second Oscar for his screenplay
adaptation of his own novel. Irving thanked Miramax Films for supporting a film
about abortion and "everyone at Planned Parenthood and the Abortion Rights
League."

Meanwhile another British triumph was Mike Leigh's Topsy-Turvy which walked away
with two craft awards ' for costume design and makeup. Veteran costume designer
Lindy Hemming thanked Leigh, for whom she did her first feature work in 1981 on
TV's Meantime. Her other credits include Leigh's films High Hopes, Life Is Sweet
and Naked as well as modern British classics My Beautiful Launderette, Four
Weddings And A Funeral, Hear My Song and the last three James Bond pictures.

Also winning for Topsy-Turvy were makeup artists Christine Blundell and Trefor
Proud who saluted Leigh in their acceptance speech.

European talent also won the Best Documentary Feature Oscar ' UK director Kevin
Macdonald shared the prize with veteran Swiss producer Arthur Cohn for One Day
In September, while the film's other producer, Britain's John Battsek, appeared
backstage alongside them. Wim Wenders' hit film The Buena Vista Social Club was
favourite to win the Best Documentary Feature Oscar, but Cohn made indirect
reference to that film by thanking the Academy for not being influenced by box
office success in its selection.

Narrated by Michael Douglas, One Day In September documents the events leading
up to the PLO terrorist attack on Israeli athletes at the 1972 Olympic Games.
Cohn has won two Oscars before this one ' for documentary feature American Dream
in 1991 (shared with director Barbara Kopple) and Le Ciel Et La Boue in 1962
(shared with director Rene Lafuite).

Russian Alexandre Petrov won the Best Animated Short Film prize ' the third time
he had been nominated ' for The Old Man And The Sea backed by Les Productions
Pascal Blais (Canada), Panorama Studios (Russia) and three Japanese companies,
Imagica Corp, Dentsu Tech and NHK Enterprises. Adapted from Ernest Hemingway's
novel, the 40-minute film took Petrov two years to make ' he painted each glass
plate himself. The film has also been nominated for a BAFTA in the same
category.

Legendary Polish director Andrzej Wajda was awarded a lifetime achievement
Oscar, receiving a standing ovation from the Hollywood audience as Jane Fonda
presented him with the award. "I have been working for films for 46 years and I
think people wanted to thank me for all that I've done in films," he told press
backstage.

Technical categories were dominated by Andy and Larry Wachowski's smash hit The
Matrix which won editing, visual effects, sound and sound effects editing Oscars
to become the second most honoured film of the evening. It beat out Star Wars:
Episode 1 ' The Phantom Menace in each category.

72nd Annual Academy Awards: Full List of Winners

(US and international distributor listed where appropriate)

Picture American Beauty (DreamWorks SKG/UIP)
Bruce Cohen & Dan Jinks, producers

Director Sam Mendes, American Beauty (DreamWorks SKG/UIP)

Actor Kevin Spacey, American Beauty (DreamWorks SKG/UIP)

Actress Hilary Swank, Boys Don't Cry (Fox Searchlight/20th Century Fox)

Supporting Actor Michael Caine, The Cider House Rules (Miramax/Miramax
International)

Supporting Actress Angelina Jolie, Girl, Interrupted (Columbia/Columbia TriStar)

Foreign Language Film All About My Mother (Sony Classics/United Artists Films)
Pedro Almodovar, director

Screenplay (written directly for the screen) Alan Ball, American Beauty
(DreamWorks SKG/UIP)

Screenplay (based on material previously produced or published) John Irving, The
Cider House Rules (Miramax/Miramax International)

Cinematography Conrad L Hall, American Beauty (DreamWorks SKG/UIP)

Editing Zach Staenberg, The Matrix (Warner Bros)

Music (Original Score) John Corigliano, The Red Violin (Lions Gate Films/New
Line International)

Music (Original Song) "You'll Be In My Heart" from Tarzan (Buena Vista)
Music and lyrics by Phil Collins

Art Direction Rick Heinrichs (Art Direction), Peter Young (Set Decoration),
Sleepy Hollow
(Paramount/Mandalay Pictures)

Costume Design Lindy Hemming, Topsy-Turvy (USA Films/United Artists Films)</

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: Screen International


                            Copyright 2000 Emap Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              58 of 299 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            March 30, 2000, Thursday

HONEYMOON JOY FOR DONNA

BYLINE: Ted Oliver

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 189 words


OMAGH bomb victims Donna Marie Keyes and Gary McGillion have finally gone on
honeymoon - 18 months late.

Donna, a Mirror Pride of Britain Awards winner last year, and Gary, 25, were
badly injured in the attack on August 15, 1998, a week before they were due to
marry.

They had to delay the wedding until last March, when Donna could discard a
head-frame that helped skin-grafts on her face heal. Then they had to delay a
honeymoon.

As they took off for Canada Donna, 24, said: "We have waited a long time for
this and we are going to enjoy every second.

"The honeymoon will be the first time Gary and I have been away together on our
own."

Donna suffered 65 per cent burns in the Real IRA bomb blast and received her
Mirror award for "amazing perseverance and spirit" in overcoming her injuries.

She said: "We said we were not going to let the bombers turn us into bitter
people. I am glad to say we have remained positive throughout.

"I can't change the past - all I can do is make the best of my future."

The Mirror's Pride of Britain Awards this year are at the London Hilton on
Tuesday, April 11.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: LONG WAIT: Gary and Donna had to delay their wedding and then
honeymoon; BRAVE: Mask helped Donna heal

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.

                              59 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                              Gloucestershire Echo

                                 April 3, 2000

Race hate thugs target Sharron
 Band threatens to letter bomb TV star's home

SECTION: News: PEOPLE, Pg.2

LENGTH: 539 words


A neo-Nazi rock band has threatened to bomb the Cotswold home of former Olympic
swimmer Sharron Davies.

The warning is made in the skinhead group Chingford Attack's latest CD.

The lyrics of the fascist track suggest Ms Davies could receive a letter bomb
similar to one intercepted before it reached her home in 1997.

They brand the 37-year-old, who divorced her black athlete husband Derek Redmond
a month ago, a "white race traitor".

The vicious song also makes threats to hang and gas Ms Davies and attacks her
two children Elliott, six, and two-year-old Grace.

Speaking from her home, Ms Davies, pictured, said: "I have no interest in
talking about these people. I have my children to protect."

Ms Davies, an ex-Gladiator and Big Breakfast star, has been hounded by racist
extremists ever since she married Mr Redmond in 1994.

The first track on the hate-filled CD mentions her by name and makes a chilling
reference to the letter bomb plot aimed at the couple.

It starts with a radio news bulletin from three years ago when Ms Davies and Mr
Redmond narrowly escaped injury after a parcel device was defused by police.

The song says: "You know the score. . . gonna send you a bomb like we did
before."

It is believed the CD is being sold through an underground network of far-right
sympathisers and via the internet.

The disc could raise cash for the neo-Nazi White Power group Combat 18.

It has been recorded by the fascist band Chingford Attack, who often perform in
front of Nazi swastika flags.

The group features Combat 18 leader William Browning on guitar.

Browning, 29, was arrested over the racist bomb plot but was never prosecuted
through lack of evidence.

He was jailed for 12 months in 1997 for distributing racist CDs and magazines.

He had earlier been given a two-year sentence after attacking a gay man in
King's Cross, London, in 1990.

Combat 18 has targeted other black celebrities and their families, including
boxer Frank Bruno's mum Lynette and soccer star Paul Ince.

The latest Chingford Attack CD could be in breach of the 1986 Public Order Act.

The law makes production and distribution of material likely to incite racial
hatred punishable with two years in jail.

The CD is being investigated by officers from CO24, the racism and violence
crime taskforce at New Scotland Yard in London.

A Metropolitan Police spokesman said: "This sort of thing is taken very
seriously, particularly when it's towards someone of such a high profile as
Sharron Davies.

"With two young children, it must be very frightening for her and her family.

"Race hate crime is not tolerated and when it is identified we investigate it
thoroughly."

The latest threat came a week after the white boyfriend of black triple jump
star Ashia Hansen, who has family living in Cheltenham, was stabbed by a racist
gang. Ashia received hate mail.

On Saturday it was also revealed that another three high-profile black athletes
had been sent hate mail warning them not to represent Great Britain at the
Olympics in Sydney in September.

Yesterday the sport's governing body UK Athletics said it had advised 90 top
athletes that their lives could be in danger from race hate thugs in the
build-up to the games.

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2000 Gloucestershire Echo

                              60 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                                 New Statesman

                                 April 3, 2000

My kids were called piccaninnies - by their granny

BYLINE: Darcus Howe

LENGTH: 648 words


On 26 March, the Observer, in the wake of the racist attack on the British
athlete Ashia Hansen and her partner, published an article written by Richard
Ellis, a white English journalist. Ellis has been married to a black woman for
the past 15 years. They used to live in South Africa, but Britain, he declared,
apart from some small pockets, 'is foul, racist and deeply prejudiced'.

These words hit me like a bomb blast. Had I read his article on a plane to
London from Trinidad, I would have decamped immediately at Heathrow and caught a
connecting flight to Soweto, where Ellis tells us life is much more amenable
than in Britain.

One of his relatives, he said, saw absolutely nothing wrong in telling a joke
that involved 'a black man with big rubbery lips'. Ellis hasn't spoken to him
since. Rather militant, you may think. In a queue at Marks & Spencer, his
18-month-old son reached out to touch the shiny rings worn by a middle-aged
woman standing behind. 'Starting young, isn't he?' she said. Ellis heaps example
upon example of such racist experiences. Any mixed race couple about to set upon
a course of marriage would bolt from each other once they had read this article.

Even when people don't notice his wife's skin colour, Ellis goes bating. They
are 'almost as dangerous as the openly racist themselves'. Nobody, black or
white, is spared his vitriol. He reminds me of a rabid black nationalist, but
one dressed in lion's skin.

I part company with Ellis on all counts. Follow me closely. I know no white
person, none, who is free from the centuries of propaganda aimed at whites to
justify the horrible institution of African slavery. That includes Ellis; it
also includes some of the most wonderfully civilised whites I know, marvellous
friends of mine whom I would not exchange for a million nuggets of gold.

I arrived here in 1961 and married a Cornish girl, Una Martin, about four years
later. In those days, children and even some adults were of the view that a
white man existed under the black skin and would rub excitedly to see if the top
colour came off. My in-laws were worried about our two daughters. Half-caste
they were called then; people said they were neither fish nor fowl. Their granny
would fondly refer to them as her 'piccaninnies'. I suppose she could be
described as racist in Ellis's terms, but her love for her grandchildren was
limitless; and if, while she was alive, anyone had abused her as a racist, I
would have challenged them to a duel in Falmouth Harbour.

In short, there is much more to the British than racism, and much more to blacks
than anti-racism. Ellis believes that nothing has changed over the past 50
years, that the constant resistance of blacks and our allies has won no space,
no rights, no victories. We blacks, therefore, are overwhelmed, beaten down,
defeated by the forces of reaction in this foul and horrible place.

Ellis is monumentally wrong. Forty-six years ago, a young black Antiguan called
Kelso Cochrane lay stone-cold dead on a pavement on the Harrow Road in west
London. He had been stabbed. Nobody was ever charged with his murder, but not a
drum was heard, hardly a funeral note. It was a non-event. That could not, and
did not, happen with Stephen Lawrence, for two reasons. First, death by the
blade was tolerable 40 years ago, but not today. Second, the black community has
changed enough to alter the balance of power.

I know, because I have been politically active on this terrain. The passage of
time trained me to escape from the blindness that comes with moral indignation.

The dark and grim days are receding. At such moments, precisely because we are
winning, we may experience violence and bitterness from our true enemies that is
far in excess of anything that happened in the old days. There is so much to
play for in this deeply flawed diamond that is England.


LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                        Copyright 2000 New Statesman Ltd

                              61 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             April 3, 2000, Monday

Light on Moscow

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 1018 words


The new British Embassy in Moscow is dazzling Russians with its bold and
spacious modern design. Michael Binyon reports

Russians are already calling it the Penthouse at Miami Beach. With huge windows
reaching to the floor, little balconies and a green copper roof that ripples
jauntily above supporting wooden beams, the building conjures up palm trees,
cocktails at sundown and waves washing the languid beach.

But instead of the sea, it looks out over the grey Moscow River and a nearby
Stalinist skyscraper. Instead of palms, the diplomats inside will see flowers,
an English lawn for a few brief months, and piles of snow and freezing slush for
almost half the year.

The new British Embassy never wanted to fit into the old Moscow. It deliberately
makes a break with the city's communist past and its traditions of secrecy,
security and suspicion. It tells the Russians that Britain, too, has changed.

No longer is the public face that of the elegant, icing-sugar palace straight
from a Victorian costume drama that for years housed the embassy across the
river from the Kremlin's golden onion domes. Britain's diplomats have left its
dark interior panelling, gilded ceilings and royal portraits, and moved into the
bright, brash, contemporary symbol of modern Britain.

To a man - and woman - they are delighted. Architecture makes an important
statement about a building's purpose, function and inhabitants. Nowhere does
this have greater political symbolism than in an embassy, where first
impressions of a country are gathered from the visa office or the occasional
diplomatic reception.

The architecture could hardly be more striking. Nor could it be more insistent
that not only does London intend to play a big role in Putin's new Russia, but
that with the fall of the Berlin wall, other walls dividing the West and its
former enemies must also come down.

Uniquely in Moscow, Britain refused to build a thick wall to protect its new
embassy. The horrific example of the nearby American Embassy - a square block
surrounded by massive walls and ramparts - shows how unwelcoming an embassy can
become when security is its first consideration.

"We want to let in the light. We want to see the world outside, and we want the
Russians to see us at work," says Sir Roderic Lyne, the Ambassador. Light floods
into his office from full-length windows on two sides. Light is especially
important during the long, dark winter - and so is insulation. The
double-thickness glass not only keeps out the cold and the traffic noise; it
will also help to protect the diplomats from a car bomb or terrorist attack.

More important than letting in light, however, is letting in people. Russians
were customarily kept out of Western embassies by uniformed Soviet police,
through fears of being compromised and the carefully nurtured image of foreign
missions as centres of espionage. But since the collapse of communism Russians
have been desperate to travel. The old embassy suddenly became Britain's biggest
visa-issuing office in the world and was overwhelmed. Russians queued for hours
in the yard, in the snow, in the entrances to outhouses, their tempers rising as
the temperature fell.

The standard interview with a consular official became a testy affair. The new
visa office is at the heart of the complex. It is large, airy and warm, with
seating for 250 people - although the numbered queuing system still has a whiff
of the Kafkaesque nightmare at the Home Office immigration centre in Croydon.

The main lobby, with its striking modern art, purple carpets, red sofas, light
wood and beige marble floors, has a flight of stairs that can double as a
backdrop for an impromptu press conference or a viewing point for an exhibition.
The new embassy is big. For the first time, it brings all diplomatic functions
under one roof as well as 28 families into purpose-built flats on site.
"Communication is far easier and more efficient," says one diplomat. "In the old
building we were in outhouses, Portakabins, in the cellar and even under the
stairs. Now each office has computer points and space."

There are even three spare flats to accommodate short-term secondments and some
of the dozen or more consular officials who arrive in summer to cope with the
flood of visa applicants. Unlike the old days, when all Soviet citizens came
under automatic suspicion, Russians working in the embassy now outnumber the
British diplomats by 170 to 80. For the first time they all can be fed in a
restaurant and keep fit in the pool, squash court and rooftop tennis court.
Keeping up morale is important, especially in a post that can still be
stressful, despite the end of the Cold War.

The embassy, designed by Ahrends Burton and Koralek and built by Ove Arup and
Partners, took three years to build at a cost of Pounds 80 million - cheap in
comparison with some London buildings, especially as all the bricks, cement,
materials and labour to put up the central chancery section had to be brought in
from abroad.

Western embassies have all learnt from the Americans, who, disastrously, allowed
Soviet workers to put up their new embassy and later found that it was riddled
with listening devices planted in the bricks.

Planning for a new British embassy has been going on since Stalin's day, when
the Russian leader objected to seeing the Union Flag flying when he looked out
of his window. The site had been kept empty for years while officials haggled
over proposals for a reciprocal new Soviet Embassy in London. Now the old palace
- where Stalin used to dine when discussing how to defeat Nazi Germany with his
wartime ally - has become Sir Roderic's residence.

It may seem a big investment to keep both sites. But as Sir Roderic says: "We're
making a statement here to the Russians. We're telling them that we think they
are still important, and that we are ready to invest a lot to bolster our
presence here in the long term."

It is a message that new bricks and mortar can convey more forcefully than any
number of conciliatory diplomatic exchanges.


LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2000 Times Newspapers Limited

                              62 of 299 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             April 4, 2000, Tuesday

EIGHT YEARS ON RUN;
 TRAIL THAT LEADS FROM A DESERT WAR ZONE TO TWO HOUSES IN THE MIDLANDS

BYLINE: Jeff Edwards Chief Crime Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4, 5

LENGTH: 969 words


CONVICTED terrorist Muhammed Kenioua entered Britain with a bogus identity and
sought asylum, it was claimed last night.

He was sentenced to four years in jail in 1992 for an attack on an army base in
his native Algeria in which four soldiers died, said a spokesman for the
country's government.

But he had fled the country by the time the sentence was passed, he added.

More recently Mr Kenioua was held in jail for five months before being expelled
from the Arab state of Yemen for plotting terrorist crimes.

The Mirror understands he then entered Britain via Gatwick in 1998 on a Saudi
Arabian passport in the name of Khaled Moubarek Badrik.

We have complete details of the passport including the serial number.

Now he and his two wives and 15 children have been given two fully furnished
four- bedroom council houses in Birmingham and are receiving pounds 617 a week
in benefits.

Mr Kenioua, 49, an Islamic imam, is living there while the Government considers
his application to stay here rather than be returned to Algeria.

The Algerian spokesman in London said: "Muhammed Kenioua is a terrorist.

"He was tried in 1992 for an attack on an army base in Gemar. He was convicted
and jailed for four years.

"He had already fled from Algeria by then so he was jailed in his absence."

The Algerians learned that he was in Britain when they read of his asylum plea
in The Mirror last month.

The spokesman said: "This is the same man who should have been jailed in
Algeria.

"In the reports it is said he came here from Algeria but that is not true.

"In 1998 he was in Yemen, where he was in jail for five months and a terrorist
suspect. He was expelled from there and came to Britain."

According to information passed to The Mirror he was allegedly detained in Yemen
and then expelled for supplying Islamic extremists with false passports and
identities and for "plotting against American interests".

After arriving at Gatwick in December 1998 the family went to Birmingham. Mr
Kenioua's first wife Aisha and her nine children were given a terrace house in
Newtown.

Living with her are sons Ibrahim, 21, Abdulatif, 17, Abdulhaq,16, twins Abdulla
and Abdulmalik, 12, Abdulzaq, seven, and daughters Fatima,17, Baraka, nine, and
Mariam, eight.

Mr Kenioua lives at the other house in Aston with second wife Halima, 38, the
widow of an Islamic terrorist who was killed in an attack in Pakistan during the
early 1990s.

They have children Fatima, 15, Abdul Haq, 13, Abdulmalek, 10, Barrek, eight,
Aburazer, seven, and Ali, three.

Mr Kenioua has not said on what grounds he is seeking asylum.

But son Ibrahim, studying maths and English at Birmingham's Joseph Chamberlain
college, said: "We had to leave Algeria because there is a big problem there
with people killing each other."

Mr Kenioua refused to come to the door of his home last night when Mirror
journalists knocked.

We were greeted by two of his sons, one a teenager and the other a young boy.
Both claimed not to speak any English. The younger child confirmed that his
father was in but said he did not want to talk to anyone.

From inside a male voice issued instructions in a foreign language - and the
elder boy slammed the door.

We returned with a note spelling out details of our story about Mr Kenioua. When
we knocked a hand came through the letterbox to take it. A trained guerrilla
fighter, Mr Kenioua has allegedly been involved in "holy war" since the 1980s
when he went to Pakistan.

There he was trained by Palestinian fighters helping the Afghan Mujahadeen in
their war against Russian occupying forces.

In 1991 he went back to Algeria, where he linked up with the GIA terrorist
movement sworn to overthrow the government.

He was involved in the attack for which he was sentenced.

Named on a list of most-wanted terrorists by the Algerian government, he fled
back to Pakistan but was allegedly expelled after a bomb attack on the Egyptian
embassy in Islamabad. From there he made his way to Yemen.

Mr Kenioua issued a statement through his British lawyer last night. He said: "I
vehemently deny these claims.

"They are likely to do incalculable damage to my prospects of obtaining
political asylum while at the same time increasing considerably the risk to me
of persecution by the Algerian authorities."

Up to 100 Algerian terrorists or suspects are seeking asylum in Britain. Most
are members of the feared GIA, who have carried out atrocities in Algeria
including a bomb attack on the French embassy and planted bombs on the Paris
underground in 1995, killing three people.

About 70 are believed to be living in Birmingham with others in London and
Manchester.

The Algerian spokesman said: "Several have been jailed in their absence for
murder and other terrorist crimes. These people, of which Mr Kenioua is one,
have all been offered an amnesty by President Abdelaziz Bouteflika but they are
refusing to return.

"Our view is that they prefer to stay in Britain because here they are so well
off, the benefits are so good. It is an absurd situation."

The British Government is powerless to arrest them as no extradition agreement
exists between the UK and Algeria. A Special Branch source said: "We are aware
that a number of Algerian terrorists are living here and seeking asylum. We
believe fund raising and planning of bombings and assassinations abroad is
happening here."

Home Office sources admitted last night that allegations about Mr Kenioua were
being investigated but a spokesman refused to comment further.

Labour MP Robin Corbett, chairman of the Commons home affairs committee, said
that if the allegations were proved Mr Kenioua should be deported.

Voice of The Mirror - Page 6

jedwards@mirror.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HOUSE ONE; Kenioua, wife No2 and six children live here; HOUSE TWO;;
First wife and nine children are living here; FUGITIVE: Kenioua - pictured here
with family members - is a convicted terrorist, according to a statement from
the Algerians, inset

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.

                              63 of 299 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             April 4, 2000, Tuesday

REMEMBER THE ASYLUM SEEKING ALGERIAN WITH TWO WIVES, 15 KIDS AND TWO HOMES
LIVING HERE ON STATE HANDOUTS OF POUNDS 617 A WEEK? GUESS WHAT, BACK HOME HE'S A
CONVICTED AND WANTED.. TERRORIST

BYLINE: Jeff Edwards

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 167 words


AN asylum seeker living on pounds 617-a-week benefits in Britain is a convicted
terrorist, it was revealed yesterday.

Muhammed Kenioua provoked outrage last month when it was reported that the
taxpayer was picking up the bill for his family of two wives and 15 children.

Last night the Algerian government told The Mirror that Kenioua had been
sentenced to four years for an attack on an army base in which four soldiers
died.

It is understood Mr Kenioua strongly denies any terrorist activities.

But The Mirror has discovered he fled Algeria before the trial and eventually
landed in Britain with his extended family. He immediately applied for political
asylum and while his application is being processed he is living off benefits in
Birmingham.

Mr Kenioua is alleged to have entered Britain using a false identity and a
forged passport. He is believed to have come here from the Yemen, where he was
held in jail for five months as a terrorist suspect before being expelled.

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WANTED: Muhammed Kenioua fled trial in Algeria

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.

                              64 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 April 5, 2000

SHOOT-TO-KILL CLAIM GOES TO EURO COURT

SECTION: Pg. 32

LENGTH: 740 words


TWELVE men shot dead by security forces in Northern Ireland were victims of a
'shoot-to-kill policy', the European Court of Human Rights was told yesterday.

Lawyers representing the families of the victims of four separate incidents said
such a policy contravened the 'right to life' guaranteed by the European
Convention on Human Rights, to which Britain is a signatory.

Judges in Strasbourg, who will decide whether the cases should go to a full
hearing, were told that they involved allegations of 'excessive use of force, a
shoot-to-kill policy or collusion by the security forces with loyalist
paramilitaries'.

Unarmed Pearse Jordan, 22, was fatally wounded by RUC officers on the Falls Road
in Belfast in November 1992.

They had stopped his car, but no guns, ammunition, explosives, masks or gloves
were found. An inquest said he had been struck by three bullets.

His 59-year-old father Hugh, who launched the human rights action, claims the
shooting was used as an alternative to arrest and trial.

Gervaise McKerr and his two passengers died in November 1982, when 109 rounds
were fired

at his Ford Escort in East Lurgan by a five-man RUC unit.

The facts relating to Mr McKerr's death remain in dispute despite more than ten
years of inquest proceedings and three criminal prosecutions, the court heard.

His son Jonathan, 26, from Lurgan, says his father was deprived of his life
intentionally, in breach of the human rights code.

He is claiming that a shoot-to-kill policy posed a significant threat to the
right to life in Northern Ireland of members of the Catholic/ nationalist
community.

Nine men were shot dead by the SAS during an IRA attack on Loughgall RUC station
in Armagh in May 1987. Anthony Hughes, a civilian unconnected with the IRA, was
among those killed.

The judges heard that 24 soldiers and three RUC officers went to the station in
the early hours after being briefed that a terrorist attack involving a hijacked
blue van was likely.

The van arrived that evening and the attack began.

Relatives of the dead men claim the authorities planned and executed an ambush
designed to result in the deaths of those involved, or, alternatively, that,
despite knowing about the attack in advance, they failed to take 'appropriate
care' in the operation to avoid injury to innocent civilians.

Patrick 'Violation of their right to life'

to innocent civilians. Patrick Shanaghan, a 30-year old Catholic and active
member of Sinn Fein, was shot dead by a masked gunman in Castlederg in August
1991. The loyalist Ulster Freedom Fighters later claimed responsibility.

Mr Shanaghan was suspected by the RUC of being an IRA member and had been
arrested ten times and detained, sometimes for at least four days as well as
being stopped and questioned daily. But he was never charged.

However, he made several claims that the RUC tried to kill him and made several
written statements to his solicitors alleging physical assault by officers while
in custody.

In 1989, he started proceedings against the RUC alleging assault, battery,
unlawful arrest and unlawful imprisonment. The action was dropped in 1990.

Later that year, RUC detectives told Shanaghan that police files containing his
personal information had accidentally fallen out of the back of an Army vehicle
and were in the hands of loyalist paramilitaries, who had threatened to kill
him. His mother, who launched the court action, claims RUC members colluded in
his death.

Yesterday's hearing was on the admissibility of the cases for full proceedings.

The judges were dealing only with the question of whether official
investigations were carried out into the killings, as required by the Human
Rights Convention.

After the shooting of three IRA members by undercover troops in Gibraltar, the
court said there was an onus on governments to hold effective investigations
when people were killed by agents of the state.

In the latest case, the European Court judges are being asked to consider what
requirements were necessary for an investigation to be deemed effective.

The UK government, which will put its side at a later hearing, argues that
inquests and police investigations meet those obligations.

However, the families say such inquiries are not sufficient to determine whether
the killings are lawful.

The court is not expected to deliver its ruling for some months.


LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2000 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              65 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 April 5, 2000

European court hears allegations of shoot-to-kill policy in Ulster

SECTION: Pg. 10

LENGTH: 705 words


Twelve men shot dead by security forces in Northern Ireland were victims of a
"shoot-to-kill policy" which breached their human rights, the European Court in
Strasbourg was told yesterday.

Lawyers representing the families of the victims of four separate incidents said
such a policy contravened the "right to life" guaranteed by the European
Convention of Human Rights, to which Britain is a signatory.

Judges were told the four cases involved allegations of "excessive use of force,
a shoot-to-kill policy or collusion by the security forces with loyalist
paramilitaries".

Mr Pearse Jordan, 22, was shot and fatally wounded on the Falls Road, Belfast,
by RUC officers in November 1992. They had stopped his car, but no guns,
ammunition, explosives, masks or gloves were found, and Mr Pearse was unarmed.
An inquest said he had been struck by three bullets.

His 59-year-old father, Hugh, who launched the human rights action, claims the
shooting was used as an alternative to arrest and trial.

Mr Gervaise McKerr died in November 1982, when he was driving a car with two
passengers. At Tullygally Road, East Lurgan, 109 rounds were fired into the car
by a trained, five-man RUC unit.

All three were killed, but, the court was told yesterday, the facts relating to
the death of Mr McKerr remain in dispute despite more than 10 years of inquest
proceedings and three criminal prosecutions.

His son, Jonathan, 26, from Lurgan, said Mr McKerr was deprived of his life
intentionally, in breach of the Human Rights code, and claims that a shoot-to
-kill policy poses a significant threat to the right to life in Northern Ireland
of members of the "Catholic/Nationalist" community.

In another incident being considered by the court, nine men were shot dead by
the SAS during an IRA attack on Loughgall RUC station in Armagh, in May 1987. Mr
Anthony Hughes, a civilian unconnected with the IRA, was among those killed.

The Human Rights judges were told that 24 soldiers and three RUC officers went
to the station in the early hours after being briefed that a terrorist attack
was likely, involving a hijacked blue van. The vehicle arrived that evening and
the attack began - but the troops and police were on "full alert".

The nine relatives of the dead men who launched the human rights case said the
authorities planned and executed an ambush designed to result in the deaths of
those involved in the attack, in violation of their right to life.

They submitted, alternatively, that, despite knowing about the attack in
advance, the authorities failed to take "appropriate care in the control and
organisation of the operation, in particular, to avoid injury to innocent
civilians".

Mr Patrick Shanaghan, 30, a Catholic and active member of Sinn Fein, was shot
dead by a masked gunman in Castlederg, in August 1991. The loyalist Ulster
Freedom Fighters later claimed responsibility for the murder.

Mr Shanaghan was suspected by the RUC of being an IRA member and had been
arrested 10 times and detained, but never charged.

However, he made several claims that the RUC tried to kill him and made several
written statements to his solicitors alleging physical assault by RUC officers
while in custody.

The court was told that he was stopped and questioned by RUC and Ulster Defence
Regiment officers on a daily basis and his home was searched 16 times between
1985 and 1991. No illegal material was ever found.

In 1989, he began proceedings against the RUC chief constable, alleging assault,
battery, unlawful arrest and unlawful imprisonment. The action was dropped in
1990.

Then in December 1990, RUC detectives told Mr Shanaghan that police files
containing his personal information had accidentally fallen out of the back of
an army vehicle and were in the hands of loyalist paramilitaries, who had
threatened to kill him.

His mother, who launched the court action, claims that RUC members colluded in
his death.

Yesterday's hearing was on the admissibility of the cases for full court
proceedings, and the judges were dealing only with the question of whether
official investigations were carried out into the killings, as required by the
Human Rights Convention.

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2000 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              66 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 April 6, 2000

Relatives win right to take 'shoot-to-kill' claims to Euro court

SECTION: Pg. 14

LENGTH: 487 words


Relatives of men shot dead by the security forces in Northern Ireland won the
right yesterday to challenge the legality of the Government's alleged "shoot
-to-kill" policy.

Eleven of the men were shot by security forces and the 12th man was a victim of
a paramilitary shooting.

Four separate cases claiming RUC and Army tactics were a breach of the European
Convention on Human Rights are to be heard in the Human Rights court in
Strasbourg.

The cases were declared admissible just a day after the judges heard lawyers
claim the policy contravenes the "right to life" guaranteed by the Convention,
to which Britain is a signatory. Now the policy will be tested in court, with a
verdict expected before the end of the year, according to an official in
Strasbourg.

The four cases involved allegations of "excessive use of force, a shoot-to -kill
policy or collusion by the security forces with loyalist paramilitaries".

Mr Pearse Jordan, 22, was shot and fatally wounded on the Falls Road in Belfast
by RUC officers in November 1992. They had stopped his car, but no guns,
ammunition, explosives, masks or gloves were found and he was unarmed.

Mr Gervaise McKerr died in November 1982 when he was driving a Ford Escort with
two passengers. At Tullygally Road, East Lurgan, 109 rounds were fired in to the
car by a trained, five-man RUC unit. All three men were killed, but the court
heard yesterday, the facts relating to the death of Mr McKerr remain in dispute
despite more than ten years of inquest proceedings and three criminal
prosecutions.

In a third incident nine men were shot dead during an IRA attack on Loughhall
RUC station in Armagh in May 1987.

The fourth case involves Mr Patrick Shanaghan, 30, an active member of Sinn
Fein, shot dead by a masked gunman in Castlederg in August 1991. The loyalist
Ulster Freedom Fighters claimed responsibility. He was suspected by the RUC of
being an IRA member, arrested ten times, but never charged.

However he made several claims that the RUC tried to kill him and made several
written statements to his solicitors alleging physical assault by RUC officers
while in custody.

q Provisional IRA gunmen entered Londonderry's Bogside after British
paratroopers opened fire on unarmed civilians on Bloody Sunday and tried to
"draw out" the Army with gunfire, the Saville inquiry heard yesterday.

The inquiry heard also reference to a man called "McGuinness" being in the
Bogside, in rough notes about Provisionals who were said to have become
"trapped" in the chaos of January 30, 1972. The man was not identified during
yesterday's hearing.

It is known that Martin McGuinness, now the Sinn Fein MP for Mid Ulster, was a
leading republican activist in Londonderry at the time and was a member of an
IRA delegation which met the then Northern Ireland Secretary William Whitelaw in
London six months after the Bogside shootings.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2000 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              67 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Mercury

                             April 9, 2000, Sunday

MP CALLS FOR ACTION ON THE 'TERRORIST' REFUGEES

BYLINE: Simon Mowbray

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 428 words


OPPOSITION MPs have attacked the government for failing to investigate claims
that 70 asylum-seeking Algerian terrorists could be living in Birmingham.

A source at the Algerian government last week claimed dozens of men wanted for
atrocities in the African nation have sought refuge in the city.

Among them was Mohammed Kenewa who the Sunday Mercury last month revealed was
being paid pounds 32,000-a-year state handouts.

The 49-year-old arrived in Britain in December 1998 with his two wives and 15
children. They made their way to Birmingham where they were given two homes -
one in Newtown and another in Aston - and state benefits totalling pounds 617 a
week.

It has since been claimed Mr Kenewa was sentenced to four years in prison for an
attack on an Algerian army base in which four soldiers died, that he fled
Algeria before his trial and eventually landed in Britain after serving five
months in a Yemen jail as a suspected terrorist before being expelled.

But, in a statement issued through his Birmingham-based solicitors Tyndallwoods,
Mr Kenewa has denied any involvement with terrorist activities.

However, a Home Office spokesman told the Sunday Mercury: 'We are not looking
into these allegations because they have not been put to us directly.

'Unless someone comes to us with specific information about individuals then we
cannot assume they are terrorists. Their claims for political asylum will be
treated like everyone else's.'

Bromsgrove Conservative MP Julie Kirkbride last night criticised the Home
Office's unwillingness to protect the 'decent British people' they serve. She
said: 'I find this absolutely scandalous. If our constituents are living among
known terrorists then that is something the Home Office needs to act on right
now, not in a few months' time when their asylum applications are finally
discussed.'

Also believed to be living in Birmingham is a man jailed for the massacre of 12
Croatians near Medea, Algeria, in 1993, as well as dozens of members of the
feared GIA who have carried out atrocities in Algeria, including a bomb attack
on the French embassy.

Some are also wanted in connection with the Paris underground bombings in 1995
in which three people were killed.

Ms Kirkbride added: 'We would not expect any British-born terrorist to be
entertained at the taxpayers' expense in another country and this is no
different.

'These men should be facing justice in their own countries instead of living off
generous state hand-outs in Britain if the allegations are true.'

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: STATE SUPPORT... Mohammed Kenewa receives benefits totalling pounds;
617 a week

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2000 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              68 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                           April 12, 2000, Wednesday

SECURITY ALERT OVER QUEEN'S RUC VISIT

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 389 words


Security forces have been put on alert for possible attacks by IRA groups during
the Queen's visit to bestow the George Cross on the Royal Ulster Constabulary.

Reforms to the force, especially plans to drop the 'royal' tag in a new name,
have angered pro-British unionists who say the changes insult the 302 officers
killed in 30 years of sectarian violence that took 3,600 lives.

Pro-Dublin republicans, who want the 13,500-strong force disbanded, plan to
protest against the tribute they say rewards the RUC for anti-Catholic abuses.
The force has always denied bias.

The venue for the midday ceremony, Hillsborough Castle outside Belfast, is
already well guarded as the home of Britain's Northern Ireland Secretary Mr
Peter Mandelson.

But some security sources voiced surprise that the trip was announced two weeks
in advance, giving a republican splinter group ample time to plan a
'headline-grabbing' attack elsewhere.

The Queen will not tour Belfast during the visit.

As hundreds of RUC members and their families look on, the Queen will present
the George Cross to Paul Slaine, an officer confined to a wheelchair since his
legs were blown off by an IRA rocket attack in 1992.

The citation with the award, instituted in 1940 by King George VI, says the RUC
'has been both a bulwark against, and the main target of, a sustained and brutal
terrorist campaign'.

'As Northern Ireland reaches a turning point in its political development, this
award is made to recognise the collective courage and dedication to duty to all
those who have served in the RUC,' it reads.

But a group called Relatives for Justice, representing families of Catholics
killed by the force, said the honour highlighted the grief of RUC widows while
ignoring their own.

'It is not conducive to the atmosphere of peace building. It is sending the
wrong signal,' spokesman Mr Mark Thompson said.

Political analysts say the Queen's trip is choreographed to ceremonially honour
the RUC for past service while stressing that the force must adapt quickly to
changing times.

Irish Republic Prime Minister Bertie Ahern told parliament in Dublin yesterday
that his government and Britain hoped to finalise a joint position by the
weekend mapping out a possible way forward for the stalled Northern Ireland
peace process.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2000 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              69 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 April 13, 2000

Courage and sacrifice of RUC is recognised

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 613 words


Force facing major change and restructuring is awarded highest honour

The Queen yesterday presented the George Cross to the Royal Ulster Constabulary
in recognition of its members' courage and sacrifice during 30 years of policing
Northern Ireland.

In an emotional ceremony, she symbolically handed over the medal to wheelchair
-user Constable Paul Slaine, who lost his legs in a mortar bomb attack by the
IRA at Newry, in March 1992, in which 34-year-old Constable Colleen McMurray was
killed.

At Hillsborough Castle, the Queen told 1500 officers and their families: "I
salute your courage and your sense of duty.

"I admire your determination to maintain the rule of law and to provide a police
service for all the people during some of the most difficult times in the
history of this province.

"A terrible price has been paid for this brave and resolute stand. We remember
today the 302 officers who have lost their lives and also the many thousands who
have been injured, some very seriously, at the hands of terrorists.

"Their sacrifice must never be forgotten.''

Accompanied on her one-day visit to Northern Ireland by the Duke of Edinburgh,
she was welcomed by Northern Ireland Secretary Peter Mandelson and was joined by
RUC Chief Constable Sir Ronnie Flanagan for the ceremony.

With the police force facing reforms which would see its name, symbols and
structures changed, there was much emotion as the the highest civilian honour
for bravery was bestowed.

The Queen also paid tribute to the families of RUC officers who, she said, had
often been "unsung heroes".

She told guests at the ceremony that she hoped efforts to consign the bitterness
and the divisions of the past to the history books would succeed.

And she said the province had her "support and prayers ... as the dogged and
relentless search for lasting peace continues".

The visit was welcomed as a "truly a momentous day" by Sir Ronnie Flanagan, who
told the royal couple: "It is a humbling experience for me to acknowledge that,
as in the case of the people of Malta in the dark days of 1942, the bravery and
dedication to duty of the RUC has been recognised in this most meaningful and
public way."

The conferring of the George Cross was welcomed by politicians including Ulster
Unionist leader David Trimble, and, in the House of Commons, by Prime Minister
Tony Blair and Opposition leader William Hague.

Stating that the people of Northern Ireland and beyond welcomed the honour, the
Upper Bann MP said: "The RUC was the first line of defence for the whole of the
British Isles.

"It protected London from republican bombs and it protected Dublin from loyalist
bombs, and consequently everybody in the British Isles should be grateful."

However, it was condemned by Sinn Fein which claimed it was an insult to
nationalists and republicans in Northern Ireland, who it alleged had suffered at
the hands of the force. Republicans staged demonstrations outside Belfast City
Hall and in Londonderry.

The royal couple later met members of the agricultural community at a reception
in Belfast, including farm leaders and local politicians, as well as Mr Trimble,
Ulster Unionist MP Jeffrey Donaldson and the Progressive Unionist Party's David
Ervine.

Buckingham Palace later confirmed that the Queen was to meet Russian President
Vladimir Putin during his official visit to Britain next week.

q Former US Senator George Mitchell, author of the Good Friday Peace agreement
will visit Scotland this week and is to give a one-off lecture at St Andrews
University, on Wednesday evening, as part of the James Wilson Bicentennial
Commemoration.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Local hero: Constable Paul Slaine accepts the George Cross on behalf of
the Royal Ulster Constabulary Picture: PAUL FAITH

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2000 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              70 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                                 April 15, 2000

EARTHMOTHER;
 Seven

BYLINE: ELISABETH WINKLER

SECTION: Features, Pg.11

LENGTH: 389 words


Questioning Tony

Q Does Phony Tony care about human rights in other countries?

A Only when it suits him. He certainly seemed to care an awful lot a year ago.

Golly, so big was his heart that we went to war for Kosovo.

But when it comes to Chechnya, suddenly the idea that one country has the moral
right to intervene in another's, because people are being beastly to each other,
does not apply.

This weekend, Russia's President-elect, Vladimir Putin, will meet the Queen.
What will they converse about, I wonder?

About how the old, weak and poor are desperately trying to stay alive amongst
the rubble of Chechnya's bombed capital? I doubt it.

Nor do I think that their chatter will include how last week the United Nations
commissioner for human rights, Mary Robinson, has urged an investigation into
horrific tales of rape and torture by Russian troops.

Tony Blair claims that it is a "civil war" and that the Putin regime is
justified in repressing Chechnyan acts of terrorism.

Backtrack to last year, when two Moscow apartment blocks were blown up killing
200 people, Chechen freedom fighters were blamed.

However new evidence has come to light which suggests that Russian security
services may have planted the bombs themselves in order to justify attacking the
beleaguered province.

Blaming one set of people for a country's ills is a crude device but it works.
Putin wants to be president and the war is a useful distraction in a country
where millions live in direst poverty. Putin's popularity has surged 40 per cent
ahead of his rivals as a result.

Inviting him to Britain is a further feather in his cap.

Russia needs our aid, I am not disputing that. Things have been tough for Russia
since the fall of the Berlin Wall and economic stability is a crucial factor in
maintaining peace.

Nevertheless there is something hideously disturbing about our welcome for Putin
the warmonger.

I am not calling for NATO to send in the big boys to save Chechnya - violence is
no solution for violence. Nor do I think that Chechnyan freedom fighters are
justified in committing acts of brutality.

But for anyone who still believes that we intervened in Kosovo for humanitarian
reasons, I just want to highlight the ghastly hypocrisy of Tony turning a blind
eye to mass murder when it suits him.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2000 Bristol United Press

                              71 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                 April 16, 2000

Intrigue behind killing of a grocer;
Britain gave this man refuge from Gadaffi, but failed to protect him from his
revenge

BYLINE: Martin Bright and Antony Barnett

SECTION: Observer News Pages; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1057 words


WHEN Huda Abuzeid walked into her father's Notting Hill grocery store on a
Sunday morning in November 1995, she was greeted by an image that haunts her to
this day. Her father was lying face up in a pool of blood. He was dead, killed
by a stab wound to the heart. But most grotesque of all, Ali Abuzeid had been
speared through the face with metal kebab skewers. It was a murder designed to
horrify and sent a chilling message through the Libyan exile community in
London. The 23-year-old knew her father was a leading opponent of Colonel
Muammar Gadaffi's regime in Libya, but in Britain, which had offered safe refuge
to her family, she had always thought her father was safe. It is only now that
the full significance of this brutal murder is coming to light. As The Observer
reports today, Abuzeid's death is at the centre of a web of intelligence service
blunders, government cover-ups and police inaction. Five years on, Huda Abuzeid
wants answers. The police investigation went silent a long time ago while the
British government has worked to hard to re-establish friendly relations with
Gad-affi's regime.

This weekend an MI5 document posted on an American website confirms her worst
suspicions to be well founded: that her father's death may have been a political
assassi nation designed to silence Gadaffi opponents in London. Written by a
senior MI5 officer, the document contains a detailed account of the activities
of top Libyan spy, Khalifa Bazelya, operating in the UK from July 1993. The
report was circulated to the Foreign Office and Home Office.

For the first time, it establishes beyond doubt that MI5 had suspicions that
Bazelya Gadaffi's top spy in Britain at the time may have been involved in the
murder, despite the absence of any evidence linking him directly to the crime. A
covering letter to the document says: 'We have no reliable intelligence
implicating Bazelya. However, intelligence on a possible lead to Libyan regime
involvement has been received and is being assessed.' The document itself
confirms that the security ser vices had not ruled out Bazelya himself. It
states: 'Though there is at present no firm evidence that the recent murder of
Ali Mehmed Abu Zaid (sic) is connected to the Libyan Intelligence Services, we
may have to review our assessment.'

The chilling memo continues: 'What is clear is that, should the Libyan regime
wish to resume its violent activities, it has a pool of individuals in the UK,
headed by Bazelya, who would be willing to participate and an established
structure for co-ordinating these activities.' The Observer has made repeated
attempts to contact Bazelya, but has received no response. Ten days after the
report was sent to Ministers, Bazelya was expelled from the UK for allegedly
intimidating dissidents. The document says there were several botched attempts
to recruit him as a British agent during his 18 months here. Bazelya was head of
the Libyan mission at the Saudi Embassy. Britain cut official diplomatic links
with Gadaffi's regime after the murder of WPC Yvonne Fletcher in 1984. They were
restored last year. The document will increase pressure on the present
government to mount an inquiry into MI6 Libyan operations during the
mid-Nineties, which included an alleged attempt to assassinate Gadaffi in 1996.

It will be highly embarrassing for the intelligence services because they gave
Bazelya clearance to enter the UK. The report says: 'Although Bazelya has
provided some low-grade intelligence, we assess that his first loyalty remains
to the Libyan regime.' Ali Abuzeid was killed in his Notting Hill grocery store
by a single knife thrust to the heart and stabbed repeatedly through the face
with skewers. At the time police and the Government played down any links
between the murder and Gadaffi's government, despite claims by the coroner and
the Libyan community in London that it looked like a political assassination. He
received death threats for three months before the murder and had told police.
Huda last night called on the Government to mount a full investigation now that
diplomatic channels are open: 'It is time to make all the facts public. Why did
the Government deny they had any evidence linking the murder to the Libyan
regime at the time? Why did they choose to cover it up?' She also called on the
authorities to question Bazelya, who is now Libya's ambassador to Cyprus.

The lengthy report claims to provide details of the Libyan agent's intelligence
activities in Britain. These were said to include:

regular contacts with the Libyan Intelligence Service

a network of agents

threats to dissidents

contacts with spies in the UK under cover as students

close links with Libyan revolutionary students

damaging reports about Libyan MI6 sources

a plan for a Libyan Scientific Centre as cover for technology transfer to Libya.

The report presents an astonishing picture of a career spy who had already come
to the notice of British and US intelligence officers before coming to Britain.
He had been expelled from Ethiopia in March 1991 for allegedly funding rebel
activity. He was also believed to have been a prominent member of the
Revolutionary Committee, responsible for hanging 13 anti-regime student
activists in Tripoli.

In January 1992, the FBI reported that Bazelya had links with the Provisional
IRA and had visited Dublin on a number of occasions. During his time in the UK,
Bazelya was in regular contact with Musa Kusa, the notorious head of the Libyan
intelligence service, wanted in France for a terrorist attack. The document
states that, according to sources, Bazelya was Kusa's 'puppet or right-hand
man'.

During Bazelya's stay there were said to be at least four Libyan intelligence
officers in the UK posing as students. Bazelya was also responsible for a
network of spies to whom he paid up to pounds 800 a month each. The document
says Bazelya was also responsible for a propaganda campaign 'aimed at persuading
the British public that the Libyans were not responsible for the bombing of Pan
Am 103 over Lockerbie. The British lobbying firm GJW was paid millions to run
the campaign. The Observer contacted Nick Wilkinson of the Government's Defence
Advisory Notice Committee who asked that we withhold the address of the American
website.


LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2000 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              72 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                                 New Statesman

                                 April 17, 2000

The unanswered questions about Flight 103; Two Libyans will be tried in
connection with the Lockerbie crash. But, asks Colin Smith, are they the right
two?

BYLINE: Colin Smith

LENGTH: 1906 words


Early next month, Dr James Swire will go to Holland to attend the trial of the
two Libyan men accused of murdering his eldest daughter, Flora, who was a day
short of her 24th birthday when she died over Lockerbie. Armed Scottish police
are already in residence at the former Nato airbase near Utrecht where a Scots
courtroom will be set up in what was once an underground hospital. The hearing,
before a panel of three Scots judges, is expected to last at least a year,
probably longer. Dr Swire,the tireless founder of UK Families 103, has rented a
flat nearby.

The Lockerbie crash, in December 1988, was the worst terrorist outrage ever to
occur in the British Isles. It killed 270 people, 41 of them British citizens.
The men charged with their deaths are Abedelbaset al-Megrari and Al-Amin Khalifa
Fhimar, both in their late forties. The court will be told that, when Pan Am 103
went down, the accused were working for Libyan intelligence in Malta where they
posed as the employees of Medtours, a phoney travel agency. The bomb is supposed
to have been inserted into the luggage system in Malta and gone from there to
Frankfurt and then by Pan Am feeder flight to Heathrow.

The prosecution will have to explain how a suitcase got into the hold luggage of
three flights without an accompanying passenger - though pre-Lockerbie this was
not as rare as it has since become. At least one lucky man lost only his
suitcase on Flight 103 because he lingered too long in a Heathrow bar.

The defendants deny all charges. Their defence will be that the Lockerbie bomb
was planted by a convicted terrorist called Mohammed Abu Talb. This
Egyptian-born Palestinian is currently serving life imprisonment in Sweden for
killing one person and injuring 22 others in a bomb attack on a Copenhagen
synagogue.

Talb, a member of a Syrian-based terrorist organisation with links to Iran, was
the original suspect in the case. But in November 1991, the Americans and the
British jointly announced that they were indicting the two Libyans and explained
that this was based on information received from a certain Abdu Maged Jiacha, a
member of the Libyan intelligence service who had defected to the CIA.

Jiacha, who worked in Malta alongside the accused, is the prosecution's star
witness and, if the Libyans go down, will be the main recipient of several
million dollars of reward money. For the past ten years at least, he has been
living somewhere in the United States under the witness protection programme
that the FBI lays on for golden stool-pigeons.

If Talb had been charged, Iran and Syria would, by implication, have been in the
dock with him. Ever since the US Justice Department produced Jiacha, like a
rabbit out of a hat, there has been speculation that America was thanking Syria
for its participation in the Gulf war coalition against Iraq, and Iran for
remaining neutral in that conflict. In Washington, word came down from on high
that Syria had got 'a bum rap on terrorism'.

The bereaved were not impressed. 'Iran did it' badges appeared on the lapels of
American support groups. 'They are sweeping the deaths of 270 people under the
carpet because it is diplomatically convenient to do so,' was Swire's initial
reaction. Now he says simply that 'in the event that they are proved guilty', it
does not prove that the Libyans were the only ones involved.

On 5 April last year, Gaddafi's men were handed over to the warders from
Glasgow's Barlinnie jail awaiting them at Camp Zeist. Almost immediately, the UN
trade sanctions against Libya were suspended and, by December, Britain had
restored full diplomatic relations with Tripoli. The Americans have been
noticeably slower in this respect, but earlier this month, US diplomats visited
Libya for the first time in nearly 20 years.

The jovial spin-doctors of the Foreign Office like to present this breaking of
the stalemate with Tripoli as a great coup for Robin Cook. It was, they like to
say, the Foreign Secretary who, at a meeting in London with Madeleine Albright
in December 1997, persuaded her to accept the idea of a third country trial and
then had to hold his breath while she sold it to the Attorney General, Janet
Reno, the Iron Lady of Waco. After that, the Dutch had to be brought on board
and then Nelson Mandela and the Saudi diplomat Prince Bandar had to be roped in
to work on Gaddafi, to convince him that this was the way to return Libya to the
family of nations. It was uphill all the way.

The idea of a British court of law convening in a third and independent country
is quite unprecedented and was originally mooted in 1994 by Robert Black, a
professor of law in Edinburgh. At first, both the American and British
governments rejected it out of hand. The Libyans responded to this heaven-sent
opportunity to appear reasonable by welcoming a compromise so unlikely to occur.

When he took office, Cook was also hostile to the idea of a third country trial,
but changed his mind after meeting Swire. Swire thinks that the trial could open
up things and expose a 'chain of command'. But he sticks to his belief that,
whatever peripheral role others played, Iran and Syria are the biggest culprits
because they had the biggest motive. He is not alone in thinking this.

In the dawn's early light of Sunday 3 July 1988, for most Americans the middle
of a long weekend with Monday's Independence Day holiday looming, the USS
Vincennes was at war. In this eighth and final year of the Iran-Iraq conflict,
lightly armed Iranian fast patrol boats were attacking neutral tankers shipping
Iraqi oil through the Straits of Hormuz. Most of the escort duties were
performed by US frigates that had more than enough firepower for the task.

By midday, the missile cruisers had already felt obliged to swat a couple of the
Iranian boats, the naval equivalent of using a steam roller to crack a pistachio
nut. Then a blip on a radar screen showed an aircraft heading towards the
Vincennes from the Iranian shore. When it failed to respond to radio demands to
identify itself, possibly because they were transmitted on a military channel,
the Vincennes wiped the blip off the screen.

By the end of the day, the Pentagon confirmed that the ship had made a terrible
mistake. The Vincennes had shot down an Airbus of Iran Air on a scheduled flight
from Bandar Abbas to Dubai. All 290 people on board, 66 of them children, died.
The US defence secretary, Caspar Weinberger, said it was all the Iranians' fault
for 'trying to conduct business as usual'. Iranian TV repeatedly broadcast
pictures of the bodies of its latest martyrs bobbing among the wreckage in the
Persian Gulf. Syria and Libya, Iran's only Arab allies, both condemned America
for its 'criminal act of terrorism'. The captain of the Vincennes was given a
medal.

Five months later, a bomb in a Toshiba cassette player, wrapped in baby's
clothes and placed in a Samsonite suitcase in the forward hold of the Pan Am
jet, exploded over Lockerbie. A few ounces of Semtex turned a neat border town
with a small reputation for its splendid fossils of dinosaur footprints into a
byword for gothic horror. The explosion ripped the nose off the 747, which
started spilling out people. Chilled corpses arrived from 31,000 feet, some
still buckled to their seats. They came to rest on roofs, streets, trees and
back gardens. One landed on a ewe in a field and killed it. In Sherwood
Crescent, the main fuel tank started a fireball and cremated most of the
Lockerbie casualties in their own homes. Most of the dead from the aircraft were
Americans. Total fatalities, including the locals, were 270 - just 20 fewer than
the Iranian Airbus.

At the beginning, the link between these 560 victims of aerial terror seemed cut
and dried. Within days of the downing of the Iranian Airbus, there were reports
from Tehran that one Mahdi Karroubi, the controller of a public fortune of
patriotic donations known as the Martyrs' Fund, had posted a reward of millions
of dollars for anybody who succeeded in delivering to Iran its righteous
vengeance.

By the end of 1989, the CIA and other American and British investigators
suspected that the Martyrs' Fund contract had probably been won by a gang of
anti-Arafat Palestinian terrorists based in Syria. Their leader was Captain
Ahmed Jibril, then about 50, a product of the Syrian army's engineering corps.
In 1970, Jibril had destroyed a Tel Aviv-bound Swissair jet with a bomb fused by
barometric pressure, and there had been other, less successful attempts on
flights to the Zionist entity. He had men operating in several European
countries, including Germany and Sweden, and was once as close to the Libyans as
he has always been to the Syrians. Shortly after the Iranian Airbus had gone
down, Jibril had been spotted in Tehran.

The case against the Jibril gang built up slowly and obliquely at first. The
painstaking collection of thousands of pieces of debris at Lockerbie and its
environs had netted Semtex-impregnated shreds of the clothing wrapped around the
Toshiba. Scottish detectives established that one of these, a Maltese-made
baby's romper suit with the manufacturer's label on it, had been sold on the
island to a man of Arabic appearance. For the shopkeeper Toni Gauci, he was a
dream customer, and he had been treasuring his memory ever since. In the space
of a few minutes, the man had spent a fortune, picking up an enormous variety of
stuff, including men's trousers and a jacket which he never even bothered to try
on.

Gauci's description of this shopaholic - mid-30s, clean-shaven, lean, muscular -
certainly applied to Talb, now in a Swedish prison near Malmo. And it soon
emerged, from a used air ticket and several false passports, that he was trying
to burn when the Swedish police burst into his flat, that Talb had made two
trips to Malta in 1988, one in November when the clothes were purchased.

On 9 April 1990, the Swedes allowed British detectives to question Talb about
his movements around this time, which included a trip to Cyprus. In court, Talb
had been the defiant upholder of Palestine's right to use every weapon at its
disposal. But a transcript of his encounter with the sheriff of Strathclyde's
men shows Talb more evasive. He insists that, on both occasions, he was in Malta
visiting friends; 'friends' also bought him his air tickets; telephone calls he
made from Cyprus were to women whose names he is honour-bound not to reveal.

And the routes he travels are whimsical, expensive and almost incomprehensible,
even for somebody who might be trying to muddy his tracks. He leaves Cyprus for
Malta, but instead of taking one of the many cheap direct flights available, he
acquires a ticket that requires him to go via Italy. Then once in Rome, he
decides to go to Libya instead, buys a new ticket, checks in his bags, but at
the last moment, too late to retrieve his luggage, Libyan Arab Airlines staff
find fault with his papers and prevent him from boarding, and he reverts to his
original plan. His bags are returned to him in Malta.

Gaddafi is notorious for using the Libyan airline as a cover for his
intelligence services. Were they co-operating with Jibril and his Syrian and
Iranian backers? Was the juggling with the luggage an elaborate ruse to ship
something out to Talb? These are only a few of the many questions unlikely to be
answered at Camp Zeist.

Copyright Colin Smith


LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                        Copyright 2000 New Statesman Ltd

                              73 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                            April 18, 2000, Tuesday

PUTIN SHRUGS OFF WAR PROTEST;
 BLAIR CLASHES WITH RUSSIAN LEADER

BYLINE: Jon Smith

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 749 words


Russian president-elect Vladimir Putin yesterday mounted a staunch defence of
his army's war in Chechnya.

His statement followed controversial talks with Mr Tony Blair when Britain again
demanded access for international groups to investigate claims of human rights
abuses.

Mr Putin said Europe could 'pay heavily' for ignoring the real seeds of the
conflict around Russia's borders in the North Caucasus.

Countries were afraid to side with Moscow because of the feared reaction from
their own Muslim populations, he said, and they were ignoring the reality of the
war.

The Chechnya conflict was a terrorist one, said Mr Putin, speaking at a joint
press conference in the Foreign Office after three hours of talks with Mr Blair
in Downing Street.

'We have seen European countries and leaders not able to support the Russian
fight because they are afraid of a reaction among the Muslim inhabitants of
Europe, but that's the wrong conclusion. That should not be their conclusion,'
said Mr Putin.

'Western Europe could pay heavily for this.'

Terrorists were using Chechnya as a base from which to attack other Russian
republics, including Muslim communities, he said.

Mr Putin's tub-thumping endorsement of his country's prosecution of the conflict
came after he had swept into Downing Street past dozens of protesters claiming
his army was guilty of widespread human rights abuses and torture.

The demonstrators waved placards and shouted slogans through loud-hailers as the
Russian motorcade arrived.

Mr Blair and the Russian leader also clashed over America's plans for a new
missile defence shield - possibly involving UK radar stations - as a protection
against rogue nuclear states.

Mr Putin repeated his country would withdraw from commitments under the Start II
nuclear missile treaty if the US went ahead with the project.

Mr Blair said Britain was still talking to the United States about the scheme
and no decisions had been taken.

British officials said that, despite Mr Putin's robust defence of his position,
the president-elect's first visit to the West since he came to power had gone
much as expected.

Earlier, Mr Putin met business leaders at a Confederation of British Industry
seminar, and promised greater trade co-operation between the two nations.

The two leaders also discussed the world economy, including recent stock market
falls across the world, and the fight against international criminals.

Mr Blair said: 'I believe that Vladimir Putin is a leader who is ready to
embrace a new relationship with the European Union and the United States -
someone who wants a strong and modern Russia, and a strong relationship with the
West.'

Mr Putin said he had heard that a new independent Russian commission was to
investigate allegations of human rights abuses, and suggested that might have
been thanks to Mr Blair's visit to St Petersburg before his election last month.

The Russian leader's day began when he told a CBI seminar in Whitehall's
National Liberal Club: 'The members of the British Government have said on many
occasions that the Russian angle is very important for your economy.

'On our side, we have a similar perception and a similar determination to
develop our co-operation even further.'

He added: 'You would, with your business acumen, be able to seize new
opportunities opening in Russia, and we are very optimistic about improvements
in our bilateral relationship.'

Russian ministers joined their leader so that they could also talk to British
business leaders.

Mr Putin, who succeeded Boris Yeltsin earlier this year, said: 'The elections in
Russia, presidential and for the Duma, have already created a very good basis
for the future development of our co-operation with our foreign partners.

'Our policy is now based on the balance of interests and mutual benefits.

'We know that mutual benefits are the best guarantee against squabbles.

'We also hope that business circles in Britain would become an even more
significant partner for Russia.'

Later, Mr Putin had an audience with the Queen at Windsor Castle. He spent just
over 30 minutes in private discussions with the Queen - his final engagement in
the UK.

After their meeting the Queen, the Duke of Edinburgh and Mr Putin posed for
photographs outside the Oak Room, chatting in English.

Mr Putin left Windsor Castle for London's Heathrow Airport, where he boarded a
plane bound for the Ukraine.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Strong arm of the law: Police restrain a demonstrator as Russian
president-elect Vladimir Putin's official car sweeps into Downing Street.

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2000 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              74 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 April 18, 2000

'Back us in Chechnya or face Islamic terror'

BYLINE: Paul Eastham

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 724 words


RUSSIAN leader Vladimir Putin warned the West to back his bloody war in Chechnya
last night or face being engulfed by international Islamic terrorism.

In a passionate defence of his ruthless military campaign, he said many European
leaders were afraid to side with the Kremlin in the conflict because they feared
the reaction of their own Moslem populations.

The Russian president-elect warned that if the rebels in the northern Caucasus
were not crushed, Islamic terrorism could spread to the rest of Europe and its
leaders could 'pay heavily'.

Speaking at a news conference with Tony Blair after three hours of talks in
Downing Street, he said the terrorists were using Chechnya as a base from which
to attack other Russian republics, including Moslem communities, and that this
was unacceptable.

Mr Putin said: 'We have seen European countries and European leaders not able to
support the Russian fight because they are afraid of a reaction among the Moslem
inhabitants of Europe, but that's the wrong conclusion. That should not be their
conclusion. Western Europe could pay heavily for this.'

Mr Putin, who was elected last month but has still to be sworn in as president,
said he did not see Russian actions as the 'enslavement of Chechnya' but its
'liberation from international Islamic terrorism which could spread to other
parts of the continent'.

He said that a new 'independent' Russian commission was to investigate
allegations of human rights abuses in the breakaway republic.

The body includes an MP from the Russian Parliament and the 'chief editor' of
the newspaper Isvestia. He said its formation might have been brought about by
Mr Blair's visit to see him in St Petersburg last month when the Prime Minister
requested an investigation into the atrocities.

Earlier, Mr Putin swept into Downing Street past dozens of protesters claiming
his troops were guilty of human rights abuses and torture since they moved into
Chechnya last autumn.

The demonstrators waved placards and shouted slogans through loud-hailers as the
Russian motorcade arrived.

More protests followed later when the former KGB chief met the Queen at Windsor
for what Downing Street described as a 'courtesy call'.

Tory foreign affairs spokesman Francis Maude questioned the independence of the
new commission, insisting Mr Blair should have pressed for an international
membership. 'It looks too much like an in-house affair,' he said.

'For its own sake as much as its international reputation, Russia needs to
establish the rule of law, not the rule of the Kalashnikov, in Chechnya.' For
the Liberal Democrats, Menzies Campbell said: 'The Government's willingness to
entertain Mr Putin and to require the Queen to receive him is profoundly
disappointing.' Until he was fully committed to human rights in Chechnya 'he
should not get the red carpet treatment in London', added Mr Campbell.

But the Prime Minister, standing alongside Mr Putin at the Foreign Office news
conference, said he had raised his concerns over Chechnya.

'I urged, as we always do, a proportionate response, political dialogue and full
access for observers and investigators,' he said. 'I believe that Vladimir Putin
is a leader who is ready to embrace a new relationship with the European Union
and the United States, who wants a strong and modern Russia and a strong
relationship with the West.' Mr Blair and the Russian leader clashed over U.S.
plans for a new missile defence shield possibly involving British radar stations

as a protection against rogue nuclear states.

Mr Putin said Russia would withdraw from commitments under the Start II nuclear
arms control treaty if the U.S. went ahead with the project. The Russian
parliament has just voted to

approve the long-delayed treaty.

Mr Blair said Britain was still talking to the U.S. about the scheme and no
decisions had been taken.

The two leaders also discussed the world economy, including the plunging stock
markets, and the

fight against international crime.

President Bill Clinton will hold his first summit with Mr Putin in Moscow on
June 4 and 5. He will visit Kiev in the Ukraine on June 6.

The two leaders will discuss the Chechen conflict, economic reform in Russia,
and nuclear arms control treaties.

p.eastham@dailymail.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2000 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              75 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 April 18, 2000

Protest for first foreign foray;Putin at No 10 for first foray abroad

BYLINE: Michael Settle Political Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 756 words


RUSSIA'S new president Vladimir Putin last night defiantly defended his
government's war against Chechnya, claiming it was a justified conflict against
ruthless terrorists.

On his first foreign foray since succeeding Boris Yeltsin as Russian leader
earlier this year, Mr Putin arrived in a black bullet-proof Zil limousine for
talks in Downing Street amid tight security.

As the motorcade swept through the security gates, up to 100 demonstrators waved
placards and used loudhailers, protesting at what they believe are Russia's
human rights abuses in the war-ravaged province.

While Tony Blair insisted he had concerns about the war in Chechnya, the Prime
Minister pointed out that it was better to "engage than isolate" Russia.

The UK Government pressed Mr Putin to allow access for international groups to
investigate claims of human rights violations.

The Russian leader revealed a commission would be set up to look at the issue -
but it would be a Russian and not an international body.

Speaking at a press conference at the Foreign Office, Mr Putin defended his
country's role in Chechnya: "We have seen European countries and European
leaders not able to support the Russian fight because they are afraid of a
reaction among the Muslim inhabitants of Europe, but that's the wrong
conclusion. That should not be their conclusion.

"Western Europe could pay heavily for this," he argued.

Terrorists were using Chechnya as a base from which to attack

Continued from Page 1

other Russian republics, including Muslim communities, claimed Mr Putin.

Mr Blair recognised his strong views on Chechnya, telling reporters: "I think
you will have all heard the passion with which President Putin has defended
Russia's position."

But he stressed: "I do believe it's right we have a dialogue."

Shadow Foreign Secretary Francis Maude welcomed attempts to improve the
investigation of alleged human rights abuses in Chechnya but said the new
commission looked "too much like an in-house affair".

He added: "For its own sake as much as its international reputation, Russia
needs to establish the rule of law, not the rule of the Kalashnikov, in
Chechnya."

Liberal Democrat foreign affairs spokesman Menzies Campbell commented: "Dialogue
between Britain and Russia is important but until Russian rhetoric on human
rights is matched by action the red carpet should not have been rolled out."

Dr Ghayasuddin Siddiqui, leader of the Muslim Parliament, who had organised the
Whitehall protest, said: "The people are feeling disgusted that once again
business is taking precedence over concerns for human rights violations and war
crimes."

Mr Blair and the Russian leader also clashed over American plans for a new
missile defence shield - possibly involving UK radar stations - as a protection
against rogue nuclear states.

Mr Putin repeated that Russia would withdraw from commitments under the Start II
nuclear missile treaty, if the US went ahead with the project.

Mr Blair said Britain was still talking to the US about the scheme and no
decisions had been taken.

Earlier, Mr Putin met business leaders at a Confederation of British Industry
seminar, promising greater trade co-operation between the two countries.

He and Mr Blair also discussed the world economy, including recent stock market
falls across the world, and the fight against international criminals.

Mr Blair said: "I believe that Vladimir Putin is a leader who is ready to
embrace a new relationship with the European Union and the United States, who
wants a strong and modern Russia and a strong relationship with the West."

British officials said that despite Mr Putin's robust defence of his position on
Chechnya, the president's first visit to the West since he came to power had
gone much as expected.

Last night, Mr Putin's visit was sealed by having tea with the Queen at Windsor
Castle.

He spent just over 30 minutes in private discussions with the Queen - which was
his final engagement in the UK.

The president and his entourage were greeted at the Sovereign's Entrance of the
castle by Master of the Household Major General Sir Simon Cooper.

Mr Putin was then shown to the Oak Room where he met the Queen and was offered
tea.

After their meeting the Queen, wearing a royal blue skirt and jacket, the Duke
of Edinburgh and Mr Putin posed for photographs outside the Oak Room, chatting
in English.

He then left Windsor Castle for Heathrow Airport, to fly to the Ukraine.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Blair and Putin stand together;Tony Blair waits for Vladimir Putin to
walk to his lectern before a press conference at the Foreign Office Picture:
ADAM BUTLER/AP

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2000 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              76 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                       April 18, 2000, Tuesday Edition 1

Putin defends Russia over Chechen war

BYLINE: by Jon Smith

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS, Pg. 16

LENGTH: 677 words


   RUssian President-elect Vladimir Putin last night mounted a staunch defence
of his army's war in Chechnya - after controversial talks with Prime Minister
Tony Blair when Britain again demanded access for international groups to probe
claims of human rights abuses there.

Mr Putin said Europe could "pay heavily" for ignoring the real seeds of the
conflict around Russia's borders in the North Caucasus.

Countries were afraid to side with Moscow because of fears of the reaction of
their own Moslem populations, he said, and were ignoring the reality of the war.

The Chechnya conflict was a terrorist one, said Mr Putin, speaking at a joint
Press conference in the Foreign Office after three hours of talks with Mr Blair
in Downing Street.

"We have seen European countries and European leaders not able to support the
Russian fight because they are afraid of a reaction among the Moslem inhabitants
of Europe, but that's the wrong conclusion. That should not be their
conclusion," said Mr Putin.

"Western Europe could pay heavily for this."

Terrorists were using Chechnya as a base from which to attack other Russian
republics, including Moslem communities, he said.

Mr Putin's tub-thumping endorsement of his country's prosecution of the conflict
came after he had swept into Downing Street past dozens of protesters claiming
his army was guilty of human rights abuses and torture there.

The demonstrators waved placards and shouted slogans through loud-hailers as the
Russian motorcade arrived, and more protests were expected later last night when
Mr Putin met the Queen at Windsor.

Mr Blair and the Russian leader also clashed over America's plans for a new
missile defence shield - possibly involving UK radar stations - as a protection
against rogue nuclear states.

Mr Putin repeated that his country would withdraw from commitments under the
Start II nuclear missile treaty if the US went ahead with the project.

Mr Blair said Britain was still talking to the United States about the scheme
and no decisions had been taken.

British officials said that despite Mr Putin's robust defence of his position,
the President-elect's first visit to the West since he came to power had gone
much as expected.

Earlier Mr Putin met business leaders at a CBI seminar, promising greater trade
co-operation between the two countries.

The two leaders also discussed the world economy, including recent stock market
falls across the world, and the fight against international criminals.

Mr Blair said: "I believe that Vladimir Putin is a leader who is ready to
embrace a new relationship with the European Union and the United States, who
wants a strong and modern Russia and a strong relationship with the West."

Mr Blair recognised the strong views on Chechnya expressed by Mr Putin, telling
reporters: "I think you will have all heard the passion with which President
Putin has defended Russia's position."

But he stressed: "I do believe it's right we have a dialogue."

Mr Putin said he heard yesterday that a new independent Russian commission was
to investigate allegations of human rights abuses, and said that might have been
thanks to Mr Blair's visit to see him in St Petersburg before his election last
month.

The Russian leader's day began with talks with industry leaders, where he told a
CBI seminar in Whitehall's National Liberal Club: "The members of the British
Government have said on many occasions that the Russian angle is very important
for your economy.

"On our side, we have a similar perception and a similar determination to
develop our co-operation even further."

He went on: "You would, with your business acumen, be able to seize new
opportunities opening in Russia, and we are very optimistic about improvements
in our bilateral relationship."

Russian ministers are with him to talk to British business leaders.

Mr Putin's visit to Windsor Castle was the last engagement in a full day of
meetings. He then left Windsor Castle for Heathrow Airport, to fly to the
Ukraine last night.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Making points: Tony Blair and Vladimir Putin at the Press conference in
the Foreign Office yesterday.

                Copyright 2000 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              77 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            April 18, 2000, Tuesday

Wake up to Islamic threat, warns Putin

BYLINE: Philip Webster and Richard Beeston

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 794 words


Vladimir Putin flew home last night after a bravura performance in London at
which he made chillingly clear that the new master of the Kremlin is in the
business of giving lessons, not taking them.

The man of whom Tony Blair said on Friday that he was "comfortable" with gave a
passionate defence of his hardline policies that sent a shiver through Western
capitals and left his host distinctly uncomfortable. His implacable opposition
to "interference" in Chechnya was matched by his determination to thwart any
plans by the West to upgrade its missile defences.

He told Western Europe yesterday that it would pay a heavy price unless it woke
up to the threat of fundamentalist extremists on its borders.

The Russian President, under fire from human rights bodies and Western
politicians over the Chechen conflict, turned the tables on his accusers on his
one-day visit to Britain, alleging that Russia had been left alone in its fight
against the "common enemy" of international terrorism. Mr Putin's outburst
dominated his joint press conference with Tony Blair in the Foreign Office at
the end of three hours of talks. It came as human rights activists protested
that Mr Blair had been naive in allowing him the propaganda coup of taking tea
with the Queen in Windsor as brutal fighting continued in Chechnya.

Mr Blair looked on as Mr Putin seized on a question about his KGB past, and the
behaviour of Russian forces in Chechnya, to launch into a five-minute attack on
"extremists and terrorists". And he alleged that European leaders were afraid to
side with Moscow because they did not want to upset the Muslim populations in
their own countries. Russia was involved in a struggle against terrorism, he
said.

Mr Putin, who faced protests during the day from demonstrators claiming that the
Russian Army was guilty of human rights abuses, said terrorists were using
Chechnya as a base from which to launch attacks on Russia.

"For Russia it is completely untenable that one of its territories should be
used as a launching pad for enemies of Russian statehood and sovereignty." His
voice gradually rising, Mr Putin said that Russia's aim was not the enslavement
of Chechnya but liberation of its people from Islamic extremists and terrorists.

He went on: "We have seen European countries and European leaders not able to
support the Russian fight because they are afraid of a reaction among the Muslim
inhabitants of Europe, but that's the wrong conclusion. That should not be their
reaction."

Mr Blair, who had earlier delivered a warm endorsement of the Russian leader,
intervened to tell reporters: "I think you will have all heard the passion with
which President Putin has defended Russia's position. It is important that we
recognise how deeply held that belief is." However, the Prime Minister repeated
what he had told Mr Putin in private earlier - that the Russian response to the
Chechen conflict should be proportionate, and that there was a need for
dialogue.

Mr Putin said he would co-operate with a new independent Russian commission that
will investigate allegations of human rights abuses. "This does not mean we will
solve this problem by any means. We will observe human rights and we will
investigate abuses by any side," he said.

Mr Blair and President Putin also clashed over America's plans for a new missile
defence shield - possibly involving UK radar stations - as a protection against
rogue nuclear states.

Mr Putin repeated that his country would withdraw from commitments under the
Start II nuclear missile treaty if the US went ahead with the project. Mr Blair
said Britain was still talking to the United States about the scheme and no
decisions had been taken.

When Mr Blair followed traditional ministerial practice by refusing to comment
on yesterday's stock market falls, Mr Putin revealed that Mr Blair had told him
privately it was a "sad blip".

Mr Blair said that Mr Putin was "a leader who is ready to embrace a new
relationship with the European Union and the United States, who wants a strong
and modern Russia and a strong relationship with the West".

The Muslim Council of Britain was among protesters outside No10. Its leader,
Ghayasuddin Siddiqui, said: "The people are feeling disgusted that once again
business is taking precedence over concerns for human rights violations and war
crimes."

Francis Maude, the Shadow Foreign Secretary, welcomed Russia's attempt to
improve the investigation of human rights abuses but said the commission should
have been an international body. "We also welcome Mr Putin's call for greater
British investment in Russia. But that will only happen once Russia has the rule
of law and an open economy."

Letters, page 23


LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2000 Times Newspapers Limited

                              78 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                 April 18, 2000

Putin talks over tough Chechen war;
 WEST WARNED: YOU WILL REGRET ATTITUDE TO MUSLIM CRUSADE

SECTION: News, Pg.10

LENGTH: 323 words


RUSSIAN President-elect Vladimir Putin last night mounted a staunch defence of
his army's war in Chechnya - after controversial talks with Prime Minister Tony
Blair at which Britain again demanded access for international groups to probe
claims of human rights abuses there.

the conflict around Russia's borders in the North Caucasus.

Countries were afraid to side with Moscow because of fears of the reaction of
their own Muslim populations, he added, and were ignoring the reality of the
war.

The Chechen conflict was a terrorist one, said Mr Putin, speaking at a joint
press conference in the Foreign Office after three hours of talks with Mr Blair
in Downing Street.

"We have seen European countries and European leaders not able to support the
Russian fight because they are afraid of a reaction among the Muslim inhabitants
of Europe, but that's the wrong conclusion.

That should not be their conclusion, " said Mr Putin.

"Western Europe could pay heavily for this."

Terrorists were using Chechnya as a base from which to attack other Russian
republics, including Muslim communities, he said. He revealed he had heard
yesterday that a new independent Russian commission was to investigate
allegations of human rights abuses, and said that might have been thanks to Mr
Blair's visit to see him before his election last month.

Mr Putin's tub-thumping endorsement of his country's prosecution of the conflict
came after he had swept into Downing Street past dozens of protestors claiming
his army was guilty of human rights abuses and torture.

Mr Blair and the Russian leader also clashed over America's plans for a new
missile defence shield - possibly involving UK radar stations - as a protection
against rogue nuclear states.

Mr Putin repeated his country would withdraw from commitments under the Start II
nuclear missile treaty if the U. S.

went ahead with the project. Mr Blair said

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2000 Bristol United Press

                              79 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                 April 18, 2000

Putin talks over tough Chechen war;
 WEST WARNED: YOU WILL REGRET ATTITUDE TO MUSLIM CRUSADE

SECTION: News, Pg.10

LENGTH: 323 words


RUSSIAN President-elect Vladimir Putin last night mounted a staunch defence of
his army's war in Chechnya - after controversial talks with Prime Minister Tony
Blair at which Britain again demanded access for international groups to probe
claims of human rights abuses there.

the conflict around Russia's borders in the North Caucasus.

Countries were afraid to side with Moscow because of fears of the reaction of
their own Muslim populations, he added, and were ignoring the reality of the
war.

The Chechen conflict was a terrorist one, said Mr Putin, speaking at a joint
press conference in the Foreign Office after three hours of talks with Mr Blair
in Downing Street.

"We have seen European countries and European leaders not able to support the
Russian fight because they are afraid of a reaction among the Muslim inhabitants
of Europe, but that's the wrong conclusion.

That should not be their conclusion, " said Mr Putin.

"Western Europe could pay heavily for this."

Terrorists were using Chechnya as a base from which to attack other Russian
republics, including Muslim communities, he said. He revealed he had heard
yesterday that a new independent Russian commission was to investigate
allegations of human rights abuses, and said that might have been thanks to Mr
Blair's visit to see him before his election last month.

Mr Putin's tub-thumping endorsement of his country's prosecution of the conflict
came after he had swept into Downing Street past dozens of protestors claiming
his army was guilty of human rights abuses and torture.

Mr Blair and the Russian leader also clashed over America's plans for a new
missile defence shield - possibly involving UK radar stations - as a protection
against rogue nuclear states.

Mr Putin repeated his country would withdraw from commitments under the Start II
nuclear missile treaty if the U. S.

went ahead with the project. Mr Blair said

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2000 Bristol United Press

                              80 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           April 19, 2000, Wednesday

Turks bring their own security to Leeds

BYLINE: Adrian Lee

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 313 words


AN ELITE Turkish police squad, which has guarded President Clinton against
terrorist attack, will accompany the Galtasaray football team when it arrives in
England today.

The Turkish Embassy said that there had been a wave of attacks on its citizens
living in England and reprisals involving players were feared in revenge for the
deaths of two Leeds United fans in Istanbul during fighting before the clubs met
in a Uefa Cup-tie two weeks ago.

The officers will fly into Britain with an array of weapons, including pepper
sprays, 2,000-volt stun-guns and batons. According to the Home Office, the
arsenal is unlikely to be allowed into the country. In November, the security
team provided protection for President Clinton at the Organisation for Security
and Co-Operation in Europe summit in Istanbul.

Such is the Turks' fear of violence that it has been suggested that a complete
team of "body doubles", dressed in tracksuits, will pose as Galatasaray players
to throw possible attackers and media off the scent.

West Yorkshire Police are organising their own huge security operation.
Privately, officers believe that the Turks are overreacting, despite emotions
running high after the killings of Kevin Speight and Chris Loftus, whose funeral
service took place in Leeds yesterday. A police spokeswoman said: "We have a
great deal of experience in policing important football matches."

About 80 officials from Galatasary and the Turkish government will attend the
Uefa Cup semi-final, second leg game.

More that 1,200 people crammed into Leeds parish church to pay their last
respects to Mr Loftus, 35. Addressing mourners, the Rev Paul Hunt said: "Chris
would never have said that football was a matter of life and death. That phrase
of (Bill) Shankly's was never meant to be taken literally, yet how hollow it
rings at times like these."


LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2000 Times Newspapers Limited

                              81 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                             April 24, 2000, Monday

PMS TO PLEAD FOR CLUES TO ATROCITY;
 OMAGH RELATIVES MAY 'NAME AND SHAME'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 576 words


PRIME Minister Tony Blair and his Irish counterpart Bertie Ahern are set to
launch a unique joint appeal to catch the orchestrators of the Omagh bomb after
lobbying by relatives of the atrocity's 29 victims.

It is expected the two leaders will use the the second anniversary of the
explosion to urge witnesses to reveal information about the Real IRA cell behind
the worst terrorist act in the history of the Troubles.

The move follows news that the relatives have obtained the names of the leading
suspects and may publish them on the Internet.

A top broadcast journalist is also in discussion with the victims' families in a
bid to "name and shame" the culprits on national television.

He believes the people named would not take legal action as the weight of
evidence in a civil action is less than that required for a criminal case.

Tony Blair has written to Victor Barker - whose son James, murdered in the Omagh
blast, was reburied in Surrey at the weekend - saying that both he and Mr Ahern
will issue an appeal for more information from witnesses.

Despite the introduction of new laws in Ireland and Britain, which make it
easier to secure convictions, the killers are still being protected by silence.
It is alleged that two witnesses who offered information have since been
intimidated.

According to The Sunday Times, anti-terrorist officers believe the bombing was
masterminded by a close associate of a former quartermaster of the IRA who
founded the Real IRA.

The man considered to be the Real IRA commander in south Armagh is officially
unemployed, but has been investigated by the fraud squad. A Garda agency with
powers to confiscate criminal assets - The Criminal Assets Bureau - plans to
investigate his wealth.

A convicted IRA terrorist is suspected of conducting botched warning calls from
telephone boxes in south Armagh on the day of the bomb. He defected to the Real
IRA months after completing a jail term for robbery.

A petty criminal is suspected of being recruited by the Real IRA to steal a
Vauxhall Cavalier used in the bombing. The man is now in jail on a separate
charge.

He is thought to have delivered the car to a republican sympathiser with links
to the INLA in Dundalk. Both men were questioned by the Garda about the bombing.

The car was delivered to a republican farmer in Northern Ireland. He was
arrested in connection with the bombing but remained silent during questioning.

A former IRA bombmaker from south Armagh who defected to the Real IRA is
believed to have mixed the explosives. He was arrested and questioned, but said
nothing.

Two builders who live in Co Louth, and who have been affiliated with the
Continuity IRA in the past, are suspected of driving the car filled with
explosives to Omagh and abandoning it on the main street.

They were tracked to the Tyrone town on the day of the bombing through the
analysis of calls made on a mobile telephone.

Police also found guns and ammunition hidden in a building where one of the two
suspects had a flat, but they could not prove the weapons belonged to him.

It is thought these two men primed the lethal device.

Colm Murphy, a wealthy businessman, is the only man so far charged in connection
with the Omagh bomb.

He is accused of conspiring to cause the blast and faces trial in Dublin.

Last week the RUC Chief Constable Sir Ronnie Flanagan announced a review of the
Omagh bomb case.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRIEVING: Donna and Victor Barker at the reburial of their son; James,
victim of the Omagh atrocity; and, above, PM Tony Blair, who is to issue a new
appeal for witnesses

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2000 Century Newspapers Limited

                              82 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 26, 2000

Drug firms may halt UK research;
Trade body warns over animal rights attacks repercussions

BYLINE: Andrew Clark

SECTION: Guardian City Pages; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 447 words


Andrew Clark

Britain's drug companies could be forced to shift their research activities
abroad to avoid an outbreak of 'terrorist attacks' by animal rights groups, the
industry's trade body warned yesterday.

The Association of the British Pharmaceuticals Industry said violent activism, a
flood of cheap imports and the strong pound were all factors leading to
'concerns about the UK environment'.

Figures from the association yesterday showed that the industry's trade surplus
slumped 16% last year - its biggest fall since 1945.

The ABPI's director-general, Trevor Jones, said: 'These results confirm the
industry's fears that the UK environment for pharmaceuticals is not as
encouraging as it has been in the past.'

Mr Jones claimed that a spate of high-profile attacks on animal research
laboratories had been 'compounded' by Labour Party policy prior to last the
election, which he said favoured a reduction in the number of experiments on an
imals in the UK. He said: 'It cannot be right for people to have their cars
burned in their garages at night because they breed animals for testing.

'The recent rise in biophobia and animal extremism is of great concern.'

Bill Fullagar, the association's president, added: 'It cannot fail to have an
effect on considerations about how and where we do research.

'Unless the climate changes, it will have an effect on where research is done.'

The best known target of animal rights groups over the last year has been
Huntingdon Life Sciences, which operates Europe's largest animal experimentation
laboratory.

Activists have picketed private investors in the business, applying intense
pressure on them to sell their shares. In its annual review of the industry, the
ABPI said exports of drugs by British companies rose 7% to pounds 6.33bn.
However, imports increased at a much quicker rate, rising 24% to pounds 4,27bn.

The organisation called for action to prevent 'parallel trading' - whereby
medicines produced elsewhere in Europe are shipped in to undercut British
prices.

Most drugs produced by British companies are sold at uniform levels under an
agreement between the industry and the NHS.

Mr Fullagar said: 'Across Europe prices are being determined by governments, not
by the industry.

'We would like governments to sit down together and decide what should be done
about anomolies in pricing.'

The ABPI also raised concerns about the National Institute for Clinical
Excellence - the new NHS body which considers the 'value for money' - or
otherwise - of medical therapies. The association is concerned that Nice is a
backdoor method of rationing expensive drugs.


LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              83 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                              May 1, 2000, Monday

HOSPITALS TOLD TO MAKE EMERGENCY PLANS TO COPE WITH BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM ATTACKS

BYLINE: Jeremy Laurance Health Editor

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 372 words


NHS HOSPITALS and health authorities have been warned to make emergency plans in
case of a biological weapon attack by terrorists. The threat of an attack has
been described by the British Medical Association as "at an all time high".

Guidance to all NHS trusts, ambulance services and directors of public health
was issued last month.

Police teams trained by scientists from Porton Down, the Government's research
centre on biological and chemical warfare, would take a lead role in the event
of an attack. Joint Health Advisory Cells, combining local police and medical
authorities, would be established. A Health Department spokesman said: "The
purpose is to enhance our ability to respond to an attack, although there is no
suggestion any group is planning one."

The head of health policy and research at the British Medical Association,
Professor Vivienne Nathanson, said biological weapons had been more difficult to
produce than chemical weapons, but that was changing. "The level of risk is at
an all time high because the technology is making it easier," she said.

In February, Donna Shalala, the US Secretary of Health and Human Services,
called for the stockpiling of drugs and vaccines and urged public health
officials to prepare for a criminal or terrorist attack involving biological
weapons.

Sarin nerve gas was used in an attack by a Japanese terrorist organisation five
years ago, in which 12 people were killed and 5,000 injured. In the US, the
potentially catastrophic consequences of an attack using anthrax or the smallpox
virus has led President Clinton to raise the bio-terrorism budget from $ 158m
last year to $ 230m this year.

In the UK, the likelihood of an attack is considered low by the Health
Department.

Britain was approaching the problem in a quiet manner, in contrast to the US,
which had been subject to a spate of hoaxes, according to an article in the
current issue of the journal of the Association of Clinical Pathologists. One of
its authors, Dr Nigel Lightfoot, director of the Public Health Laboratory
Service in Newcastle, said Britain had the best system of surveillance in the
world with its network of public health laboratories.

More reports, page 4

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Threat of biological attack is at an 'all time high'

                      Copyright 2000 Independent Print Ltd

                              84 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                  May 2, 2000

Day of reckoning arrives;After years of legal wrangling, diplomatic rows and
speculation, victims' families are nearing the truth

BYLINE: Bruce Mckain

SECTION: Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1694 words


Law Correspondent Bruce McKain charts the 11-year journey from international

tragedy to trial

AN examination of the names and ages of the Lockerbie bombing victims provides
an awful but necessary reminder of a dreadful reality that has often been
forgotten over the last 11 years.

Jonathan Ryan Thomas aged two months, Brittany Leigh Williams, two months,
Chelsea Marie Woods, 10 months, Stephanie Williams, one year, Joe Nathan Woods
junior, two, Anmol Rattan, two, Suruchi Rattan, three, and Edina Roller, five,
were the youngest passengers on board the ill-fated Pan Am Flight 103 which was
blown apart in seconds over the quiet Dumfriesshire town at 7.03pm on December
21, 1988.

They were all cherished members of loving families, many of whom were flying
home to celebrate Christmas.

On board too were Gwyneth Owen, the 29-year-old pregnant student daughter of Mrs
Betty Thomas and Mrs Thomas' grand-daughter Bryony, 20 months old. It was not
the first time that the life of Mrs Thomas had been torn apart by tragedy. Her
brother, a TV engineer, died in a terrorist bomb blast in Northern Ireland.

The names are a poignant reminder of what the Lockerbie case is really about -
the destruction of 270 innocent lives, some of which had scarcely begun, cut
short by a cynical act of evil unparalleled in our legal history.

The atrocity left an indelible mark on families in many parts of the world.

Two thirds of the victims were American, 44 British (including the 11 killed on
the ground in Lockerbie) and there were victims from Switzerland, France,
Canada, Israel, Argentina, Sweden, Ireland, Italy, Hungary, South Africa,
Germany, Spain, Jamaica, Philippines, India, Belgium, Trinidad, Japan and
Bolivia.

Some of the diplomatic and legal posturing and the millions of words that have
since been written about Lockerbie suggest that this reality has been forgotten.

Websites now carry millions of words outlining any number of conspiracy theories
about which particular terrorists really planned and carried out the bombing
atrocity. As theories they are fascinating, but that is all they are - theories
untested by cross-examination.

Now, against all expectations, two Libyan nationals are about to stand trial
before three Scottish judges in the Netherlands charged with what has been
described by former Lord Advocate Lord Hardie as the most heinous crime in
Scottish legal history. It has taken a decade of intensive legal and diplomatic
efforts to get this far and, if the trial lasts as long as some experts have
predicted, it could be another year before a verdict is reached.

Britains's biggest-ever criminal investigation was launched immediately after
the tragedy and Sheriff John Mowat presided over a 61-day fatal accident inquiry
at the Crichton Royal Hospital in Dumfries. He concluded in March, 1991, that
the destruction of Pan Am flight 103 was the direct result of a Semtex-type
plastic explosive concealed in a Toshiba radio-cassette player which had been
carried in a Samsonite suitcase.

The unaccompanied suitcase had been carried on a Pan Am flight from Frankfurt
before being stowed in the left side of the forward hold of the doomed flight
103 at Heathrow. Bags transferred from the Pan Am Frankfurt feeder flight 1030
were taken from it directly onto flight 103 for the US leg of the journey. They
were not counted or weighed to make sure they corresponded with baggage checked
in at Frankfurt or reconciled with passengers travelling on to America.

After the criminal investigation had been in progress for three years, the
Conservative Lord Advocate, Lord Fraser of Carmyllie, announced in November,
1991, that warrants had been issued for the arrest of two men alleged to be
members of the Libyan Intelligence Services.

The charges against Abdelbaset Ali Mohmed Al Megrahi and Al Amin Khalifa Fhimah,
who will stand trial at a former air force base at Camp Zeist near Utrecht
tomorrow, were essentially the same then as they are now.

In November, 1991, the UK and US governments issued a joint statement calling on
the Libyan government to surrender the suspects for trial and in January, 1992,
UN Security Council resolution 731 requested the Libyans to surrender the two
men for trial in either Scotland or the US.

In March that year, UN resolution 748 upped the ante by demanding a handover of
the suspects by the following month, failing which sanctions would be imposed.
After Libya failed to meet the deadline, an air and arms embargo duly began to
apply an economic squeeze on Libya.

The prospects of a criminal trial seemed remote but hopes rose in April, 1996,
when a lawyer acting for the two Libyans indicated that they would be willing to
stand trial under Scots law at a neutral venue such as the Hague.

The next step forward came in August, 1998, when Libya agreed to a UK/US
compromise proposal for a trial in the Netherlands under Scots law without a
jury but insisted that the decision was a matter for the accused and their
lawyers.

The compromise was a way round the Libyan objection that, because of the massive
amount of media publicity, there was no possibility of a fair trial before an
unbiased jury in Scotland.

In a joint letter to the UN dated August 24, 1998, the British and American
governments stated: "Our governments are prepared, as an exceptional measure, to
arrange for the two accused to be tried before a Scottish court sitting in the
Netherlands. The accused will have safe passage from Libya to the Netherlands
for the purpose of the trial. If found guilty, the accused will serve their
sentence in the United Kingdom. If found not guilty, (they) will have safe
passage back to Libya."

At a news conference in Edinburgh the same day, Lord Hardie, the Lord Advocate,
stressed his belief that a fair trial in Scotland was still possible but
conceded that if a Scottish hearing remained a precondition, there might never
be a trial.

Lord Hardie stated: "My choice was between a position which offers no prospect
of a trial and an initiative which offers some prospect of bringing the accused
to justice."

By the 10th anniversary of the bombing in December, 1998, UN Secretary General
Kofi Annan was reporting "fruitful and positive" talks with Libyan leader
Muammar Gaddafi, and the intervention of Nelson Mandela, whose word everyone
could trust, turned out to be a critical factor in the negotiations.

In March last year, after more favourable noises from Libya and the promise of
the easing of sanctions, Mr Mandela was confident enough to assert that the
suspects would be handed over by April.

On April 5, Mr Megrahi and Mr Fhimah duly surrendered themselves for trial in
the Netherlands.

More than a year on and several legal skirmishes later, the trial is, at long
last, about to begin. The two men, of course, insist on their innocence and
there is no guarantee of a conviction. Anyone who thinks otherwise is deluding
himself.

It is also worth remembering that the purpose of a criminal trial under Scots
law is to establish only whether the Crown has proved its case beyond reasonable
doubt by evidence which has been tested by rigorous cross -examination.

Whether we will discover the whole truth and nothing but the truth is debatable
but what emerges at the trial may have a closer relationship to reality than
most of the speculation produced so far.

Step by step - events lead back to the Continent

The timetable

q December 21, 1988: PanAm flight 103, an American Boeing 747 on its way from
Frankfurt to New York, via London takes off from Heathrow at 6.25pm.

q Called The Clipper Maid of the Seas, it heads north-west carrying 259
passengers and crew. The majority are Americans. Thirty-eight minutes into the
flight, as it crosses the border into Scotland at 31,000ft, a bomb explodes in
the cargo hold. Fragments of the plane and the bodies fall on and around
Lockerbie.

q In one part of the town, a 60ft section of fuselage with 60 bodies inside
lands between two rows of houses, missing them all. A jet engine lands in a car
park, leaving a crater but injuring no-one. Bodies fall on a nearby golf course.
A wing falls onto three houses in Sherwood Crescent, killing 11 people.

q In all, 270 people die in the disaster: 243 passengers, 16 crew and 11
residents. Ten passengers' bodies, most sitting in rows 23 to 28 in the economy
section, are not accounted for. Seven Lockerbie residents from the Sherwood
Crescent area are also missing. The average age of the victims is below 35
years.

q An investigation is launched which sees detectives gathering and sorting
16,000 items scattered by the explosion and wind across 845 square miles.

q Suspicion initially centres on the Iranian government headed by Ayatollah
Khomeini and a Syrian terrorist organisation headed by Ahmed Jibril. Forensic
investigators recover debris which suggests the bomb was hidden in a Toshiba
Bombeat tape player, similar to ones previously recovered by German police in a
raid on Jibril's organisation.

q November 1991: Suddenly, investigators discover a fragment of circuit board -
allegedly part of the Lockerbie bomb - which they say points towards Libyan
involvement. Cynics speculate the development is influenced by US peace
initiatives in the Middle East.

q The two Libyan suspects are named as Abdel Baset Ali Mohmed al-Megrahi and Al
Amin Khalifa Fhimah. The US and Britain announce they are bringing criminal
charges against the two alleged Libyan agents. There are calls for a trial in
Scotland.

q The allegations trigger years of diplomatic wrangling, which see UN sanctions
enforced against Libya when its leader, Colonel Gaddafi, refuses to hand the
suspects over. Eventually, a deal is brokered through the efforts of South
African President Nelson Mandela, which entails the trial of the two suspects
under Scottish law on neutral Dutch soil.

q The trial, unique in Scottish legal history as the first time a Scottish
criminal court has sat abroad, is taking place in Camp Zeist, a former military
base, now a prison and court, outside Utrecht.

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Al Amin Khalifa Fhimah: warrant issued for arrest in 1991;Abdelbaset
Ali Mohmed Al Megrahi: like his co-accused, insists on his innocence;Final
preparations: a sniffer dog searches a car yesterday at the entrance to the
former air force base at Camp Zeist, near Utrecht, where the trial of the two
Libyan suspects is due to begin tomorrow. The pair surrendered themselves for
trial more than a year ago Picture: COLIN MEARNS

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2000 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              85 of 299 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                              May 2, 2000, Tuesday

WHAT HAPPENED IN 1979 WHEN TERRY GRIFFITHS WAS THE CHAMP

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 220 words


IT was Saturday April 28 1979 when Terry Griffiths was crowned king of snooker
by beating Dennis Taylor.

Art Garfunkel was number one in the charts with Bright Eyes.

Margaret Thatcher became Britain's first woman Prime Minister.

Actor John Wayne - born Marion Morrison - died of cancer.

Wales thrashed England 27-3 at Cardiff Arms Park to win a fourth successive
Triple Crown.

Neil Kinnock became Shadow Education Spokesman.

Muhammad Ali announced plans to retire.

Pope John Paul II was welcomed in his native Poland on the first visit by a Pope
to a Communist country.

The 200th Derby was won by Sir Michael Sobell's Troy with the biggest winning
margin in 54 years.

US President Jimmy Carter travelled to meet Soviet chief Brezhnev for the first
time.

Chancellor Geoffrey Howe cut the standard tax rate by three pence and lowered
the top rate from 83 to 60 per cent.

General Haig, chief of Allied Forces in Europe, narrowly escaped a car bomb in
Belgium.

The "Yorkshire Ripper" claimed his 11th victim in Halifax - the first non-
prostitute.

The Royal Navy ended British military ties with Malta as the last ship left the
island.

The IRA struck with its most powerful bomb used at that stage in the conflict.
The 1000lb explosion killed four policemen in Ulster.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.

                              86 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 3, 2000

Rights mess;
Thousands took to Britain's streets on May Day to protest about global
capitalism. If a new bill in parliament becomes law, they could all be labelled
terrorists. Gibby Zobel reports

SECTION: Guardian Society Pages; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1096 words


The Home Office is far from happy about new-labour.com. The spoof internet site
is dedicated to one thing the government isn't keen to shout about - the most
significant change in terrorist law in history.

It is redefining 'terrorism' so that it will put people who, for example, dig up
genetically modified crops in the same frame as an IRA bomber, by introducing
the concept that property damage is such an act. It would mean someone who
commits a crime for ideological reasons would have less rights on arrest than
someone who commits a crime for profit and greed.

The home secretary, Jack Straw, voted against the prevention of terrorism bill
which set up emergency provisions for Northern Ireland in 1974. Scheduled to
last six months, they have endured a quarter of a century. Now they are to be
broadened and brought wholesale into UK legislation permanently.

At the heart of the bill, introduced on December 2 last year, is the new
definition, copied verbatim from the FBI. The bill defines terrorism as follows:
'The use of serious violence against persons or property, or the threat to use
such violence, to intimidate or coerce a government, the public, or any section
of the public for political, religious or ideological ends.'

Labour MP Alan Simpson says: 'We are witnessing a global resurgence of citizens
movements, saying, 'If governments can no longer protect our rights, we shall
have to do so ourselves.' It's sad that we've chosen this moment to redefine
terrorism. Potentially, it turns activist movements into terrorist movements.
It's a catch-all bill that will net, if not all the members of the house, some
fairly prominent members of it.'

MPs went ahead and voted themselves terrorists anyway, passing the bill by 210
votes to one in March. The debate saw cross-party harmony between a few MPs, but
it was only Labour backbencher Paul Flynn who voted against. Conservative MP
Douglas Hogg was apopleptic of his dislike of hunt saboteurs, but he insisted:
'They are not in any ordinary sense terrorists.' The bill is due to go through
the committee stages of the Lords this month, and is likely to be law by summer.

'The act is an attempt to silence all opposition to the rule of profit over
people by labelling it terrorist,' says a newly-formed group, Prevent the
Terrorism Act (PTA), set up in Brighton, East Sussex. 'You only have to look at
how the stalking laws were used. The protection from harassment bill was
designed to protect women from being stalked. Surprise, surprise, the very first
people to be prosecuted under the act were animal rights activists'.

So who could be affected? If the proposed new powers had been in place over the
last 20 years, they could have been enacted against those who campaigned against
the poll tax, the miners' strike and apartheid. The law makes it an offence to
support, by word or deed, an armed struggle in another country. Supporting
Nelson Mandela would have been illegal.

Translate that to today and watch out if you are a supporter of the Ogonis in
Nigeria, Amazonian Indians, Kurds, the Tamil Tigers, Burmese activists or
Tibetan freedom fighters.

A statement by the civil rights lobby group, Liberty, says: 'There is a real
danger that refugees and others who have fled repressive regimes to the safety
of this country will become a legitimate target of the police merely because
they support the overthrow of that regime, even if they themselves are opposed
to violence.'

At the sharp end in domestic issues are animal rights activists. Clause 3 of the
bill allows for proscription, or banning, of organisations such as the Animal
Liberation Front. But some are not fazed by this. 'It doesn't really matter what
the law is, it is what they do behind your back, whether it's the police, Arni
(the Animal Rights National Index police database) or Special Branch,' says one
animal rights activist, who didn't want to be named. 'I've been obviously
followed by cars but whether it's blatant or they are thick I'm not sure. We
recovered a tracking device from one of our vehicles.'

The most likely effect of widening the legislation and bringing it over to the
mainland permanently will be for information gathering and harassment, say
campaigners.

In 1985, the Tory home secretary, Leon Brittan, admitted that the law was used
to 'gain information through questioning people. The vast majority of those
questioned under the act did not have access to legal representation.' Paul
Hill, one of the Guildford Four, was the first man to be arrested under the 1974
terrorism laws. He was wrongly jailed for 15 years.

In December last year, the Human Rights Commission in Northern Ireland found six
instances where the new bill contravenes the incoming Human Rights Act. There
are bound to be a raft of cases, despite Home Office insistance that the bill
complies.

'It is particularly galling for Greenpeace to be labelled terrorists,' says
spokesman Jim Thomas. 'We have been at the end of real terrorist activity - the
blowing up of the Rainbow Warrior. The real terrorists are companies which
release long-term damaging crops into the environment without choice.'

Domestic terrorism laws in place for years in Italy have led to 'eco -terrorism'
being common currency in the tabloids. 'People are scared of us, ' says one,
'People now think of us as terrorists. It's too late in Italy.'

Luke Anderson, an activisit against GM foods, says: 'The government is creating
a private security service for transnational corporations.' As a prominent
campaigner, he is aware that, under Clause 54 of the bill, if someone is
'directing at any level' a group of people who commit a terrorist act they would
face life imprisonment. Although it is extremely unlikely he would ever face
such a charge, the fact that it will exist on the statute book is a pointer to
the future.

Journalists reporting on direct action could be caught by Clause 18, which
carries a five-year sentence for failure to report information, received
professionally, which may lead to a terrorist act.

A glimpse of government complacency came during the committee stages in the
Commons. Home Office minister, Charles Clarke, championed as a rising star of
the Blair government, when justifying the 28-day authorisation period for stop
-and-search zones in which terrorist activity is suspected, casually remarked
that it is because 'it is one of my favourite numbers'.

Neither Clarke nor Jack Straw, could allay the charge that the bill paints with
a brush far too wide.


LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              87 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             May 3, 2000, Wednesday

Libyans in court, 11 years after 270 people died

BYLINE: Gillian Harris Scotland correspondent

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 1299 words


MORE than 11 years after 270 people died after Pan Am flight 103 exploded in the
skies above Lockerbie the long wait for justice is over.

After two postponements and a last-minute attempt to delay proceedings for a
third time, the trial of the two Libyans accused of causing Britain's worst
peacetime atrocity will begins today at a highsecurity Scottish courtroom in the
middle of a Dutch forest.

For most relatives of the victims, attending the trial it will be a first
opportunity to set eyes on the two alleged Libyan intelligence agents accused of
hiding a 1lb Semtex bomb inside a radio-cassette player and placing it in a
brown Samsonsite suitcase that was loaded on to the New York-bound flight on
December 21, 1988.

It was a tiny explosive but the case was placed at the front of the baggage hold
where it would cause maximum damage. When it detonated at 7.03pm on the longest
night of the year the Boeing 747 was blown apart. All passengers and crew died.

It took four minutes for the wreckage to fall 31,000ft and spill over an area of
845 square miles. Eleven residents in the market town of Lockerbie were killed
when aviation fuel and bits of fuselage fell on to homes.

Flight 103 was running 25 minutes late. Had it been on time, the bomb would have
exploded over the Atlantic Ocean. The remains of the dead and crucial evidence
of terrorism would have been impossible to recover and Britain's biggest mass
murder trial, which relatives hope will answer questions that they have been
asking for 11 years, would not be taking place.

Instead the Maid of the Seas fell on Lockerbie, a town of 3,500 people forever
associated with the disaster. Sixty bodies fell in one garden, another landed on
a house roof. Many were found still strapped into seats.

When the explosion happened townspeople rushed to help the injured. But there
were no walking wounded. "You were either very much alive or very much dead,"
Marjory McQueen, a Lockerbie councillor, said. The victims came from 21
countries and were aged from two months to 82 years. They included 37 exchange
students from Syracuse University in New York, four US State Department
officials, the United Nations commissioner for Namibia as well as children and
families returning home for Christmas.

In the days after the crash, 1,100 police officers descended on Lockerbie to
retrieve the bodies and sift through evidence. Temporary mortuaries were set up
in the town hall and at the ice rink. Lockerbie Academy became the investigation
headquarters.

As FBI agents arrived to work alongside Scottish police, local people did what
they could. One woman collected clothes from luggage to wash and iron before
returning it to the families. Christmas presents bearing name tags were posted
to grieving relatives. Confirmation of a terrorist attack came in February 1991
when a fatal accident inquiry, chaired by Sheriff Principal John Mowat,
concluded that a bomb had been carried in a suitcase loaded on to a plane at
Frankfurt airport and transferred to flight 103 at Heathrow without going
through any security checks or being matched with any passenger on board.

On November 13, 1991, warrants were issued for the arrest of Abdel Baset Ali
al-Megrahi and Al Amin Khalifa Fhimah, said to be Libyan intelligence agents
working undercover at Luqa airport in Malta. They were accused of placing the
bomb on a flight from Malta to Frankfurt and ensuring that it was transferred at
Heathrow on to the plane headed for New York.

It took nine years for the two to be extradited from Libya to face charges of
murder, conspiracy to murder and breaching the 1982 Aviation Security Act.
Britain and the United States put pressure on the Libyan leader, Colonel Muammar
Gaddafi, by imposing economic sanctions, but he refused repeatedly to hand over
the men for trial in Scotland or the United States.

Britain and US, meanwhile, appeared opposed to a suggestion made by Robert
Black, the Lockerbie-born Professor of Scots Law at Edinburgh University, that
the men be tried in a neutral country. The impasse was broken in 1999 by Nelson
Mandela, the former South African President, who persuaded Colonel Gaddafi that
he would not lose face in the West if the suspects were tried under Scottish law
in a neutral country such as The Netherlands.

The Libyans, accompanied by Hans Corell, a United Nations legal representative,
flew from Tripoli to Rotterdam on April 6, 1999. They have been held as remand
prisoners at Camp Zeist, a former US Air Force base ceded by the Dutch
authorities to Scotland, for more than year.

Under Scottish law remand prisoners must face trial within 110 days, but a
six-month extension was granted to allow the legal teams to study mountains of
evidence and witness statements. Another three-month delay, requested by the
defence, was agreed in December.

The accused have spent the past year in a tiny two-cell prison guarded by
Scottish prison officers. The walls of their jail are 4ft thick and 18ft high.
In common with all remand prisoners, they are allowed to wear their own clothes,
eat food of their choice - in this case Arabic fare, prepared by a Muslim chef
flown from Libya - and observe religious customs, including Ramadan.

When the trial begins they will be escorted to the Pounds 12 million bomb proof
courtroom via underground tunnels. The men will be accompanied by Scottish
police officers armed with sub-machineguns. Inside the court they will sit
behind bullet-proof glass.

Everyone involved in the trial, from cleaners to legal teams, will go through
airport-style security checks before entering the building. There is a no-fly
zone over the 100-acre site and police have laser technology to monitor an
electric perimeter fence.

The circumstances of the trial are unique. It is being held on a piece of
Scotland with a Saltire fluttering overhead. It is the first time a trial under
Scottish law has been held outside Scotland and the first time that evidence in
a murder case has been heard by three High Court judges - Lords Sutherland,
MacLean and Coulsfield - without a jury.

For the victim's relatives, who have lobbied the British and US Governments for
this trial, the run-up has not been easy.

Eleven weeks ago Scotland's chief law officer, Lord Hardie, the Lord Advocate,
who was supposed to be leading the prosecution case, resigned to become a Court
of Session judge.

His abrupt departure was seen by some as an indication that the case against the
Libyans was weak. Lord Hardie dismissed that idea as outrageous but the
suspicion remained, despite reassurances from his successor, Colin Boyd, QC.
Meanwhile, the defence, led by William Taylor, QC, has disclosed plans to pursue
the theory that the bombing was by the Popular Front for the Liberation of
Palestine-General Command (PFLP-GC) on behalf of the Iranians in revenge for the
accidental shooting down by the USS Vincennes in July 1988 of an Iranian airbus
taking pilgrims to Mecca. Afterwards, the Iranians said that "the skies will
rain with American blood".

A US Intelligence report claims thatAhmed Jibril, the PFLP-GC leader, was paid
Pounds 6.2 million to bring down a US plane.

Dr Jim Swire, spokesman for the British victims' families, hopes that the trial
will raise fresh evidence that can be examined thoroughly at a public inquiry.
In particular he wants to know why a security warning given to US consulates on
December 5 was not made public.

London to New York flights in the run-up to Christmas were fully booked - bar
one. Pan Am flight 103, with 243 passengers, was half empty.

Leading article, page 19

LINKS

www.the-times.co.uk/onlinespecials/britain/lockerbie/

The Times Online's comprehensive guide to the trial


LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2000 Times Newspapers Limited

                              88 of 299 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             May 4, 2000, Thursday

THE LOCKERBIE TRIAL: 4-YEAR TERROR CAMPAIGN;
 LIBYAN PAIR USED AIRLINE AS FRONT FOR CONSPIRACY AGAINST THE WEST THAT ENDED
WITH 270 DEAD, COURT TOLD

BYLINE: Adrian Shaw

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12, 13

LENGTH: 722 words


TWO of Libyan leader Colonel Gadaffi's top secret agents were behind a four
-year terror plot ending in the Lockerbie bombing, a court heard yesterday.

The pair, Abdelbaset Ali Mohmed Al Megrahi, 47, and Al Amin Khalifa Fhimah, 43,
used the cover of their jobs with Libyan Arab Airlines in Malta to mastermind
the explosion on Pan Am's flight 103, it was alleged.

The men finally went on trial yesterday at Camp Zeist, Holland, more than 11
years after the blast killed 259 on board and 11 Lockerbie residents in
Britain's biggest ever mass murder.

Details of Al Megrahi and Fhimah's alleged plot were contained in a six page
charge sheet which took the clerk 20 minutes to read out .

The court heard that at the time of the alleged plot, Al Megrahi and Fhimah were
members of the Libyan Intelligence Service.

The indictment read: "As members of the Libyan Intelligence Service, you did
conspire together and with others to further the purposes of the LIS by criminal
means, namely the use of explosive devices in the commission of acts of
terrorism and in particular the destruction of a civil passenger aircraft and
murder of its occupants."

According to the charge sheet, the plot began in January, 1985 - almost four
years before the Lockerbie bomb - when Al Megrahi and Fhimah conspired "together
and with others."

The charge sheet alleged that the pair put a suitcase containing the bomb packed
into a Toshiba radio cassette recorder on an Air Malta flight KM 180 to
Frankfurt.

The case was tagged to be transferred to Pan Am's ill-fated flight 103 from
Frankfurt to New York, via Heathrow Airport.

The charge sheet said that Al Megrahi and Fhimah were involved in Libyan
Intelligence Service activities with seven other terrorist suspects who have
evaded justice.

Al Megrahi and Fhimah are charged with murder, conspiracy to murder and
breaching the Aviation Security Act.

Entering formal not guilty pleas, the men named members of the obscure terrorist
cell the Palestinian Popular Struggle Front as the real bombers in papers lodged
with the court.

They also claimed the better known Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine
General Command, could have been behind the attack.

The defence papers, read by the clerk, said the bombing was masterminded by
Palestinian terrorist Mohamed Abu Talb, 47, who was jailed for life in 1989 in
Sweden after carrying out four bomb attacks in Stockholm and Copenhagen in 1985
and 1986.

One person died and 26 were injured after bombs exploded at a synagogue and
offices of the US airline Northwest Orient.

Talb was named in court papers as "prosecution witness number 963."

He was said to be a member of the Palestinian Popular Struggle Front whose
members allegedly operated undercover from a shop in Malta.

Nine other Arabs named by the defence were: Talal Chabaan, Mohammed Ghaloom
Khalil Hassan, Hashem Salem, alias Hashem Abu Nada, Madieha Mohamed Abu Faja,
Abdel Salam Arif Abu Nada, Magdy Moussa, Jamal Haider, Parviz Taheri and Imad
Adel Hazzouri.

The court heard that Taheri was "prosecution witness 996." All the others were
described as "present whereabouts unknown" apart from Hazzouri, who was said to
be in Malta.

The trial is being held before three Scottish judges, led by Lord Sutherland. A
fourth judge, Lord Abernethy, is sitting in reserve.

The two men were handed over by Libya in April last year - eight years after
being named as suspects - in a deal brokered by the United Nations and former
South African President Nelson Mandela.

Libya finally agreed that they should stand trial after insisting that the
hearing should not take place in either Scotland or America.

Under the deal, the Dutch court was legally made a part of Scotland and the
trial is being held under Scottish law.

The 25-acre compound is protected by high walls, barbed wire, guard dogs, prison
officers and armed police from the Dumfries and Galloway force.

Megrahi and Fhimah have been held on the compound in a prison - nicknamed The
Cube - which has been converted from a medical clinic.

They are allowed to wear their own clothes, exercise, watch Arabic TV programmes
and their food is prepared in accordance with strict Moslem tradition.

The trial was adjourned until today.

a.shaw@mgn.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: AFTERMATH: The crashed Jumbo; SECURITY: Defendants arrive at court;;
LOSS: Relatives want justice for loved ones; IN THE DOCK: Wearing traditional
Libyan dress, the Lockerbie suspects Al-Megrahi and Fhimah, flanked by police
officers, listen to the evidence in Arabic over headphones

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.

                              89 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                  May 5, 2000

LOVE BYTES

BYLINE: BY CYRIL DIXON

LENGTH: 884 words


A WORLDWIDE computer virus masquerading as a love letter paralysed systems
across Britain yesterday, costing businesses tens of millions of pounds.

The cyber chaos struck as an e-mail dubbed "the killer from Manila" attacked via
the Internet. The "I Love You" bug crashed computer after computer with
terrifying speed.

Businesses and even governments were forced to shut down e-mail systems as
technicians tried to tackle the most deadly computer virus yet. Among the
victims in Britain were the House of Commons, the Stock Exchange, the Ministry
of Defence and a string of blue-chip companies, including BT.

Experts warned that the attack could have been an attempt by "cyber terrorists"
to hack into sensitive systems. One said: "The worrying aspect is that cyber
terrorism has become relatively easy and we haven't seen the last of it."

The virus, which made a direct attack on personal e-mail systems, was designed
to make computers dial into a website to transfer any secret files from their
hard disks. Because it spread so rapidly, the replies overwhelmed the website
and caused it to crash, ruining the plan.

But it is feared it may have been a dry run by the cyber terrorists, who could
return with a more sophisticated version. The attack began in the Philippines
and rapidly spread to the West. In the United States more than 120,000 computers
were hit, including Congress, as I Love You eclipsed last year's Melissa virus.

Graham Cluley, of anti-virus protection firm Sophos, said: "Companies were
blitzed and switched off their e-mail systems. As soon as they do that, they are
losing money because they are effectively turning off the cash flow, being
unable to talk to customers by e-mail. The costs will be extremely large and it
has spread like wildfire." Alan Stevens, head of digital services at the
Consumers' Association, said: "We'll hear of many other organisations such as
schools and hospitals."

The damage was caused by the bug's potential, if ignored, to over-write personal
computer files and download rogue Internet material such as pornography.

Victims were alerted when they received an e-mail with the header "I Love You"
and an instruction to open it.

A message saying "Kindly check the attached love letter from me!" arrived with a
file called "LOVE-LETTER-FOR-YOU".

But if the file was opened, the virus was activated and a programme
automatically sent the e-mail to other people listed in that address book. It
simultaneously downloaded a file to the hard disk called WIN-BUGSFIX.EXE, whose
purpose is still being investigated.

Like Melissa, it is what experts call a "worm virus" because it burrows through
the network eating up information as it moves.

But while Melissa was restricted to attacking the first 50 entries in an address
book, the latest menace went through the entire list. Servers crashed and
organisations which rely on them were forced to suspend activities at a cost of
millions to make sure staff did not spread the bug.

An early theory blamed the chaos on eco-terrorists who caused mayhem during the
May Day demonstration in London but the Manila link ruled that out.

The most high-profile victim was the Commons, which shut down its whole
communications system when the bug struck its e-mail network.

Leader of the Commons Margaret Beckett said: "You may have received an e-mail
message saying 'I love you'. I have to tell you that sadly this affectionate
greeting contains a virus which has immobilised the House's internal
communication system.

"This means that no member can receive e-mails from outside, nor indeed can we
communicate with each other by e-mail.

"I believe what has happened is that the House authorities have in fact shut the
House's e-mail down in order to protect our systems which does seem to be a both
a swift and decisive and sensible approach."

Elsewhere, the gravity of the problem was quickly recognised as dozens of FTSE
100 companies contacted Sophos for advice on how to avert a crash. Scottish
Power and Scottish Hydro-Electric were among the casualties, as were Vodaphone,
the BBC and BSkyB.

Internet music and picture files were erased before lunch time, when software
engineers across the country began to get on top of the problem.

Sarah Perkins of PC Pro magazine said about 10 per cent of British companies
were thought to have been hit.

The bug was first detected in Hong Kong, but investigators said last night it
had been planted in the capital of the Philippines by a known saboteur called
"Barock".

It hit the Asian financial market, with the Dow Jones newswires and the Asian
Wall Street Journal among the victims.

The Danish parliament was one of the first European casualties, while banking
giant Credit Suisse First Boston issued a global e-mail to employees warning
them to ignore the message.

Melissa struck in June last year, demonstrating dramatically the potential
nightmare represented by computer bugs.

An extensive FBI investigation traced its creator, and last December David Smith
pleated guilty at a New Jersey court to computer theft and distributing the
malicious programme.

Smith, who named the bug after a topless dancer he knew, now faces a GBP 100,000
fine and a 10-year prison sentence.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2000 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              90 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Mirror

                              May 7, 2000, Sunday

MUGABE'S ENFORCER;
 REVEALED: ZIMBABWE'S CRICKET CHIEF WAS LEADER OF TYRANT'S SECRET POLICE

BYLINE: Doug Kempster

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 652 words


THE former head of Robert Mugabe's internal secret police is working in Britain
- as tour manager of the Zimbabwe cricket team.

Dan Stannard is seen as a father figure sent to reassure the troubled side
during its three-month tour of the UK.

But as his players live with the threat to their families from lawless mobs at
home, Stannard, 62, is defiant about his links to Mugabe's state terror force -
the Central Intelligence Organisation.

Today, a Sunday Mirror investigation can reveal the sports supremo was:

-Given Zimbabwe's highest honour, the Order Of Valour, for his services to the
African despot.

-Famed for saving Mugabe's life in a bomb attack.

-Promoted to head the CIO's internal security unit.

-Was a loyal employee of the CIO's current chief Dr Sidney Sckeramayi - the man
blamed for many of the current attacks on farmers and their workers.

A former friend admitted: "At one time he was one of the most influential whites
in the country - he had the ear of the President."

Stannard's friendship with Mugabe started in March 1980 during the country's
first one man, one vote elections.

According to human rights group Amnesty, he was drafted into the CIO as the
fledgling state prepared for black majority rule.

Casey Kelso, a former teacher in Zimbabwe who now works for Amnesty, said:
"People like Danny Stannard were kept on to train a new generation of
operatives.

"They knew how to infiltrate rival parties, break-up demonstrations and de
-stabilise political groups."

The ruddy-faced former British South Africa Police officer was an instant hit
with Mugabe after the CIO was assigned to look after the him while
electioneering.

Days into the campaign Mugabe was the target of a bomb in Masvingo Province.
Stannard's former friend said: "Danny was driving Mugabe into Masvingo when he
swerved off the main road.

"As he did, the stretch of highway they should have been on burst into flame."

Afterwards, Stannard's rise through the CIO was rapid.

Mr Kelso said: "People referred to the CIO as the "Men in Black Glasses - its
agents were like bogeymen and the fear kept the population in line."

Stannard was a senior agent when the CIO masterminded the invasion of
Matabeleland.

An estimated 30,000 men, women and children were slaughtered and Mugabe became
the head of what was effectively a one-party state.

Eventually, his boss was Dr Sydney Sckeramayi - who is chief the CIO to this
day. In 1987 he was awarded the Order of Valour, Zimbabwe's highest honour but
there was no citation for the medal

Stannard retired in 1996 and in recent years acted as go-between for worried
white farmers and Mugabe. His one-time friend now lives in the UK, and thought
he was still a consultant in Harare until he heard he was here with the cricket
team.

Stannard, appointed tour manager just a month ago, told waiting journalists:
"The situation at home is in the players' minds. They're worried about their
families - hopefully it will be okay."

The squad have reason to be concerned.

A third of them have family who have been forced to flee their farms and one,
Heath Streak, has been delayed in joining the team because his mother and father
were chased from their home near Bulawayo by a mob.

Speaking from Hastings where the side will play today, Mr Stannard said: "I was
with the CIO and I was head of internal security but I wasn't director general.

"I enjoyed my time with the CIO, it was not a corrupt organisation - I don't
know what it's up to these days, I've been out of it for a long time.

"As far as my appointment as tour manager is concerned, there is nothing
sinister - it has nothing to do with my past - I just love cricket."

Stannard's former friend said: "It's a strange situation.

"There are bound to be people caught up in what's happening now who got their
training from him."

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TOP MAN: Zimbabwe's cricket tour manager is a former head of internal
security with the CIO, an intelligence force loyal to President; Mugabe(inset)

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.

                              91 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Mercury

                              May 7, 2000, Sunday

'WE MUST PREPARE FOR BIO TERROR RAIDS'

BYLINE: Louise Palfreyman

SECTION: Pg. 10

LENGTH: 443 words


HOSPITALS need to be better prepared for biological terrorist attacks on
Britain, a leading microbiologist claims.

Professor Richard Wise, a consultant at Birmingham's City Hospital microbiology
department, says hospital doctors have to be ready to deal with terrorist
assaults similar to the sarin gas attack in Tokyo in 1995.

Religious cult leader Shoko Ashara and his followers were responsible for five
deaths and more than 5,000 casualties when they released the deadly gas on a
commuter train in Tokyo's underground system.

The attack led to increased police surveillance measures in the UK, most
recently at the G8 summit held in Birmingham in 1998.

But Prof Wise believes it is medical services in the UK which now need to
improve emergency planning if a terrorist attack is to be dealt with
effectively.

Terrorist groups are increasingly developing the technology for manufacturing
deadly organisms.

Anthrax, brucella, sarin gas and botulinum toxin can all be released into the
atmosphere or water supply, causing huge numbers of fatalities.

The threat of biological attack is increasingly used by terrorists to blackmail
governments and President Clinton has predicted a major attack in the US within
five years.

Prof Wise is calling on the government to improve awareness and understanding in
the medical community of the effects of such an attack.

In a paper due to be presented at the Pathology 2000 conference in Birmingham
later this month he presents a doomsday scenario where hospitals fail to control
the aftermath of an anthrax attack.

'Imagine the following scenario where over a period of one or two weeks
increasing numbers of patients report to their GP or casualty departments with
non-specific symptoms of fever.

'A number of these patients go on to develop septicaemia and deaths start to
occur.

'By the time the microbiology department diagnoses anthrax it is highly probable
that many deaths will have occurred and the full extent of the problem will
gradually be appreciated.

'Panic would ensue and healthcare services would be overwhelmed in the clamour
for vaccination or antibiotics.'

Rapid diagnosis helps minimise the spread of a virus released into the community
and prevents unnecessary loss of life, according to Prof Wise.

'In a worst case scenario, many deaths might occur before microbiology
laboratories have diagnosed the presence of a deadly virus,' he said.

A spokesman for the Department of Health said: 'The Government considers the
risks of biological attacks to be very low but we agree that health
professionals need to be aware of all eventualities.'

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: READY FOR ACTION... soldiers in chemical warfare uniform

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2000 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              92 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                              May 8, 2000, Monday

Unionists still doubt IRA on arms pledge

BYLINE: Ian Brodie in Washington, Richard Ford, Christopher Walker and Philip
Webster

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 910 words


PRESIDENT CLINTON is preparing to visit Dublin, Belfast and London, probably in
early July, to celebrate the breakthrough in the Ulster peace talks.

The progress in those talks was hailed last night by Martin McGuinness, who said
that he believed "we have cracked the nut" and that there was now a real
opportunity for all the Province's politicians to work together. "I think we are
going to get there," Sinn Fein's chief negotiator declared.

But as he spoke, Tony Blair gave warning against euphoria and said that
dissident paramilitary groups would attempt terrorist attacks during the next
few months to disrupt the atmosphere of peace in the Province.

Gerry Adams, the Sinn Fein president, anxious to defuse wide dissension within
IRA ranks over the plan, told a West Belfast rally commemorating the 19th
anniversary of the death of the IRA hunger striker Bobby Sands that there was no
question of an IRA defeat.

"What we have to get our heads around, what the British Government has to get
its head around and what Unionism has to get its head around is that an IRA
which was not defeated in 30 years of war is not going to let itself be defeated
in the course of the process," he said.

His defiant remarks appeared certain to increase Unionist doubts about
supporting the new deal, which would lead to devolved government returning to
the Province on May 22. David Trimble, the Ulster Unionist leader, whose ruling
council will consider the plan in two weeks, said there were "positive elements"
in the IRA statement.

"We have to explore just exactly what is meant by this inspection process, how
it's going to be conducted, what procedures are going to be adopted to ensure
that guns have remained secure," he said. "Then we want to ensure that this form
of the process of inspection is part of an overall process leading to full and
complete decommissioning and that when the IRA say that they will put their guns
beyond use completely and verifiably, it is complete, it is verifiable that they
are permanently, completely beyond use."

Unionist fears are centred on having to trust the IRA to disclose the true
extent of its arsenal and of arms dumps to international observers.

The loyalist community will be fearful that weapons will "leak" from IRA dumps
to dissident groups, such as the Continuity IRA and the Real IRA. Security
sources believe that their present membership of about 200 could double if the
deal goes ahead.

Inside the IRA reported support for the deal by the hardliner Brian Keenan,
regarded as the second-in-command of the organisation, is expected to lessen
opposition, even though many IRA men see the moving of arms to supervised dumps
as tantamount to surrender.

The IRA is the most heavily armed terrorist organisation in Europe, with a vast
arsenal of arms and explosives hidden in underground bunkers and remote
farmhouses throughout Ireland. But the exact extent of its armoury is hard to
pinpoint, as are the location of its munitions dumps on both sides of the Irish
border.

That is likely to remain the position, in spite of the IRA's statement promising
to allow dumps to be regularly inspected by two independent observers. The
carefully worded statement did not pledge that all dumps would be inspected. It
merely said that the contents of a "number of arms dumps" would be inspected.

As the extent of its overall arsenal is difficult to assess, the security forces
and politicans will have to take the IRA at its word. Even if the terrorists
sealed all dumps or destroyed all weapons, there is nothing to stop an
organisation as wealthy as the IRA from going on a spending spree for more guns
and explosives.

Estimates suggest that the IRA has enough weaponry to continue its terror
campaign for at least a decade. Guns, rifles, machineguns, surface-to-air
missiles, explosives and detonators have come from Libya, the United States, the
Middle East, the former Czechoslovakia and even from a Norwegian Army Reserve
depot near Oslo, which was robbed in 1984.

In one of the most spectacular failures of intelligence during the whole of the
present Troubles, Libya sent four shipments of arms aboard two trawlers to the
Republic. The potential scale of the Libyan arms shipments became known only
when French customs seized the Eksund off Brittany in November 1987, with 150
tonnes of arms on board, including two tonnes of Semtex explosive. Three earlier
shipments had successfully been brought ashore and moved to carefully prepared
dumps around the Irish Republic. Many of the these dumps are in rural areas of
counties Cork, Kerry and Limerick. Some bunkers are the size of small houses,
with sophisticated heating and ventilation to prevent weapons being ruined by
moisture.

A raid on a farm in Co Laois in 1996 revealed a bunker built under a farmhouse,
with an electricity supply and air vent. Terrorists reached the bunker by
clambering down a manhole. There are believed to be at least ten similar bunkers
in different parts of the Irish Republic. Inside the bunker was an "arms
factory" producing mortar components.

A final decision on the visit by Mr Clinton has yet to be taken, but the White
House has pencilled two dates on its calendar. One option is for Mr Clinton to
add Britain and Ireland to a visit to Europe this month, but a preferred choice
is for him to make a separate visit, probably early in July.

Leading article, page 19


LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2000 Times Newspapers Limited

                              93 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                              May 15, 2000, Monday

SCIENTISTS WARN OF KILLER BUG THREAT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 409 words


The rising danger of 21st century killer bugs will be debated at the UK's
biggest gathering of pathologists in Birmingham this week.

A reminder of the need for rigorous safety precautions to prevent deadly
organisms from escaping into the environment will be heard by thousands of
pathologists and scientists from across the country.

The three-day conference at the NEC which begins today will also hear ideas on
combating CJD and E-coli, dealing with nuclear accidents and the growing threat
of biological warfare.

Dr Tim Wyatt, from the Mater Infirmorum Hospital in Belfast, will urge fellow
clinicians to be ever-vigilant to avoid accidents when handling organisms with
the power to infect and kill.

These range from long-standing threats such as Lassa fever and the Ebola virus,
which may be imported from other countries to newly emerging risks such as new
variant CJD - the human form of 'mad cow' disease - and equine morbillivirus,
which recently occurred in Australia.

Dr Wyatt said: 'My aim is to remind all those working with clinical specimens in
the laboratory that all the necessary precautions and safeguards must be
rigorously observed and enforced at all times.'

Also at the forum, the prospects for screening the general population for new
variant CJD will be explored by Dr James Ironside, from the CJD surveillance
unit at Edinburgh University.

And a leading microbiologist from Birmingham will say that hospitals need to be
better prepared for biological terrorist attacks on Britain.

Prof Richard Wise, a consultant at Birmingham's City Hospital microbiology
department, believes hospital doctors must be ready to deal with terrorist
assaults similar to the sarin gas attack in Tokyo in 1995.

Religious cult leader Shoko Ashara and his followers were responsible for five
deaths and more than 5,000 casualties when they released the deadly gas on a
commuter train in Tokyo's underground system.

The attack led to increased police surveillance measures in the UK, most
recently at the G8 summit held in Birmingham in 1998.

But Prof Wise believes it is medical services in the UK which now need to
improve emergency planning if a terrorist attack is to be dealt with
effectively.

Terrorist groups are increasingly developing the technology for manufacturing
deadly organisms.

Anthrax, brucella, sarin gas and botulinum toxin can all be released into the
atmosphere or water supply.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2000 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              94 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                  May 17, 2000

Rich reward for toli of two cities;
You only have to look at the fine buildings to feel optimism

BYLINE: Graham Keeley

SECTION: Pg. 28;29

LENGTH: 943 words


THEY are separated by just 30 miles but the divide between Manchester and
Liverpool has stretched over generations.

Today Manchester is booming with a thriving financial sector, resurgent
industries and a rapidly-expanding city centre which has helped attract the 2002
Commonwealth Games to the North West.

In Liverpool, too, there is new optimism in the city.

Cranes dominate the skyline and symbolise the way the once-prosperous port is
changing.

Here the Mail examines how the two cities' fortunes changed so dramatically and
how the two rivals are facing up to the challenges of the 21st century.

ONE of the worst acts of terrorism on mainland Britain ripped the heart out of
the centre of Manchester. But out of the wreckage of the 1996 IRA bomb attack
was born a determination to rebuild the city and make it better than ever
before.

Four years later, the results are dramatic. Although, still dominated by
workmen, the city centre is hugely impressive and boasts the world's largest
Marks and Spencer store.

Location has proved vital. The two cities started bickering in the 18th century,
as Manchester businessmen felt Liverpool merchants were charging too much to get
goods out of the docks, so the Bridgewater and Manchester ship canals were
built.

Manchester is close to the M6 motorway link between North and South. Road routes
into the city are easy. The Metrolink tram system has also proved successful.
But in Liverpool, the M62 stops short of the city making access to the docks
difficult.

Michael Taylor, editor of North West Business Insider magazine, said: 'What
helped Manchester was the bombing. It gave it the chance to remodel the city.

It is emerging as the commercial and financial centre of the North.

Manchester is helped by a decent transport system, whereas Liverpool is a bit
out on a limb.' The clearest indicator of the different fortunes of the two
cities has been inward investment.

In the past five years, Manchester attracted 93 projects, bringing capital worth
GBP 908.2million and over 13,000 jobs. Hulme, for years an inner city slum, was
revujenated by a GBP 166million cash injection and is now increasingly
fashionable with young professionals.Over in Liverpool, 47 new projects came to
the city bringing capital worth GBP 309.1million and 9,346 jobs.

For Liverpool, one breakthrough came when the city was named by the European
Union as one of the poorest areas of the continent. It finally had the grants to
reverse the decline of the previous 20 years.

AGBP 500million transformation of the city centre is planned and proposals for a
cruise liner terminal at the Albert Docks are being finalised.

A high-class city centre market is planned near the Liver Building to bring the
area upmarket. And the main retail centre may also receive a dynamic and much
needed facelift.

Capitalising on Liverpool's history as a staging post for immigrants to America
and beyond, a new genealogy centre has been earmarked.

A 600ft skyscraper planned for Liverpool's famous waterfront and financed by the
private sector is seen as a symbol of the city's new confidence. An impressive,
40-storey structure, it could house luxury flats, business, retail and leisure
accommodation, and rank as one of the country's tallest buildings.

Layth Bunni, chief executive of Liverpool Vision, a regeneration company made up
of public and private sector interests, said: 'I know that Liverpool has lagged
behind everywhere else. But by 2008, the 800th anniversary of the city, we
believe we can complete these projects and make Liverpool the European city of
culture.' Political stability has been crucial for Liverpool. Peter Kilfoyle,
Labour MP for Walton, believes the alliance of the Liberal Democrat-run council
and private business has been vital.

'There has been a friendly relationship between the council and the private
sector for a number of years which has brought investment which I can only
applaud,' he said.

'Manchester has managed a lot whereas Liverpool has stood still. But I think
that is changing.' Manchester was not dogged by the same political wrangling.

Gerald Kaufman, Labour MP for Manchester Gorton, said: 'The city has been helped
by the way the council works with the private sector and the public.

It was very effective in bringing the Commonwealth Games to Manchester and
rebuilding the city after the bombing.' The battle between the cities' two
airports symbolises their different fortunes. Manchester is an international
airport, which is expanding to a second runway, and is well-placed to serve the
entire North. Liverpool, which deals mostly in holiday flights, is battling to
make a comeback.

Football has always been a mark of pride for both cities. Manchester United, now
worth GBP 1bn, have won almost all the sport's glittering prizes.

Liverpool, so dominant in the 1980s, and Everton have not yet caught up.

Sir Bobby Charlton, one of Manchester United's greatest players, said: 'If your
city side is doing well then certainly this has an effect on the city in terms
of investment. The mere fact that Manchester went for the Olympics says a lot.'
The vibrancy of a city's cultural life often shows its health, while Greater
Manchester can boast the GBP 96million Lowry, Liverpool has the Tate Gallery of
the North at the Albert Dock.

Michael Taylor summed up how both cities are facing the future. He said: 'I went
back to Liverpool last month after ten years and there was a real buzz.

The same is true about Manchester. There is a real 'can do' attitude about both
places now.' g.keeley@dailymail.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2000 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              95 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                  May 18, 2000

THUGS' BATTLE OF COPENHAGAN;
Police 'out of their depth' as drunken fans terrorise locals

BYLINE: Christian Gysin

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 958 words


BRITISH soccer was shamed once again yesterday as hundreds of Arsenal fans
fought bloody pitched battles with their Turkish rivals hours before a European
cup final.

Mothers with young children fled screaming in terror as hooligans attacked each
other with knives, clubs and bottles in horrifying scenes in Copenhagen's main
square.

The Danish police seemed hopelessly out of their depth and outnumbered in trying
to quell the trouble between drink-fuelled fans of the London club and the
Turkish champions Galatasaray.

The police had been warned repeatedly of the huge potential for violence since
two Leeds United fans were stabbed to death before a match against Galatasaray
in Istanbul last month. And they got the first taste of what was to come when
clashes on Tuesday night left one British fan with stab wounds.

But there was hardly a policeman to be seen when the riot began late afternoon
in the genteel Radhuspladsen Square in one of Europe's prettiest capitals
despite the fact that rival fans had been drinking in the bars there since 10am.
The tension was tangible, the violence inevitable.

By the time police finally moved in with tear gas, batons and police horses, the
square resembled a war zone.

One fan sat in a gutter clutching his stomach, blood gushing through his shirt,
after being stabbed; another lay covered in blood, his left ear hanging off; a
third lay motionless after being beaten unconscious.

During the 30 minutes it took police to arrive and clear the square there had
been appalling violence from two sets of fans who were as bad as each other.

Danish citizens took cover as bottles flew through the air, tables and chairs
were hurled through shop windows, and the thugs set about each other with a
fearsome collection of iron bars, wooden staves, knives and hammers.

Television crews and Press photographers capturing the horrors were themselves
attacked and several were injured. Others had to lock themselves in vehicles.

One man in a wheelchair sat terrified as he desperately tried to escape the
mayhem he had innocently been caught up in.

Copenhagen's police chief Mogens Lauridsen said that two fans had been stabbed
in yesterday's fighting, one Turk and one Briton. It was not yet known what
condition they were in.

A second British supporter was seriously injured after being attacked with an
iron bar. Several others were hurt and about 20 people were arrested.

Mr Lauridsen said: 'We have never seen anything like this in Copenhagen. We had
trouble controlling the situation. There has been more trouble than we ever
expected.' About 12,000 fans from each side had arrived in the city by midday,
but the Galatasaray group was boosted by several thousand more from Copenhagen's
large Turkish community.

The disgraceful scenes before the UEFA Cup Final came despite police launching
what they said was the biggest security operation for a sports event in Denmark.

Shortly after 3pm rival supporters who had been taunting each other for more
than three hours began scuffling near the Absalom bar in the city centre, which
had become a meeting place for the Arsenal fans in the city.

Within minutes bottles began flying and by 3.10pm a full scale riot had started
in the main square. There were an estimated 1,000 fans on each side.

The vicious fighting lasted for more than 30 minutes, with English fans grabbing
tables and chairs to attack their Turkish rivals, while Turks could be seen
brandishing long kebab knives and pickaxe handles. Others used chairs and
staves.

The running battles continued across the square before police finally arrived in
strength. But even then they seemed to be lacking leadership and clueless about
how to react. Many young officers, despite being dressed in full riot gear and
later donning gas masks, stood by as the most serious clashes occurred. Others
wandered around aimlessly.

Finally there was an order to use tear gas, and the acrid fumes soon covered the
ancient square, forcing people to take shelter in doorways.

Police then moved forward to clear the square. But the job was done as
effectively by a sudden downpour which soaked the fighting thugs.

As kick- off approached at the 39,000-seat Parken stadium the venue for the game
almost two miles of fencing was put up to keep British and Turkish fans apart
before and after the match.

There was no sign of trouble before the match began, but there were fears that
more violence could break out after the game.

Last night a spokesman for Britain's National Criminal Intelligence Service
(NCIS), which gathers and distributes information on football hooligans, said:
'We are satisfied that we passed on as much detailed, expert intelligence as
possible to the Danish and Turkish authorities.' Earlier, a 41-year- old English
supporter told how he was stabbed in the stomach and back in Tuesday night's
violence.

Father of three Paul Dineen from Edgware, Middlesex, said he stumbled into the
fighting as he walked back to his hostel after a meal in a Copenhagen bar.

After being stabbed he was taken to hospital where last night doctors described
his condition as 'not life threatening'. Despite his injuries, he still planned
to go to last night's game.

c.gysin@dailymail.co.uk

PICTURE CAPTIONS

Flashpoint Arsenal and Galatasaray supporters clash in running battles in
Copenhagen's main square yesterday

Victim An unidentified fan lies bloodied and unconscious Weapon Restaurant chair
becomes a makeshift club

Thug An Arsenal fan kicks a Turk

Target A thug attacks a local man Beaten A Galatasaray fan is helped away by
fellow supporters

Hooligan A Turk wields a carving knife in the riot

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: SEE END OF STORY

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2000 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              96 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                  May 18, 2000

ROW OVER SPY CHIEF'S MEMOIRS

BYLINE: BY ANTHONY MITCHELL, ROBERT JOBSON AND SARAH O'GRADY

LENGTH: 565 words


The husband of Britain's former spy chief sprang to her defence last night over
her new book which threatens to lift the lid on MI5.

Dame Stella Rimington's husband stepped in after a row erupted over her GBP
1million memoirs.

Yesterday it spilled over into the Commons when Tony Blair was quizzed about the
book's contents.

"I support my wife's actions in everything she does," said former top civil
servant John Rimington, 64. "We have discussed it but I am not prepared to go
into any details or make any further comment."

Dame Stella, 65, was accused of double standards after other spies have been
pursued through the courts and forced to flee the country for writing their
memoirs.

"It seems to be one rule for the boss and another for the operatives who put
their lives on the line," said one senior security source. "Even if she doesn't
name names it will give our enemies an idea about how our secret services work.
She signed the official Secrets Act and has taken the Queen's shilling but it
seems that is not enough." Dame Stella, who is the inspiration for the female M
in the latest Bond movies played by Dame Judi Dench, is adamant she is not
breaking any rules or putting lives at risk.

But publishing insiders say there is no chance she would secure a GBP 1million
book deal without revealing details of the murky cloak-and-dagger world of
spying.

During her four-year reign as spymaster with MI5 she took on the IRA, foiling
dozens of planned terrorist attacks. She retired in 1996 on a GBP 90,000-a-year
pension and earns GBP 60,000 a year from directorships, which include Marks and
Spencer.

Renegade MI5 agent David Shayler, now exiled in France, accused her of double
standards. "I think there is a public benefit in MI5 officers writing their
memoirs as it will help quash some of the more stupid rumours and shed some
light on the total darkness that surrounds the intelligence services.

"But I think she looks hypocritical because she did not try to reform official
secrecy legislation earlier when she was with MI5," said Mr Shayler.

Former MI6 spy Richard Tomlinson, who was jailed for six months in 1997 for
breaking the Official Secrets Act after he showed the synopsis of a book on his
career to an Australian publisher, also criticised Dame Stella. From Rimini,
Italy, he said: "It is hypocritical." Dame Stella began writing her 150,000-word
book last year. It is expected to earn her GBP 1million but she has refused to
name the likely publishers.

A Home Office source said: "One can understand people's frustrations when we
have in place a system whereby government secrets are released to the public
after many years when the threat has been removed. Some people, perhaps rightly,
say this smacks of cashing in."

It also calls into question the huge bill footed by the taxpayer for guarding
Dame Stella and her family around the clock by the Special Branch. By putting
herself in the public domain and earning vast sums in the process she could
compromise her position, said a senior source.Yesterday Labour MP Tam Dalyell
demanded to know if Dame Stella would reveal her role over alleged dirty tricks
against union leader Arthur Scargill during the miners' strike. Mr Blair
replied: "I really cannot comment on what happened in 1986 since at that point
in time, as you probably recall, we weren't in office."

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2000 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              97 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                  May 18, 2000

Britain helps snatch rebel chief

BYLINE: Catherine Macleod Political Editor

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 914 words


THE GOVERNMENT was coming under increasing attack last night over Britain's role
in Sierra Leone after British troops shot dead four rebels and played a key role
in the arrest of rebel leader Foday Sankoh in a separate incident.

Ministers denied any escalation of Britain's role in the country, although they
have now been working closely with the Sierra Leone government for nine days.

But Menzies Campbell, the Liberal Democrat foreign affairs spokesman, stepped up
the pressure on the British Government last night to spell out its agenda.

He said: "Events of today make it clear that Britain's operations are moving
into a new and critical phase. This is a long way from the original objective of
the British deployment of evacuation and airport security."

He added: "The Government still seems unwilling to state clearly the military
and political objectives. You can get away with ambiguity so long as things are
going well but if the rebels begin to make serious efforts to get back to
Freetown, difficulties could easily arise".

Earlier yesterday, Prime Minis Tony Blair defended the British troops, claiming
they should be able to perform their duties without "carping and quibbling" from
the Tories. Mr Blair insisted the role of the British troops should be "a matter
of pride".

The rebels, members of the Revolutionary United Front, were killed by
paratroopers from the British Parachute Regiment in the early hours of yesterday
morning in a 10-minute fire fight 12 miles north of Freetown's airport.

No British soldiers were injured but a female civilian was injured. She was
treated by British medics and was not said to be in danger.

The clash came before the dramatic arrest of rebel leader Foday Sankoh who was
seized when he tried to return to his house in Freetown which he fled last week.

After the arrest, a mob gathered outside barracks where he was being held and
British helicopters were called in to take him to a secure location.

The capture of Sankoh raised fresh concerns for the safety of the 350
peacekeepers - including British major Andrew Harrison - still being detained by
the RUF. However, the rebels freed 80 more hostages later yesterday, leaving
about 270 still in captivity.

Appealing for support from the Commons for the British troops, Mr Blair said:
"The whole world is witnessing and applauding their central role in trying to
deal with this so-called rebel army - that in truth is a criminal gang - that
has visited the most appalling atrocities on innocent civilians in Sierra
Leone."

Last night the captured RUF leader, who stayed on the run for nine days, was
bound for an undisclosed island off Sierra Leone. The Sierra Leone government,
on whose behalf he was arrested, is now responsible for his fate.

There will be little sympathy for the rebel leader, who bears the responsibility
of wrecking the UN peace accord, but the international community will look on
anxiously as reprisals are feared. When Sankoh was last arrested, RUF forces
attacked the city, unleashing a wave of terror and killings.

Rumours in the Sierra Leone capital suggested Sankoh had been shot but a
government spokesman said: "He has a leg injury and we do not know how he
received this. He is currently in Sierra Leone police custody and is safe. He is
receiving the best possible medical treatment available for his injury. A major
police inquiry is continuing and more information will be given at a later
date."

The Government downplayed any British involvement in his arrest although the
Prime Minister's official spokesman revealed the Inspector General of the Sierra
Leone police was former Kent policeman Keith Biddle. The

two incidents were unrelated but

nonetheless were likely to further destabilise a tense situation.

In another incident, one Nigerian soldier and six Sierra Leone soldiers were
killed after the RUF attacked a UN peacekeepers' position at Port Loko, north of
Freetown.

Defence Secretary Geoff Hoon denied the fire fight showed British troops were
getting sucked into the civil war.

"This was wholly consistent about what we have always said about the role of
British forces," he said.

He said Sankoh's fate was primarily a matter for the Sierra Leone government.

He added, however, that the British forces holding Sankoh would not do anything
to endanger his life.

Interviewed on Newsnight, Mr Hoon was asked whether the British forces would
hand over Sankoh for summary execution.

"No, I don't think we would," he said.

Foreign Secretary Robin Cook, on a visit to Moscow, welcomed the news of
Sankoh's detention.

Mr Cook said: "This deprives the rebels of their leader. I hope it means that it
will deprive them of the reason for continuing their fight, and encourage them
in the view that we have actually put the rebel advance into reverse and that we
are on our way to our objective of stabilising Sierra Leone and putting the
peace process back on track."

Mr Cook hoped Sankoh's detention would shorten the rebellion, but added that it
remained vital to have in place an effective UN force to ensure that last year's
peace agreement was implemented.

A British forces spokesman said the paratroopers had no immediate plans to step
up patrols in Freetown, but officers said they would be watching the situation
closely.

The paratroopers commander in Sierra Leone, Lieutenant Colonel Paul Gibson,
said: "Our boys did very well."

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: GOTCHA: British forces played a key role in the capture of rebel leader
Foday Sankoh, right Picture: TIM OCKENDEN/PA

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2000 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              98 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                        The Times Educational Supplement

                                  May 26, 2000

Panic on the streets; The big picture; Features & arts

BYLINE: BRENDAN O'MALLEY

SECTION: Issue 4378, TES Friday, Pg. 18

LENGTH: 574 words



(Photograph) - Photograph by: James Natchwey Two crucial acts by Margaret
Thatcher proved a catalyst for the Anglo-Irish peace process which, if
tomorrow's vote of the UnionistCouncil is positive, may finally resolve the
Troubles of Northern Ireland.

The first was a characteristically blunt refusal to bow to the demands of IRA
prisoners that they be given political status. The second was an
uncharacteristic act of statesmanship for which she is given little credit.

In 1981, IRA men at the Maze prison escalated their protests from wearing
onlyblankets and smearing their cells with excrement to launching a hunger
strike led by Bobby Sands.

'Crime is crime is crime; it is not political,' was the Iron Lady's response.
Terrorists were simply murderers and should be treated as such, she argued. But
the republicans believed they were fighting a war against military occupation
and the fact that they were prepared to die for their political beliefs
transformed them into heroes even among previously moderate nationalists.

Ten of the hunger strikers starved to death and anger at Britain's intransigence
boiled over on to the streets and in the ballot box. Sands was elected to
Parliament before he died, and two other hunger strikers became members of the
Dail in Dublin. This picture was taken in 1981 after a group of demonstrators in
Belfasthijacked a car, parked it at the entrance to a British barracks and set
fire to it. As the army moved in, the protesters threw gas bombs at them.

The Troubles started in 1968 when Catholic civil rights activists and
republicans began peaceful demonstrations. They were demanding an end to
discrimination against Catholics in housing and employment and the introduction
of universal suffrage in local elections - which wasn't granted until 1969. The
marches led to clashes with Unionist counter-demonstrators and British troops
were sent in to restore order.

The 1981 hunger strikes radicalised nationalists once more and made Sinn
Fein,the political wing of the IRA, a powerful political force that threatened
to overtake the moderate SDLP as the voice of Catholics.

Herself the target of an IRA bomb in Brighton in 1984, Mrs Thatcher could
havebeen dismissive of nationalist aspirations. Yet the woman who fought a war
in the Falklands on the pledge that Britain would never surrender sovereignty
did just that by signing the Anglo-Irish agreement with the prime minister of
the Irish Republic, Garret Fitzgerald, in 1985.

When I asked how he persuaded her to take such a leap, Mr Fitzgerald said he
convinced her that the concept of alienation 'was not something dreamed up by
socialists but was first used by George Eliot in Middlemarch', and was therefore
acceptable for her to take on board.

The agreement gave the Dublin government a limited say in the affairs of
Northern Ireland and the right to raise issues of economic and social injustice
for the province's Catholics. It paved the way for the Good Friday agreement and
peace accord, which could finally install in Northern Ireland a system of
government that makes everyone feel included.

Web links BBC reports on the search for peace: http:/ /news.bbc.co.uk/
hi/english/static/northern_ireland/understanding /defau lt.stm The Irish Times
overview of The Troubles: www.ireland.com/special/peace/troubles/ Images of
political murals from both sides: http:/ /cain.ulst.ac.uk/
bibdbs/murals/murals.htm

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Magazine

                      Copyright 2000 TSL Education Limited

                              99 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                             June 1, 2000, Thursday

BOMB BLAST SHUTS BRIDGE IN LONDON;
 ANTI-TERROR POLICE AT SCENE

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 322 words


ANTI-TERRORIST police were today examining the scene of a bomb attack on
Hammersmith Bridge.

A small device attached to a girder on the south side of the bridge in London
exploded at around 4.30am - just hours before one of Sinn Fein's most
influential figures, Assemblyman Gerry Kelly, was due to arrive in the capital
for talks.

There was no warning of the blast and no group had yet claimed responsibility,
police said.

There were no reports of casualties, but drivers faced lengthy delays as the
bridge was shut in the aftermath of the explosion.

Scotland Yard will be examining the possibility that dissident Irish Republicans
opposed to the Northern Ireland peace process may have been involved in the
bridge attack.

Adrian Larkman, who dialled 999 when he heard the blast, said: 'I work nights
and I was cooking when there was a loud bang. The windows of my house shook.

'I put my boots on and went outside five minutes later and there were already
policemen there.'

Deputy Assistant Commissioner Alan Fry, head of Scotland Yard's Anti-Terrorist
Branch, said: 'We would appeal for anyone who saw anyone acting suspiciously or
any suspicious vehicles in the vicinity of Hammersmith Bridge during the early
hours of this morning to contact the anti-terrorist hotline on 0800 789321.'

The IRA made an attempt on the bridge four years ago when two huge bombs were
discovered at a sub-station under a walkway on the south side of the river in
April 1996.

Today's explosion follows a series of attacks in Northern Ireland this year
believed to be the work of the so-called Real IRA, the group which bombed Omagh
in August 1998 killing 29 people, and the Continuity IRA.

If dissident Republicans were involved, then this would be the first time they
would have launched an attack in mainland Britain.

Although both groups are relatively small they are known to have sympathisers in
England.

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2000 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              100 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                                  June 1, 2000

Terrorist theory on bomb blast
 EXPLOSION: Bridge incident causes chaos in capital

SECTION: Agency: AGENCY, Pg.18

LENGTH: 420 words


ANTI-TERRORIST police were today examining the scene of a bomb attack on
Hammersmith Bridge.

A small device attached to a girder on the south side of the bridge in west
London exploded at around 4.30am - just hours before one of Sinn Fein's most
influential figures was due to arrive in the capital.

There was no warning of the blast and no group has yet claimed responsibility,
police said.

There were no reports of casualties but drivers faced lengthy delays as the
bridge was shut in the aftermath of the explosion and the nearby A4 flyover was
also closed for some time.

North Belfast Assemblyman Gerry Kelly is due to meet ambassadors about the
policing bill which is due to get its second reading in the Commons next
Tuesday.

Scotland Yard will be examining the possibility that dissident Irish Republicans
opposed to the Northern Ireland peace process may have been involved in the
bridge attack.

Eye-witness Adrian Larkman said he dialled 999 when he heard the blast.

Mr Larkman, who lives in nearby Angel Walk, said: "I work nights and I was
cooking when there was a loud bang.

"The windows of my house shook.

"I asked the police what was going on and they said there had been an explosion
on the south side of the bridge, and they were checking for a second device,"
said Mr Larkman.

Deputy Assistant Commissioner Alan Fry, head of Scotland Yard's Anti-Terrorist
Branch, said: "We would appeal for anyone who saw anyone acting suspiciously or
any suspicious vehicles in the vicinity of Hammersmith Bridge during the early
hours of this morning to contact the anti-terrorist hotline on 0800 789321."

The IRA made a bombing attempt on the bridge four years ago.

Two Semtex bombs were discovered at a substation, under a walkway on the south
side of the river, in April 1996.

Thousands of local residents in nearby flats escaped injury or death when the
devices, planned as an Easter Rising anniversary "spectacular", failed to go
off.

The detonators had exploded, but the Semtex had failed to ignite.

Today's explosion follows a series of attacks in Northern Ireland this year
believed to be the work of the so-called Real IRA, the group which bombed Omagh
in August 1998 killing 29 people, and the Continuity IRA.

If dissident Republicans were involved, then this would be the first time they
would have launched an attack in mainland Britain.

Hammersmith Bridge reopened last December after major repairs.

BOMB SCENE: Police cordon off Hammersmith Bridge today after a loud blast

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                         Copyright 2000 Evening Herald

                              101 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                              June 2, 2000, Friday

FEARS OF REBEL IRA TERROR CAMPAIGN;
 BRIDGE DAMAGED BY BOMB

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 429 words


TERRORISTS detonated a high-explosive bomb on a London bridge yesterday, causing
traffic chaos and raising fears that dissident republicans had begun targeting
the UK mainland.

Nobody claimed responsibility for the blast, which went off without warning at
around 4.30am.

The device, attached to a girder on Hammersmith Bridge, caused structural damage
but no injuries.

Residents living near to the scene described how windows in their homes were
blown out by the blast.

Debris was strewn into a nearby children's playground with one lump of metal,
the size of a brick, landing just yards from a slide.

It is understood the bridge could be closed for a number of weeks.

The attack triggered a number of hoax calls, including warnings a device had
been planted in the Dartford Tunnel in Kent, causing it to be closed for 35
minutes.

Deputy Assistant Commissioner Alan Fry, the head of Scotland Yard's Anti
-Terrorist Branch, urged people to be vigilant.

He refused to say whether the explosive was Semtex.

The bridge has been targeted twice before by terrorists, the last time in 1996
when the most-powerful Semtex bomb ever used by the IRA on the mainland failed
to go off.

Mr Fry said: "I can tell you police had no prior notice - no threatening calls
or anybody claiming responsibility."

Asked if there was a possible link with Irish terrorists he said: "I am not
going to speculate but clearly they would be a line of inquiry."

Ulster Unionist deputy leader John Taylor said dissident republicans trying to
destabilise the peace process could have been responsible.

"If it's terrorist-linked I would expect it to be the breakaway groups within
the republican movement, something like the Real IRA or the Continuity IRA," he
said.

"Clearly, their objective now is to upset the Provisional IRA programme of
putting arms out of use."

Terrorism expert David George agreed that the attack was most probably the work
of the Real/Continuity IRA.

This would be the first time they have launched an attack in mainland Britain.

The blast came just hours before Sinn Fein's Gerry Kelly arrived in London to
meet ambassadors about the policing bill.

He said he had no idea whether the bomb was linked to Ulster, but said that if
it was, then it ran counter to republican efforts to move forward the peace
process.

London Mayor Ken Livingstone said: "The bomb is a deplorable outrage."

Labour MP Iain Coleman, within whose constituency the bridge stands, said: "This
was a shocking act which I condemn entirely.

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WATCHING: a police officer stands guard at Hammersmith Bridge

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2000 Century Newspapers Limited

                              102 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  June 2, 2000

Bombing raises fear of Real IRA campaign

BYLINE: Nick Hopkins and Richard Norton Taylor

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 856 words


Nick Hopkins and Richard Norton Taylor

The spectre of a new bombing campaign by dissident Irish republicans was raised
in London yesterday as scientists from Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist branch
began analysing debris from a high-explosive device planted beneath Hammersmith
Bridge.

Nobody was injured and the blast did not cause significant damage, but security
sources fear it was designed as a 'shot across the bows', showing that hardline
republicans opposed to the Northern Ireland peace process still have a
destructive capability and can easily avoid detection.

If dissident republicans were involved, the bomb would mark their first
successful attack in England.

No warnings were received before the bomb exploded at 4.30am and no groups have
claimed responsibility.

Speaking from the scene in west London, Deputy Assistant Commissioner Alan Fry,
the head of the anti-terrorist branch, said he was open-minded about who was
responsible but indicated that republican involvement was an obvious line of
inquiry.

Seven months ago, Scotland Yard said Britain was on its highest level of
terrorist alert since 1998 because of the 'credible and real threat' posed to
the capital by a coalition of republican terrorist groups.

The warning came after intelligence gathering operations in the UK and Ireland,
and risk assessments by MI5. Yesterday, sources said the level had not changed
since then, remaining at the second highest possible.

MI5 has been quietly warning for some months about the threat of bomb attacks in
Northern Ireland and Britain, particularly from the Real IRA, the splinter group
behind the bomb in Omagh, Co Tyrone, which killed 29 people in August 1998.

Security sources said yesterday's bomb could have been placed by a British-based
cell sympathetic to the rejectionist groups, or by 'day trippers' who came from
Northern Ireland via the republic.

Although dangerous, MI5 sources yesterday insisted that the dissident groups do
not possess the manpower or material resources of the provisional IRA. One of
the problems police face is that the dissidents have not revealed a system of
coded warnings.

Yesterday's bomb was planted on a girder beneath the bridge, above the towpath
on the south side of the Thames.

Scotland Yard sources said the bomb was a 'sophisticated device' that was packed
with between one and two kilos (2-4lbs) of Semtex high explosives. It had fully
detonated.

The explosion shattered a number of windows in nearby homes and caused
structural damage to the bridge, which was only reopened to traffic last
December after strengthening work which cost pounds 3.5m.

Hammersmith, which has a large Irish community, has been targeted by terrorists
before. In April 1996, a 32lb Semtex bomb planted on the bridge failed to
detonate.

The bridge and many surrounding roads were closed yesterday as 60 officers
joined forensic experts and police frogmen in a search for clues among the
debris.

John Randall, 80, who lives in a block of flats overlooking the river, described
how his kitchen windows were shattered by the blast. Mr Randall, a former army
officer, said: 'The bomb went off in exactly the same place as the device was
put four years ago. This spot is a very easy target. The towpath goes under the
bridge and there is a wide open space.'

Mr Fry said Londoners were used to coping with the threat of terrorism but urged
extra vigilance in the coming weeks: 'It was a small high-explosive device. We
are maintaining an open mind. I ask for sensible vigilance by the London public
who are well used to being in this situation.'

He added: 'What has been shown in the past is that the community can defeat this
kind of crime. We would appeal to anyone who saw someone acting suspiciously to
assist us by calling our hotline on 0800 789 321.'

The timing of the blast, so soon after the return of devolved government to
Northern Ireland, is also significant. The bomb went off just hours before one
of Sinn Fein's most influential figures, Gerry Kelly, was due to arrive in
London for a meeting on the policing bill which is due to get its second reading
in the Commons next Tuesday.

The Ulster Unionist deputy leader, John Taylor said: 'It must always be
remembered that there are minority republican terrorist groups still on the
ground, still potentially active.'

'Hammersmith Bridge has been the subject of previous attacks by Irish republican
terrorists,' said a Scotland Yard source last night.

'Historically they have used high explosives. We have a situation of the
executive (of the Northern Ireland assembly) meeting today for the first time
since the Good Friday agreement came back into place and we have got to look at
that as being a line of investigation.'

Mr Fry later added: 'In light of this, we can only anticipate that there might
be further attacks but without claims of responsibility, it's that much more
difficult to determine.' Deadly threat of hardliners, page 4 Latest news and
special report on Northern Ireland on the Guardian network at
www.guardianunlimited.co.uk/nireland


LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              103 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                              June 2, 2000, Friday

BOMB MAY BE START OF NEW TERROR CAMPAIGN

BYLINE: Ian Burrell, Home Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 689 words


A BOMB attack on Hammersmith Bridge in London early yesterday morning was last
night feared by police to be the opening salvo in a new terror campaign by Irish
republicans on mainland Britain.

Deputy Assistant Commissioner Alan Fry, head of the Metropolitan Police's anti
-terrorist branch, said: "I can only anticipate that there might be further
attacks. I must ask people to be vigilant. Additional policing will be on the
streets of London, there will be high visibility policing."

Between one and two kilograms of high explosives, possibly Semtex, is believed
to have been used in the device which exploded at around 4.30am after being
placed on the underside of the bridge, which has already been targeted twice by
republican terrorists.

The device caused structural damage to the bridge and major disruption in west
London but no one was injured. Windows were blown out of nearby homes and local
residents - who described the blast as "the most colossal bang" - called for
urgent security measures to prevent further attacks on the bridge.

Four years ago, the IRA planted the most-powerful Semtex bomb ever seen on the
mainland at almost exactly the same spot, but it failed to go off.

Last night Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist branch confirmed that they were
investigating whether the attack was the work of an Irish republican splinter
group. A senior source said they would be "dusting off old files" looking at
previous terrorist suspects and would be consulting with the security agencies,
including MI5, as the attack follows warnings from the security services that
there was a "concrete" risk of a bombing campaign on the mainland.

Dean Ward, 32, a builder of Carshalton, south London, was working near the
bridge when yesterday's bomb exploded. "We heard this thud which sounded like an
enormous skip being dropped," he said.

Speaking at the scene, Mr Fry said police had no prior warning of the bombing
and no group had claimed responsibility for the attack. Asked if there was a
possible link with Irish terrorists he said: "I am not going to speculate but
clearly they would be a line of inquiry."

Mr Fry said: "I ask for sensible vigilance by the London public who are well
used to being in this situation. What has been shown in the past is that the
community defeat this kind of crime."

The Ulster Unionist Party's deputy leader, John Taylor, said that dissident
republicans trying to destabilise the peace process could have been responsible.
"If it's terrorist-linked I would expect it to be the breakaway groups within
the republican movement, something like the Real IRA or the Continuity IRA," he
said. "Clearly, their objective now is to upset the Provisional IRA programme of
putting arms out of use."

The blast came just hours before one of Sinn Fein's most influential figures,
Gerry Kelly, North Belfast member of the Ulster Assembly, was due to arrive in
London for talks. It also follows a series of attacks in Northern Ireland this
year attributed to the Real IRA, the group which bombed Omagh in August 1998
killing 29 people, and the Continuity IRA.

John Randall, 80, a former army captain, who lives with his wife and son in a
flat overlooking the river, said the bridge was an "easy target". "The tow path
goes under the bridge and there's a wide open space that invites people to put
things. We need to look very carefully to see if that particular area can be
cordoned off otherwise it will always be an easy target," he said.

Mr Randall said the force of yesterday's blast had blown out the windows in his
apartment, endangering his son who was recovering from a kidney transplant and
was connected to a dialysis machine.

The blast caused traffic chaos which included 13-mile tailbacks on the M4. A
bomb threat made later to Kent police later yesterday morning led to the closure
for 35 minutes of the Dartford tunnel, east of London, but no device was found.

Hammersmith Bridge, which is 113 years old, only reopened last December after
being shut for almost three years for repairs. It was first the target for an
IRA attack in 1939.

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2000 Independent Print Ltd

                              104 of 299 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                              June 2, 2000, Friday

BOMBERS ARE BACK;
 BRITISH FEAR NEW TERROR CAMPAIGN AFTER LONDON BRIDGE HIT BY BLAST

BYLINE: Robert Westhead

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 550 words


FEARS of a renewed terror campaign swept Britain yesterday following a bomb
explosion in London.

The blast at Hammersmith Bridge around 4.30am blew out nearby house windows and
caused structural damage. No-one was injured.

Debris was strewn into a nearby children's playground with one brick-sized lump
of metal landing just yards from a slide.

It is understood the bridge, in the west of the city, could be closed to
pedestrians and traffic for a number of weeks while engineers ensure the
structure is safe.

Speaking at the scene, Deputy Assistant Commissioner Alan Fry, the head of
Scotland Yard's Anti-Terrorist Branch, refused to say if dissident republican
terrorists were behind the attack or whether the explosive was Semtex.

The bridge has been targeted twice before by terrorists, the last time in 1996
when the most- powerful Semtex bomb ever planted by the IRA on the mainland
failed to go off.

Mr Fry said: "I can tell you police had no prior notice - no threatening calls
or anybody claiming responsibility."

And asked if there was a possible link with Irish terrorists he said: "I am not
going to speculate, but clearly that would be a line of inquiry."

Ulster Unionist deputy leader John Taylor said dissident republicans trying to
destabilise the peace process could have been behind yesterday's blast.

"If it is terrorist-linked I would expect it to be the breakaway groups within
the republican movement, such as the Real IRA or the Continuity IRA," he said.

"Clearly, their objective now is to upset the Provisional IRA programme of
putting arms out of use.

"It must always be remembered there are minority republican terrorist groups
still on the ground and potentially active."

Terrorism expert David George, from Newcastle University, agreed that the attack
was most probably the work of the Real or Continuity IRA both of which broke
from the Provisionals three years ago.

The bomb may have been planted by a small cell of activists who probably
travelled in from Northern Ireland.

The blast came just hours before one of Sinn Fein's most influential figures
arrived in London for a meeting about the policing bill.

Speaking at a press conference, North Belfast assemblyman Gerry Kelly said he
had no idea whether the bomb was linked to events in Ireland, but said that if
it was, then it ran counter to republican efforts to move forward the peace
process.

Shaken witnesses 'were still recovering last night from the explosion.

WW2 veteran John Randall, 80, said a large section of the pavement above where
the bomb exploded was dislodged by the force of the blast.

"There was a very loud bang - louder than a clap of thunder," he said. "I looked
out of the window to see if there was a storm or an accident on the bridge.

"As soon as I went into the kitchen I saw the windows had been blown out and it
was rather cold."

Another local resident Dagmar Seils said: "I heard a big bang. It was so strong
I felt my entire flat vibrating."

Eight fire engines attended the scene and four more were put on standby
following news of the blast.

London Mayor Ken Livingstone last night condemned those responsible for planting
the device, saying: "The bombing of Hammersmith Bridge is a deplorable outrage."

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DEADLY: High-explosive Semtex; SECURITY: Police guard the bridge;;
TERROR THREAT: British police seal off the scene of the explosion at; London's
Hammersmith Bridge yesterday; IRA BLAST: Canary Wharf in 1996

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.

                              105 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                             June 3, 2000, Saturday

SAVE OUR ROTUNDA;
 CAMPAIGN HOTTING UP TO PROTECT CITY'S LANDMARK

BYLINE: Lisa Smith

SECTION: Pg. 9

LENGTH: 385 words


SUPPORT was growing today for moves to declare Birmingham's best known office
block, the Rotunda, a listed building.

The move would guarantee the future of the cylindrical building, which has
survived a terrorist bomb blast in July 1974 and several plans to demolish it
during the past two decades.

Arts Minister Alan Howarth has announced a month-long consultation giving
Birmingham people a chance to air their views on the building which dates back
to the 1960s.

The Departure for Culture, Media and Sport has described the 140,000 sq ft
building as 'one of Britain's most significant landmarks'.

English Heritage has asked for it to be given Grade II status.

Explosions

The Rotunda was designed by architect James Roberts in 1964.

Ten years later survived the pub bombings, which claimed 21 lives and left 167
people injured following explosions at the Mulberry Bush and Tavern in the Town
pubs. It also survived a separate attempt to blow it up that year.

In the 1980s and 1990s it withstood threats of demolition before being voted the
city's most popular building in 1993.

Mr Howarth said: 'Our built heritage includes more than just buildings from
centuries past.

'It is the most influential and forward-looking pieces of our modern
architecture that we should also look to preserve,' said Mr Howarth.

'Now the people of Birmingham and the West Midlands can have their say on the
future of the Rotunda.'

Elaine Harwood, inspector of historic buildings at English Heritage, has been
responsible for researching the Rotunda's potential for listed status.

Her work was prompted by dozens of letters from members of the public asking for
it to be recognised as a landmark of modern Birmingham.

She said: 'I think there is nowhere else quite like it. In London, we have
Centre Point, but the Rotunda is more visible and its pure round form is
reminiscent of very influential British design of that time, seen on everything
from ceramics and art objects down to Mary Quant dress designs.'

Architect James Roberts had planned it to last for at least 150 years.

The Rotunda has since been treated to a multi-million pound facelift, including
a new facade and illuminated advertising.

Birmingham City Council has already welcomed the consultation.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SIGNIFICANT: The Rotunda, Birmingham's best known landmark, and; (left)
under construction in 1962

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2000 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              106 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                  June 3, 2000

Did bombers take a taxi to blast bridge?;
Police check CCTV footage in hunt for mainland terrorists

BYLINE: Peter Rose

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 656 words


THE bombers responsible for the Hammersmith Bridge blast may have gone by taxi
to plant the device, it emerged yesterday.

At least two people were dropped off by cabs just before the bomb exploded under
the bridge in West London at around 4.30am on Thursday.

Detectives are now studying CCTV footage from the area to see if they were
captured on camera.

No one has admitted the bombing, although the sophisticated nature of the device
suggests the involvement of an IRA splinter group.

The bomb, attached to a girder on the bridge, contained between 1kg and 2kg of
high explosive and was fully detonated.

Amid new fears of a mainland bombing campaign by Irish republican terrorists,
police have stepped up security in the capital and urged the public to be
vigilant.

A flurry of bomb alerts and hoax calls yesterday led to workers being evacuated
from their offices and caused gridlock in parts of central London.

Police closed a large part of the City for almost three hours after a suspect
package was spotted in a litter bin. Streets in the Bishops-gate area were
cordoned off and workers in banks and office buildings were warned to stay away
from windows. The package was later found to be a bag of rubbish.

In 1993, Bishopsgate was the scene of two massive IRA blasts which devastated
the NatWest Tower. One person was killed, 44 were injured and the damage was
estimated at GBP 1billion.

Just as the cordons were being lifted around Bishopsgate they were being put up
around Waterloo Bridge close to the Millennium Wheel, the South Bank and other
major tourist attractions as police investigated another package.

No devices were found and the alert was lifted after 90 minutes.

On the day of the Hammersmith bombing, the Dartford Tunnel in Kent was closed
for 35 minutes after a hoax call warned that a second device had been planted
there.

Deputy Assistant Commissioner Alan Fry, the head of Scotland Yard's
Anti-Terrorist Branch, called for continued public vigilance. He said: 'I am
asking people that if they see a suspect package to contact us immediately on
999.' He added there would be more high visibility policing on London's streets
in the wake of the bomb and said measures would be taken to reassure the public.
'I can tell you police had no prior notice no threatening calls or anybody
claiming responsibility,' he said.

Asked if there was a possible link with Irish terrorists, he replied: 'I am not
going to speculate, but clearly they would be a line of inquiry.'

Hammersmith Bridge could be closed to pedestrians and traffic for a number of
weeks while engineers assess the damage and ensure the structure is safe. The
bridge has been targeted by terrorists twice before, the last time in 1996 when
the most powerful Semtex bomb ever used by the IRA on the mainland failed to go
off.

Ulster Unionist deputy leader John Taylor said dissident republicans trying to
destabilise the peace process could have been behind the blast.

'If it is terrorist-linked I would expect it to be breakaway groups within the
republican movement, something like the Real IRA or the Continuity IRA,' he
said.

'Clearly, their objective now is to upset the Provisional IRA programme of
putting arms out of use.

'It must always be remembered there are minority republican terrorist groups
still on the ground, still potentially active.' Terrorism expert David George
agreed that the attack was most probably the work of the Real/Continuity IRA,
which broke from the Provisionals three years ago.

Mr George, of Newcastle University, said the bomb would have been planted by a
small cell of activists, so-called 'lillywhites' with no known link to
republican activities, who probably travelled from Northern Ireland.

If dissident republicans were involved, this would be the first time they have
launched an attack in mainland Britain.

p.rose@dailymail.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2000 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              107 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  June 3, 2000

Capital letters: Church left fuming as Russians put their faith in prophets and
pyramids

BYLINE: Ian Traynor in Moscow

SECTION: Guardian Foreign Pages, Pg. 23

LENGTH: 631 words


The prophet on the phone wanted to know if I'd heard the news. Much more
importantly, did I know what it portended? On both counts I pleaded ignorance.

"Are you a believer?" asked Sergei Trubetskoy.

"Mmm, not sure really."

"Oh never mind, you've got plenty of time. You'll realise sooner or later. But
the crows. You know about the crows, don't you?"

"Sorry?"

Exasperated by a British newspaper's ignorance of the biggest news out of
Britain in years, the prophet went on: "Look, the crows are fleeing England. You
must take this seriously. This is a catastrophe. A terrible disaster is about to
befall England."

It's high season for the Russian capital's disaster-mongers. These millennial
times mean that the seers, soothsayers and shamans are having a field day
predicting the future to a populace wearied by the present and burdened by the
past.

There are "telly therapy" sessions where members of the public gather round
their sets for bouts of mass faithhealing or national seances. There are giant
pyramids - positive energy magnets - built on fields outside the city. There are
more than 100 "schools" and "academies" initiating witches and wizards in the
arcana of white, black and "grey" magic. All for a decent fee, of course.

There are the tarot-card dealers and palm reading machines, and the newspapers
which wage circulation battles with the help of astrological charts forecasting
everything from the next Kremlin intrigues to your prospects for a better sex
life.

But if the booming trade in superstition and the occult is supposed to offer
some comfort in the face of the unremitting hardship of the average Muscovite's
lot, something has gone wrong.

A Moscow paper has just published a "coded calendar" for 2000, an alphabet of
what to expect in the months ahead. There are no reasons to be cheerful, unless
you're leaving the country fast.

A is for high-casualty terrorist attacks (three next month, one in August), B is
for major fires (two this month, three next), D is for floods, earthquakes and
the like (stay away in September), G is for epidemics or mass poisoning (beware
October), and so on.

From Orthodox mysticism to Siberian shamanism to peasant fatalism, the attach
ment to auguries and divination is deep-rooted here. The rationalism and atheism
of the communists made little difference. Indeed, Dzhuna Davitashvili gained a
reputation for exerting magical powers over politburo wives when Leonid Brezhnev
ran the Kremlin in the 1970s.

And Boris Yeltsin had his celebrated "Kremlin Merlin", General Georgy Rogozin,
who helped to run his boss's security service as a KGB veteran while dabbling in
the occult on the side and declaring himself an expert in "paranormal
phenomena".

Before making a career as an MP, Anatoly Kashpirovsky was perestroika's most
prominent quack, starring as a TV faithhealer three times a week in the 1980s.

Keen to monopolise the mystery business and manipulate the emotions that go with
it, the Russian Orthodox church denounces the occult's proponents as merchants
of "diabolic inspiration".

But a large part of the explanation for the appeal of the quacks, mystery-
mongers, and soothsayers lies in the failure of the state, the church and social
institutions to do their jobs.

If a Russian soldier is missing in action in Chechnya and the authorities are
doing nothing to trace him, a desperate mother turns to a seer for help in
locating her son. If unaffordable bribes mean that your child can't get the
hospital treatment it needs, you might reach for the nearest faithhealer.

And if you're trapped with a husband who's unfaithful and beats you, you might
just go for the traditional treatment of finding the right old woman to put a
spell on him.


LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              108 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                              June 4, 2000, Sunday

Paras in fear of inquiry violence

BYLINE: Vincent Kearnry

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 421 words


PARATROOPERS involved in Bloody Sunday claim they could be killed or seriously
injured if forced to give evidence to the Saville inquiry in Londonderry. The
soldiers' lawyers say their appearance could trigger widespread rioting.

They have also questioned the ability of the RUC, which worked alongside the
military for 30 years, to protect soldiers from revenge attacks by dissident
republicans while travelling to and from the tribunal in the Guildhall.

Soldiers are not due to begin giving oral evidence to the inquiry until next
year but the tribunal will decide within a fortnight where the hearings will
take place. The investigation has traced more than 2,100 soldiers who were on
duty in Derry on January 30, 1972, and hundreds of them are expected to be
called to give evidence.

In their submissions, the lawyers cite recent attacks by the Continuity and Real
IRA as evidence of the terrorist threat. They also claim the strength of local
feeling about the shootings would result in mass demonstrations that could
result in public disorder.

A submission by Robert Aitken, a Treasury solicitor, states: "Apart from the
risk of terrorist attack, there is a serious possibility that the lives and
safety of military witnesses may be at risk due to outbreaks of public disorder
in Derry when soldiers give evidence."

A submission by Anthony Lawton, who is representing 447 soldiers and former
soldiers who were in Derry on Bloody Sunday, states: "If the soldiers are
required to give their evidence in Londonderry they will be exposed to a serious
risk of injury or death resulting from public disorder, to which they would not
be exposed if their evidence were given in Great Britain."

A threat assessment by the security services in April last year concluded that
the risk of violence would be lower in Britain because terrorist groups would be
"deprived of the ease of operation which they enjoy on their home ground".

The suggestion that the RUC might not be able to contain public disorder has
angered senior police officers. They point out that the force has 30 years
experience of dealing with riots and political demonstrations.

The claim that soldiers would be at risk has also been rejected by the Bloody
Sunday Trust, which represents the relatives of most of the 13 people killed.

The trust, which helps to organise the annual Bloody Sunday commemoration parade
in the city, has given a public undertaking not to organise demonstrations
during the tribunal hearings.


LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2000 Times Newspapers Limited

                              109 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                             June 6, 2000, Tuesday

NAILBOMB KILLER 'ON MAYHEM MISSION'

BYLINE: Pat Clarke And Shenai Raif Special Correspondents

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 725 words


A loner, bent on igniting a race war in Britain, used fireworks and instructions
from the Internet to launch a 'bomb a week' campaign against ethnic minorities
and gays, the Old Bailey heard yesterday.

David Copeland (24) told police he wanted to bomb as many targets as he could
and cause 'murder, mayhem and chaos'.

By the time he was caught Copeland had already killed three friends on a night
out and injured scores more in three separate bomb attacks within 13 days in
London last year.

Southall, a multi-racial area in west London, was to be his next target, Mr
Nigel Sweeney QC, prosecuting, told the court.

As video footage of the first blast - in Brixton, south London - was shown to
the jury, one of the bomber's victims collapsed in the back of court and was
given first aid.

Copeland thought the bomb would be the 'spark to set fire to this country -
stirring up a racial war which would cause whites to vote for the British
National Party,' Mr Sweeney told the jury.

Copeland told police on his arrest on May 1 last year that he was a loner and
had been thinking of starting a bombing campaign for three years, ever since a
blast at the Atlanta Olympics in 1996.

He had experimented with explosives and other bomb mechanisms in his bedsit -
using instructions he downloaded from the Internet.

Mr Sweeney said that Copeland told police his motive was political.

'He told them he was a national socialist or Nazi, who believed in a white
master race.

'He did not like either black or Asian people and wanted them out of the
country. He thought British people had the right to ethnic cleansing like the
Serbs.'

His first two bombs were aimed at the black community in Brixton and the Asian
community in Brick Lane, east London, the court heard. The final one was planted
at a busy gay bar in Soho.

Copeland planted his lethal pipe bomb at the Admiral Duncan pub in Old Compton
Street - murdering pregnant Mrs Andrea Dykes, aged 27, and friends Mr John
Light, aged 32, and Mr Nik Moore, aged 31, prosecution alleged.

Copeland, an engineer from Sunnybank Road, Farnborough, Hampshire, had admitted
at an earlier hearing the manslaughter of the three on the grounds of diminished
responsibility but his plea was not accepted by the prosecution. He denies
murder.

Copeland has also admitted causing three explosions in April last year.

Each bomb was of the same broad type - containing thousands of nails at least
six inches long and hidden inside a sports bag.

Mr Sweeney told the jury: 'The planting of these bombs were clearly hate crimes.

'Each was designed to be lethal and resulted from the defendant's use of two
books he downloaded from the Internet - The Terrorists' Handbook and How To Make
Bombs Book Two,' said Mr Sweeney.

Mr Sweeney said after Copeland's arrest he told police he wanted to start a race
war. 'I believe in the master race - the Arian domination of the world.'

He had also thought about bombing London's Notting Hill Carnival and, if he had
not been caught, he was planning next to target Southall.

'His aim was to spread fear, resentment and hatred throughout the country. He
wanted to do as many bombs as he could - one per week,' said the prosecution.

Copeland also told police he was homophobic - and this was the reason his
targeted the pub.

Copeland packed a plastic pipe with flash powder he removed from various
fireworks he bought. On one occasion there were so many he had to take them home
by cab.

The pipe was put into a box surrounded by around 1,500 nails of differing sizes,
from 6in down and weighing around 10lb, which acted as shrapnel.

Mr Sweeney said the three people Copeland allegedly murdered were out together
celebrating a special occasion.

Mr Light, with his partner Gary Partridge, Andrea Dykes and her husband, and Nik
Moore had gone into the Admiral Duncan on their way to a show.

Mr Light had met the Dykes when they all worked in Colchester and was best man
at their wedding. Andrea was four months pregnant and they had asked him to be
godfather to their child.

Mr Light was so pleased that he invited them to accompany him and Mr Partridge
to a show in the West End.

Mr Light's former partner, Mr Nik Moore, joined them and the five met up in the
Admiral Duncan.

The trial continues.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2000 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              110 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                  June 6, 2000

I am so sorry you were jailed, Blair tells the Guildford Four;
Bomb victims' families angered by another apology from the Premier

BYLINE: Steven Morris

SECTION: Pg. 19

LENGTH: 669 words


TONY BLAIR has apologised to the Guildford Four, who spent 15 years in jail
after being wrongfully convicted of IRA bomb attacks, The Prime Minister said he
was 'very sorry indeed' there had been a miscarriage of justice.

The apology, revealed by a new BBC TV programme, came in a personally-signed
letter to the wife of one of the four, Paul Hill.

But it brought an angry reaction from families of those who died in the attacks,
pointing out that they have received no apology from the bombers.

Mr Hill, Gerry Conlon, Patrick Armstrong and Carole Richardson were given life
sentences in 1985 after being convicted of killing five people with bombs in two
pubs in the Surrey town in October the previous year.

Mr Hill and Mr Armstrong were also convicted of a bomb attack in Woolwich,
South-East London, which killed another two people.

But the convictions of all four were overturned in 1989 after the Court of
Appeal heard that police had tampered with crucial evidence. Mr Blair's apology
is the latest in a series which has seen him criticised for being too willing to
say sorry on behalf of the British nation.

Soon after becoming Prime Minister he apologised for the 19th century Irish
potato famine and he is backing moves to set up a national memorial to victims
of slavery as a reminder of Britain's role in the brutal trade.

There was outrage when he seemed likely to issue an apology over the 1972 Bloody
Sunday shootings in Londonderry before he ordered the controversial current
inquiry.

Details of the new apology were revealed last night in the first of a two-part
edition of BBC Northern Ireland's Spotlight programme. It charts the changing
fortunes of Mr Hill, from West Belfast.

Mr Blair's letter was sent to Mr Hill's wife Courtney Kennedy Hill, who is the
daughter of assassinated U.S. Attorney- General Robert Kennedy, and niece of
murdered President John F Kennedy. The programme says the Prime Minister wrote:
'I believe that it is an indictment of our system of justice and a matter for
the greatest regret when anyone suffers punishment as a result of a miscarriage
of justice.

'There were miscarriages of justice in your husband's case and the cases of
those convicted with him. I am very sorry indeed that this should have
happened.' Downing Street said it could not comment on the Prime Minister's
private correspondence, but sources confirmed the report was accurate.

Elizabeth Forsyth, whose 18-year-old soldier son William was one of five people
killed at the Horse and Groom in Guildford, said: 'I think it's a disgrace and
typical of Blair.

'We have had no apology from the bombers who killed my son, not that I could
accept it anyway. This brings back all the pain.' Mr Hill, 45, is understood to
have received GBP 200,000 as interim compensation for the time he spent in
prison and is still awaiting a final settlement.

He told the programme: 'No one knows the monetary value you can put on 15 years.
I don't think there is anybody alive who can come out of that experience and not
be scarred.

'Those who would begrudge me my compensation their minds are smaller than peas.
To those who say, ''Oh, he's living well'', you have no idea.' He said he was
numbed by his conviction. 'I stood in the court. I was numb. I had no feelings
whatsoever.

I wasn't sad, I was not depressed, I was cold and numb.

'I think the most poignant thing was that the judge expressed regret that the
death penalty was not an option.' The documentary includes an interview with
Courtney Kennedy Hill, the most private of Robert Kennedy's surviving nine
children.

She talks frankly about the Kennedys, her life with Paul Hill and the enormous
differences in their backgrounds.

The programme also reveals that Mr Hill has forged a friendship with the
President of Tuscany, Vannino Chiti. The Italian was at the centre of
controversy last year when he hosted the Blair family's summer holiday in
Tuscany.

s.morris@dailymail.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2000 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              111 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                  June 6, 2000

Guildford Four get apology

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 168 words


THE Prime Minister has apologised to the Guildford Four, who were wrongfully
convicted of IRA attacks in Britain in 1974. Tony Blair acknowledged the
miscarriage of justice and said he was "very sorry" they were wrongly
imprisoned.

Details of the apology are revealed in a special two-part edition of BBC
Northern Ireland's Spotlight programme which opens tonight and charts the
changing fortunes of west Belfast man Paul Hill, one of the Guildford Four.

Mr Hill, Mr Gerry Conlon, Mr Patrick Armstrong and Ms Carole Richardson were
given life sentences for bombing public houses in Guildford, Surrey. Each spent
15 years in prison before their convictions were overturned by the Court of
Appeal in 1989.

Mr Hill and Ms Armstrong were also wrongfully convicted of a bomb attack in
Woolwich. A total of seven people died in both bombings.

Mr Blair's signed apology was sent to Mr Hill's wife, Courtney Kennedy Hill,
daughter of the assassinated American Attorney-Genera, Robert Kennedy.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2000 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              112 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            June 7, 2000, Wednesday

GERM WARFARE;
 WE MUST PREPARE FOR ATTACK, WARNS MIDLAND SCIENTIST A BIRMINGHAM SCIENTIST HAS
CALLED FOR EMERGENCY MEDICAL STAFF TO BE EDUCATED ABOUT THE RISKS OF BIOLOGICAL
WARFARE. MARTIN BANKS REPORTS.

BYLINE: Martin Banks

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 622 words


AS a former doomsday cult leader today started a life sentence for an horrific
nerve gas attack in Japan that killed 12 people, a Birmingham professor has
issued a chilling warning that a similar attack could happen in Britain.

Thousands of commuters were also taken ill after Yoshihiro Inoue, 30, and four
Aum Shinri Kyo agents spread deadly sarin nerve gas in subway trains in the
Tokyo subways during morning rush hour in 1995.

Inoue was a close advisor to former cult guru Shoko Asahara, now on trial for
masterminding the gassing and other crimes.

In deciding against sentencing Inoue to death, the court accepted the defence's
argument the defendant had been brainwashed by the cult.

Now a growing number of health experts fear that similar cults, despots,
extremists and cranks could use biological terrorism to further their aims.

Among them is Professor Richard Wise, from the City Hospital's Department of
Medical Microbiology.

Catapulted

He spoke recently on the subject at a three-day Pathology 2000 conference at the
International Convention Centre in Birmingham.

Prof Wise says: 'Biological warfare is actually not new.

'As early as the 14th century it is recorded that armies beseiging a Ukranian
city catapulted plague cadavers into it to intimidate the resident population.'

More recently after the Gulf War, United States inspectors found a wide range of
biological materials, including 20,000 litres of solution containing botulinum
toxin and a fighter aircraft fitted with pesticide sprays amongst the Iraqi
arsenal.

And following the horrific Tokyo subway attack investigators discovered that the
same cult was working on the possibility of using the Ebola virus, botulinum
toxin, anthrax and other, potentially-lethal chemicals in more attacks.

They had also acquired a spray helicopter, presumably for the purpose of
releasing their killer substances.

Fifteen countries are thought to have developed biological weapons and some of
them have also developed the means to deliver them.

The possible agents which may be used in biological warfare or acts of terrorism
include viruses like Ebola, Marburg, Lassa fever, smallpox and yellow fever.

Prof Wise says there is particular concern in the USA about the threat of
biological terrorism and Donna Shalala, US Secretary of Health, has stressed it
is a challenge not only for law enforcement agencies but also for public health
services.

He believes that Britain should also be ready for the worst.

He says: 'How well prepared are the medical services to recognise the
consequences of a biological attack?

'Most of the early symptoms would be similar to those of viral flu with severe
respiratory tract infections.

'Would doctors in accident and emergency departments and scientists in hospital
laboratories recognise the problem on day one?'

He goes on: 'We must tune our disaster planning and take into account the
possibility, however low, that one day the health services may have to deal with
the consequences of an act of biological terrorism.

'As far as possible defences against attack are concerned, there may be a need
to consider increasing stocks of vaccines against, for example, anthrax and
smallpox.

'The United States government is already thinking of doing this.

'The fact there is a threat is something which governments should be willing to
discuss openly.

'We have to increase our awareness as a society while at the same time keeping a
sense of proportion about it.'

In Japan Masato Yokoyama (35) has been sentenced to death for his involvement in
the Tokyo attack. Three other cult members who participated in the gassing have
been given life in prison.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ALERT: Prof Richard Wise BIOLOGICAL MENACE: Main picture, a British
soldier prepared for biological warfare. Clockwise, from top left, Japanese cult
leader Shoko Asahara and follower Yoshihiro Inoue, Tokyo commuters after the
attack, deadly bacteria anthrax seen under a microscope, and an explosion during
the Gulf War

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2000 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              113 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                  June 7, 2000

GBP 15,000 for the IRA terrorists whose rights were violated

BYLINE: Graeme Wilson

SECTION: Pg. 18

LENGTH: 531 words


BRITAIN has been ordered to pay two convicted IRA terrorists GBP 15,000 in legal
costs after a ruling that police violated their human rights.

Double murderer Liam Averill, who is on the run after escaping from the Maze
prison dressed as a woman, must receive GBP 5,000, the European Court of Human
Rights decreed.

Bomb plotter Gerard Magee, who targeted soldiers, must be paid GBP 10,000.

The awards were made because Averill was detained for 24 hours and Magee for 48
hours before they were allowed access to a solicitor, which 'must be
incompatible' with their human rights, the court said.

However, it rejected claims by Averill that he failed to get a fair trial
because the judge drew an 'adverse inference' from his silence during intensive
questioning by the police.

While neither man was awarded compensation, the decision to force the Government
to pay them legal costs will infuriate Conservative and Unionist MPs. Averill,
35, was jailed for life in 1995 for the gun murder of two Protestants, one a
former Ulster Defence Regiment soldier, as they sat chatting in their cars in
Garvagh, Co Londonderry the previous year.

Two years later, he shaved his legs and disguised himself as a woman before
escaping from the Maze on a minibus full of prisoners' wives and children
leaving a Christmas Party.

Despite ordering Britain to pay him legal expenses, the European court conceded
there was little doubt he was guilty. 'The prosecution case was strong,
especially the incriminating forensic evidence, and the applicant's and his
witnesses testimony to the court in effect only served to weaken the case for
the defence,' it said.

Magee, 36, was jailed for 20 years in 1991 for planning a bomb attack on the
Army but freed in 1998 under the peace agreement. The European court did not
question his con-

viction, but said he had been had been 'to all intents and purposes kept
incommunicado' while questioned.

Magee's solicitor Patricia Coyle claimed last night that a string of other
convictions based on confessions obtained in the absence of a solicitor will be
open to challenge.

News of the controversial ruling came as it was claimed the security forces
believe the IRA was behind the murder of a Catholic man in Belfast just over a
week ago.

The Democratic Unionist Party lcalled for Sinn Fein to be thrown out of the
Province's power-sharing government for breaking the cease-fire if that were
true.

Unionists and Conservatives also attacked Peter Mandelson las he unveiled a
series of concessions to Sinn Fein on Labour's plans to reform the RUC.

The Ulster Secretary told the Commons yesterday that he was ready to accept
'most' of the complaints Republicans and nationalists had raised about the
controversial Police Bill in recent weeks. Mr Mandelson said the Province's new
police board will be given more powers to launch inquiries into behaviour and
activities of the new force.

Concern about his decision was heightened as Government officials confirmed
there was nothing to stop Sinn Fein selecting people with terrorist convictions
for its two places on the 19-strong board.

g.wilson@dailymail.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: LIAM AVERILL: ON RUN FROM MAZE

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2000 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              114 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                  June 7, 2000

Britain must pay IRA terrorists

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 201 words


BRITAIN has been ordered to pay two convicted IRA terrorists GBP 15,000 in legal
costs after a ruling that police violated their human rights.

Double murderer Liam Averill, on the run after escaping from the Maze prison
dressed as a woman, must receive GBP 5,000, the European Court of Human Rights
decreed. Bomb plotter Gerard Magee, who targeted soldiers, must be paid GBP
10,000.

This is because Averill was detained for 24 hours and Magee for 48 hours before
being allowed access to a solicitor, which 'must be incompatible' with their
human rights, the court said.

But it rejected claims by Averill that he failed to get a fair trial because the
judge drew an 'adverse inference' from his silence during intensive questioning
by the police. While neither man was awarded compensation, the decision to force
the Government to pay them legal costs will infuriate Conservative and Unionist
MPs.

Averill, 35, was jailed for life in 1995 for the gun murder of two Protestants
in Garvagh, Co Londonderry the previous year.

Magee, 36, was jailed for 20 years in 1991 for planning a bomb attack on the
Army but freed in 1998 under the peace agreement.

g.wilson@dailymail.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2000 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              115 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                        June 8, 2000, Thursday Edition 1

How Libya offered open arms to Boro -;
A TV documentary tonight will show what happened when Middlesbrough FC played in
a tournament in Libya. Howard Walker asks whether Paul Gascoigne and Gaddafi
should be sharing the same spotlight and hears how football is changing the
country.

SECTION: AGENDA, Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1019 words


   IT COULD have been a very sticky situation. In the middle of Tripoli, a
British film crew was approached by a group of Libyans. Less than 15 years
earlier, the city had been bombed by planes operating from a British airfield
and the country was renowned as a hotbed of anti-western terrorism.

You could have been forgiven for expecting a less than welcome reception, but
instead the visitors were greeted with open arms rather than open hostility.

"The Libyans love English people," says Ben Smith, one of the film crew and the
producer of tonight's Channel 5 documentary, Gazza versus Gaddafi. "They shake
you warmly by the hand and think the world of us. It's largely due to the Second
World War because a lot of British troops were in Tripoli and kicked out the
Germans and Italians.

"The average Libyan isn't interested in terrorism or bombs. They think British
people are fantastic - they watch Benny Hill on TV and think we're all really
funny people."

If the Libyans think the average Briton leers at buxom, scantily clad women
before chasing them around a park until their clothes fall off, then perhaps the
popular image of Libyans as crazed terrorists out to destroy the world is
similarly wide of the mark.

Ben Smith admits this is one of the reasons why he decided to make a documentary
about Middlesbrough's visit to Gaddafi's homeland last month.

"The fact that a Premiership club with people as popular as Gazza were going off
to this place which fascinates British people was a great story," he says. "The
last time a club has been there was Manchester Utd in 1985 when [Middlesbrough
manager] Bryan Robson played for them, but since then, there have been embargoes
and restrictions - now lifted.

"Libya is one of the most infamous countries in the world and we wanted to see
if things were changing and how much they liked their football."

Smith doesn't use the word "infamous" without reason. Libya was notorious
throughout the 1980s for funding a range of terrorist activities, many of which
were aimed at western powers like Britain and America. Diplomatic relations with
Britain were suspended for 15 years after policewoman Yvonne Fletcher was gunned
down outside the Libyan Embassy in London in 1984.

Then came the US bombing of Tripoli and, most notorious of all, the bombing of
Pan Am flight 103 over Lockerbie, for which two Libyans are currently standing
trial. It didn't help that Middlesbrough's Libyan trip coincided with the start
of that trial, but the club insists that although the timing was unfortunate, it
wasn't deliberate.

"This wasn't falling into the hands of the Libyans or anything else like that,"
says Middlesbrough FC spokesman Dave Roberts. "They didn't suggest that timing,
we did. We were looking for an end-of-season tour and that was the timing of
it."

It has been suggested in some quarters that the tournament Middlesbrough played
in, alongside Italian club Bari, was staged to soften Libya's public image and
that the team were unwitting stooges to some grand masterplan of Colonel
Gaddafi.

Rather like his counterparts in the West, the Libyan leader has discovered the
popular appeal of football and is investing millions into building new stadia
like the Great Man-Made River Stadium that Middlesbrough helped unveil by
playing a Tripoli Select XI and Bari.

The colonel has also employed disgraced sprinter Ben Johnson as a fitness coach
and Hand of God footballer Maradona as tactics adviser to the national team
which he is trying to get ex-England coach, Terry Venables, to manage.

The theory goes that all this activity is designed to make Libya a more
respectable country in the eyes of the world - the unsaid undertone being that
it is all a front.

Yet Middlesbrough are confident their trip and their reasons for going were
right.

"We thought very carefully about accepting the invitation to appear and we
checked with our local MP and the Government who said they would have no
problems with us going over there," says Roberts, who dismisses reports of £1m
being paid to Middlesbrough to take part as "wildly inaccurate".

He adds: "All our talks were with the Libyan Olympic Committee, we never had any
contact with Colonel Gaddafi, either beforehand or while we were there. "

Ben Smith admits he was wary of the reasons behind the invitation.

"We couldn't tell if this was a PR stunt by the Libyans and we were interested
to see whether it was, but there were a lot of pleasant surprises there. They
are genuinely interested in football - they're absolutely mad about the game.
You see football everywhere. There are kids kicking balls about, playing in
yards, on floodlit car parks in the middle of town.

"They have table football out on the street and even though English is not
spoken as widely there, they all know David Beckham, Man Utd and Michael Owen.
They watch Premiership games on satellite and we were amazed by the amount of
interest in British football."

The Libyans can also play a bit. The Tripoli Select XI beat an admittedly
under-strength Middlesbrough.

One of Gaddafi's sons, Al-Saadi, is a striker in one of the country's top league
sides, but Smith says that after seeing him play, he won the place on merit
rather than nepotism. It also seems that football could be a power for good in
the country - after all, there are much worse things to be fanatical about.

"I think football can broaden people's experiences," says Smith. "I'm not saying
Libya is a perfect place, but the Libyans are genuinely warm and friendly
towards British people and they love their football."

"Often sport can build bridges and in this case I think it did," reckons Dave
Roberts. "We made a lot of new friends. Wrongs have been done in the past, but
we can't live forever in the past. We had a world war with Germany, but someone
had to be the first club to play there after the war."

Sadly for caption competitions around the world, Paul Gascoigne never met
Colonel Gaddafi. Now, what a match that would have been.

Gazza versus Gaddafi is on Channel 5 at 8pm tonight.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Libya greetings: Paul Gascoigne shakes hands with footballer Saadi
Gaddafi, son of the Libya president, Col Gaddafi, inset, left.

                Copyright 2000 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              116 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  June 9, 2000

Murder of a diplomat: Death in the rush hour - the calling card of November 17:
Briton is 23rd victim of elusive terror group defined by what it hates, rather
than what it believes in

BYLINE: Helena Smith in Athens and Martin Kettle in Washington

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 3

LENGTH: 902 words


There was no warning, no danger signal as Brigadier Stephen Saunders drove
through the heat of the Athens rush hour. The British diplomat, in sunglasses
and suit, had stopped at a set of traffic lights on a busy road three miles from
the embassy when his assailants, on a motorbike, rode past on the passenger side
of his white Rover. It was 7:50am.

Seconds later, Brig Saunders was lying in a pool of blood - his hands, head and
chest hit by the gunmen who had fired four shots, then sped away. He had become
the 23rd victim of November 17.

Even before Brig Saunders had died in hospital, Greek officials were publicly
announcing that he had been targeted by the notorious Marxist-Leninist group.

After one of its longest lulls in violence, the gang had emerged again, using
its signature .45 calibre pistol. The other hallmark was the brazen nature of
the assassination. The attack was carried out in broad daylight by gunmen acting
in an almost nonchalant manner.

November 17, which is thought to operate as a series of independent cells, first
appeared in 1975 upon the collapse of eight years of hated military rule in
Greece. In the ensuing 25 years, and despite intense attempts to unravel its
secrets, little is known about the organisation. No one knows who they are or
how many they are, though the group is thought to be small. In 25 years, none of
its members has been arrested.

What is known is that November 17 is named after the date in 1973 when the Greek
military junta crushed a student uprising at the Athens polytechnic university.
It is a group defined by what it is against, rather than by what it believes in.
It is anti the Greek establishment, anti-Turkey, anti-Nato, anti-American and,
by extension of that last category, anti-British. It is ultra nationalist: it
wants US bases out of Greece, Greece out of Nato, and Turkey out of Cyprus.

The list of the group's victims is, in terrorist terms, impressive: a CIA
station chief, Richard Welch, in 1975, a US navy captain and air force sergeant;
two Turkish diplomats, two junta torturers and more than a dozen prominent
Greeks including rich industrialists.

The site and method of yesterday's attack was almost identical to that of other
November 17 killings, including a 1983 ambush that killed the US navy captain
George Tsantes and his driver and the 1988 murder of the Greek publisher
Alexandros Athanassiadis.

In 1998, November 17 took credit for rocket attacks at foreign targets in the
Athens area. And, although it did not claim responsibility, the group is
suspected of conducting rocket attacks against US, Greek and other third-country
interests during the Nato bombing campaign against Serbia in 1999.

No arrests

The targets included two offices of Pasok, the ruling Greek party, American,
French and British-owned banks, and the Dutch embassy. A rocket attack on the
German ambassador's home left extensive forensic evidence but no arrests were
made.

Brig Saunders is the first Briton to be killed by November 17 but why was he
targeted? Several theories circulated yesterday, many speculating that the
"special relationship" between Britain and the US may have inspired the group's
attentions.

Over the past year Britain has joined the US in providing Greece with
counter-terrorism equipment and expertise, not least with the training of
members of its 300-strong anti-terrorism squad. This weekend is also the first
anniversary of the end of the Nato bombing campaign against Yugoslavia, in which
Britain played a central role. The government's support for sanctions against
Serbia - November 17 has championed Belgrade's cause - were raised as a further
possible motive.

The assassination also coincided with allegations by the CIA's former chief,
James Woolsey, in a Greek weekly magazine, that individuals in Pasok knew
members of the gang - an assertion that last night prompted the Greek government
to challenge Mr Woolsey to come forward with names. As an anti-capitalist force,
November 17 may have decided to hit a high-profile Briton after the furore in
the Greek press over British Airways' decision to pull out of contract to buy a
20% stake in Greece's ailing national carrier, Olympic Airways.

While admitting they have a "terrorist problem", Greek officials say they have
an even bigger problem in countering it. In an interview with the Guardian,
Michalis Chrysohoidis, the public order minister recently blamed widespread
police ineptitude for the failure to root out terrorists.

"Until the collapse of the junta, being a policemen meant being an informant and
as a result standards became very lax. Greece is very behind in
counter-terrorism and what we are desperately trying to do is reorganise the
police force in terms of its philosophy, culture and mentality."

All too often, international counter-terrorism officials say, Greek authorities
view outside help and criticism as an encroachment. The resulting international
wrangling has allowed November 17 to slip through the net. Last year the group
taunted the authorities by inviting them to "come and get us". They did not, and
Brig Saunders paid the price.

Audio report from Helena Smith in Athens at www.guardianunlimited.co.uk

Links

www.fco.gov.uk/ Foreign Office

www.british-embassy.gr/ British Embassy in Athens

www.ict.org.il/ Institute for Counter-Terrorism


LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              117 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                  June 9, 2000

Athens killing stuns diplomatic world

BYLINE: James Mckillop

SECTION: Pg. 15

LENGTH: 567 words


Brigadier

seen as soft target after US tightens staff security

The cold-blooded rush-hour assassination of Britain's defence attache in Athens
yesterday by the elusive left-wing terrorist Greek organisation November 17 has
stunned the diplomatic world.

By all accounts, it is likely Brigadier Stephen Saunders was ambushed by two
terrorists on motorcycles, who opened fire at point-blank range through the
passenger window of his car, because he was a soft target.

Prime Minister Tony Blair described the killing as contemptible and senseless.

He spoke to the dead officer's distraught widow, Heather, on the telephone
before paying tribute to her husband, describing him as a consummate
professional.

It is understood the terrorist organisation may have turned its attention on the
UK because security has been tightened around their principal targets - US
diplomats.

In addition, feelings are still running high against Britain for the key role
the UK played in last year's war in Kosovo. Greeks still feel aggrieved over the
way Serbs were treated during the conflict.

Having served in Northern Ireland on various tours of duty during a long and
distinguished career, Brigadier Saunders was well aware of any terrorist threat.

"There was no-one more alert to possible dangers than him," a brother officer
with the Duke Of Edinburgh's Royal Regiment declared yesterday. "But you cannot
be paranoid. You have to lead a life."

Yesterday, however, Brigadier Saunders was taken by surprise as his vehicle,
caught up in traffic congestion near the main stadium which is planned to house
the Olympic games in the year 2004, was targeted.

Shot in the head, chest, and abdomen as his white Rover car was riddled by
bullets, the Army officer stood no chance as the hitmen opened fire from a
distance of only 3ft.

The .45 calibre handgun used in the attack has become a symbol of November 17,
believed to be responsible for 22 killings in Greece over 25 years. Indeed,
forensic evidence suggests the same handgun has been used by the terrorists in
previous murders.

Brigadier Saunders managed to stagger from his vehicle but died at the Red Cross
hospital within two hours. Doctors said he suffered severe bleeding and his
vital organs failed.

Disguised with their motorcycle helmets, the killers had no difficulty in
escaping.

Greek Foreign Minister George Papandreou said: "This is a blow at the heart of
Greece, at our democracy. We will not let this ruin the image of our country.
The culprits must be found and severely punished."

Foreign Secretary Robin Cook immediately offered British co-operation in
tracking down the culprits and officers from Scotland Yard's Anti-Terrorist
Squad were dispatched to Athens to assess the situation.

Greek prime minister Costas Simitis telephoned Mr Blair and expressed his shock
and horror at the killing. He insisted the authorities would do everything they
could to track down the killers.

Having thus far failed to make any arrests in connection with suspected November
17 attacks, the Greek authorities are under greater pressure than ever before to
recognise their failings.

"Greece is unable to face the phenomenon of terrorism," insisted Greek
conservative opposition member Dora Bakoyannis, whose husband was killed by
November 17 in 1989. "We must not have taboos to take the steps needed."

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: BEREAVED: Brigadier Saunders's wife, Heather, centre, arrives at the
hospital where her husband was taken after he was shot Pictures: AP

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2000 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              118 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                              June 9, 2000, Friday

UK DIPLOMAT GUNNED DOWN IN ATHENS BY TERROR GROUP

BYLINE: Paul Wood In Athens

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 706 words


BRITAIN'S SENIOR military attache to Greece was shot and killed yesterday in an
audacious attack that police believe was the work of the elusive far-left
November 17 terrorist group.

Brigadier Stephen Saunders was driving along a busy suburban road that was his
usual route to work when two people on a motorcycle drew up alongside his car,
firing repeatedly through the passenger window.

Witnesses said the brigadier staggered bleeding from the vehicle before
collapsing on the pavement near by. He was taken to hospital but died shortly
afterwards from four gunshot wounds.

Police said the killers had used the same Colt .45 hand gun that has been the
organisation's calling card in 25 years of politically inspired assassinations.
There was no obvious motive for the attack beyond the organisation's virulent
anti-Nato creed. United States diplomats have been prime targets in the past,
but the extraordinary security measures now in place in American embassies have
left British diplomats vulnerable.

The last security review at the British embassy in Athens was as recent as
March. The building is already well fortified but the assassination provoked
calls for an immediate security review. Last night, November 17 had not claimed
responsibility for the attack, but ballistics tests convinced the Greek police
that the group was behind the killing.

Tony Blair, after briefing the Cabinet on events yesterday morning, described
the attack as "an act of terrorism that was as contemptible as it was senseless
and will be condemned by all right-minded people".

November 17 has been responsible for a number of attacks on Western diplomats in
Greece, most notoriously the murder of the Central Intelligence Agency station
chief in Athens in 1975. The group is named after the day in 1973 when Greek
students rose up against the military junta. It is a Marxist-Leninist
organisation, although its statements to the press have grown increasingly
nationalistic in tone. But until yesterday it had not attacked British
diplomats; officials in the military attache's office did not believe they were
at risk.

Accordingly Brigadier Saunders was taking few security precautions beyond
driving a car with ordinary Greek licence plates rather than diplomatic plates.
He was aged 52 and married with two teenage daughters. Embassy staff were in
tears as the ambassador, David Madden, gathered them together in his official
residence to brief them on the shooting. "There is complete shock and horror at
this attack," Mr Madden said.

The Liberal Democrat Foreign Affairs spokesman, Menzies Campbell, said the
killing should send "shock waves" through the Foreign Office. November 17 has
proved its ability to mount daring attacks. In 1998 the US embassy was hit by an
anti-tank missile. In May last year, a rocket attack launched on the residence
of the German ambassador failed to detonate.

In a telephone call to Mr Blair, the Greek Prime Minister, Costas Simitis,
promised that every effort would be made to catch those responsible for the
murder. "The Greek government will do its duty and defend with all means...
citizens' safety," he said in a statement.

Nato's secretary general, George Robertson, interrupted a meeting of defence
ministers to announce the death and Geoff Hoon, Britain's Secretary of State for
Defence, demanded that Greece spare no effort to track down the killers.

But in more than 25 years no member of November 17 has been brought to trial.
Last month the US State Department issued a report saying that in 1999 Greece
was second only to Colombia in the number of attacks against American targets.
Privately, US officials are scathing about Greek "incompetence" in dealing with
terrorism, saying promises of strong action after attacks on US diplomats have
come to little.

Concern about Greece's anti-terrorism record led the International Olympic
Committee to warn that poor security could jeopardise the chances of Athens
hosting the 2004 Olympics. But November 17 has never attacked tourists and
Western officials here say the authorities will be anxious to use the
investigation into the murder of Brigadier Saunders to allay fears.

Murder of a diplomat, page 3

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Stephen Saunders, who was ambushed in Athens; As a traffic jam builds
up around them, police and photographers surround the blood-stained car in which
the British military attache was shot AP

                      Copyright 2000 Independent Print Ltd

                              119 of 299 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                              June 9, 2000, Friday

WHY NO GUARD ON EXECUTED ENVOY?;
 FRIENDS' SHOCK AT LAX SECURITY

BYLINE: Mark Dowdney Foreign Editor And Geoffrey Lakeman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 493 words


SHOCKED friends attacked the lack of security which allowed terrorists to kill a
British military attache in Athens yesterday.

Brigadier Stephen Saunders was ambushed by two men on a motorbike as he drove to
work alone in an ordinary car.

He was hit by at least four bullets fired through the window of his Rover. He
died two hours later in hospital.

Friend retired general Derek Crabtree said: "It is remarkable that he was left
to travel unescorted in an area in which this sort of attack was known to be
going on.

"In my opinion, more could have been done to prevent it.""

A fellow diplomat who knew Brigadier Saunders well said: "His car should have
had some protection."

The 53-year-old father of two was the latest victim of hardline Marxist
guerrillas November 17.

They have killed 22 people in the last 25 years but have managed to evade
capture. It is not known why they targeted Brigadier Saunders.

The highly decorated attache was attacked on one of the city's busiest roads,
close to the Olympic stadium, at 7: 45am.

The pillion, armed with a .45 pistol and a shotgun, fired at pointblank range
shattering the side windows of his car.

The brigadier was hit in the chest, stomach, and upper part of the body close to
the head.

The killers, both wearing crash helmets to hide their faces, roared away.

Eyewitnesses said the diplomat staggered out of his car and collapsed bleeding.

He was driving an unmarked car with local number plates.

The windows were not bullet-proofed and he did not have an escort. Police found
four empty shells and discovered that the .45 semi-automatic weapon which killed
him was the same one used in four other high profile shootings since 1980. Prime
Minister Tony Blair yesterday phoned the brigadier's widow Heather to offer his
condolences.

He condemned the murder as "a "contemptible and senseless" act" and has ordered
Scotland Yard experts to Greece to help with the investigation.

Brigadier Saunders had been on his way to meet Defence Minister Baroness Symons
to discuss attempts to sell British Challenger tanks to Greece.

Britain is derided in Greece for its alliance with America and its support of
last year's Nato attacks on Yugoslavia, which the Greeks opposed.

Last night Foreign Office Minister Keith Vaz insisted security abroad was
constantly reviewed to protect British diplomats. He said: "We always make sure
that our precautions are the right ones, but we cannot guard against acts of
terrorism of this kind."

The Foreign Office said: "The level of security in Athens is pretty high. But
there is no failsafe method to prevent terrorists determined to kill."

Brigadier Saunders, who had two daughters Nicola, 15, and Catherine, 14, was
mentioned in despatches in 1980 during a tour of Londonderry. He was awarded a
Queen's Commendation in 1992.

He was posted to Athens in 1998 but was due to retire to Dorset in 18 months.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRIEVING: Wife Heather; KILLED: Saunders and his bloodied car

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.

                              120 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 June 10, 2000

FIND EVIL MEN WHO KILLED MY HUSBAND

BYLINE: FROM ANNA IRONSIDE

LENGTH: 524 words


IN ATHENS

THE widow of murdered British diplomat Brigadier Stephen Saunders made a
heart-wrenching appeal yesterday for help in finding the "wicked men" who killed
her husband.

Choking back tears and supported by her two teenage daughters, Heather Saunders
said she was "half the person I was yesterday morning" when she kissed her
husband goodbye as he set off for work.

"Stephen was my life," she said outside the couple's villa in Athens. "He was a
wonderful, loving man. He was a man committed to peace and throughout his 35
years in the army, he never raised his gun to kill anyone. In fact in the past,
I know he hesitated once, when someone opened fire on him in Northern Ireland,
in case he hit an innocent bystander.

"He was a wonderful and proud father of our two daughters Nicola and Catherine,
who will now have to go through their lives without him. In fact, to quote both
my little girls: 'He was the best daddy in the world.' They loved him very
much."

Mrs Saunders spoke hours after Greece's November 17 terrorist group claimed
responsibility for the killing.

Brigadier Saunders, who was military attache at the British embassy in Athens,
was shot by two assassins on a motorbike as he drove to work without a security
escort.

In a 13-page declaration sent to a Greek newspaper, the organisation said he had
paid the price for Britain's involvement in the Nato air campaign against
Yugoslavia last year. "We decided to execute him because he took part in the
planning of the barbaric air strikes on Yugoslavia," it said.

The Foreign Office said: "Brigadier Saunders wasn't in Kosovo but like any
attache in a Nato-allied country he would have had a liaison role in talking to
Nato on military matters. I think it would be wrong to intimate he had an
exceptional role in Kosovo, because he didn't."

Railing against Nato for "Nazi-like crimes and the assassination of thousands of
unarmed people", the terrorists also claimed credit for a series of exploits,
including a rocket attack on the German ambassador's residence.

Experts said its decision to backdate the document to March suggested the
assassins had been planning the brigadier's murder for several months. Mrs
Saunders said: "I appeal to the Greek people and to anyone who knows anything,
because someone must know something about this terrible murder. We must prevent
this kind of thing happening again.

"Anyone who saw anything, anyone who knows anything please tell the police so no
one else has to go through what we are going through today."

She added: "For the sake of the future of Greece, these wicked people must be
brought to justice. As yet I cannot forgive the perpetrators of this horrible
crime, but God may help me forgive in time."

Three Scotland Yard investigators yesterday joined Greek police in the
nationwide search for the assassins. But Greek sources say the chances of
catching the killers are slim."CIA agents, who are specialised in the field,
have been here for years and they've never got anywhere," said one local
analyst. "I think it's now a matter of luck if they are ever caught."

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2000 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              121 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 June 10, 2000

Ministry denies Serbia link to envoy;
 November 17 Cites Role In Kosovo But Mod Says He Was In Kuwait

BYLINE: Helena Smith in Athens

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 552 words


Helena Smith in Athens

November 17, Europe's most elusive and effective terrorist gang, yesterday said
that it had murdered Britain's top military diplomat in Athens because of his
role in Nato's bombardment of Serbian targets last year.

In a 13-page proclamation, outlining its motives for the killing, the group said
Brigadier Stephen Saunders, aged 52, was a 'professional murderer' who worked
for a government that had committed 'Nazi-like crimes'.

Brig Saunders, the first Briton to be attacked by the group, was assassinated
because he had 'participated in the planning of the barbaric air strikes' - an
assertion that was immediately denied by the Ministry of Defence

The MoD said that Brig Saunders had no role in the planning of the campaign and
was based in Kuwait as part of the UN observers mission when the 78-day bombing
campaign against targets in Kosovo and Serbia began in March last year.

Likening the Nato offensive to the second world war annexation by Hitler of
Czechoslavakia, the shadowy group said the Allies had deliberately killed
'thousands of unarmed civilians'.

The statement, sent to a left ist Greek newspaper at dawn yesterday, also
claimed responsibility for five other attacks, including last year's rocket raid
on the German ambassador's residence.

Analysts said the March date on the declaration suggested the murder, executed
with extraordinary precision, had been planned several months in advance.

Brigadier Saunders, who had been based in Athens for almost two years, was
driving unescorted in an unarmoured car when two gunmen, riding a motorcycle,
ambushed him.

He managed to open the door of his white embassy Rover but four bullets lodged
in his head, hands and chest were to bring about his death during surgery less
than three hours later.

Ballistic tests confirmed that the diplomat was killed by the .45 calibre pistol
used in five of the revolutionary organisation's previous attacks.

Brig Saunders was the group's 23rd victim since it emerged with the killing of
the CIA's Athens station chief, Richard Welch, in 1975 shortly after the
collapse of seven years of military dictatorship in Greece.

The publication of the proclamation was soon followed by an appeal by the
diplomat's widow.

Heather Saunders implored Greeks to help find the 'wicked men" who had killed
her husband.

Speaking outside the couple's Athenian villa in the presence of her two,
distraught teenage daughters, she said: 'For the sake of the future of Greece,
these people must be brought to jusitice.'

The Greek government said yesterday that it would step up the restructuring of
its police force and make more intense efforts to end terrorist attacks. 'We
must have results," a spokesman said.

Three Scotland yard detectives arrived in Athens yesterday as security was
tightened around British diplomats, not least Baroness Symons, the deputy
defence minister who is in Greece on an official visit.

But sources close to the Brit-ish-trained Greek counter-terrorism forces last
night doubted the gang would ever be unearthed. 'CIA agents, who are specialised
in the field, have been here for years and they've never got anywhere," said one
local analyst.

'I think it's now a matter of luck if November 17 is ever caught."


LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              122 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                             June 13, 2000, Tuesday

BLITZ ON TERROR GROUPS

SECTION: Pg. 17

LENGTH: 138 words


GREECE has proposed an EU initiative to combat terrorism following the murder of
Britain's military attache in Athens last week made a case for joint action.

Foreign Ministry spokesman Panos Beglitis also said an agreement calling for
increased police cooperation between Greece and the US to fight terrorism was
ready to be signed.

Both actions come at a time of increased criticism against Greece's law
enforcement record following the assassination of Brigadier Stephen Saunders, in
an attack claimed by the anti-Western terrorist group November 17.

The group has killed 22 people, including four American officials, since 1975,
but none of its members have ever been caught.

Greek police, assisted by detectives from Scotland Yard's anti-terrorism squad,
have so far made no headway in the latest attack.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2000 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              123 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 June 13, 2000

CALL FOR EU TO UNITE ON TERRORISM

LENGTH: 153 words


A European action plan to combat terrorism was proposed yesterday following the
murder of Britain's military attache in Athens.

The initiative was presented to Foreign Secretary Robin Cook by Greece four days
after Brigadier Stephen Saunders was shot dead by the Left-wing terror group
November 17 Greece has been under pressure to act because not one of the group's
gunmen has been caught in 25 years of violence.

Foreign Ministry spokesman Panos Beglitis said Brig. Saunders' death made a case
for joint action against the growing terrorist threat in Europe.

He said: "Today terrorism can't be dealt with on a local level. The goal is to
deal with it on the broader level of the EU."Greek police, assisted by Scotland
Yard, have so far made no headway in solving the killing of Brigadier Saunders.
A spokesman for the Greek government, Dimitris Reppas, said: "Our effort has to
be more intense."

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2000 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              124 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 June 13, 2000

Scotland Yard to train Greek police hunting British attache's killers

BYLINE: Helena Smith in Athens

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 612 words


Greece is to enlist the help of Scotland Yard counter-terrorism experts in an
attempt to unearth November 17, the elusive group behind last week's
assassination of the British embassy's military attache, Brigadier Stephen
Saunders, in Athens.

Senior members of Greece's 300-strong anti-terrorist squad are to fly to London
next month to be trained in the sort of skills that have enabled Scotland Yard
to track down IRA gunmen, it was revealed last night.

"There have been connections between our two police forces in the past but now
they are going to intensify greatly," the public order minister, Michalis
Chrysohoidis, said.

"The British are very, very good. They're very practical and they can show us
things, give us seminars."

A senior official at the ministry said all counter-terrorism officers would
attend training. "We realise we have a very se rious problem and we really want
to crack it, so we're going to take up the British offer," he said. "Scotland
Yard knows what we need, it's got one of the best records in the world."

The decision not only ends years of viewing outside help with suspicion, but
highlights official embarrassment over the diplomat's murder.

Brig Saunders, whose body will be flown home today, is the first Briton to be
killed by November 17. The group said it had targeted the defence attache
because of his role in Nato's "barbaric airstrikes" against Yugoslavia last
year. The Ministry of Defence denied he had any role in planning the attacks.

No member of November 17, an ultra-leftist urban gang without any clear
political objective, has been captured or identified in the 25 years since it
emerged with the slaying of Richard Welch, the CIA station chief in Athens. Brig
Saunders was its 23rd victim.

Despite almost all of Athens' 15,000-strong police force be ing seconded to the
job, no progress has been made in tracking down the two men who fatally shot the
soldier in a ride-by assault as he drove to work last Thursday.

For the first time, investigators have failed to find the assassins' motorbike,
which could, they say, provide critical DNA evidence.

On the suggestion of three Scotland Yard counter-terrorist officials already in
the capital, Greek police are considering an appeal for people to come forward
with information.

"But," said one government insider, "that sort of thing is not so easy here
because people still have very bitter memories of the dictatorship and being an
informant has very strong associations even if it's for the good of the country
and is very effective."

Greece said it would also discuss other ways of fighting terrorism with Britain
on a European Union level at a meeting of foreign ministers in Luxembourg today.

Under renewed pressure from Washington, the ruling Socialists have also said
they will improve the country's anti-terrorism legislation by introducing
witness protection and doing away with juries in terrorist cases. Such steps
were taken in France, Italy and Germany - countries that wiped out their own
terrorist groups in the 70s and 80s.

Many Greeks are concerned by the re-emergence of November 17, four years before
Athens hosts the Olympics, and fear it may affect tourism, Greece's economic
mainstay.

"The Greeks understand that this murder has been very very bad for the image of
the country," said Mary Bossi, a specialist in political violence. "There's been
a real change of heart from the official level downwards. Before, there may have
been a silent acceptance of November 17 but now people have had enough. They
have begun to see this phantom group as a very big problem that has to end."


LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              125 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 June 14, 2000

GBP 1.75M REWARD FOR KILLERS AS BRIGADIER MAKES FINAL JOURNEY

BYLINE: BY GREG SWIFT

LENGTH: 639 words


DRAPED in a Union Flag, the coffin carrying the body of murdered British
diplomat Brigadier Stephen Saunders was flown back to Britain last night.

On the day that a GBP 1.75million reward was offered for information leading to
the capture of his killers, Brigadier Saunders was given full military honours
before being flown home from Greece.

Flags were lowered and a funeral march was played as the diplomat's coffin was
carried past a guard of 70 servicemen from the Greek armed forces. His widow
Heather and children Nicola, 15, and Catherine, 14, looked on tearfully as the
coffin was placed inside a specially-chartered plane which carried it to
Gatwick.

The diplomat's body was met by Foreign Office Minister Baroness Scotland,
Defence Minister Baroness Symons, and the Chief of the General Staff, General
Sir Michael Walker. Last night, the family was understood to be on its way to
Salisbury for a private funeral service.

Brigadier Saunders, 52, Britain's military attache in Athens, was shot four
times with a .45 calibre pistol as he made his way to work at 7.30am last
Thursday. The notorious Greek terror group November 17 claimed responsibility
for the killing, claiming it was to avenge Nato's bombing of Yugoslavia.

Despite being responsible for at least 23 high-profile assassinations since it
began operating in 1975, no members of the extreme left-wing group have ever
been caught. Greece, sensitive to the mounting criticism of its security
operations, yesterday announced it had doubled the reward for information
leading to the arrest of Brigadier Saunders's killers to GBP 1.75million.

Public Order Minister Michalis Chrisohoidis signed an administrative order
increasing the reward which will be added to one already offered by the United
States of GBP 3.4 million. Yesterday, as the diplomat's coffin was taken to
Athens airport, it was driven along the same route used by the brigadier when he
was assassinated.

The funeral cortege stopped at the murder scene - a main road near the stadium
that will host the 2004 Olympics - and Mrs Saunders was seen wiping away tears.

Poignantly, one of the diplomat's daughters handed a single white flower to a
policeman to place on the wreath which now marks the spot where her father was
shot. The family's courage in the face of their loss has been remarkable. Last
week, Mrs Saunders gave an emotional press conference in which she bravely
fought back tears while her children stood at her side.

She described her husband as "a man committed to peace" who had never raised his
gun to kill anyone. Speaking the day after his murder, she said: "Stephen was my
life. I stand before you half the person I was yesterday morning."

The murder has shocked Greece and led Prime Minister Costas Simitis to remark
yesterday: "Greeks have come to realise that November 17 is only hurting the
country."

Reeling from the strong reaction to the killing at home and abroad, Greece has
proposed that Britain should take part in a joint initiative to bring up the
issue of terrorism at European Union level.

Greek police have so far made no headway in the latest attack by the terrorists,
whose other victims include four American officials, two Turkish diplomats and a
number of prominent Greeks.

Their inability to catch any members of November 17 has sparked criticism of the
force's law enforcement record and its ability to provide adequate security for
the 2004 Olympics.

But government spokesman Dimitirs Reppas said: "This connection is unjustified.
The 2004 Olympics will be carried out in conditions of absolute
security."Officers from Scotland Yard are in Greece to help their Athens
colleagues track down the elusive killers. They have found a stolen motor
scooter with false registration plates near the murder scene.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2000 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              126 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 June 14, 2000

Decaying tomb on endangered list

BYLINE: Maev Kennedy, Arts and heritage correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 11

LENGTH: 348 words


The World Monuments Fund in Britain yesterday declared a marble column in
Ireland, set up by an English landlord to celebrate the victory over Napoleon in
Egypt, and a decaying marble tomb in Rutland carved by Grinling Gibbons, as
among the world's most endangered historic sites.

They are typically quixotic choices for a heritage organisation whose annual
list of these sites has often provoked astonishment - and gratitude, since
listing often implies lavish grants backed by American Express.

WMF, based in New York, is a private, non-profit organisation with independent
affiliates in Britain, France, Italy, Portugal, and Spain. Previous British
campaigns have included a decaying Victorian redbrick church in Manchester, and
medieval barns in Kent owned by an Oxford college.

The Irish conservation charity, An Taisce, regards the Browne-Clayton monument
as one of the most important neo-classical structures in Ireland, but the
granite column in county Wexford has stuck out like a sore thumb in a county
with a long tradition of militant nationalism.

It was built in 1839 by General Robert Browne-Clayton, modelled on Pompey's
Pillar in Alexandria, to commemorate his commander, General Sir Ralph
Abercromby, and the English victory in Egypt in 1801. It has been in danger of
collapse since it was struck by lightning five years ago. It has various local
nicknames, including Browne's Nonsense.

The county council chairman, Sean Doyle, an IRA member until he resigned in the
1980s in protest at the Harrods bombing, now supports the campaign to restore
the monument.

The Grinling Gibbons tomb is a less controversial choice. The huge tomb of
Viscount Campden is regarded as his best work in marble. It dominates the church
at Exton in Rutland, heaving with figures representing the viscount, one of his
wives and his 19 children by four wives.

Last night the fund announced a string of grants to projects around the world,
including pounds 6,400 for repairs to the Grinling Gibbons tomb. No grant has
been decided yet for Browne's Nonsense.


LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              127 of 299 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            June 17, 2000, Saturday

ADAMS FAREWELL TO CHIEF MINDER CLEEKY;
 PARAMILITARY-STYLE TRIBUTE

BYLINE: Ted Oliver

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 304 words


SINN Fein President Gerry Adams yesterday stood side by side with the IRA
leadership at the paramilitary-style funeral of his chief minder.

Hundreds followed the coffin of Terry "Cleeky" Clarke as it was carried through
the streets of Belfast draped in a tricolour and flanked by marching men in
berets and white shirts.

Clarke was jailed for his part in the brutal murders of two Army corporals,
David Howe and Derek Wood, who were savagely beaten, stripped and shot after
they had strayed into an IRA funeral in March 1988.

On his release he became head of Adams' protection squad.

Many of the Provos' "top brass" turned out to pay their last respects to Clarke
who died of natural causes after a lengthy illness.

IRA leaders among the the mourners included Brian Keenan, who was given an 18
-year sentence for a wave of bombings in Britain in which nine people died and
more than 100 were injured.

Mr Adams was the first to help carry the coffin and his place was then taken by
his fellow MP Martin McGuinness.

Clarke had been implicated in many IRA attacks and former IRA informer Martin
McGartland said that Clarke was the leader of a death squad that came to pick
him up after the IRA discovered he had been passing information to the police.

McGartland, who last year survived an assassination attempt in England, escaped
the Belfast abduction by jumping from a third-floor window after he saw Clarke
and others fill a bath with water in which they planned to shoot him.

Fr Des Wilson, who conducted the funeral mass at the Holy Cross Church in
Ardoyne, said: "He was a man of great courage and generosity.

"He had a tremendous ideal that Ireland should be shared between all the people.

"He brought up his two children beautifully, when he was allowed to be with
them."

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FRIEND: Gerry Adams walks behind the coffin of Cleeky Clarke, right

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.

                              128 of 299 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             June 30, 2000, Friday

SURE THE CRAIC IS GREAT, BRITAIN;
 IRISH IMAGE BOOSTED BY PEACE AND MUSIC

BYLINE: Margaret O'Connor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 397 words


THE Peace Process, Mary Robinson, the Celtic Tiger and Riverdance have all
helped to improve the image of Irish people living in Britain.

A new report indicated that the Irish are now more accepted in British society
than ever before.

But almost half of the Irish population living in England admitted they had
experienced some kind of discrimination because of their nationality.

Dr Nessa Winston of University College, Dublin, carried out the study which is
one of the first attempts to analyse the experiences of 845,000 Irish-born
people in England.

She explains: "The most significant single factor in improving the standing of
Irish people was the peace process in Northern Ireland.

"There has been a big turnaround for Irish people.

"A few years ago if you were an Irish person in a tube station and a bomb went
off, you probably wouldn't be comfortable with British people hearing your
accent.

"Irish people thought that they were being blamed for the terrorism campaigns of
the IRA and tried to play down who they were."

However, according to Dr Winston, the Irish are gaining more respect.

She said: "Some Irish people have been spat on and suffered physical violence
because of their nationality."

But she added that the work of former president Mary Robinson, the peace process
and the Irish economic boom have changed the British attitude towards us.

She said: "We had an appalling economy and now the international community see
the success of our Celtic Tiger and find it incredible that we transformed the
economy so dramatically."

But Irish people living in England still suffer poor health and high death rates
and often face discrimination.

The end of republican terrorist activity may earn more respect for the Irish,
but it does not help improve the mortality rates for Irish-born people in
England and Wales.

Rates of depression for Irish citizens were two and a half times higher than
that of the British population.

And Irish-born men in England were nine times more likely to suffer from
alcohol-related disorders than their English counterparts.

Poor working conditions and diagnosing Irish people according to stereotypes
were given as the reasons behind health problems.

Irish people are the largest ethnic minority living in England.

Last year, 29,000 people left Ireland to live abroad.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GOING PLACES: The peace process, Boyzone, Riverdance and others have
raised Ireland's profile

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.

                              129 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                             July 1, 2000, Saturday

'LEAVE EVIL NAZI TO ROT IN HELL';
 SPOTLIGHT ON A MURDERER WHOSE HATRED LEFT THREE DEAD ANGER AT KILLER WHO WAS
'BAD NOT MAD'

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 927 words


EVIL Nazi nail bomber David Copeland was today starting six life sentences amid
calls that he should never be freed but left 'to rot in hell.'

Copeland (24) will begin his open-ended sentences in hospital rather than jail.

Although he was found to be 'bad not mad' when he launched his hate blitz
against minorities - killing three people and injured 139 - he is now suffering
from mental illness.

Bombing campaign

The convicted murderer will go back to Broadmoor - where he has been for six
months - to continue his treatment.

Copeland brought terror and carnage to British streets in a 13-day bombing
campaign in London in April last year.

The engineer from Cove, Farnborough, Hants, admitted causing explosions at
Brixton, Brick Lane and Soho.

Copeland chose his first two targets because they had large black and Asian
communities.

He wanted to start a race war in Britain, he declared.

But Copeland, a self-confessed fascist, was also homophobic. The final blast was
at the mainly gay Admiral Duncan pub in Soho. It killed Andrea Dykes, aged 27,
who was pregnant, and friends John Light, aged 32, and Nik Moore, aged 31, from
Essex. Copeland denied their murder but he admitted manslaughter on the grounds
of diminished responsibility at the time.

Prosecution refused to accept his plea - alleging he knew exactly what he was
doing when he made his lethal bombs - and therefore was guilty of murder. The
jury agreed and convicted him unanimously.

Copeland showed no emotion as he was sentenced to three life sentences for the
murders and three for the bombing campaign itself.

People in the public gallery, including victims injured in the bomb attacks,
cheered and clapped, shouting 'Nazi scum' as the jury returned their unanimous
verdicts.

The father of Mr Moore called out: 'Rot in hell.'

The Recorder of London Judge Michael Hyam told Copeland: 'The evidence shows you
were motivated to do what you did by virulent hatred and pitiless contempt for
others.'

Twisted

loner

plotted

race war

DAVID Copeland, a twisted loner whose only friend was a rat, dreamed of fame,
power, and the establishment of a master race - as had his hero, Adolf Hitler.

He believed he could ignite a race war in Britain by bombing racial minorities,
and that an Aryan national socialist state would arise from the carnage.

He spent hours packing bombs with nails and firework explosives at his rented
bedsit, in a vicar's wife's house. He ignored his fellow tenants - preferring
his pet white rat for company instead.

Copeland decorated the bedroom wall with swastikas, and pictures of atrocities.
A photo of Hitler inspired him.

He had finally become the nightmare son of parents who had always done their
best for him.

Difficult

As a teenager, Copeland showed early signs of promise with eight GCSE passes.
But his parents had a difficult divorce in 1995 - it was at this time that
Copeland started to go off the rails. By the age of 16, he was already dreaming
of a place in history as one of Britain's most notorious mass murderers.

Even when caught, after killing and dreadfully maiming in an evil, one-man
bombing campaign, Copeland remained unrepentant, and intended to continue to
terrorise Britain.

Two weeks before his Old Bailey trial he declared that if ever given his
liberty, he wanted to plant more bombs.

He loved the infamy, and it was his destiny to cause murder, mayhem and chaos,
he said.

His next target would have been Southall, west London, which has a large Asian
population. Other ethnic areas throughout the UK were already on alert that he
could strike at them next.

Copeland believed in white supremacy, and targeted racial minorities. But the
loner also hated homosexuals - the last nail bomb he was able to plant was left
at a mainly gay pub in Soho, and caused massive devastation.

Baby celebration ended in tragedy

MURDERED: Mum-to-be Andrea Dykes

THE news that Andrea Dykes was pregnant was greeted with unrestrained joy by her
husband, Julian, coming as it did after the couple had tried for a baby for so
long.

Mr Dykes had sent pictures of the scan to friends and had asked John Light, who
was best man at the couple's wedding 20 months earlier, to be a godfather.

A delighted Mr Light arranged a celebratory night out to mark the good news and
bought tickets for Mamma Mia!, the West End Abba musical.

Julian and Andrea Dykes travelled down from their home in Colchester, Essex, and
went for a pre-show drink with Mr Light and other friends.

But they had only been in the Admiral Duncan pub for a few minutes and were
ordering drinks at 6.30pm on Friday April 30 when David Copeland's bomb went
off.

He had planted it just seconds earlier in a move which marked the fatal and
bloody conclusion to his two-week campaign of terror.

Julian, Andrea and their group were standing near the door of the pub and took
the full force of the blast. It left three of them dead and two seriously
injured. Andrea, aged 27, and Mr Light were both killed, along with another
friend, Nik Moore, who lived nearby.

Mr Dykes had a nail embedded in one of his lungs and was critically burned in
the blast. He was unconscious for three weeks, unaware that his wife had died in
the attack. He finally left London's Royal Free Hospital 40 days after the
explosion, still with bandages over his injuries. Since then, he has been
reluctant to discuss his nightmare - although he has returned to live in the
flat he shared with his wife.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CARNAGE: David Copeland and, inset, the bedroom he turned into a; Nazi
shrine

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2000 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              130 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                              July 2, 2000, Sunday

HARD BASTARDS: A WRONG WORD AND WE WILL RIP YOUR EYES OUT;
 3-PAGE SPECIAL: KATE KRAY'S BOOK ON THE TOUGHEST MEN IN BRITAIN

BYLINE: Kate Kray And Mike Ridley

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 33, 34, 35

LENGTH: 2379 words


WHEN it comes to the hardest bastards in Britain, nobody knows more than Kate
Kray.

Not only was she married to gangland legend Ronnie Kray, but she has spent the
last year travelling the country talking to gangsters, fighters, shooters and
murderers.

As we revealed in the Sunday People last week, Kate gained a unique insight into
24 of these men of violence.

They range from man mountain enforcer John Daniels - 6ft 4ins and 30 stone - to
veteran gangster Albert Reading, who even at the age of 68 told Kate: "If anyone
takes a liberty with me, I'll rip their eyes out."

Then there's gunman Vic Dark, who took a policeman hostage; Cornish Mick who
you'd upset at your peril; and terrorist Johnny Adair - thought to be
responsible for 40 killings.

Kate reveals the chilling truth about these men in her sensational new book Hard
Bastards. In today's first exclusive extract - adapted by MIKE RIDLEY - we tell
the amazing stories of dangerous men who specialise in blood, threats and tears.

VIC DARK: GUNMAN:

CHOPPED UP A BODY AT JUST 20

DATE OF BIRTH: April 12, 1957 (star sign Aries).

OCCUPATION: Gunman.

HOME TOWN: Stratford, East London.

VIC Dark cusses and snarls with anger at the name Scott Palmer. He growls: "I
should have shot the slag. Put one in his nut."

They were on an armed robbery which went wrong and Vic shot a security guard.
Scott panicked and called Vic's name. So Vic shot the guard again. But the
bullet went through the guard and into Scott.

Alarm bells rang, sirens wailed and police surrounded the building. Vic picked
up his mate and carried him out of the building screaming: "Stand back or I'll
shoot!"

He took a policeman hostage - forcing him to drive off at high speed, rigid with
fear and pleading for his life, with his injured pal in the back and armed cops
in hot pursuit. Vic seized two more cars and two more hostages along the way.

The whole thing was like a runaway train, but it was a ticket to nowhere. So he
dumped the hostages in a potato field and ran off with guns blazing.

He buried himself in the mud and spuds with a gun in each hand - and waited.
Police with snarling dogs combed the field. At one point a cop even stood on
Vic's leg. He never moved a muscle. He lay there for eight hours.

But it was all in vain - they caught him in the end. Vic spent 12 years in jail
because of it - all because he tried to save a so-called friend.

DARK'S STORY: I'm not nasty. I was 20 years old when I was sent to chop up a
body. I lost a lot of emotion that day.

LIFE OF CRIME: I was 20 when I was first put on remand for stabbing. I have been
acquitted of two attempted murders.

WEAPONRY: I've been convicted of stabbing and shooting. Who dares wins!

TOUGHEST MOMENT: Doing that stretch for a so-called friend. I could have put a
bullet through his head and walked away. I didn't. The hardest bit was
explaining to my family why I gave up a life for a friend. They couldn't
understand. In retrospect, neither could I.

WHAT MAKES A TOUGH GUY?: It's all right being tough on the streets, but if
you're not scared to steam into 30 screws with riot shields and batons, that
sorts the men out from the boys.

JOHN DANIELS: ENFORCER

Fists are the only weapons I need

DATE OF BIRTH: I never reveal my age (Leo).

OCCUPATION: Enforcer.

HOME TOWN: Luton, Bedfordshire, but he spends a lot of time in New York as a
celebrity minder.

JOHN Daniels is a mountain, an immovable object. He's 6ft 4in and weighs 30st.
He looks every bit what he is - Big Bad John.

The first time I saw him was in March 1995 - the day I buried my husband Ronnie
Kray. John was the man assigned to guard Ronnie's body in the chapel of rest at
Bethnal Green, East London.

We met for my book in a South London pub. I'd been there a few times and always
felt a strange atmosphere. First the lady serving behind the bar refused
permission for photos in the pub, so we took them elsewhere. Then when we
returned to the pub to talk and I switched on my tape recorder, The Commitments
blasting out Mustang Sally started blaring from the pub speakers. The noise was
deafening, but when we ignored it, that irritated her so much she turned it up
full volume

Before I left I had a word with the peroxide-blonde landlady leaning on the bar
reading a newspaper, fag hanging out of her mouth. Her demeanour annoyed me. I
asked her what her problem was. She snarled: "I wanna know what you've been
talking about." I told her it was none of her goddamn business. I was livid. I
was just about to get out of my pram when John came over.

Her eyes widened, she looked towards heaven as if she was staring at a
skyscraper. Ash fell from her cigarette. John's sheer presence defused the
situation. He gave me a hug and said goodbye. I turned to the landlady. She
wasn't sassy any more.

DANIELS' STORY: I've had more than my fair share of fights. I'd fight to the
death if I had to. It doesn't matter how outnumbered I am, I'll go forward. I've
never gone down. In every row I'll make a judgment. Are they going to go away
without a fight? If I reckon they're not, then I'll lash out first. I usually
come out on top. My father always said: "If you're going forward when you go
down, you've won." I never go out looking for trouble - it's my work. It's just
part and parcel.

LIFE OF CRIME: All the time I've served has been for violence - debt -collecting
that went over the top or an over-zealous fan of the star I'm minding.

WEAPONRY: My hands. My fists. That's all I need.

TOUGHEST MOMENT: When my dad died eight years ago. I've known lots of hard men,
but he was the hardest I've ever known. Not just because he was my father. He
was one tough cookie.

WHAT MAKES A TOUGH GUY? A man who doesn't use violence for violence's sake. A
big doorman who bashes a 5ft drunken office worker who abuses him is a bully. If
someone is drunk and can barely stand, there's no glory in bashing him up. I
don't have anything to prove. Little dogs bark, big dogs bite!

CORNISH MICK: GANGSTER:

UPSET ME AND YOU ARE DEAD

DATE OF BIRTH: February 10, 1935 (Aquarius).

OCCUPATION: Gangster.

BACKGROUND: He grew up in Cornwall, travelled the world and came to London at
42, following a woman who left him. He stayed on for business.

CORNISH Mick may not be young but he pats his belly, holds up his right index
finger and says: "That's all I need to beat the biggest man in the world - my
trigger finger."

He's a cutter, a shooter, a killer. Upset him and he'll pop a cap in your a***
and bury you in the woods sooner than look at you.

I know - I have first-hand experience of Mick's bad temper. It was late Saturday
night. Yet another gangster do. Men in hand-made dinner suits. Villains' wives,
all lipstick, powder and paint.

I sat at the top table with the top men all smoking the best Cuban lah-di -dahs.
Mick sat beside me. We chatted and laughed about this and that until a big man
in a cheap suit started making a bit of a nuisance of himself. He was a wannabe
gangster. A loudmouth with nothing to say.

Mick's eyes narrowed. The plastic gangster was getting on his nerves. He stood
up, shrugged his shoulders and straightened his tie before walking over to the
geezer. Mick told him to f*** off. With conviction, then with some scorn.

The loudmouth spluttered and stammered. Suddenly Mick pulled out a blade and
dragged it slowly down the man's cheek. Blood the colour of Chianti trickled
through his fingers. Mick pulled out a crisp white handkerchief from his top
pocket and handed it to the man.

Then he coolly hailed a cab and helped him in. Mick turned to me: "Sorry Kate,
where was we?"

CORNISH MICK'S STORY: Say what you like to me, but if you take the p*** or if I
thought my life was in danger, or if I thought I was going to be nicked, I'd
kill you - no hesitation.

LIFE OF CRIME: I've been away for 18 years, but sentenced to 35, mostly for
crimes of violence.

WEAPONRY: My trigger finger.

TOUGHEST MOMENT: Losing my dad. I was in jail. I didn't even get a day out for
the funeral.

WHAT MAKES A TOUGH GUY? If you've got pride in yourself, there's no way you'll
be made a mug of - and having a sense of right and wrong. If somebody does you
wrong, you've got to do something about it - and have the heart to do it. It's
not muscular development or anything like that. I know little blokes that are as
hard as nails.

JOHNNY ADAIR: TERRORIST:

Worst pain was gunshot in head

DATE OF BIRTH: October 27, 1963 (Scorpio).

OCCUPATION: Terrorist.

HOME TOWN: Belfast.

"I'M not a gangster - I'm a fighter, a soldier of war." Spine-chilling words
from Loyalist terrorist Johnny Adair.

I'd heard about Johnny on the grapevine. His name would often come up in
conversation, but I'd never met him. Then I saw pictures of him being released
from Ulster's Maze prison and as he strutted from jail, he looked every bit as
dangerous as I'd heard he was.

Like all dangerous men Johnny Adair was highly paranoid. After a cloak-and
-dagger operation I eventually met him in the car park of a hotel in Belfast.
The entire time I was in Johnny's company I felt that at any moment something
could happen. His eyes flickered around the room all the time - scanning and
surveying, watching everyone's move. So did those of his bodyguard.

It all seemed a little over the top until Johnny took off his hat and showed me
a hole in the back of his head - the size of a 50p piece. Two months earlier he
had been shot at a UB40 concert. It was one of 10 attempts to kill him. He
lifted his sweater and showed me a hole in his side and one in his leg. He had
almost been cut in half in another attack.

Everyone expects terrorists to be gun-toting thugs. But Johnny spoke with great
intelligence. There was no malice in his voice. It was the cool, controlled way
in which he spoke that made him so terrifying.

ADAIR'S STORY: The security forces nicknamed me "Mad Dog". They say I've killed
over 40 people. They built up this myth that I was a fanatical rabid animal who
would kill anyone. It's not the case. Deep down I'm a good guy. But do me a
wrong and I'll bring it to your backyard. You'll go to bed at night and
barricade your front door in case Mad Dog Adair comes looking for you. And I
have a cause. I'm fighting for peace in my country.

LIFE OF CRIME: I've been in and out of jail all my life - all for terrorist
offences.

WEAPONRY: For legal and security reasons I cannot say what I specialise in.

TOUGHEST MOMENT: The worst pain I've ever experienced was being shot at close
range in the back of the head. I was at that UB40 concert with my wife, when
suddenly: BANG - the panic, the fear, the confusion. My wife screamed. I slumped
to the floor with a bullet lodged in the back of my head. It was terrifying. I
don't know how I managed to survive.

WHAT MAKES A TOUGH GUY? Only one man in a thousand is really tough. It's natural
- just in them. It's not something you can explain but people can feel it.

ALBERT READING: GANGSTER:

I USE ACID TO BURN VICTIMS

DATE OF BIRTH: June 6, 1932 (Gemini).

OCCUPATION: Gangster.

HOME TOWN: London.

LOOK up the word gangster and the definition will read: Albert Reading. He's
known as "Boom Boom Reading" because he's as sly as a fox and Boom Boom was
Basil Brush's catchphrase.

Unlike most gangsters, Albert, who last month turned 68, has a sense of humour.
Recently he was given a Motability car to help him get around. But Albert loaned
the car to his friend who did an armed robbery in it! Albert hissed: "F******
liberty! Motability took the car away."

To Albert the saga was just an inconvenience. How the hell can anyone lose a
Motability car in an armed robbery? It could only happen to Albert Reading.

READING'S STORY: All my life I've had to fight from backbone to breakfast time.
It's been second nature. I don't know any different.

Take a liberty with me and I'll rip your eyes out and all your teeth. I'll beat
you with my fist and an iron bar, burn you with acid or shoot you down like a
dog because I can be wicked - but only if I have to be.

I've been beaten half to death by one gang, almost cut in half by another and
shot in the leg and shoulder.

My whole life has been a catalogue of violent incidents but I have no regrets
about the pain I've dealt out or received.

LIFE OF CRIME: I was sent to a remand home when I was 12 for stealing a bucket
of potatoes. I hated it and beat the night watchman with a billiard cue and
escaped. But I was captured and sent to Wormwood Scrubs - the youngest person
ever to do time there.

Inside I fought tooth and nail just to survive. When I came out I was filled
with hate and anger. Unable to channel my aggression, I became as tough and
fearless as a wild animal, ready to wreak havoc on those who stood in my way.

I became uncontrollable, a maniac, Public Enemy No 1 and was hunted by police
all over the country. My robberies became more and more violent.

Eventually, after eight years, Scotland Yard caught me. I was sentenced to 25
years. In all, I've spent more than three decades behind bars.

WEAPONRY: I can use my fists or anything to hand - a piece of wood or an iron
bar. But I prefer to inflict the most excruciating pain by burning my victims
with acid to melt their flesh. Nothing is taboo in my eyes - but I'm not into
cutting.

TOUGHEST MOMENT: I've stood toe-to-toe with the elite of the underworld. I've
fought and beat tough men like Charlie Richardson and Mad Frankie Fraser.

But at the age of 48, I fought Henry Cooper's sparring partner Brian Hall - who
some say was the greatest bare-knuckle fighter ever.

Two rounds went my way. I broke Hall's nose and ribs but in the third round he
came back and beat me to the ground with cool, controlled ferocity. But still I
wouldn't give in.

Eventually, my corner dragged me out of the ring to save my life.

WHAT MAKES A TOUGH GUY? Heart. I've seen so-called hard men hit someone - but if
they don't win with the first punch their heart goes.

Kate Kray. Extracted from Hard Bastards by Kate Kray, to be published by Blake
Publishing on July 10, price pounds 14.99.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: INSIGHT: Kate knows it all; BIG TROUBLE: Enforcer John Daniels is a
handy man to have on your side in a fight

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.

                              131 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  July 5, 2000

MPs urge review of diplomats' safety

BYLINE: Ewen MacAskill, and Helena Smith in Athens

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 362 words


The Foreign Office said yesterday staff security was a top priority, after being
accused of complacency by the Commons foreign affairs select committee over the
assassination of the defence attache in Athens.

Brigadier Stephen Saunders was killed last month by the leftwing group November
17.

The cross-party foreign affairs committee said it was "deeply disquieting" that
the threat to staff in Athens had been classified as "broadly compatible" with
that in other European Nato states, and called for an urgent review of embassy
security measures.

It said security had remained at the same level, despite the increased tensions
in Greece over the Kosovo war.

Donald Anderson, chairman of the committee, called for more money to be spent on
protecting diplomats. Asked what was wrong with the Foreign Office's action to
protect diplomats such as Brig Saunders, Mr Anderson said: "Complacency - we
find it incredible that there was not greater priority given to the protection
of our diplomatic personnel."

The Foreign Office denied being complacent: "We review continually the security
of our posts abroad there was no evidence that British diplomats were likely to
be targets.

"If staff overseas are to do their job, it is impossible to guarantee 24-hour
total security."

It promised to take a further look at security in the light of the committee's
criticism.

The Foreign Office acknowledged in a memorandum to the committee that it had
known that terrorists, who might previously have attacked US targets, were
liable to seek "softer" targets because of the increased American security
levels. The US was spending huge amounts on upgrading security compared with
Britain.

"We very much hope that this modest amount will prove adequate to provide the
protection necessary," the committee said. "Where there is a new threat, new
money must be found, not simply reallocated. The physical security of staff
posted overseas is a matter of the highest concern.

"We recommend that the Foreign Office urgently reviews protection and assures
the committee that no necessary security precaution is ever forgone for reasons
of cost."


LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              132 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            July 5, 2000, Wednesday

PARLIAMENT - DIPLOMATIC CORPS: FOREIGN OFFICE KNEW OF RISK TO ATHENS MISSION

BYLINE: Kim Sengupta

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 596 words


THE FOREIGN Office was accused by MPs yesterday of failing to do enough to
protect Brigadier Stephen Saunders, the British military attache assassinated in
Greece.

A critical report by the Commons Foreign Affairs Select Committee called for an
urgent review of security for British diplomats abroad and sought an assurance
that the necessary measures would not be neglected for reasons of costs.

The committee said it was "deeply disquieting" that, despite the history of
terrorist attacks in Greece, the Foreign Office classified the threat to embassy
staff in Athens as "broadly compatible" with that in other Nato states.

This "complacency" continued in the run-up to the anniversary of the bombing of
Kosovo despite the knowledge that left-wing terrorist groups had threatened
retribution on America and Britain. The Foreign Office acknowledged, in a memo
to the committee, that it had known that November 17, the urban guerrilla group
that admitted killing Brigadier Saunders, might seek " softer" targets because
of increased security precautions by the Americans.

The committee noted that while the US was planning to spend pounds 7.6bn over
the next 10 years upgrading security at its embassies, the Foreign Office had
been allocated just pounds 11.8m by the Treasury for the next three years, and
was seeking a further pounds 10m in this year's comprehensive spending review -
a demand which, the MPs said, must be met.

"We very much hope that this modest amount will prove adequate to provide the
protection necessary," the committee said. "Where there is a new threat, new
money must be found, not simply reallocated.

"We recommend that the Foreign Office urgently review the level of protection
afforded to staff overseas and assures the committee that no necessary security
precaution is ever forgone for reasons of cost."

Donald Anderson, the chairman of the committee, said: "The history is very
clear. There was a rocket attack on HMS Ark Royal in 1994 and a number of US
personnel have been killed in Greece. The US has turned its embassy into a
fortress.

"Because of our close links with the US in Kosovo, we were next in line as a
soft target."

Brigadier Saunders' widow, Heather, met the Greek Prime Minister, Costas
Simitis, in Athens yesterday to encourage people to assist the authorities with
their inquiries into her husband's murder.

Her brother, Wing Commander Stephen Kell, said: "The Greek people and parliament
are very embarrassed about what has taken place. For 25 years this terrorist
group has been operating without anybody being arrested or brought to trial. If
something comes out of this tragedy it may be that it will make the Greek
government and Greek people realise that to be part of the EU and part of Nato,
there are rules to abide by and one of those is to eliminate terrorism from your
society."

Overall, the committee said that spending on the Foreign Office had been run
down to "well below" the level at which it could "maximise the promotion of
Britain's key interests". It called for the Foreign Office's annual budget of
pounds 1.1bn to be "increased materially" when the comprehensive spending review
was published later this month.

The way some information was presented in the Foreign Office's annual report was
said to be "hardly satisfactory".

The MPs complained that the report failed to carry detailed account of the
progress made in implementing the 60 changes promised by the Foreign Secretary,
Robin Cook, after the inquiry into the arms-to-Sierra Leone affair.

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Stephen Saunders: 'Should have had better protection'

                      Copyright 2000 Independent Print Ltd

                              133 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                  July 7, 2000

STREETS SHOULD BE FREE OF THIS UFF GODFATHER

BYLINE: COMMENTARY

LENGTH: 622 words


BY ANDREW MACKAY

THIS week the sickening spectacle of violence has returned to Belfast. So-called
loyalist thugs - supposedly loyal to the Crown and Britain - have attacked and
opened fire on the British forces of the Crown.

Troops are back on the streets after an absence of two years. Once again the
Royal Ulster Constabulary is courageously upholding the rule of law.

On Monday around 50 supporters of the illegal terrorist group, Ulster Freedom
Fighters, descended on Drumcree. No attempt was made to hide their terrorist
affiliations. They wore T-shirts with a clenched red fist and paramilitary
slogans and carried a banner reading UFF Shankill Road Battalion C Company. As
they lined up, three hooded men emerged belonging to the illegal Loyalist
Volunteer Force. One read out a statement while the other two fired volleys of
gunshots into the air.

Both of these organisations have been responsible for carrying out some of the
most vicious and repugnant acts of sectarian murder in Northern Ireland. They
are utterly ruthless and evil.

Their approach to murder was once summed up in the vile phrase "Any Catholic
will do".

Watching these events was Johnny "Mad Dog" Adair, a convicted terrorist and one
of the leaders of the Ulster Freedom Fighters. There is no other way of
describing Adair than as a terrorist godfather.

During his trial he admitted having being Commander of the UFF before 1994, a
period in which loyalist terrorists killed more people than the IRA. He pleaded
guilty to directing and promoting acts of terrorism. Adair was sentenced to 16
years in prison but was let out under the Government's early release scheme
after serving only four years of his sentence.

The Conservative Party has always viewed the early release of terrorists with
repugnance. We very reluctantly swallowed it because it formed part of a
package, the Good Friday Agreement.

Even then William Hague and I argued strongly that no prisoners should be
released - loyalist or republican - until the terror group to which they
belonged had begun giving up its arms.

Johnny Adair's organisation, the UFF, has not given up a single bullet and yet,
despite our protests, the Government still released him early. More than 300
terrorists - loyalist and republican - have been let out with the rest due out
later this month.

We believe it is intolerable that a convicted terrorist like Johnny Adair, who
has benefited from the Government's early release of prisoners, should be able
to parade around Drumcree, associating with supporters of the UFF and applauding
the firing of gunshots by hooded members of the LVF.

Naked displays of paramilitarism are clearly not compatible with the commitment
to peaceful and democratic means required by the Good Friday Agreement.

Peter Mandelson should now use his power under the law to declare the LVF and
UFF so-called "specified" organisations.

This would allow him to put Johnny Adair - and any other released prisoners who
are associated with violence - back in prison where they belong. It would also
prevent the early release of any more UFF and LVF prisoners.

No doubt there are some who will accuse me of being unhelpful or rocking the
boat by speaking out on this issue.

But Johnny Adair's continued presence on the streets of Northern Ireland is not
just an affront to the victims of terrorism, it is an affront to the rule of law
throughout the entire United Kingdom.

And the Conservative Party will not stand idly by while the rule of law in
Northern Ireland or anywhere else in the United Kingdom is sacrificed for the
sake of political expediency. Andrew Mackay MP is the Shadow Secretary of State
for Northern Ireland.

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2000 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              134 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             July 8, 2000, Saturday

BRITAIN TO TAKE BACK NUCLEAR SHIPMENT

BYLINE: Richard Lloyd Parry And Steve Connor

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 609 words


THE GOVERNMENT has finally agreed to take back a shipment of flawed nuclear fuel
from Japan, seven months after British Nuclear Fuels (BNFL) admitted it had
misled the Japanese about safety checks on its reprocessed plutonium pellets.

A high-level meeting between the two governments is scheduled for Tuesday when
Anna Walker, director general of energy at the Department of Trade and Industry,
is expected to agree to the return of the shipment at a cost of millions of
pounds to the taxpayer.

Although BNFL and British government officials insisted yesterday that no final
terms had been agreed, ministers are preparing the way for the return of the
first and so far only consignment of mixed-oxide (Mox) fuel exported to Japan
from the Sellafield reprocessing plant in Cumbria.

After initially denying there had been deliberate falsification of quality
control data, BNFL admitted in December that safety information relating to the
Mox consignment sent to the Takahama nuclear facility in central Japan had been
fabricated.

The return of the fuel will involve elaborate negotiations with the United
States - where the plutonium originated - and the countries through whose
territorial waters the armed escort ships and the cargo must pass. Britain will
also face renewed protests from environmentalists who vigorously opposed the
shipment in the first place, arguing that it was vulnerable to terrorist attack
and a threat to wildlife.

The Japanese Minister of International Trade and Industry, Takeo Hiranuma,
confirmed that a deal was being finalised. "We are close to agreement with the
British government on the return of the fuel," he said. BNFL has already made
clear that it is willing to accept the return of the fuel, subject to government
approval, to clear the way for a resumption of Mox business with its Japanese
customer, Kansai Electric.

The British step-down represents the first sign of movement in a scandal that
has sullied BNFL's reputation around the world, and jeopardised the future of
the company's new pounds 300m Mox plant at Sellafield.

The Independent revealed in September that BNFL workers had faked the results of
safety checks on Mox fuel destined for a reactor in Takahama, run by Kansai. In
December, checks on fuel already sent to Takahama were revealed to have also
been falsified, to the embarrassment of the Japanese government and the fury of
local people.

Kansai refused to do any more business with BNFL until the fuel was removed,
thus threatening the opening of the new Mox plant, which will never be
commercially viable without Japanese custom.

In April, a BNFL executive said the government was refusing to take back the
highly radioactive fuel because of the risk of a public backlash in Britain. But
now BNFL's commercial needs and future good relations with Japan appear to have
taken precedence over political concerns.

Returning the fuel from Takahama to Sellafield will be complicated. The final
cost could run into tens of millions of pounds and will reignite concern about
the international trade in plutonium fuel.

Aileen Mioko-Smith of the Japanese environmental group Green Action said the
lives of people living on the route the shipment must take would again be at
risk. "They are returning this fuel because they intend to continue making Mox.
But what this scandal shows is that it's too difficult - they can only do it by
falsifying the safety checks," she said.

Even if the Mox is returned safely to Britain, the public disgust generated by
the scandal means there is no guarantee that BNFL will ever again be able to do
business in Japan.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2000 Independent Print Ltd

                              135 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             July 10, 2000, Monday

Dig in for victory

BYLINE: Richard Overy

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 1730 words


Sixty years ago this month Hitler began preparing for the invasion of Britain.
Richard Overy explains how the Battle of Britain marked the turning point in the
war

When Winston Churchill broadcast to the nation on June 18, 1940, news of the
defeat of France, he warned his anxious listeners that the "Battle of Britain"
was about to begin.

He did not yet have in mind the aerial conflict in the autumn of 1940, which has
become the "Battle of Britain" of history. He was describing what he saw as the
next step in Hitler's bid to conquer Europe. For Churchill, the Battle of
Britain would be fought by all three armed services - Air Force, Army and Navy -
and fought not only in the air, but on the beaches, too.

Yet in mid-June no one knew what Hitler's intentions were, for he did not know
them himself. The only certainty was Britain's determination to keep fighting.
Even this had been undecided until Churchill, with Neville Chamberlain's
support, finally persuaded his Cabinet, on May 28, that Britain must stay in the
fight. Some politicians wanted to seek a compromise peace in the hope that
Germany would be generous but most British leaders recognised that Hitler's word
was not worth having. A peace on German terms, as the French discovered a few
weeks later when Hitler insisted on the territorial dismemberment of France, was
intolerable.

The British public did not entirely share this view. An opinion poll in June
showed only 50 per cent confident of fighting alone and 25 per cent unwilling to
go on fighting at all. The Home Intelligence organisation found a mood of
"gloomy apprehension" everywhere. Its agents, stationed in bars and tearooms,
found evidence of defeatism as well as heroic defiance. "Many workers say about
Hitler: 'He won't hurt us: it's the bosses he's after: we'll probably be better
off when he comes'," ran one report. Only over the course of the summer and
autumn did British opinion begin to follow Churchill's lead. In November an
opinion poll showed 80 per cent confident of victory.

Hitler was much less sure than the British about whether the fight would
continue. His preference was for a peace settlement, dictated by the Germans. He
could see no reason why Britain should carry on fighting now she had been
expelled from continental Europe. German leaders expected Churchill to be
overthrown and an appeasing government installed.

British defiance made Hitler think again. On July 2 he ordered German forces to
begin pre-planning for what became, on July 16, a full directive for "Operation
Sealion", the invasion of southern Britain at some point in September 1940.

Hitler was not yet done with peace. On July 19 he announced to a packed German
Parliament - "as a conqueror" - his willingness to end the war if the British
asked for terms. The British brusquely rejected the offer. On July 23 the
foreign press in Berlin were told by Goebbels's press chief: "Gentlemen, there
will be war."

From that point Hitler was serious about invasion. He still hoped that the
British might see sense and give up but, if not, Britain would have to be
conquered, and that meant defeating the Royal Air Force over southern England
and opening up secure sea lanes across the Channel.

The conflict between the RAF and German Air Force in the autumn of 1940 was a
decisive one. It kept Britain in the war and prevented Germany from gaining a
quick victory. But it is a battle that has to be placed in context. At the time
few people appreciated its true significance. The battle had no clear start and
no clear end. The legendary story of the conflict took shape only when the Air
Ministry issued a million copies of a pamphlet, The Battle of Britain, in March
1941. At the time the air battles were seen only as one part of Britain's
broader war effort. When Churchill made his famous speech in August 1940, "never
in the field of human conflict was so much owed by so many to so few", he
devoted only six lines to Fighter Command, and gave Bomber Command 21 lines ("On
no part of the Royal Air Force does the weight of the war fall more heavily
...").

The main part of his speech was devoted to the war in Africa against fascist
Italy. This war absorbed large resources; it was a critical campaign, for
Italian capture of the Suez Canal and British defeat in East Africa would have
cut a vital link with India and the eastern Empire. Defeat by Italy was as
dangerous a prospect as defeat by the German Air Force, for it would have ended
Britain's ability to fight a global war.

Britain also faced a predatory Japan and throughout the oceans a deadly war was
waged against enemy submarines and aircraft seeking to strangle British trade.
Above all there was the threat of invasion that could not be defeated by Fighter
Command alone.

The RAF's achievements in the autumn of 1940 must also be put into context. The
ability to obstruct German air supremacy was vital, though the balance of forces
would have made a complete German victory in the air unlikely. Yet this success
did not bring Britain any nearer to being able to defeat Germany. The German Air
Force was almost as large at the end of the Battle of Britain as it was at the
start. The outcome in September 1940 was a stalemate. Neither side could prevail
over the other, but neither was defeated.

The Battle of Britain not only failed to end the threat from Germany, but in
some ways intensified it. In September 1940 the German leadership shifted from
the invasion plan (postponed until the spring) to the mass bombing of British
industrial cities, in the hope that this would so undermine Britain's economic
and military structure, and so demoralise Government and people that Britain
would sue for peace. For many Britons, bombing was the real battle of Britain.

When the bombing began in earnest in early September, Hitler expected decisive
results. He would not accept the request of his Air Force chief-of-staff to
cause mass panic by indiscriminate terror attacks, but he did want Britain
ground down by ceaseless attacks.

As the weeks passed German leaders became more impatient. "When will Churchill
capitulate?", asked Goebbels in his diary in November. Grim reports came back to
Berlin of the unendurable state of Britain's wrecked cities. On December 11
Hitler told party bigwigs: "The war is militarily as good as won. England is
isolated. Will bit by bit be driven into the ground."

Bombing did not force Britain to capitulate. True, its effects were demoralising
and frightening. Yet there was no political backlash. The images of workers and
shoppers picking their way through the rubble each morning was evidence of how
ordinary people tried to retain a sense of normality.

The British stiff upper lip is no mere myth; Home Intelligence reported a
working-class woman in August, after a heavy raid, saying: "I've lost
everything. Not a cup and saucer left. But I've got my hearing and eyesight. And
my life. So I mustn't grumble."

When the MP Harold Nicolson awoke to find a bomb had sheered off the corner of
the office building he was sleeping in he invited "the paler people" in for a
glass of sherry to cheer them up. "It was all such fun; I rather enjoyed it," he
confided to his diary.

The Blitz united British opinion behind the decision to keep on fighting. By
December the authorities were getting irate letters from the public demanding
that the propaganda slogan "Britain can take it" should be replaced by "Britain
can give it".

Then, in February 1941, an intelligence source warned of a new German "soporific
gas" that would render the population unconscious for 36 hours while German
forces stormed ashore. Britain had prepared to retaliate with gas attacks during
the Battle of Britain; now Churchill wanted to know what the RAF could do to the
German population if gas had to be used. There was enough poison gas, he was
told, to attack Germany for four or five days.

In the spring of 1941 the British braced themselves for an assault. But there
was to be no second Battle of Britain. Hitler had decided that Britain's fate
would be determined in the East. The defeat of the Soviet Union was expected in
six months. Britain, Hitler assumed, would then sue for peace, or be defeated at
German leisure.

The Battle of Britain did not end the other military threats Britain faced,
either in the Mediterranean or the Far East, or in the war at sea that Churchill
was to christen the "Battle of the Atlantic". The war with Italy in Africa
exposed the fragility of Britain's military effort in 1940. If Italy could not
be defeated, there was scant hope of denting the German war machine. The
successful counter-offensive against Italian forces in Egypt in December 1940
was a turning-point that has been largely forgotten.

Nor did the battle improve Britain's political position. Without major allies
there was no way her Empire could defeat the Axis states. The American public
was keen to see Britain survive, but Roosevelt's Government did little to help.
Meanwhile, Stalin kept up his appeasing pact with Hitler. Soviet weather ships
gave reports to the Germans on conditions around Britain; Soviet oil fuelled the
German war effort. Soviet leaders dismissed Britain's prospects of success, but
hoped the two capitalist states would wear each other down.

The battle did not end the crisis Britain faced in the war, nor bring strong
allies to her side; it did not deflect Hitler from his plans to bring Britain
and the Soviet Union under German domination. At most it prevented a cheap end
to the war.

Yet for the British the battle was significant. It provided a rallying point for
a society still divided by the shock of Anglo-French defeat in Europe earlier in
the year. It played the same part that Stalingrad played on the Eastern Front.
It was the point at which Britain avoided defeat and dug in for a long war.

Yet the it was won at remarkably little cost. Between July 1 and November 1,
1940, Fighter Command lost 284 pilots killed in action and 159 killed in
accidents.

The battle did not win the war but it prevented defeat. In the crisis months of
1940 this was achievement enough.

Copyright Richard Overy 2000. Richard Overy is Professor of Modern History at
King's College London. His book, The Battle, is published by Penguin, Pounds
4.99


LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2000 Times Newspapers Limited

                              136 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            July 12, 2000, Wednesday

THE SELLAFIELD SAFETY SCANDAL WILL COST US POUNDS 100M

BYLINE: Charles Arthur Technology Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1274 words


THE PROBLEMS that have ended up with British Nuclear Fuels pledging to pay
pounds 40m compensation - or more realistically pounds 100m - in taxpayers'
money were sitting yesterday in a pool in the Takahama nuclear facility in
Japan. They are two stainless steel flasks, each weighing 100 tonnes, which
together would fill the sitting room of a large house.

Sometime in the next two or three years those flasks will be loaded onto a ship
destined to return to Britain. Japan's Kansai Electric Company rejected them
after it realised, following reports in The Independent starting last September,
that the data about the pellets of uranium and plutonium in the mixed-oxide
(MOX) nuclear fuel might have been faked by BNFL workers. BNFL, a company in
state ownership, always insisted the data was correct.

The saga of this fuel, which arrived in Takahama after a three-month journey
from Cumbria last autumn, is far from over. Before the shipments can begin, the
UK Government will have get permission from every country past which the fuel
might sail.

Given the potential for a terrorist attack, multiple routes are preferable,
which will mean a huge amount of high-level diplomacy. It will also inflate the
cost of this debacle, to perhaps pounds 100m all told.

It is a high price to pay for the sloppy management and work practices which led
bored production line workers to simply pass off fuel rods as having been
approved, when insufficient checks had been made.

More immediately it puts a huge question mark over the future of BNFL, and over
the British Government's pledge not to increase the amount of highly radioactive
waste stored in this country. The terms set by Kansai Electric are that BNFL
must pay more than pounds 20m cash in compensation as soon as possible.

The rest of the pounds 40m package might either be accepted in the form of
properly processed fuel; or, if Kansai Electric no longer needs or wants BNFL's
products, it might simply take the balance in cash, leaving BNFL with a huge
fuel shipment and no customer for it.

It would return the equivalent amount of plutonium to Kansai, under an
arrangement by which countries swap like amounts of fuel (it would create more
radioactive waste separating out the plutonium from the actual shipment than
taking the same amount from a separate store).

But the actual shipment would need a home, perhaps long-term, in Britain. That
would entail a change in Government policy which would meet furious opposition
from environmental groups. There would also be no economic justification for
doing it; storage would not create jobs.

The latter option, where Kansai disavows the shipment, is entirely possible.
Japanese public confidence in the atomic industry has plummeted since an
unrelated accident last September when two workers died at a nuclear fuel
processing plant in Tokaimura, 70 miles from Tokyo.

Now, the Japanese government is considering a plan to make power companies
generate a set amount of their energy from safe, renewable sources such as wind
power.

Though one-third of Japan's electricity is generated from nuclear energy, the
government said it will scale back its target of building 20 more reactors in
the next 10 years.

Japan was BNFL's biggest customer. Now, that business is in tatters. "Clearly,
we've lost at least nine months in getting approval for this facility," said a
BNFL spokesman yesterday. "But in reality the setback is probably more like
years."

In September The Independent revealed that safety checks on the fuel rods
destined for Japan had been falsified. When the data for the rods had eventually
been inspected - long after the rods had been approved for export - they were
found to be suspiciously similar. So similar they could only be the result of
copying, rather than actual inspection.

Why did that matter? Each rod contains more than 1,000 cylindrical pellets.
Routinely, about 200 pellets in each rod must be sampled and their diameters
measured at three points to ensure they are the correct size.

As a source close to the problem explained to The Independent in September: "If
the pellets are larger than they should be, they can expand and damage the
cladding of the fuel rod. If they are too small, they can vibrate and the
pellets can rupture." That, inside a nuclear power plant, could be disastrous.
As the story unfolded, driven by further Independent revelations, it transpired
that more fuel rods were affected than had been initially thought - 22 rather
than 10.

In December, Swiss nuclear safety inspectors found faults in a fuel rod supplied
in 1996 by BNFL - and checked by the same people suspected of fiddling the data
for the new rods. Three BNFL employees were suspended; eventually five people
were dismissed. They abandoned their claim for unfair dismissal against the
company as the case was about to come to court.

The Kansai Electric company told The Independent in January that it would order
the return of the shipment. At that, the British government and BNFL undertook
an intensive lobbying effort with the company and the Japanese government. The
British ambass- ador to Japan and John Prescott, the Deputy Prime Minister,
apologised for the errors (a key step towards making any reparation with a
Japanese organisation). A trade delegation visited to urge that the fuel
shipment be left where it was. But Kansai, recognising the strength of its
position, stuck to its guns.

The BNFL chief executive, John Taylor, resigned. A management shakeup was
demanded; government ministers criticised it in public, with the Secretary of
State for Trade and Industry Stephen Byers calling the previous management
system "fundamentally flawed". The planned privatisation, which would have
yielded pounds 1.5bn for the public coffers, was shelved in March.

In all, it has been a dreadful nine months for the company. And it is not over.
Senior staff such as Mark Jervis, the business manager with responsibility for
the commercial sector, talk of the company being on "the road to recovery" as
though it were an alcoholic trying to dry out.

Mr Jervis remains convinced of the potential for MOX, which combines plutonium
and uranium oxide recycled from spent nuclear fuel. It can be used at existing
nuclear power stations once modifications have been made to the plant.

In principle, power plant operator like MOX fuel: it reduces uranium consumption
and offers a way to use the plutonium produced by burning other sorts of nuclear
fuel.

"There is still a national policy in Japan to recycle fuel," said Mr Jervis.
"The significant breakthrough is that the impasse between us and Kansai has been
broken. Kansai has lifted the moratorium on taking reprocessed fuel from BNFL."

Whether the MOX plant can now justify the cost of building it and go into
operation must remain in doubt. A BNFL spokesman said: "Until this agreement, we
had three hoops to jump through: getting the moratorium lifted, getting Kansai
to accept our fuel, and getting British Government approval to run the MOX
facility. Now we only have to jump through the last two hoops."

A year ago, there was only the one hoop. Like a man chasing the horizon, BNFL is
pursuing a dream which evades it as fast as it runs. And those two flasks of
dubious fuel remain in Japan, the most damning and perhaps the final evidence of
BNFL's failures.

HOW THE INDEPENDENT BROKE THE STORY

14 September 1999: Breaks story of errors at nuclear plant

9 March 2000: Scandal prompts international response

8 July: News breaks of return of suspect fuel to Sellafield

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The flasks of suspect nuclear fuel at present stored at Takahama in;
Japan (left) will return to Sellafield (right) some time in the next three years
EPA/ Greenpeace

                      Copyright 2000 Independent Print Ltd

                              137 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                            July 19, 2000, Wednesday

MCALISKEY NOT TO FACE TRIAL;
 'NO TRIAL' DECISION ON BOMB SUSPECT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1, 2

LENGTH: 396 words


OSNABRUCK bomb suspect Roisin McAliskey will not be prosecuted in Britain, it
was announced yesterday.

There was not enough evidence to justify trying Ms McAliskey, 26, for the 1996
attack on the British Army barracks in Germany, the Crown Prosecution Service
ruled.

There were fears that, given the length of time since the IRA mortar bomb blast,
she could have argued abuse of process.

Ms McAliskey is still wanted for questioning by German police over the June
attack that left several buildings badly damaged.

They claim the republican activist, daughter of former MP Bernadette McAliskey,
was part of an IRA unit that rented acottage near the camp.

But Home Secretary Jack Straw caused a political storm two years ago when he
ruled she was too ill to be extradited.

Pregnant when she was arrested and placed in British jails while the extradition
process ground on, she was diagnosed with post-natal depression.

Unionist politicians condemned Mr Straw's decision as a sop to republicans.

She could have been prosecuted in the UK under the terms of an European
counter-terrorism agreement.

The decision not to go ahead with the trial was endorsed by the Attorney General
and Solicitor General.

The decision caused upset in unionist circles

but was welcomed by Sinn Fein.

Ulster Unionist MP Jeffrey Donaldson said he was "suspicious" at the timing of
the announcement.

He said there would be many people in Northern Ireland and throughout the UK who
would wonder why the Crown Prosecution Service were not, at least, going to
court to test the evidence.

He said that while he was not suggesting the CPS was operating to a political
agenda "it is part of a pattern which suggests there is a political agenda to
'go easy' on the republican movement".

Mr Donaldson added: "It is a little more than coincidence that this announcement
is made at this particular time and the CPS have walked away from the
opportunity to test the evidence they have in court."

Sinn Fein said that if the Government had taken the time to thoroughly check the
evidence against Ms McAliskey at the time the original charges were made against
her, she would never have spent any time in an English prison.

"She was a victim of the sort of miscarriage of justice that all too frequently
affects Irish people in Britain," said a spokesman.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2000 Century Newspapers Limited

                              138 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                            July 19, 2000, Wednesday

MCALISKEY WILL NOT FACE TRIAL OVER BARRACKS BOMB

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 133 words


Bomb suspect Roisin McAliskey will not be prosecuted in Britain, it was
announced yesterday.

There was not enough evidence to justify trying McAliskey (26) for the 1996
attack on the British army barracks at Osnabruck in Germany, the Crown
Prosecution Service ruled.

And there were fears that given the length of time since the IRA mortar bomb
blast she could have argued abuse of process.

McAliskey is still wanted for questioning by German police over the June attack
that left several buildings badly damaged.

They claim the republican activist, daughter of former MP Bernadette McAliskey,
was part of an IRA unit that rented a cottage near the camp.

But Home Secretary Jack Straw caused a political storm two years ago when he
ruled she was too ill to be extradited.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2000 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              139 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 July 19, 2000

Trial for bomb suspect McAliskey ruled out

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 271 words


Osnabruck bomb suspect Roisin McAliskey will not be prosecuted in Britain, it
was announced yesterday.

There was not enough evidence to justify trying McAliskey, 26, for the 1996
attack on the British Army barracks in Germany, the Crown Prosecution Service
ruled.

And there were fears that given the length of time since the IRA mortar bomb
blast she could have argued abuse of process.

McAliskey is still wanted for questioning by German police over the June attack
that left several buildings badly damaged.

They claim the republican activist, daughter of former MP Bernadette McAliskey,
was part of an IRA unit that rented a cottage near the camp.

But Home Secretary Jack Straw caused a political storm two years ago when he
ruled she was too ill to be extradited.

Pregnant when she was arrested and placed in British jails while the extradition
process ground on, she was diagnosed with post-natal depression.

However, Unionist politicians condemned Mr Straw's decision as a sop to
republicans.

She could have been prosecuted in the UK under the terms of a European counter
-terrorism agreement.

The decision not to go ahead with the trial, revealed to Parliament yesterday,
was endorsed by the Attorney General and Solicitor General.

The decision caused upset in unionist circles.

Ulster Unionist MP Jeffrey Donaldson said he was "suspicious" at the timing of
the announcement.

He said that while he was not suggesting the CPS was operating to a political
agenda "it is part of a pattern which suggests there is a political agenda to
'go easy' on the republican movement."

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2000 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              140 of 299 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            July 19, 2000, Wednesday

NO TRIAL FOR MCALISKEY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 121 words


BOMB suspect Bernadette McAliskey will not be prosecuted in Britain, it was
announced yesterday.

Crown Prosecution Service bosses say there is not enough evidence to justify
trying McAliskey, 26, for the 1996 mortar attack on a British army base in the
German town of Osnabruck.

However, she is still wanted by German police for questioning over the attack
that left several buildings badly damaged.

German police sources claim the republican activist was part of an IRA unit that
rented a cottage near the camp.

Ms McAliskey was pregnant when arrested and Home Secretary Jack Straw caused a
political storm two years ago when he ruled she was too ill to be extradited.
She had post-natal depression.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.

                              141 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            July 19, 2000, Wednesday

Maze prison will stay open 'just in case'

BYLINE: Christopher Walker, Chief Ireland Correspondent

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 457 words


THE notorious Maze prison is to remain open in case of renewed outbreaks of
terrorism, the Northern Ireland Prison Service disclosed yesterday.

It had been expected that the prison would be closed within months of the last
80 paramilitary prisoners being freed next week under the terms of the 1998 Good
Friday agreement. But The Times was told yesterday that the Maze is now to
remain open indefinitely, ready to take new prisoners in the event of terrorist
attacks and to house inmates from other jails that suffer riots.

The decision is likely to be seen by many as a symbol that the peace process
still has an uncertain future.

"There is no question at the moment of the jail being bulldozed or the site
sold," a prison source said.

"The Maze will remain in what we call 'warm storage' for an indefinite period,
ready for instant use if needed."

The prison was built in the 1970s to house paramilitary prisoners across the
sectarian divide. The decision to keep it open beyond the end of this financial
year reflects fears that there could either be more serious trouble at
Maghaberry jail in Co Antrim or that members of the Real IRA could start a new
campaign of violence. That could lead to loyalist reaction and more mass
arrests.

"The decision to keep the accommodation at the Maze on hold does not mean that
we are expecting another war," the spokesman said.

Prominent republicans have campaigned for the jail's hospital where ten of their
members, including Bobby Sands, starved themselves to death in the 1980s hunger
strikes, to be turned into a museum.

According to the prison spokesman, arrangements have yet to be made for the 17
prisoners who will be left behind inside the high-security jail when the 80
paramilitary prisoners walk free on July 28.

Prisoners who do not qualify for release include Christopher (Crip) McWilliams
of the Irish National Liberation Army, who murdered Billy "King Rat" Wright,
leader of the Loyalist Volunteer Force, while in jail for the killing of another
man.

The Maze has played host to some of Northern Ireland's best-known politicians,
including Gerry Adams and Gerry Kelly of Sinn Fein and the loyalists Billy
Hutchinson and David Ervine.

Pressure to keep it open has increased because of the closure of Belfast's
Crumlin Road jail. That site, valued at about Pounds 1 million, has not yet
found a buyer.

Roisin McAliskey, the terrorist suspect, will not face prosecution in Britain
for an IRA bomb attack on an army barracks in Germany, the Government said last
night.

The Crown Prosecution Service said there was not enough evidence to justify
bringing Miss McAliskey, 26, to trial for the attack on Osnabruk barracks in
June 1996.


LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2000 Times Newspapers Limited

                              142 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 July 20, 2000

Republican bomb paralyses London

BYLINE: Nick Hopkins Crime correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 384 words


The campaign tactics of dissident Irish republicans opposed to the Good Friday
agreement became clear yesterday when parts of London were paralysed by a bomb
hidden in a pile of rubbish close to one of the busiest railway lines in the
country.

Even though the device did not explode, the closure of tube and mainline
stations caused misery for hundreds of thousands of commuters, roads were
gridlocked, and the build-up to the Queen Mother's centenary pageant in
Whitehall was disrupted.

After the bomb had been destroyed by Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist branch,
Victoria and Westminster stations were evacuated for security sweeps.

Seven weeks ago dissident republicans, almost certainly the Real IRA, launched
their first successful attack in England by planting a small Semtex bomb under
Hammer smith bridge in west London. Nobody was injured but the explosion caused
rush-hour chaos and the bridge is still undergoing repairs.

Security sources said yesterday that the dissidents had "learned the lesson of
Omagh" - a reference to the Real IRA bomb in Co Tyrone that killed 29 people in
August 1998. The goal, sources said, was "to cause maximum disruption without
killing civilians".

Yesterday's alert began at 6.15am when various organisations in Dublin were
warned that a bomb would go off at 8am in west London. The callers pinpointed
Twyford Avenue in Ealing and mentioned possible devices at Victoria and
Westminster.

Peter Mandelson, the Northern Ireland secretary, said the bombers' codeword had
also been used to warn of a recent attack on a railway line at Newry in Northern
Ireland.

Officers from the anti-terrorist branch and British Transport police found a bag
hidden in some rubbish on the embankment near the track, which is one of the key
rail lines from London to Wales and the west country.

Scotland Yard sources said the device was live. "This was a viable bomb. It was
primed to explode," they said. It contained half a kilo of high explosive,
probably Semtex.

Paddington station, one of the busiest in Britain, was closed for the rest of
the day. Underground stations in west London were also affected.

The closure of Victoria mainline and underground station at 11.20am caused
further chaos in central London.

Background, page 3


LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              143 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 July 20, 2000

The Real IRA and terrorism on a shoestring

BYLINE: John Mullin Ireland correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 3

LENGTH: 527 words


The so-called Real IRA is pursuing a twin strategy: terrorism on a shoestring in
Britain, pitched at causing maximum disruption for minimum outlay, and a more
concerted campaign in Northern Ireland. Security forces fear that deaths are
increasingly likely.

After last month's propaganda coup with its bomb attack on Hammersmith bridge in
west London, the dissident republicans planted a small device on the
Belfast-Dublin railway at Newry three weeks ago. It was its sixth attack in
Northern Ireland this year, and was followed by a car bomb in Stewartstown, Co
Tyrone.

There have been no injuries in any of its operations this year. But the railway
bomb was a wake- up call to the security forces.

The small device was designed to entice them to the scene. Waiting for them was
a bomb containing 250lb of homemade explosive, the plan being to kill as many
RUC and army personnel as possible.

It was a favoured tactic of the Real IRA's former comrades in the Provisional
IRA, from whom they split in autumn 1997. The dissidents were opposed to Sinn
Fein signing up to the former US senator George Mitchell's principles of peace
and democracy, the cornerstones on which the Good Friday agreement was to be
built.

The Real IRA's subsequent campaign culminated in the Omagh car bombing of August
1998, the largest single atrocity of the Troubles. Although it is unlikely that
the terror group intended murder, so reckless and amateurish was the operation
that 29 died.

It called a ceasefire soon afterwards, and laid low. But a year later, the
group's leader, a 50-year-old businessman from Dundalk, Co Louth, formerly an
IRA quartermaster, restarted operations.

Its plans for a campaign in Britain initially stuttered. Attempts to smuggle
homemade explosives and a car bomb from Irish ports in January and April 1998
were foiled as Gardai penetrated the outfit, and an incendiary bomb campaign
that summer was also prevented.

But security sources feared in the aftermath of the Hammersmith bridge bombing
that an active service unit had been established in England. Yesterday's
operation appears to support fears that such a unit could strike again.

The loose alliance of dissident republicans, including Continuity IRA, more a
flag of convenience these days for Real IRA activity, is thought to number about
120. As few as 30 are active terrorists.

The IRA's initiative on putting its arms beyond use, its offer to break the
decommissioning crisis, boosted Real IRA support, although security forces are
unable to quantify it. But a recent recruit was an IRA engineer with particular
expertise in manufacturing mortars.

He joins a Dublin-based motorcycle courier who is the Real IRA's chief
bomb-maker. He made the timing devices used at Omagh, and forensic scientists
detected his hand in the Hammersmith device.

Its recent activities are an attempt to entice IRA members dubious about the
decommissioning initiative and the policing bill. It is also raising two fingers
at mainstream republicans, selecting Hammersmith bridge, which the IRA twice
attacked unsuccessfully, and targets in the south Armagh area.


LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              144 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                             July 21, 2000, Friday

TERROR WAR STEPPED UP

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 73 words


POLICE in the Irish Republic last night said they are working closely with the
police in Britain to prevent further attacks by the Real IRA.

Garda commissioner Pat Byrne said he believes the group is recruiting new
members, but his officers are liasing with the RUC and police services in
Britain to tackle the threat.

He was speaking after Wednesday's foiled bomb attack in London, thought to be
the work of the Real IRA.

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2000 Century Newspapers Limited

                              145 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                        July 25, 2000, Tuesday Edition 1

Maverick spy Shayler to stand against Blair at Sedgefield

SECTION: REGIONAL NEWS, Pg. 7

LENGTH: 379 words


   RENEGADE MI5 spy David Shayler has announced he will return to Britain next
month to defend himself - and prepare to stand against Tony Blair in County
Durham in the next General Election.

The Middlesbrough man who blew the whistle on an alleged Secret Service plot to
kill Libya's Colonel Gadaffi is due to face charges under the Official Secrets
Act when he arrives back in Britain.

But now Mr Shayler, in exile in France since his revelations, believes he may
not ultimately face trial.

He had been waiting for assurances that he would be granted bail when he
returned to face the charges. Speaking from Paris, he said: "I am taking the
fight to them. I am looking forward to getting back to a normal life. I have
nothing to hide ... I have always been confident that I could go back and prove
my case.

"The Government is going to have more problems than it is worth to put me on
trial in open court.

Last Friday, as the High Court denied a Special Branch request to make
journalists hand over their documents and e-mails from Mr Shayler, he announced
his plans to return to Britain in a letter to MPs. In it he said: "The Gadaffi
Plot and the other issues I have raised go to the very heart of our democracy.
... It is absolutely vital that the people know whether the Government is
telling the truth or indeed whether it is in control of the intelligence
services.

"After all, what is the point in people voting for you, if unelected officials
decide foreign policy in secret without any reference to the Government and, by
extension, Parliament? ...

"Secrecy is no justification for covering up crimes committed by the
intelligence services, especially the death of innocent civilians in a terrorist
act carried out by rogue elements of MI6 and funded by British taxpayers without
their consent."

Mr Shayler says his plan to stand against Mr Blair in Sedgefield at the General
Election will be on a serious political platform highlighting Labour's failure
to address the issues he has raised.

The announcement was dismissed as a stunt by Mr Blair's agent John Burton, who
said: "The next election will be about health, education, jobs and the economy
and I don't think David Shayler's personal publicity will be an issue."

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Renegade spy: David Shayler.

                Copyright 2000 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              146 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 July 26, 2000

Concorde crash: Uncontained engine blaze seems likely cause of crash: The
theory: Pilot helpless to prevent disaster after fire started on runway

BYLINE: Keith Harper Transport editor

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 893 words


Police and firefighters check a section of debris from the Air France Concorde
at the crash site in Gonesse Photograph: Jack Guez

A raging fire in an engine on the Concorde charter flight from Paris to New York
appears to have been the most likely reason for the crash yesterday.

The pilot of another aircraft waiting to take off at Charles de Gaulle airport
saw the fire in the engine as the Concorde taxied down the runway, but said that
there was no reaction from inside the supersonic plane. Within minutes it
crashed, engulfed in a fireball from 100 tonnes of fuel for the transatlantic
flight.

Eyewitnesses were astonished that the plane took off with its wing on fire. They
said that under normal circumstances the pilot would have been aware of the
blaze both through observation and from danger warnings on his in strument
panel. Engineers said the pilot should have been alerted to the problem by a red
light at the controls and should have immediately warned air traffic control.

The four engines have a thrust of 38,000lb each. They are the most powerful pure
jet engines flying commercially.

The pilot may have been so far down the runway, travelling at a speed
approaching 250mph that he would not have been able to brake in time. He would
have had no option but to take off, desperately hoping that he could circle and
land again.

A senior British Airways engineer, while stressing that Concorde was the safest
aircraft in the world and had a record second to none, said the crash could have
been caused by "an uncontained failure" in the Rolls-Royce Olympus engine. This
suggests that there was an explosion in the engine which ripped through the
protective cowling, and over which the pilot would have had no control.

A fire would have spread quickly, and as the pilot was in the middle of a steep
climb, there was nothing he could do to prevent the catastrophe.

The BA engineer said that if there had been a "controlled failure" in the
engine, the problem would have been contained in the engine, which would have
simply cut out. With three engines left, the pilot could have been expected to
complete his take-off, circle the airport and land again safely.

Philip Butterworth-Hayes editor of Jane's Aircraft Components, said "From
reports, I gather that flame was coming out of the back of one of the engines.
This is very strange. Even with the after-burners on, the captain should still
have had enough power in reserve to get out of any problem."

Christopher Korenke, vice-president and general manager of Air France (US) told
a news conference that the aircraft was delivered to Air France on June 17 1979.

It became operational October 23, 1980, and had made 3978 landings and completed
11,989 flight hours.

French investigators, who were on the scene within minutes, will want to know
what safety inspections were carried out immediately before takeoff. Both Air
France and British Airways carry out a strict inspection of each air craft and
the French authorities will have records of a clearance note from Air France
engineers.

A plane is at its most vulnerable at takeoff. A pilot cannot abort a takeoff at
high speed on a runway and has insufficient time to brake. He therefore has to
complete takeoff, circle round and try to land. Pilots use all their experience
to ensure that anything that goes wrong in the moments before takeoff can be
rectified. Investigators will therefore be searching for the Concorde's black
box recorder for any information from the flight deck.

Experts last night appeared to have ruled out wing cracks reported in the past
few days on the both Air France and British Airways Concorde fleet as the reason
for the crash.

Britain's regulatory body, the Civil Aviation Authority, has already cleared the
minute cracks in the rear of the wings and BA had decided to continue to fly the
plane. The normal Concorde scheduled flight left Heathrow for New York at 10.15
yesterday morning but BA suspended two further flights last night.

The cracks were discovered more than a month ago on BA and Air France Concordes
and were immediately reported by engineers to the CAA. The cracks have been
sealed. The French investigators will also be studying weather conditions at the
time of the crash, and whether there was any obstruction on the runway.

One theory was that the plane may have been the victim of a terrorist attack.
However, while Concorde is a high-profile aircraft, no dissident group aimed at
harming both France and Britain could be identified. A senior Concorde pilot
said: "The plane's handling is good, and the controls are well harmonised in
pitch and roll, but they are not exactly light. To fly Concorde you have to be
aware of pitch." He said that it took a lot of commitment to fly the plane.

"The six month initial training programme is no small challenge. Concorde
requires strong stick and rudder skills, and a lot of attention to pitch when on
final approach to landing," the pilot said.

Both Air France and BA expect an adverse reaction from customers on future
ticket sales, even though much will depend on the reason for the accident. But
Concorde is extremely popular with business people, film and music stars
crossing the Atlantic.

Links

www.airfrance.co.uk Air France

www.eads-nv.com Aerospatiale


LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              147 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 July 27, 2000

UK news in Brief

SECTION: Guardian Weekly Pages, Pg. 10

LENGTH: 338 words


* Almost 20% of Britain's workforce could be sent incorrect tax bills after the
Inland Revenue admitted that it could not find the records of more than 5m
taxpayers.

* A 200-year-old immunity that protected barristers from being sued over the way
they handled cases in court was swept away in a ruling by seven law lords.

* Cormac Murphy-O'Connor, who became Archbishop of Westminster in March, refused
to resign after revelations that he allowed Michael Hill, a high-risk
paedophile, to carry on as a priest despite warnings that he would reoffend.

* The Crown Prosecution Service has abandoned its investigation into Roisin
McAliskey, who was accused of being involved in the IRA bombing of a British
army base in Osnabruck, Germany in June 1996.

* Relatives of Argentine sailors killed when the battleship General Belgrano was
sunk by a British submarine during the Falklands war had their claims of
compensation from Britain dashed when the European Court of Human Rights in
Strasbourg ruled that they were filed past the legal time limit.

* The Home Secretary, Jack Straw, is to fund an extra 4,000 recruits to the
police service on top of the 5,000 he promised last year.

* Parts of London were paralysed by a bomb thought to have been planted by a
dissident Irish republican group. It did not explode.

* Applications for postgraduate teacher training have increased by nearly 50%
since the Government promised pounds 6,000 grants for trainees.

* Downing Street's running costs have risen by 50% since Tony Blair took office.
The Prime Minister blamed the "administrative burdens" of his office for the
increase.

* Sandra Gregory, who spent seven and a half years in prison for smuggling
heroin, was freed after a pardon by the king of Thailand.

* The jury considering manslaughter charges against David Duckenfield, the man
in charge of policing during the Hillsborough disaster, failed to reach a
verdict.

For more news see Guardian network at www. newsunlimited.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              148 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                               Leicester Mercury

                                 July 27, 2000

News: 999

SECTION: News: 999, Pg.10

LENGTH: 890 words


The earth is blackened, burned and scorched where Concorde Flight AF4590 smacked
into the ground and exploded "like a mini-atom bomb." For the 100 men, women and
children jetting to New York for a luxury cruise, the flight crew of nine and
four people on the ground, the French town of Gonesse became a graveyard.

It was a scene straight from a nightmare. And it was every air passenger's worst
fear come true n the nagging anxiety at the back of your mind as you pull up at
the terminal, check out your departure time and check in your baggage, show your
passport, fasten your seat belt and taxi down the runway.

It's a routine that thousands of Leicestershire holidaymakers will go through
before they jet away in search of the sun this summer.

So how safe are they?

The figures are reassuring. You have a one in 12.5 million chance of dying in a
plane crash with a British airline.

In fact, you're more likely to be killed by a freak bolt of lightning.

"You are safer spending your life at 36,000 feet in a jumbo than walking around
the streets of Leicester," said Dr Simon Bennett, air crash expert at Leicester
University's Scarman Centre.

"Air disasters kill fewer than 2,000 people a year n and that includes people in
light-aircraft crashes."

It still seems disturbingly high. But it's a toll from more than a billion and a
half passenger journeys.

But if you're flying with a British airline, you've already cut the odds.

"The UK is one of the safest countries in the world for flying," said Zoe
Bloomfield, of the Civil Aviation Authority.

"From 1989 to 1998, there were 900 million passengers on British passenger
planes. During that time there were three crashes of passenger planes, with 56
fatalities."

Forty-seven of those were in Kegworth in 1989, when British Midland Flight BD92
smashed into the M1 embankment just yards short of the East Midlands Airport
runway.

There were 20 major air crashes around the world in 1999, claiming 492 lives.
The year before, there were 905 passenger fatalities from 20 accidents.

Concorde's shocking end took this year's death toll in major crashes to more
than 550, with disasters in India, America, The Philippines and the Cote
d'Avoir.

So why do planes crash?

The usual suspects are pilot error, design faults, severe weather, icy runways,
terrorist attack, fatally-poor maintenance or mid-air collision in the
increasingly thick plane soup in the skies over major destinations.

Research by America's Federal Aviation Administration found that between 1987 to
1996 there were 49 fatal crashes caused by loss of control, 40 by planes hitting
land features like mountains, nine by hijacks, six by sabotage, six by in
-flight fire and eight by ice or snow.

Four were caused by windshear, a sudden, dramatic change of wind which literally
dumps a plane to earth.

Kegworth happened when the crew turned off the wrong engine when the other
caught fire.

"People say 'it's always the pilots' and that's rubbish, and people say 'it's
the engines' and that's rubbish, too," said Dr Bennett.

"One of the most powerful conclusions of my research is that it is not usually a
single cause, but a combination of events which under certain tragic
circumstances come together.

"It could be a maintenance fault, for instance, which is highlighted by some
kind of environmental problem like a severe storm.

''The plane may have flown with the fault for years before flying into a
particular type of storm which will activate the fault.

"Disasters are not as simple as they first seem. But the difficulty is the media
and the public look for a simple answer when the answer is often very difficult.

"If an air traffic controller makes an error of judgement, the easy option is to
scapegoat him. The more difficult route is to ask why he made an error, to look
at shift patterns, training, events in his personal life and his working
relationship with his colleagues."

But the steady search for answers after a plane has crashed does little for the
confidence of nervous passengers who turn on their TVs to be confronted with
harrowing images of another smouldering wreck.

Flying is known as a dread risk n where the fear exceeds the actual risk. And
the fear of flying is one of the most prevalent phobias in Britain.

But why do people have this fear when so few of us are scared of driving n
despite the carnage on British roads?

"In a car, you have some measure of control," said Dr Bennett.

"But in an aircraft, you surrender control of your own destiny to people you
don't see n the captain, the first officer and the air traffic controller.

"And then you have to trust these people. And for some people that's very
difficult.

"Then there's the added factor of movement in three dimensions and that's not an
entirely natural feeling.

"But if you think about a biker who whizzes down the M1, but is scared of
flying, and if you balance the safety of motorbikes and planes, there's no
contest.''

Dr Bennett studies major crashes and publishes findings on the causes and
lessons to be learned.

He clocked up 92,000 miles last year, flying all round the world to visit
students and teach.

And in his spare time he flies gliders.

"I love flying," he said. "Knowledge is power. The more we know about aircraft,
the more we can realise how safe they are."

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                        Copyright 2000 Leicester Mercury

                              149 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 July 28, 2000

THE DOOR FINALLY SHUTS ON THE MAZE

BYLINE: GREG SWIFT

LENGTH: 981 words


IT began as a ramshackle series of cabins and cages and slowly grew into one of
the most powerful symbols of the divisions which tore Northern Ireland apart for
30 years.

Now, with Ulster still clinging precariously to peace, the closure today of the
notorious Maze Prison could not have more significance.

This morning more than 80 of the jail's most infamous inmates will walk to
freedom - some of them decades before the end of their sentences - as part of
Ulster's peace accord. Last Monday the Province's most notorious Loyalist
killer, Michael Stone, whose six victims included three in an attack on an IRA
funeral, was freed.

If their release signals the start of a new era for Northern Ireland, the
shutdown of the maximum security prison heralds the closing of another.

Over the years it has been called many things - Long Kesh, the Maze, the
H-Blocks - but for all who have come into contact with the jail it will leave a
lasting impression.

Among them are Sinn Fein President Gerry Adams, interned in the early seventies,
and Gerry Kelly, the Old Bailey bomber who is now a member of the Stormont
Assembly.

The prison was born out of the re-introduction of internment in 1971 and was
filled with men caught in a series of dawn raids. Built on a Second World War
airfield nine miles west of Belfast on the road to Lisburn, Long Kesh gained
notoriety for the harshness of its conditions.

By 1974 there were 20 cages holding up to 100 prisoners each and the IRA men had
their own structures with a senior staff of Officer Commanding, Adjutant and
Quartermaster.

The turning point for the prison came in 1974 when the inmates burnt it to the
ground. Troops were flown in by helicopter to regain control and by 1976 the
eight defining H-blocks of the new Maze prison had been built. By the time of
its closure today, the Maze was costing an annual GBP 56million. Covering a
200-acre site, surrounded by miles of fencing topped with rolls of razor wire,
the Maze was built to be Britain's most secure prison holding those convicted of
the worst terrorist atrocities.

The regime was at first brutal but the balance of power in the prison shifted in
the summer of 1976 when the Dirty Protest was launched. Following the
Government's withdrawal of political status, newly-sentenced prisoners refused
to wear uniforms. They were placed naked, except for blankets, in punishment
cells where they were beaten and systematically humiliated. In response, the
prisoners stopped slopping out. They tipped urine under the doors and smeared
excrement on their cell walls. The Dirty Protest dragged on for another four
years until the IRA realised that the Government was prepared to let it run
indefinitely.

The IRA upped the stakes by launching its famous hunger strikes in 1980. They
were led and inspired by the IRA Officer Commanding in the Maze, Bobby Sands.

He endured for 66 days before dying in 1981. He was elected to Westminster
shortly before his death and 100,000 lined the streets at his funeral. Nine
other prisoners followed his example to the ultimate conclusion. The hunger
strikes changed the balance of power in the Maze. Though prisoners were not
officially given political status, in reality inmates had taken control.

Locks were removed from doors, uniforms abandoned. IRA and Loyalists were
allowed to control their wings. There were occasional victories for the prison
officers. In 1997 a 30ft escape tunnel was uncovered.

The degree of lawlessness in the jail was highlighted just before Christmas 1997
when Loyalist Volunteer Force leader Billy "King Rat" Wright was murdered by
three INLA inmates while being taken for a prison visit.

Dissident Irish Republic terrorists are plotting a wave of bomb attacks on
mainland Britain, security chiefs warned yesterday. The alert came as fears grew
that terror groups have had their numbers boosted by prisoners freed by the Good
Friday Agreement.

10 to walk free today JAMES McCARDLE, 31.

Republican.

Convicted of the Canary Wharf bombing in London's Docklands in February 1996
which killed two men and breached the first ceasefire.

ROBERT FRYERS, 49. Loyalist.

Jailed for 25 years in January 1995 for his part in a mainland IRA bombing
campaign.

STEPHEN IRWIN, 26. Loyalist.

A member of the Ulster Freedom Fighters gang jailed for the Halloween "trick or
treat" murders. The judge said Irwin had been involved in "one of the most
callous and cold-blooded massacres in the catalogue of so many heinous crimes".

TORRENS KNIGHT, 30. Loyalist.

Another member of the "trick or treat" UFF gang who shot eight people dead.
Received a life sentence in February 1995.

MICHAEL CARAHER, 32. Republican.

The "trigger man" in a sniper team which shot dead Lance-Bombardier Stephen
Restorick, the last British soldier killed by the IRA, in February 1997. Thought
to be responsible for the deaths of at least 12 members of the security forces.

RYAN ROBLEY, 36. Loyalist.

Murdered two best friends, one Catholic, one Protestant, as they sat in the
Railway pub in Poyntzpass, Co Armagh. Jailed for life in 1998.

BERNARD McGINN, 42. Republican.

One of the IRA's most proficient bomb-makers and a member of the sniper gang
which killed Stephen Restorick. Given three life sentences and 490 years
imprisonment at his trial in March 1999.

JAMES BECK, 35. Loyalist.

Murdered a Catholic man as he slept on a park bench. Jailed for life in February
1994.

SEAN KELLY, 26. Republican.

The Shankill bomber who killed nine people, including a pregnant woman, when he
planted a bomb in Frizzell's fish shop in October 1993. Sentenced to nine terms
of life imprisonment in January 1995.

NORMAN COOPEY, 29. Loyalist.

Jailed for life only 18 months ago for clubbing a 16-year-old Catholic boy to
death with a hammer in July 1997.

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2000 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              150 of 299 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             July 28, 2000, Friday

CLOSURE OF THE MAZE: ALL OUT;
 TERRORIST KILLERS AND BOMBERS ARE FREED FROM JAIL

BYLINE: Jilly Beattie

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4, 5

LENGTH: 1108 words


EIGHTY-SIX of Northern Ireland's most ruthless terrorists are free today - the
last to be released under the Good Friday Agreement.

Here we list 76 of them from both republican and loyalist paramilitary groups
and detail their crimes.

Together they were jailed for 4,100 years. But they only served 364 years.

Forty-six are members of the IRA; 12 the UDA; eight the UVF; six the LVF; and
six the INLA.

We publish their names despite the Government's official policy not to release
details of anyone being freed under the Agreement.

Davy Adams, 41, 25 years in 1995 - conspiracy to murder and possession of guns
and explosives.

Brian Arthurs, 35, 25-year sentence in 1995 - possession of explosives.

Thomas Brogan, 42, three concurrent 30-year terms in 1995 - repeated murder
attempts on soldiers.

Gerard Butler, 34, life in 1993 - booby-trap murder of RUC constable in 1991.

James Canning, 45, 30 years in 1993 - involvement in bombing campaign in London.

Micheal Caraher, 32, 105 years in 1998 - murder of 12 security service members
including Lance-bombardier Stephen Restorick.

Anthony Cartmill, 31, life in 1992 - murder of student in shop raid.

Cormac Conlon, 30, 14 years in 1997 - conspiracy to murder, possession of
grenade launcher and AKM assault rifle.

Tarlac Connolly, 39, life in 1990 - murder of three RUC officers and nun with
1,000lb bomb.

Robert "Cheeser" Crawford, 43, 25 years in 1995 - possession of guns and
conspiracy to murder.

Leo Cunningham, 29, 24-years in 1993 - conspiring to attack security patrol.

Robert "Robbie" Davidson, 29, 14 years in 1997 - possession of firearms and
ammunition.

Anthony Doherty, 36, 750 years in 1993 - involvement in 74 terrorist crimes,
including murder.

Gareth Doris, 23, 10 years in 1998 - blast bomb attack on RUC station.

Liam Dougan, 32, two life terms in 1994 - murder of two soldiers.

Michael Duffy, 23, three life terms in 1993 - murder of two civilians, one
soldier.

Robert Duffy, 28, life in 1996 - murder of businessman.

Robert Fryers, 49, 25 years in 1995 - bombing campaign in Britain.

Patrick Gallen, 29, life in 1990 - booby-trap murder of a builder.

Edward Grieve, 38, 14 years in 1997 - conspiracy to murder and possession of
grenade launcher and AKM assault rifle.

Finbar Grieve, 21, 14 years in 1997 - conspiracy to murder and possession of
weapons.

Liam Heffernan, 38, 23-years in 1993 - bombing conspiracy.

Sean Kelly, 26, nine life terms in 1995 - Shankill bombing.

Terence Lavery, 38, 14-years in 1997 - possession of firearms, including a
rocket launcher.

Gerard Machkin, 37, 25-years in 1994 - orchestrating London high street bombing
campaign.

Phillip Manning, 29, life in 1993 - aiding and abetting murder of fruit vendor.

Patrick Martin, 35, 35 years in 1997 - planned bombed of London electric supply.

Martin Mines, 31, 20 years in 1999 - member of IRA sniper team which murdered
Stephen Restorick.

Ruairi Morgan, 15 years in 1998 - grenade attack on joint army/RUC patrol.

Ciaran Morrison, 36, 500 years in 1994 - terrorist offences including failed
attempt to bomb Belfast city airport.

Patrick Murray, 37, 25 years in 1994 - six-month bomb campaign.

Brendan McAnoy, 37, 25 years in 1994 - attempted murder of soldier.

James McArdle, 31, 25 years in 1996 - for Docklands bombing.

Rory McCallan, 37, (INLA) 27 years in 1993 - attempted murder of Protestant.

Kevin McCann, 33, 25 years in 1994 - attempted murder.

Mark McDowell, 33, 14 years in 1997 - possession of firearms including rocket
launcher.

Bernard McGinn, 42, bomb maker responsible for Canary Wharf and Baltic Exchange
devices, 490 years in 1999 - terrorist offences including membership of IRA
sniper team which murdered Stephen Restorick.

Brian McHugh, 34, 25 years in 1997 - involvement in IRA bomb factory.

Noel McHugh, 32, life in 1993 - car bomb murder of police officer.

Noel McKay, 40, 240 years in 1993 - murder.

Hugh McKee, 45, 22 years in 1994 - sectarian murder conspiracy.

Sean McNutty, 32, 25 years in 1994 - plotting bombing campaign in Britain.

Martin McMonagle, 37, (INLA) 23 years in 1993 - plotting to mount bombing
campaign.

James McVeigh, 40, 31 years in 1992 - conspiring to murder soldiers.

Thomas McWilliams, NO AGE, life in 1995 - murder of shopkeeper.

Feilim O hAdhmaill, 42, 25 years in 1994 - involvement in murder and smuggling
explosives.

Michael O'Hara, 24, 14 years in 1997 - possession of firearms and ammunition.

Michael O'Neill, 29, 14 years in 1997 - conspiracy to murder and possession of a
grenade launcher.

Paul Stitt, 29, 22 years in 1995 - conspiracy to murder and possession of
firearms.

Raymond Wilkinson, 26, 18 years in 1998 - attempted murder.

Kevin McAlorum, 27, (INLA) 16 years in 1997 - possession of loaded gun.

James Beck, 35, life in 1994 - murder of Catholic man while he slept on park
bench.

Thomas Beggs, 27, 25 years in 1994 - murder of two Catholic workmen.

Graham Bingham, 30, 25 years in 1994 - involvement in murder of Catholic mother
of two.

Gary Blair, 32, life in 1993 - involvement in sectarian killings.

Samual Cooke, 35, life in 1994 - murder of Catholic mother of two.

Norman Coopey, 29, life in 1997 - clubbing to death of Catholic boy.

William Craig, 56, 14 years in 1997 - 13 offences.

Glen "Titch" Cunningham, 32, 25 years in 1992 - attempted murder.

Jeffrey Deeney, 28, life in 1995 - involvement in Greysteel massacre.

Robert Glasgow, 28, 12 years in 1997 - attempted post office robbery.

James Harper, 36, life in 1995 - involvement in three sectarian killings.

Leslie Henry, 32, life in 1998 - kicked to death an RUC officer.

Stephen Irwin, 26, life in 1995 - involvement in Greysteel massacre.

Torrens Knight, 30, life in 1993 - 11 murders including involvement in Greysteel
massacre.

William Lindsay, 35, life in 1993 - murder of Catholic man.

Jason Loyal, 27, 12 years in 1997 - attempted pounds 100,000 post office
robbery.

John Marsden, 25, two life terms in 1995 - involvement in murder of two Catholic
workmen.

Colm McKeown, 29, 12 years in 1997 - attempted pounds 100,000 robbery.

Brian McNeill, 31, eight life terms in 1995 - involvement in Greysteel massacre.

Victor Reynolds, 29, 12 years in 1997 - attempted pounds 100,000 robbery.

Ryan Robbley, 36, life in 1998 - murdered Poyntzpass pals Phillip Allen and
Damien Trainor.

Jimmy Smyth, 45, 20 years in 1976 - attempted murder of prison officer

Alastair Stevenson, 32, life in 1998 - kicked to death an RUC constable.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GREYSTEEL KILLER: Stephen Irwin; MURDER CONSPIRACY: Davy Adams;;
BOMBING BLITZ: Robert Fryers; SHANKILL BLAST: Sean Kelly; BORDER SNIPER:;
Micheal Caraher; MURDER BID: Glen Cunningham

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.

                              151 of 299 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             July 28, 2000, Friday

TERROR FEARS OVER QUEEN MUM'S 100TH

BYLINE: Oonagh Blackman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 187 words


SECURITY for the Queen Mother's 100th birthday next week has been dramatically
tightened amid fresh warnings about bomb attacks.

Security sources have revealed terrorists are planning to use more powerful
bombs to cause havoc on the British mainland this summer.

They warn that dissident Real IRA terrorists, thought to be behind two recent
bombs in the capital, are on a major recruitment drive.

Veteran Republican terrorists, fiercely opposed to the peace process, are
believed to be recruiting young hotheads.

A senior security source said: "We have to accept the very real possibility
there's a team operating in Britain. I predict these bombings are likely to
continue.

"The attacks are likely to be more spasmodic than previously. There's a danger
this campaign will move to larger bombs."

The London security operation is now said to be ranked "at the top end of high".

The Real IRA cell is believed to be behind the bombing of Hammersmith Bridge
early last month and the device at Ealing Broadway train station which caused
massive disruption on the day of the Queen's Mum's pageant.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.

                              152 of 299 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             July 28, 2000, Friday

NEW TERRORIST BLITZ WARNING

BYLINE: Oonagh Blackman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 181 words


SECURITY for the Queen Mother's 100th birthday next week has been dramatically
tightened amid fresh warnings about bomb attacks.

Security sources have revealed terrorists are planning to use more powerful
bombs to cause havoc on the British mainland this summer.

They warn that dissident Real IRA terrorists, thought to be behind two recent
bombs in the capital, are on a major recruitment drive. Veteran Republican
terrorists, fiercely opposed to the peace process, are believed to be recruiting
young hotheads.

A senior security source said: "We have to accept the very real possibility
there's a team operating in Britain. I predict these bombings are likely to
continue.

"The attacks are likely to be more spasmodic than previously. There's a danger
this campaign will move to larger bombs."

The London security operation is now said to be ranked "at the top end of high".
The Real IRA cell is believed to be behind the bombing of Hammersmith Bridge
early last month and the device at Ealing Broadway train station on the day of
the Queen's Mum's pageant.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.

                              153 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                            July 29, 2000, Saturday

MAZE - END OF AN ERA: 'LET US COMBAT THEM TOGETHER'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 274 words


NORTHERN Ireland First Minister David Trimble said yesterday it was vital that
the UK and Ireland work together to fight dissident republican terrorist groups.

The activities of both the so-called Real IRA and the Continuity IRA are a
source of "increasing concern", the Ulster Unionist leader said following a
meeting with Irish Prime Minister Bertie Ahern in Dublin.

"I think it is very important that we do get the legal provisions in the United
Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland working together well," said Mr Trimble.

"There have, of course, been disappointments that we haven't been as effective
as perhaps we could have been in the past."

His comments came after police in Croatia seized a shipment of arms believed to
have been on its way to republican splinter groups in Ireland.

Later, Home Secretary Jack Straw met his Irish counterpart, John O' Donoghue, to
discuss how Britain and Ireland can improve security measures.

Mr Trimble said the fact that many attempted operations by dissidents had been
frustrated proved that when the two countries co-operated they were effective in
preventing terrorist attacks.

But, while he welcomed these successes, Mr Trimble said he was disappointed that
emergency powers available to the Irish Government to crack down on suspected
terrorists were not being used.

"There has been a bit of disappointment that the emergency legislation enacted
after Omagh has not proved as effective as was hoped at the time," he said.

He said that either of the recent bombs planted in Ealing, west London and
Stewartstown, Co Tyrone, could have been a "major atrocity".

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2000 Century Newspapers Limited

                              154 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 July 29, 2000

DO THESE EVIL KILLERS STILL FEEL NO SHAME?

LENGTH: 1126 words

HIGHLIGHT: END OF THE MAZE: SIX MEN WHO TOGETHER HAVE MURDERED AT LEAST 29
PEOPLE, FROM CHILDREN TO SOLDIERS, AND NOW LAUGH AT THEIR GOOD FORTUNE TO BE
FREE


FIVE men who walked to freedom from the Maze prison yesterday share some of the
bloodiest records in the troubled history of Northern Ireland.

Between them, they are responsible for killing at least 29 innocent people -
most probably more - and injuring hundreds of others.

They shared prison sentences running into hundreds of years, yet they have all
regained their liberty after between two and four years behind bars.

None is known to have renounced violence or to have shown any consideration for
the blameless lives they tore apart.

These men are among the final batch of inmates to be released from incarceration
with the closure of Belfast's notorious Maze Prison.

They have committed terrible crimes for the the IRA and the Protestant Ulster
Freedom Fighters.

All were freed under the terms of the Good Friday agreement, designed to end
more than 30 years of conflict in Ulster.

But as the gunmen, killers and bombers strolled to freedom yesterday, victims'
families could not help but feel bitter resentment.

Supporters welcoming pro-British loyalists cheered and whistled, waving blue and
black emblems and Britain's red, white and blue Union Flag.

But in a corner of the crowded car park, a handful of Protestants who were
victims and relatives of victims of IRA violence stood protesting against the
early releases.

"It's a travesty of justice," said Jim Dixon, an elderly Protestant who still
carries the scars of the IRA's Enniskillen bombing of 1987 which left 11 people
dead.

Here Daily Express reporter CYRIL DIXON details the murderous pasts of six
notorious names from the history of sectarian violence.

SMILING SNIPER AND HIS BLOODY PARTNER MICHAEL Caraher and Bernard McGinn shared
membership of one of Ulster's bloodiest gangs.

During the early 1990s, they were part of an IRA sniper unit which terrorised
the "bandit country" of South Armagh. They picked off Army and RUC patrol units
from anonymous-looking vehicles driven past at high speed.

They chose their targets by placing scouts in hidden vantage points where they
could identify the most vulnerable victims.

The defining image of the gang's terror was a triangular, mocked-up road sign
showing a silhouetted gunman and the written taunt: Sniper at Work.

Caraher, 32, the "trigger man" and McGinn, 42, a bomb-maker, have claimed at
least a dozen lives. Victims include Lance Bombardier Stephen Restorick, 23, who
was gunned down at an Army checkpoint three years ago.

Another victim was Lance Bombardier Paul Garrett, 23, shot while on foot patrol,
and Guardsman Danny Blinco, also 23, outside a bar in Crossmaglen.

Caraher was given sentences totalling 106 years at his trial in March last year.
McGinn made the bomb which devastated Canary Wharf four years ago. But his
response when handed down sentences totalling 490 years was a chilling laugh.

Yesterday, as both men walked free, it was Caraher who beamed broadly outside
the prison gates.

TERRORIST BLEW UP SHOPPERS SEAN Kelly bombed a fish shop, killing nine people
including a pregnant woman and a girl of seven Michelle Baird.

Kelly, 26, planted a 5lb device in the Shankill Road, Belfast. The republican
planned to target members of the Ulster Defence Association who had held a
meeting above the shop shortly before the bomb went off. Instead, he killed
mostly shoppers. A further 58 people were injured.

The attack was an embarrassment for the Provos. Kelly lost an eye in the blast
and his accomplice Thomas Begley was killed.

Police arrested Kelly in hospital after he had been rescued from the rubble. In
January 1995 he received nine life sentences.

He refused to recognise his trial. Lord Justice MacDermott told him: "This
wanton slaughter of so many innocent people must rank as one of the most
outrageous atrocities ever endured by people of this province in the last
quarter of a century."

DOCKLANDS BOMBER WHO WAS GIVEN ROYAL PARDON JAMES McArdle was another member of
the south Armagh sniper gang but is best known for planting the massive bomb
which blasted London's Docklands four years ago.

McArdle, 31, walks free courtesy of a special royal pardon, granted just two
years into his life sentence for the outrage which killed two men and injured 40
other people.

The attack on the booming Docklands business area brought the IRA's first
ceasefire to a shattering halt one Friday night in January 1996. More than GBP
250million worth of damage was caused.

McArdle had driven the lorry carrying the 300lbs of explosives to the Isle of
Dogs before setting the timer and fleeing.

At the Old Bailey in June 1998, he was sentenced to life for the attack but was
acquitted of murdering newsagent Inam Bashir and his friend John Jeffries.

He was also serving time for his part in sniper attacks, which included the
death of lance bombardier Stephen Restorick.

Under the Good Friday agreement, he would not have been allowed out until next
March. But, controversially, the Queen was asked by the Government to sign a
royal prerogative of mercy, an ancient power which allows the monarch to free
prisoners on compassionate grounds.

Normally used for inmates who are dying and have served more than half their
sentence, the move angered victims' families and Tory MPs.

THE SLAUGHTER AT HALLOWE'EN TORRENS Knight, an Ulster Freedom Fighter, earned
his place in terrorist folklore with the unbelievably cynical "trick-or-treat"
massacre.

Knight, with accomplices Jeffrey Deeney and Stephen Irwin, caused carnage at the
Rising Sun pub in Greysteel, London-derry, five years ago After bursting into
the crowded pub at Hallowe'en, they shouted "trick or treat" before spraying the
crowded room with automatic rifles.

Eight people - both Catholic and Prot- estant - were killed as bullets showered
the bar and the dance floor, hitting innocent drinkers including a group of
women out on a hen night.

Knight, who was 24 at the time of the atrocity, was posted at the pub's door
with a shotgun to keep guard.

After being caught days later, the gang told police the shooting was revenge for
the IRA's Shankill Road fishmonger's bomb a week earlier, which left nine
Protestants dead.

In February 1995, all three were sentenced to life at Belfast Crown Court. Lord
Justice Carswell told them: "On the scale of barbarism perpetrated by
cold-hearted practitioners of violence over the past quarter of a century,
Greysteel ranks very high."

Among the victims of the trick-or-treat gang were sweethearts Steven Mullen, 20,
and 19-year-old Karen Thompson. The couple had planned to get engaged the
following Christmas.

More than 1,000 mourners attended Karen's funeral in Ballykelly.

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2000 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              155 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 July 29, 2000

Police seize republican arms shipment: IRA dissidents striving to prove their
muscle suffer setback as international surveillance nets costly weapons purchase
in Adriatic port

BYLINE: John Mullin Ireland correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 741 words


A seizure this week by police in the Croatian city of Split has foiled an
audacious attempt by dissident republicans to smuggle a large shipment of arms
and explosives into Ireland.

Irish special branch officers travelled to the Adriatic port immediately on
being informed of the operation, in which several Croatians were arrested. In
Ireland, a man believed to be the head of the Continuity IRA was held by Garda
close to the border, and more arrests are expected to follow.

The interception of the consignment - machine guns capable of piercing tanks,
plastic explosives, detonating cord and ammunition - is a serious blow to the
dissidents, as security services warned that they were preparing to step up
attacks in Britain. The dissidents have struggled to raise money, and the
shipment is said to be worth several hundred thousand pounds.

The discovery followed a long-running operation involving police from several
countries. Arms buyers from both the Continuity IRA and the so-called Real IRA,
the other dissident group, were tracked through the Netherlands to the Balkans
and the Middle East.

Irish detectives realised the dissidents had opened a supply route to Croatia in
October, when they raided a Real IRA training camp in Stamullen, Co Meath. As
well as making several arrests, including a 14-year-old boy, they discovered
weapons including an RPG18 rocket, an anti-tank weapon more powerful than any
ever used by the Provisional IRA. Identical weapons were found in this week's
seizure.

It is known that last year the leader of the Real IRA (which now works so
closely with the Continuity IRA that security forces no longer draw a
distinction) succeeded in evading surveillance when making a trip to Eastern
Europe. The former quartermaster general of the Provisional IRA, he had opened
up contacts with Colonel Gadafy in Libya, leading to the supply of much of its
arsenal.

The 50-year-old businessman from Dundalk, Co Louth, is said to control the
arms-buying operation. He led a major defection by quitting the IRA in October
1997 in opposition to Sinn Fein's support for negotiations that were to lead to
the Good Friday agreement six months later.

The Real IRA, as it was dubbed, planted bombs to try to wreck the political
process, culminating in the death of 29 people at Omagh in August 1998. It was
the biggest single atrocity of the Troubles, and the organisation called a
ceasefire and laid low for a year.

It and the Continuity IRA are believed to have 140 members, including a recent
influx following the Provisional IRA's unprecedented offer to open some dumps to
inspection.

Dissidents have made a dozen bombing attempts in Northern Ireland this year, and
two bomb attacks in the past two months in London; at least one active service
unit has so far evaded police in England. The dissidents try to hit back as soon
as possible after a setback, to demonstrate they are a serious outfit and to
attract more IRA waverers. The Hammersmith bridge bombing in June came less than
a week after 15 alleged members were held briefly at various locations in the
republic.

Security forces were already on high alert, fearing an attack to coincide with
the Queen Mother's 100th birthday celebrations. During a pageant this month, a
bomb left on the railway in west London caused traffic chaos, although it fell
short of forcing the pageant to be abandoned.

The leader of the Continuity IRA comes from Co Monaghan but lives in Newry. He
has been arrested on several occasions, once after the seizure of home-made
explosives in Inniskeen, Co Monaghan, eight years ago. He has never faced a
serious charge.

Continuity IRA is seen as the military wing of Republican Sinn Fein, which split
from Sinn Fein in 1986 believing it had sold out with its increasingly political
approach. It has never called a ceasefire, nor has it killed anyone since
wrecking a hotel in Co Fermanagh in its first big operation in July 1996.

The dissidents have the Provisional IRA's former leading quartermasters and
engineers. Though their foot soldiers are generally believed to be young and
inexperienced, they are becoming daring: recently, a small bomb left on the
Belfast to Dublin railway line at Newry was actually an attempt to entice the
RUC and army towards a much larger 250lb bomb -but it failed to explode.

Special report on Northern Ireland www.guardianunlimited.co.uk/nireland


LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              156 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 July 31, 2000

TERRORISTS WHO CAN'T BE DEPORTED

BYLINE: Michael Clarke;Sarah Harris

SECTION: Pg. 1;6

LENGTH: 659 words


TERRORISTS WHO CAN'T BE DEPORTED TWO Sikh terrorists must be allowed to stay in
Britain despite the threat they pose to national security, a judge ruled
yesterday.

He said that under the European Convention on Human Rights, which is about to
become part of English law, they could not be sent home to India because they
might be tortured by the authorities.

Mukhtiar Singh and Paramjit Singh, who sneaked into Britain in the back of
lorries, were appealing against the decision by Jack Straw to refuse them
political asylum and deport them.

Despite upholding the Home Secretary's decisions, Mr Justice Potts said they
must remain here because of the substantial risk they face of 'torture and
degrading treatment' banned under Article 3 of the convention.

He declared: 'Law-abiding citizens of the United Kingdom might reasonably feel
disquiet about a state of affairs which permits international terrorists proved
to be a danger to the national security to remain here. We can only say that
this state of affairs follows upon Article 3 of the European Convention, the
Secretary of State's acceptance of that Convention and its consequences and the
evidence we have heard in relation to the risks faced by the appellants in the
event of their being returned to India.' The men, who came to Britain around
five years ago, were arrested as a threat to national security in 1998.

They were plotting to smuggle explosives and detonators from Pakistan to India
and planned terrorist attacks as part of their campaign for Sikh independence,
the special immigration appeals commission sitting at the Old Bailey was told.

Unless a third country takes them or Mr Straw succeeds in any attempt to get the
judgment overturned they will be given 'exceptional leave' to stay and will be
entitled to claim benefits.

Last night they were freed from Home Office detention and returned to their
homes in the Midlands to a welcome from their supporters.

Paramjit, 26, was a priest at the Guru Geg Eahadur temple in Leicester before
his arrest.

Mukhtiar, 27, who has family in Derby, Bradford and Leicester, worked as a
driver for the Sandwell Sikh Community in Birmingham.

Before yesterday's hearing they had had their bids for refugee status rejected
because, under the UN Convention on Refugees, anyone guilty of 'acts contrary to
the purposes and principles of the UN' loses the right to asylum.

Experts pointed out last night that judges are not obliged to take the
convention into account before October when the Human Rights Act comes in and it
becomes an integral part of English law.

The Home Office said its lawyers were considering the judgment carefully.

Mr Straw is thought to be furious that despite winning the judge's backing on
much of the case, he has still been barred from deporting the pair.

However Tory MP Gerald Howarth said the Government was 'entirely responsible'
for the situation and warned that the case was a forerunner of a raft of similar
decisions likely to follow from October.

Mr Howarth, a member of the Commons Home Affairs Committee, said: 'This is just
the latest in a line of cases where the courts are seeking to second guess the
judgment of the Home Secretary.

'He was absolutely right in this case to want to pack these people back off to
India where the Indian authorities are perfectly capable of dealing with them.

'There is no way that we should be responsible for looking after people who are
generally regarded as terrorists, at the British taxpayers' expense.

'If they are engaged in terrorism in a democratic country then they must be
returned to answer for their crimes.' Last night the Sikh Refugee Support Group,
which spearheaded the men's campaign to stay, welcomed the ruling.

'This is the correct decision and we are delighted that they will now be able to
return to the Midlands where they had settled into normal lives,' said a
spokesman.


LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: DANGER MEN: SIKH TERRORISTS PARAMJIT SINGH AND MUKHTIAR SINGH OUTSIDE
THE OLD BAILEY YESTERDAY

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2000 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              157 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                 August 1, 2000

Letters: Moving into constitutional limbo

LENGTH: 339 words


LAST weekend saw virtually the final phase of terrorist prisoner releases.
Autumn will witness the turning on its head of the policing system. Military
withdrawal is continuous. These are only three requests voiced by republicans to
prevent bombs and bullets flying on the mainland.

Soon there will be no more bargaining chips for the Government to use to prevent
major attacks by terrorists. What then will the Government do to stop a total
return to violence to gain a united Ireland?

Even constitutional reform cannot be requested because all republican
constitutional objectives have been delivered. Little has been mentioned of
Annex A, page three, of the Agreement. Section Two of Schedules for
Incorporation in British Legislation states: "The Government of Ireland Act 1920
is repealed; and this Act shall have effect notwithstanding any other previous
enactment".

This Schedule within the Agreement has received few comments. Yet, it sees all
legislation scrapped that declares Northern Ireland as part of the United
Kingdom.

So gone is the Government of Ireland Act 1920 which legislated for the formation
of Northern Ireland and gone is the Ireland Act 1949 which asserted exclusive
British jurisdiction over Northern Ireland.

We are now in constitutional limbo, merely awaiting a new legal owner.

These constitutional flaws will soon be pointed out by the British and southern
governments to kick-start more change. Before long the only bargaining material
left for the British Government will be to initiate a referendum concerning the
sovereignty of Northern Ireland.

Britain has stated that it has no selfish interest in Northern Ireland, while
the southern government has a selfish interest.

Britain has already begun legislating for the hand over of Northern Ireland by
repealing the Acts that claim Northern Ireland.

Soon will come the calm of sowing the seeds of accepting a united Ireland.
Following that will be the storm of a referendum.

TIM TAYLOR,

Belfast 4.


LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2000 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              158 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            August 1, 2000, Tuesday

NEW THREAT TO SIKH TERRORISTS;
 CHALLENGE TO EXTRADITION RULING

BYLINE: David Jones

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 355 words


TWO Sikh terrorists who settled in the Midlands after fleeing from India may yet
be thrown out of Britain despite winning an appeal against an extradition order,
it emerged today.

Paramjit Singh and Mukhtiar Singh were yesterday given exceptional leave to
remain in the country despite being labelled as a threat to national security.

Mr Justice Potts told the Old Bailey appeal hearing that despite evidence of
their terrorist activities, they could not be deported to India because of the
risk of persecution.

He added: 'Law-abiding citizens of the United Kingdom might reasonable feel
disquiet about a state of affairs which permits international terrorists proved
to be a danger to national security to remain here.'

But Home Office legal experts were today pouring over the 49-page judgement to
see whether it could be challenged on a point of law.

Actions

A spokesman said today: 'Although we had received assurances over their
security, the judge said the Indian authorities could not give guarantees over
the actions of their entire population.

'We can appeal against the decision on a point of law and the Home Office,
together with counsel, is studying the document to see whether that will
happen.'

The hearing was told that Paramjit Singh, aged 26, and Mukhtiar Singh, aged 27,
sneaked into Britain in the back of lorries after fleeing persecution over their
involvement in a movement campaigning for the establishment of an independent
Sikh state.

Security service files alleged they had plotted to smuggle explosives from
Pakistan to India and planned terrorist attacks.

The two men were today reunited with family and friends in the Midlands after
being held in jail since their arrest at Smethwick Rolfe Street station in
November 1998.

Manjit Singh, of the Tividale-based Sikh Refugee Support Group, said: 'It has
now been proven that they face a real risk to their safety if they are deported.

'We are pleased they are free after nearly two years in prison and that the
judge criticised the Home Office over the way they presented their case.'

david_jones@mrn.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2000 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              159 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            August 1, 2000, Tuesday

SIKH TERROR SUSPECTS ALLOWED TO STAY IN UK

BYLINE: Severin Carrell

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 619 words


TWO SIKH militant leaders accused of planning terrorist atrocities in India have
been allowed to stay in Britain, despite being branded a threat to national
security.

Mukhtiar Singh and Paramjit Singh were given leave to remain in the UK after a
special immigration appeals tribunal ruled there were "substantial grounds" for
believing they would be tortured if they returned to India.

The commission's ruling is an embarrassing setback for Jack Straw. The Home
Secretary had attempted to deport the men on the basis that they posed "a danger
to national security" by allegedly orchestrating terrorist attacks in India from
their base in the UK.

After the decision yesterday, the Home Office said it was considering lodging an
appeal. "We're considering our options in light of the decision. There are
rights to appeal against the judgment, but we haven't taken any decision on that
front yet," a spokesman said.

Despite granting the men indefinite leave to remain in Britain, the commission
rejected their application for asylum because of their close links to a militant
separatist movement seeking to establish an independent Sikh state in the Indian
Punjab.

The commission said their conduct excluded them from the protection of the
Refugee Convention "because there are serious reasons for considering that each
had been engaged in terrorist activity".

However, Iqbal Singh, director of the human rights group Punjabis in Britain,
said criminal suspects were routinely imprisoned without trial or held for
months awaiting court judgments. Mr Singh stressed that he did not support
terrorism, but added: "They would have been mistreated. It's good they've got
exceptional leave to remain."

Ian Burnett QC, appearing for Mr Straw, had earlier told the commission that
Mukhtiar Singh, 27, had entered the UK illegally in 1995 but continued to play
"a crucial role in the development of a series of conspiracies to carry out
terrorist attacks in India".

He was allegedly involved with a violent faction of the International Sikh Youth
Federation, a militant group based in the UK that supports Paramjit Singh
Panjwar, leader of a paramilitary group operating from Pakistan, the Khalistan
Commando Force.

Mr Burnett said that in September 1998, MI5 identified Mukhtiar as a co
-organiser of a shipment of 15kg of high explosive, detonators, timers, and
other weapons to Sikh militants on the sub-continent.

Paramjit Singh, 26, also born in the Indian Punjab, entered the UK illegally
between 1994 and 1996. While working as an itinerant preacher, he was involved
with the same faction and also allegedly conspired with Mukhtiar to ship the
explosives.

The commission, headed by Mr Justice Potts, made clear it felt very
uncomfortable giving them the right to stay, but was obliged under international
law to uphold their appeal. Its judgment noted: "Law abiding citizens of the UK
might reasonably feel disquiet about a state of affairs which permits
international terrorists proved to be a danger to national security to remain
here," it said.

"We can only say that this state of affairs follows upon Article 3 of the
European Convention, the Secretary of State's acceptance of that Convention and
its consequences and the evidence we have heard in relation to the risks faced
by the appellants in the event of their being returned to India.

"In future cases we would earnestly urge the Secretary of State to consider
whether the type of material he relied upon in these appeals is sufficient to do
justice to the case."

Their original applications for asylum, the commission was told, were refused in
August last year. Both men were detained last November.

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Mukhtiar Singh, left, and Paramjit Singh yesterday with supporters
after the decision Mark St George

                      Copyright 2000 Independent Print Ltd

                              160 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 August 2, 2000

Defiant and free the 'terrorists' given refuge;
Sikhs who won deportation appeal defend violence in name of a cause

BYLINE: Sarah Harris

SECTION: Pg. 29

LENGTH: 882 words


DENOUNCED as terrorists and a danger to national security, they might have been
expected to disappear quietly back into their shadowy world.

Instead, Mukhtiar Singh and Paramjit Singh were holding court among awestruck
supporters yesterday, attempting to justify violence as a means of fighting
'oppression'.

The two Sikhs are at the centre of a massive controversy after High Court judge
Mr Justice Potts blocked their deportation from Britain, saying it was in breach
of the European Convention on Human Rights as they were at risk of torture in
India.

They were arrested 20 months ago for plotting to smuggle explosives from
Pakistan to India and planning terrorist attacks in the campaign for Sikh
independence in Khalistan, and had been held in detention ever since.

Yesterday they celebrated freedom and the right to remain in Britain by
attempting to defend violence and even murder in their struggle. The
assassinations of Beant Singh, the chief minister of Punjab, in 1995 and Indira
Gandhi in 1984 were 'justifiable', they said.

Paramjit, 26, a preacher, wearing a ceremonial sword, said: 'There are three
ways to get justice:

ideas, logic and judiciary. When the three fail and people are still being
oppressed, it is justifiable to take up weapons.' Mukhtiar, 27, who is staying
with family in Leicester, said through an interpreter: 'If someone has caused
oppression, that's a viable target. Beant Singh had the responsibility to stop
the atrocities and he failed to do so. It was justifiable to get rid of him.'
Mrs Gandhi, gunned down by her own Sikh bodyguards after she sent in the army to
attack Sikh militants occupying the Golden Temple at Amritsar, made herself a
target by committing an atrocity, he said. 'As a last means, when everything
else has failed, then it is justifiable.' Denying he was a terrorist, he added:
'We wouldn't be prepared to take up arms but we wouldn't stop people that will.
We won't condemn those people.' The pair believe their release will serve as an
inspiration to their followers. Sympathisers raised almost GBP 35,000 towards
their legal battle and some assisted their escape from India

'I have been through hell' and illegal entry into Britain in the back of
lorries.

Mukhtiar, who is general secretary of the International Sikh Youth Federation,
said: 'I am overwhelmed with joy. It is a victory for all those fighting for
freedom against the state.

'I am a political person. Being a political person I will have links somewhere
along the line probably with some militant groups. But I am not an organiser of
anything.

We have nothing to do with terrorists but we agree with the armed struggle when
everything else fails.

'Regarding national security, they are saying that we did things that were
connected to India and nothing which would affect the national security of this
country.' Despite his protestations, Mukhtiar is said to be associated with Dam
Dami Taksal a violent extremist faction of the youth federation.

He admits to having become involved in the 'struggle' at the age of about 13.
Five years later he became president of the All India Sikh Students Federation
in Banga, with a mission to highlight atrocities against Sikhs.

Mukhtiar says he worked 'underground' to protect himself.

He was arrested three times and claims police tortured him and killed his
brother-in-law. He attempted to flee the country in February 1993 but was
caught.

His next attempt two years later, aided by the youth federation, was more
successful. He arrived in Britain in a lorry and applied for asylum, staying
initially with his brother in Bradford.

'I came to England because there is a large Sikh community here from which I
could get help,' he said. 'I believed that the political parties in this country
understood the situation regarding the suppression of Sikhs.

'I thought it would be easier to gain asylum here but after what I have been
through it is hell. I didn't claim benefits. Neither of us are here for economic
gain.' The youth federation rented him a room after he moved to Tividale,
Birmingham, to set up a newspaper, Voice of Khalistan.

Paramjit, who also claims to have been tortured in India, arrived in Britain in
1996 and worked as a preacher, applying for political asylum when he was
arrested in November 1998. He preached at a temple in Tividale and became
involved with Mukhtiar's paper.

The men have been granted 'exceptional leave' to remain in Britain subject to
regular reviews.

The Home Secretary has until the middle of next week to appeal.

Last night terrorism expert Professor Paul Wilkinson, of St Andrew's University,
ridiculed the men's claims about violent struggle and cast doubt on the
likelihood of torture.

'The claim that there is no alternative to violence to achieve political change
is historically illiterate, ' he said. 'India is an ethnically diverse country
in which people can express their opinions and organise politically.

'I would be cautious about claims as to what they would face in India.

No doubt prison conditions would be poor, but they would have to prove claims
about torture.' He said the men could be prosecuted if suspected of inciting
terrorism abroad.

s.harris@dailymail.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2000 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              161 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Mercury

                             August 6, 2000, Sunday

'YOU'VE DONE A HELL OF A LOT WORSE TO US';
 SPECIAL REPORT ANGER OVER BRUM SIX MAN'S OUTBURST OVER PUB BOMBINGS

BYLINE: Bob Haywood

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 655 words


ONE of the Birmingham Six has provoked outrage - by blaming the British for the
savagery of the IRA.

Paddy Joe Hill claims the British 'have more to answer for than the IRA ever
will have'.

And he added: 'You've done a hell of a lot worse to us.'

Hill was one of the six men convicted of the Birmingham pub bombings in November
1974 in which 21 people were killed and 167 were injured. They were freed by the
Appeal Court after serving 16 years behind bars.

Last night, victims of the IRA bombs planted at the Mulberry Bush and the Tavern
in the Town in the city centre were aghast at Hill's outburst.

One of them said: 'How can anything be worse than the cold-blooded murder of
innocent men and women?'

In an interview with The Irish Post, Hill acknowledges there is a reluctance -
even among the Irish community in Britain - to consider that the Birmingham Six
might be innocent.

'I understand the horror and revulsion that the Birmingham pub bombings created
in its wake,' he says.

'Irish people, particularly in the Midlands, suffered.

'Only in the last few years have we started to get off our knees and say: '****
you'.

'You've done a hell of a lot worse to us and we shouldn't get down on our knees
for the actions of a few.

'Let's not allow ourselves to be stigmatised.

'They have a lot more to answer for than the IRA will ever have to.

'The IRA is not an Irish problem, it's an English problem.'

Hill, now aged 56, continues: 'I'm hoping and praying to God that we will never
have another bombing.

'I would love to put my hand on my heart and say it's finally over but I know
that we have people at home so twisted and bitter that (they think) the only
good English person is a dead one.

'I blame our own people for that.

'One of the biggest failings of the Irish is that we still live in the past. We
can't throw off the shackles.

'The sooner we do that, the better.'

Hill, who was living in Kingstanding, Birmingham, at the time of the pub
bombings but who now lives in north London, has been paid pounds 316,000 in
compensation by the British government for his years behind bars.

But he still wants more - and is taking his case to the European Court of Human
Rights.

The Irish Post interviewer writes: 'Rumour has it that the Birmingham Six have
won more in libel damages from British newspapers than they have received from
the government.'

A fortnight after being freed from prison in 1991, Hill received pounds 50,000
in government compensation - but says in the interview: 'That was like giving a
bottle of whiskey to an alcoholic and telling him not to drink it.

'I came out and I tried to buy love and affection. That pounds 50,000 was
squandered.'

Hill says he received another pounds 150,000 shortly afterwards with which he
bought a flat - although he was later taken to court for non-payment of his
council tax, claiming he had no money because 'all my money goes on helping
other people'.

He says he has spent more than pounds 100,000 of his own money 'pursuing justice
for others' and last year formed the Miscarriages of Justice Organisation (MOJO)
to help wrongly-convicted people to prepare their court appeal and assist their
rehabilitation into society if acquitted.

Hill says: 'Our argument for compensation was that we were tortured, we were
framed, we were charged with the most horrible crime in this country.

'The stigma will live with us forever.

'We will forever be known as the Birmingham Six.

'On thousands of occasions, I have felt like I'm coming apart at the seams.

'There is not a day which has gone by that I don't just break down and burst
into tears since I came out of prison.

'I wake up each morning so ****ing angry.

'The first half-hour, in my head, I kill every cop, prison officer - not just
kill them, but butcher them.

'I don't sleep well.'

bob_haywood@mrn.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DEADLY DESTRUCTION... the Mulberry Bush after it was blown apart by the
bomb planted in November 1974 and (right) Paddy Joe Hill SCENE OF; CARNAGE...
the wrecked Tavern in the Town in Birmingham city centre after the bombing

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2000 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              162 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 August 8, 2000

KOSOVO BRITONS FACE TERRORISM CHARGES

LENGTH: 232 words


TWO British policemen arrested on suspicion of spying are to be charged with
terrorism, the Yugoslav army said yesterday.

Adrian Prangnell, 41, John Yore, 31, and two Canadians will face a military
court.

Foreign Office minister Keith Vaz last night said he was summoning Slobodan
Milosevic's representative in London to demand an explanation for the detention
of the two Britons.

He said Britain had not been officially informed of the charges, or even of the
men's detention. British diplomats have still not been granted access to them.

Mr Vaz said: "It's extremely important that the regime understands that we take
this issue very seriously indeed."

Mr Prangnell and Mr Yore had been helping to train a new police force in Kosovo
when they crossed the bor-der into Montenegro, which, with Serbia, makes up the
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. They were travelling with Canadian Shaun Going,
who also worked in Kosovo, and his nephew Liam Hall. None of the four had
Yugoslav visas.

A Yugoslav army spokesman said: "A criminal case will be launched against two
British officers and two Canadians arrested by the Yugoslav army since the
investigation so far confirms they committed the criminal act of terrorism."Mr
Vaz dismissed the army's version of events, saying the men were in Montenegro
for a holiday. "This is new depths of Serbian paranoia," he said.

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2000 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              163 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                August 10, 2000

Police pair deny terrorism claims;British officers face lengthy wait after
Belgrade court appearance

BYLINE: Michael Settle Chief Political Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 639 words


THE two British policemen accused of being terrorists in Yugoslavia yesterday
denied any wrongdoing before a military court in Belgrade, convened to decide if
they should face formal charges and a full court hearing.

Detective Sergeant Adrian Prangnell, 41, from Hampshire, and Constable John
Yore, 31, from Cambridgeshire, were arrested along with two Canadians while
travelling from Montenegro to Kosovo last Tuesday.

They now face a tense wait until the Supreme Military Court Judge makes a
decision - which might take weeks. A guilty verdict on terrorist charges could
see them sentenced to 15 years in jail.

Last night, Foreign Office Minister Keith Vaz said the Yugoslav authorities had
indicated the Britons would be granted full consular access today with their
first visit by British diplomats.

Mr Vaz has been involved in intensive behind-the-scenes diplomatic activity,
having spoken to, among others, the head of the UN mission in Kosovo and
representatives of the Russian Embassy and Canadian High Commission in London. A
Foreign Office spokesman said all had pledged their full support and that
Britain was now looking for action at all levels, including in Belgrade.

Shortly before yesterday's preliminary hearing, which was closed to the public,
the Britons' lawyer, Djordje Djurisic, said: "This is only a preliminary
investigation, an examination of the suspects, nothing else. The public
prosecutor will decide whether he will file charges.

"It is too early to say whether there will be an indictment at all."

Later, at the end of the nine-hour session, Mr Djurisic said it would continue
tomorrow with testimony from witnesses. A decision on whether to lodge formal
charges could take some time.

"We can count on 15 days or three weeks before we will know what the final
decision is, whether the charges will be raised," he said.

The Yugoslav authorities detained the four, claiming they did not have the
correct papers with them and were in possession of equipment which could be used
for terrorist activities.

But the men, who had been working for the Organisation for Security and Co
-operation in Europe (OSCE) training police in Kosovo, insisted they were simply
taking a short holiday in Montenegro's Adriatic resort of Sveti Stefan.

Although British diplomats have not yet seen or spoken to the men, Mr Djurisic
insisted his clients were in good shape.

In a more hopeful sign yesterday, the most senior Yugoslav in London said he did
not think the Britons would face a life sentence.

Mr Rade Drobac, head of the Yugoslavian Interests Section attached to the
Cypriot Embassy, said: "I don't believe they will be imprisoned for life. They
have not done any terrorist acts."

Mr Vaz met Mr Drobac on Tuesday to express the Government's deep unhappiness
over the arrests and continuing detention. "I told Mr Drobac that we and our
international partners were watching this case very closely," he said.

"The two policemen were working for humanitarian causes in Kosovo, mandated by
the United Nations and had simply gone to Montenegro on holiday. There was no
basis for their arrest."

But Mr Drobac earlier insisted that the arrests were justified and had been made
under a democratic system.

He said: "These people were found on Yugoslav territory without proper papers
and with materials not used for normal purposes."

Fears have been expressed that the arrests are simply a political ploy by
Yugoslav president Slobodan Milosevic to generate anti-Montenegrin sentiment
ahead of presidential elections next month.

Tensions are high between Serbia, the power base of Mr Milosevic, and the much
smaller Montenegro, whose reform-minded leadership has moved toward
independence, even though the two republics formally remain united as
Yugoslavia.

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2000 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              164 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                August 10, 2000

A voice louder than bombs

BYLINE: Ruth Wishart

SECTION: Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1039 words


Folk going home. Some of them thinking ahead to what's needed for dinner. Some
reviewing the events of their working day. Some meeting friends or family for an
early-evening drink. All of them suddenly engulfed by a random terrorist bombing
turning the mundane events of rush-hour Moscow into private horror and public
outrage. A Spanish businessman in San Sebastian driving to suburbia, his car
suddenly devastated by an explosive device, killing him instantly. A second
explosion in a residential quarter of Madrid where two of the six victims were
little children. Few quarters of the world are now unfamiliar with the kind of
atro-

city committed this week by people whose moral framework has its internal wiring
hideously crossed.

For what sane person in pursuit of which supposed holy crusade can justify the
assassination or mutilation of bystanders in their self-styled war? What
demented, twisted logic can bring someone to the concusion that blowing up a
city centre building in Oklahoma or a main street in Omagh is somehow the
acceptable means of justifying their endgame? From Kashmir to Freetown and Fiji
it seems that life has never been cheaper; the casual rubbing out of unarmed,
uninvolved civilians no more than an unremarkable punctuation point in the
politics of seizing power for whatever faction has declared war on its current
leaders.

Too often the moral ground from which these grotesque attacks are launched is
pretty marshy. Too often the justification for these activities is no more than
a crude battle for territorial control; too often the perpetrators are not
freedom fighters in a noble cause, but violence junkies needing another fix.
Chechnya will not be set free from Russian rule by striking terror into the
heart of Moscow; no more will another 40 years of intermittent bombings give the
Basque country autonomy, or massacres resolve India's border dispute with
Pakistan. Violence is the natural enemy of stability.

This week I have been watching, in my own backyard, the activities of another
political group passionate about the justice of their cause. The Trident
Ploughshares campaign, as the name suggests, continues to visit the nuclear
bases off the west coast of Scotland, setting up camps and making public
demonstrations of their belief that the British nuclear submarine programme is
illegal under a number of international laws, given its inability to distinguish
between military and civilian targets when deployed. The group was much cheered
by the ruling in a Greenock court earlier this year upholding that belief, used
in the defence of three women who had been charged with destroying Ministry of
Defence property.

There is a popular school of thought that people who make similar protests in
the vicinity of major MoD installations are, at best, a slightly loopy irritant.
It strikes me, in this week of man's increasinging

inhumanity to man, that they just might be saner than anyone else on the planet.

Groups like Ploughshares attract an interesting cross-section of the population.
Some are quite young, some have a religious attachment to pacifism. But there is
a very large contingent who are middle-aged women or older. Women who have
witnessed the futility of war and who desperately want their children's children
to be spared that experience. Many such grandmothers became involved at Greenham
Common, some of them politicised for the first time in their lives by their
abhorrence of their green and pleasant land being transformed into a launchpad
for foreign weapons of mass destruction. They are

typified by women such as 70-year-old Joan Meredith, a retired teacher who this
week escaped jail for failing to pay a £100 fine imposed at the time of a
previous Faslane demonstration. An unremarkable, quietly-spoken, grey-haired
pensioner whom you might more usually find tending roses, moved by an inner
conviction to register her personal dissent to what the MoD might do
strategically in her name.

This week the local council in the Faslane and Coulport area, Argyll and Bute,
held an apparently heated debate on the subject of the demonstrators. Two
councillors had moved a motion "condemning unreservedly" the activities of the
Ploughshares group on the grounds that it had held up the commuter traffic. And
how pleasant it must be to go through life only exercised by the awful
possibility of being late for work, eyes carefully averted from the fortified
base and what it does for a living. Their eyes are not however, similarly
averted from the public menace on the other side of the road, where caravans and
shacks nestling among the trees indicate the site of a permanent peace camp
first set up 18 years ago.

It takes a very special kind of mind-set to find beauty in billions of pounds'
worth of sleek black submarine and its deadly cargo, but suffer apoplexy at the
sight of painted mobile homes. But the selfsame councillors are now demanding
another meeting to

discuss how the camp can be forcibly disbanded. There will be no such meeting in
the local council, or indeed the Houses of Parliament, about the future of
Trident.

As is so often the case with multi-billion-pound defence contracts, the vast

sums seem poured in with very little in the way of cost-benefit analysis, and
only retrospective alarm bells are rung at wastage and overspend.

Even as we speak, Britain risks being drawn in to the new-generation Star Wars
US defence system, a concept just as fatuous now as it was in Reagan's day, but
one which has the manufacturers of such military hardware and software
positively salivating. You could argue then that Joan Meredith and thousands
like her put their lives on hold for weeks at a time in pursuit of a lost cause.
Or you could feel guilty, as I do, that people like Joan are prepared to keep
articulating the concerns shared by a sizeable proportion of the country who
can't bring themselves to get off their butt and add their voice and their
presence. For theirs is the kind of faith which can move mountains. Politicians
quite properly turn a deaf ear to the roar of the bombers. They very rarely
ignore a really sizeable army of the electorate on the ideological march.

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2000 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              165 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                August 11, 2000

Mine charity denies spy charges;Russia accuses Halo Trust of gathering arms
secrets and training Chechen guerrillas

SECTION: Pg. 17

LENGTH: 440 words


MOSCOW

Russia's main intelligence agency yesterday accused a British mine-clearing
charity of spying on Russian forces in Chechnya and of training rebels in the
breakaway republic.

The Halo Trust denied any such activity and insisted its goals were
humanitarian. It said it began mine clearance in Chechnya after the 1994-96 war
and had built up a staff of 150 Chechens. The agency said it was forced to stop
its Chechnya activities after the latest war began last September.

The Federal Security Service (FSB), the KGB's main successor, said in a
statement that Halo Trust workers in Chechnya had gathered descriptions of
Russian weapons for the British secret services until last November.

''Representatives of Halo collected intelligence of a military-political
character, and with these aims maintained close contacts with Chechen leaders
and established a many-pronged network of informers from the local population,"
the statement said.

The FSB also said that Halo had not only trained its Chechen staff to clear
mines, but also to lay them. Halo trust "is training demolition specialists for
international terrorist groups fighting Chechnya", it said.

The Russian security agency said that the Halo Trust had opened its office in
Chechnya in 1997 with the help of Chechnya's president, Aslan Maskhadov, without
permission of the Russian authorities.

The Halo Trust director, Guy Willoughby, said in London: "We completely deny
this sort of allegation, that we were in any way supporting mine-laying or any
form of terrorist activity. We were running a standard humanitarian mine
-clearing organisation and the Russian authorities knew about it."

Russian planes showered mines on Chechnya during the previous and current war,
and have mined areas surrounding military installations. Halo said it recorded
296 mined areas in Chechnya after the 1994-96 war that it said were frightening
refugees from returning home. "We stopped mine- clearing when the Russians
started the war again in Chechnya, but as that happened the Russians fired
rockets into minefields and killed three of our deminers. Four more of our
deminers died in a Russian rocket attack," Willoughby said.

The Russian statement said Halo workers assigned to Georgia's separatist
Abkhazia province started spying on Russia from Chechen territory in 1998.
Chechnya borders the Caucasus Mountains nation of Georgia.

Halo also has offices in Cambodia, Afghanistan, Angola and Mozambique. The
agency says its funding comes from the governments of Britain, Germany, the
Netherlands, Ireland, Japan, Canada and private donations.-AP

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2000 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              166 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                                August 15, 2000

In Brief

SECTION: News, Pg.7

LENGTH: 558 words


Euro pig ban anger A supermarket chain today threatened to dump Belgian pate in
protest at the European Commission's decision to ban exports of live pigs from
England.

The Commission announced the ban on live pigs and porcine semen in Brussels
today following the first outbreak of swine fever in Britain for 14 years.

But Asda said if the ban was extended to cover all pork meat exports, its stores
would stop selling nine lines of pate from Belgium. The pate will instead be
sourced from British suppliers at extra cost.

Building jobs axed Carillion, the construction and services group, is to slash
around 900 jobs in the UK as it restructures its Crown House Engineering (CHE)
business, the group said today.

The company, created by the demerger from Tarmac last year, said it would be
cutting about a third of its 2,700 UK staff in a bid to rectify "poor financial
performance" in CHE, its mechanical and electrical engineering arm.

CHE, which is based in Wolverhampton, has its operations spread around the UK,
with sites in the West Midlands, the north east and north west of England,
Scotland and the south of England.

Royal birthday The Princess Royal was celebrating her 50th birthday today - just
a few days after her grandmother, the Queen Mother, turned 100. She was expected
to mark her own special milestone privately with her family. The official
celebration for friends and family took place in June at the party held at
Windsor Castle for a clutch of royal birthdays, including the Queen Mother's
100th, Princess Margaret's 70th, and Prince William's 18th.

Inflation still low Official figures published today were expected to show that
inflation remains comfortably below the Government's target. City analysts were
predicting little change from June's underlying inflation rate of 2.2 per cent,
compared with the Government's 2.5 per cent target, when the July figures are
released by the Office of National Statistics.

The headline inflation rate, which includes mortgage interest payments, was also
expected to remain close to the previous month's 3.3 per cent.

Bomb anniversary The people of Omagh were today marking the second anniversary
of the car bomb which killed 29 people by holding a minute's silence in the town
centre. The ceremony was commemorating all those who died in the worst atrocity
in the history of Northern Ireland's Troubles. The explosion two years ago was
carried out by dissident republican terror group the Real IRA.

Sex cure at risk Efforts to cure sex attackers could be put at risk by placing
them in cells with those who refuse to acknowledge their crimes, the Chief
Inspector of Prisons warned today. Sir David Ramsbotham called on officials to
establish a panel overseeing the way sex offenders are handled and the treatment
they receive.

Attack advice Women who are confronted by sex attackers should shout "fire",
make themselves sick or poke their aggressor forcefully in the eyes to improve
their chances of escape, according to advice published in Cosmopolitan magazine.

Grim search The search for missing five-year-old Jake Parker was resuming at
first light today although hopes of finding him alive have all but vanished.
Police confirmed yesterday that the body of a child was spotted in the sea close
to Brancaster beach, north Norfolk.

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2000 Bristol United Press

                              167 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                August 16, 2000

Comment & Analysis: Draco would be proud: The new Terrorism Act will have
far-ranging consequences for liberty both in Britain and abroad

BYLINE: Faisal Bodi

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages, Pg. 20

LENGTH: 868 words


Draconian new legislation designed to curtail the activities of foreign
opposition groups based in Britain slipped quietly on to the statute book last
month, the few whimpers of protest silenced by the public panic over
paedophiles. Barely six months since these columns were warning of its
implications, the Terrorism Act has been bludgeoned through without any
alterations worth mentioning.

The government would have us believe it is a timely replacement for the
Prevention of Terrorism Act 1989, which dealt primarily with Northern Ireland,
bringing the law up to date with the changing nature of terrorism. Critics
counter that its indiscriminate scope is designed to harass and intimidate into
silence all opposition deemed a hindrance by Whitehall. They are right. The main
feature of this legislation is its deliberate bluntness. It is intended not to
strike dread into the hearts of those who cannot distinguish between bullet and
ballot box, but to cow all legitimate opposition to foreign regimes with whom
our foreign secretary wishes to carry on his "ethical" business.

At a stroke the act has reshaped the landscape in which opposition groups can
work. It is now illegal to call for the violent overthrow of unelected, despotic
governments in countries such as Algeria; to campaign for the liberation of
occupied lands such as Kashmir and Palestine; or to engage in weapons training
for the purposes of freedom and self-determination.

The act affects Muslim groups more than most. After the demise of communism, the
role of challenging the po litical and cultural hegemony of the west was thrust
upon a reluctant and out-of-shape Islam. Muslim governments were in no position
to rise to the challenge. Since independence, most Muslim countries, especially
in the Middle East, have acted as client states for the west, enjoying a
symbiotic relationship by which their monarchs and oligarchs have been kept in
power in return for access to cheap oil. As usual, it is the man and woman on
the street who have paid the price. Many have gravitated towards opposition
groups which, with no democratic avenues for dissent, have ended up moving
abroad.

London has been a popular choice. Leaders of groups ranging from the militant
Egyptian Gama'a Islamiya to Tunisia's pacifist an-Nahda movement have all
enjoyed the freedoms that have earned the city a deserved reputation as an
international safe haven. The Terrorism Act signals they have overstayed their
welcome.

Middle Eastern regimes, along with Israel and the US (to whose regional hegemony
such groups now provide the only resistance), have urged Britain to adopt a more
draconian view of terrorism, one that further blurs the distinction between
freedom fighter and terrorist. Whereas the PTA concerned itself with threats to
the United Kingdom, the tentacles of the new act extend worldwide. It is now an
offence to campaign for - this includes raising funds for or otherwise promoting
- the assassination of an Assad or Mubarak, on the grounds that it represents a
call to murder.

In fact, the act is so broad it may well prove unworkable. It defines terrorism
as the use or threat of force "designed to influence the government or to
intimidate the public or a section of the public, and advance a political,
religious, or ideological cause". That includes the students who raise money
outside the mosque for the mujahideen in Chechnya. It includes the imams who
pray for their success in their sermons. And it includes those who rally in
Trafalgar Square to espouse jihad as a weapon of political liberation. Another
damaging consequence of the act is the power it gives the police to stop and
question and arraign suspects. Under the act it is enough for an officer merely
to entertain a suspicion that somebody is breaching the law in order to justify
a stop and search or an arrest.

The new act cements a definition of national security established in May in the
case of Shafiq ur Rehman, a Pakistani imam who was ordered to be deported for
his (unproven) links to the Kashmiri liberation group the Lashkar-i-Toiba. Mr
Rehman was given his marching orders under the Immigration Act 1971 after the
judge decided that his activities endangered Britain's relations with India.
Whether Mr Rehman had actually threatened relations was not the point, the judge
ruled. The material consideration was that he was capable of doing so. "The
promotion of terrorism is capable of being a threat to our own national
security," he said. Great. You are now a threat to national security if you
merely hold certain views or associations even if you don't follow them through.
Such a view of national security is far too broad. It holds out the prospect of
arrest for, say, the comedian Mark Thomas for opposing controversial schemes
like the Turkish dam project, or for Greenpeace activists disrupting French
nuclear tests.

Mr Rehman is appealing the decision. If he fails he stands to be deported, but
it could have been worse. Had the Terrorism Act been in place when he was
charged, he might have been facing the next decade behind bars.

Faisal Bodi is a British Muslim journalist.

fbodi@totalise.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              168 of 299 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            August 18, 2000, Friday

PAUL ROUTLEDGE'S COLUMN: JUSTICE FOR OMAGH 29

BYLINE: Paul Routledge

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 224 words


ON the second anniversary of the Omagh outrage, the Prime Ministers of Britain
and Ireland appealed for evidence to convict the bombers.

Nobody has been charged in the UK for the brutal murder by dissident republicans
of 29 people. The RUC knows the names of more than 50 members or supporters of
the so-called Real IRA, who were behind the car bomb.

But they don't have the hard facts to get them into court. Republicans who
support the peace process must have the information the police need.

Victor Barker's 12- year-old son James was killed in the blast. He asked
Northern Ireland Secretary Peter Mandelson to put pressure on Sinn Fein to help
jail the killers.

Mandy has refused, saying the politicians cannot intervene in the legal process.

Tripe. In Ulster, everything is political. Politics has set set free IRA and
Loyalist terrorists responsible for the most barbarous acts.

Sinn Fein is engaged in secret talks with the politicians for an amnesty for IRA
suspects still on the run, and it wants former terrorists to become civil
servants and teachers.

Peter Mandelson should demand that the price of any further concessions for ex
-IRA men will be Sinn Fein's co-operation in bringing the Omagh bombers to book.
Otherwise he simply isn't doing the job the taxpayers pay him pounds 96,000 a
year to do.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.

                              169 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                August 19, 2000

IN BRIEF

LENGTH: 536 words


Gang targets universities BRITAIN'S top universities are being targeted by a
gang who steal computer equipment for the black market in eastern Europe. They
raid laboratories for powerful memory chips and circuit boards. The latest theft
happened at Manchester University, where one of Europe's largest computers was
dismantled and parts worth up to GBP 200,000 stolen.

The raid follows similar ones at Bradford and Edinburgh in which about GBP
350,000 worth of equipment was taken. A computer expert said: "We assume they
are stealing to order for Eastern Europe. The price of this equipment would be
very high there."

Hostel fire charges Australian fruit-picker Robert Paul Long, 37, was charged
with arson and two counts of murder yesterday over the Childers hostel fire that
killed 15 backpackers, six of them British. He also faces charges of attempted
murder and unlawful wounding in connection with his arrest.

A blaze destroyed the Palace backpackers' hostel in the small farming town 190
miles north of Brisbane on June 23.

Islanders flee volcano Residents and holidaymakers on the Japanese resort island
of Miyake were evacuated yesterday after a volcano shot ash more than 26,000ft
into the air. It was the largest eruption by the 2,686ft Mount Oyama since it
became active last month for the first time in 17 years.

Nerves in Tokyo, 120 miles to the north, are already frayed by the recent rise
in seismic activity. One person was injured by a moderate tremor that rattled
the capital yesterday and several islands near Miyake were struck by two more
powerful quakes that caused landslides. Another quake, measuring five on the
Richter scale, was recorded off Japan's eastern coast.

Right royal photo row PRINCESS Stephanie of Monaco is threatening to sue her
former husband, Daniel Ducruet, after he was paid by a French magazine for
pictures of him playing with their two children, aged seven and six.

Ducruet, who sees the children on alternate weekends, claimed: "Stephanie is
only upset because she made an arrangement with another magazine for her to be
snapped with the children."

Pristina rocked by bomb A BOMB explosion rocked the centre of Pristina
yesterday, damaging the offices of Serb, ethnic Albanian and other political
parties in the heart of the Kosovo capital. One person suffered cuts and bruises
and several others were in shock.

The Serbs accused the UN and the Nato-led peacekeeping force of staging a "
terrorist attack", claiming it was aimed at "ethnically cleansing and
eradicating the presence of Yugoslavia from Kosovo". But Bernard Kouchner,
Kosovo's chief UN administrator, said the claims were ludicrous and added that
the bomb was planted by "enemies of democracy" ahead of elections in October.

Hulk star in gun drama Incredible Hulk star Lou Ferrigno dived for cover and hid
as he was caught up in a robbery attempt on a California supermarket. One man
was killed as the two-time Mr Universe was caught in cross-fire as two robbers
traded shots with a security truck driver.

Lou, 48, who starred in the long-running TV show said: "My wife Carl kept
telling me, 'Duck down, duck down' since I'm such a big target."

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2000 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              170 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                            Manchester Evening News

                                August 21, 2000

Punish rebel spy, say Tory MPs

BYLINE: IAN CRAIG

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 245 words





TORY MPs are demanding that renegade spy David Shayler, who arrived back in
Britain today, should be prosecuted.  Mr Shayler was expecting to be arrested at
Dover by Special Branch officers when he arrived on a ferry from Calais and
given bail. But he hopes the government will not prosecute.  I don't think the
government really wants me in court,'' he said.  The government have always
misled and lied to the British people in my case. But even after that, they will
still have to persuade 12 good people and true that what I'd done has damaged
security and worked against the public interest rather than for it.''

But Tory MP Gerald Howarth said Shayler, who claims two of his colleagues
plotted to murder Libyan leader Col Gaddafi, should be prosecuted. If not,
others with a grievance would feel they can go public, thereby undermining the
service.  Former Foreign Secretary Sir Malcolm Rifkind said Mr Shayler should
have taken his allegations to the police.

He said publicised allegations about individuals and activities put people's
lives at risk.  It also affected information gathering on countries that might
be plotting terrorism against Britain or developing biological or nuclear
weapons.

Mr Shayler, homesick after three years on the run, also accused his former MI5
bosses of failing to prevent the IRA bombing of the city of London in 1993 and
the 1994 bombing of the Israeli embassy in London.


LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2000 Manchester Evening News

                              171 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                      August 24, 2000, Thursday Edition 1

Female of the species deadlier than the male

SECTION: AGENDA, Pg. 8

LENGTH: 936 words


   CHRISTIAN Lochte, former head of the West German internal security service,
the equivalent of MI5, used to issue his operatives with specific instructions
when it came to dealing with female terrorists.

"For anyone who loves his life, it's a very clever idea to shoot the women
first," he said.

Lochte went on to explain: "From my experience, women terrorists have much
stronger characters, more power and more energy. There are some examples where
men waited a moment before they fired and the women shot at once. This is a
general phenomenon with terrorists."

Herr Lochte has not been the only one to warn against the danger of women
terrorists. The Israelis regard them as being much more ruthless than their male
counterparts and much more willing to kill children.

While it is a new phenomenon to see female loyalist paramilitaries, women have
been prominent in terrorist organisations, particularly left-wing groups, for a
number of years. The classic example is that of the German group of the 1970s,
the Baader-Meinhof gang. They carried out a series of attacks on targets
including American military bases, defence industries and prominent bankers and
businessmen and were led by Andreas Baader and Ulrika Meinhof.

There were women in similar left-wing groups around Europe, such as the Red
Brigade in Italy and Action Direct in France and in some cases, women made up 40
per cent of the membership.

The proportion of women in nationalist groups tends to be much lower, partly
because left-wing groups recruit ideologically-motivated people and nationalism
tends to be more generational and traditionalist in outlook. However, there is a
pattern of women being used by the IRA, not in its early period in the 1920s,
but more recently.

There's the case of Mairead Farrel, a member of the Provisional IRA who was shot
dead along with two IRA men by the SAS in Gibraltar in 1988 while the trio were
carrying out a bombing dummy run.

One also thinks of the Price sisters who were involved in an attempted IRA
bombing campaign in mainland Britain in the late 1970s. Now released from
prison, Marion Price is a supporter of the 32 County Sovereignty movement, the
political wing of breakaway Republican terrorist group, the Real IRA, and last
weekend she was involved in angry exchanges with relatives of the victims of the
Omagh bombing who were holding a protest in west Belfast while people were
trying to raise funds for the Real IRA.

Women are still definitely in a minority in the case of something like the
Provisional IRA, but while there were female terrorists active in republican
groups, they didn't exist in loyalist ones so those pictures at the weekend
represent a new phenomenon.

Among loyalists and certainly among paramilitaries, the traditional culture has
been very much a male thing - to my knowledge, there have never been any
loyalist female prisoners convicted of terrorist offences whereas there have
been republican ones.

Despite those pictures of the woman paramilitary, I don't for a moment think
that they're recruiting women for groups like the Ulster Freedom Fighters [UFF].
I think that this was a publicity stunt, but the fact that they should take what
is a new departure for them to advertise women in this role shows how much they
want to attract attention. Having said that, I still think the reality may fall
short of this image they are trying to portray.

Where women are involved in terrorist groups, their role can be as extensive as
that assigned to men. It is unusual to see women using guns and other arms -
they are normally bombers because there is no great strenuous physical work
involved - but there have been occasions where women have used guns. Again, this
normally occurs within left-wing groups like the Baader-Meinhof and the Red
Brigade, partly because their ideologies are much more egalitarian as far as
women are concerned - men and women are equal when it comes to pulling the
trigger.

The most famous example of the gun-toting female terrorist is probably Patty
Hearst, the daughter of the Hearst newspaper family who was kidnapped by the
Symbionese Liberation Army [SLA] and was eventually turned to work for them. The
photograph of her with a sub-machine gun slung over her shoulder is one of the
most powerful terrorist images of recent times.

While Hearst was tortured psychologically and put under immense mental pressure
to eventually get her to act with the SLA, women are normally recruited to
terrorist organisations in a similar way to men. It's not a case that it's less
natural for women to join up than men because nothing which terrorists do is
natural. In order to become a terrorist who fires weapons and bombs buildings or
people, you have to be inducted into it and have your mind set changed and this
is done by gradually drawing people into the group and its activities.

First you would start off by doing something like keeping a look-out, then you
might go on to hiding a weapon, then on to driving a car for terrorists on a
mission. At each stage you are getting further and further in and your mind is
being altered in the process so you end up being able to commit murder without
batting an eyelid.

Group pressures and group psychology act on an individual and it seems to
produce in women, terrorists who are even more ruthless than their male
colleagues. As far as terrorism is concerned, the female of the species may well
be deadlier than the male.

David George is a politics lecturer at Newcastle University and teaches a course
in terrorism and anti-terrorism.

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2000 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              172 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                            August 27, 2000, Sunday

DOG DIGS UP CACHE OF TERROR BOMBS

BYLINE: David Brown

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 195 words


A DOG has foiled a massive terrorist bombing campaign in Britain.

The animal dug up a cache of explosives in an isolated field after pawing at
freshly-dug soil while being taken for a walk.

Eight bombs - described by police as sophisticated with time switches - were
wrapped in polythene just beneath the surface of the field at Eynsham Hall near
Witney, Oxfordshire.

Army bomb disposal experts and Scotland Yard Anti-Terrorist Branch officers were
still working to make the hoard safe yesterday 24 hours after the discovery.

Suspicion immediately fell on IRA rebels - the Real IRA and Continuity IRA - who
are suspected of planting bombs on London's Hammersmith Bridge last month.

Animal liberation extremists were also thought to be possible culprits. Police
spokesman Richard Goodfellow said: "A man became suspicious when his dog started
pawing at the soil.

"Within a minute, the dog had started to unearth items which looked dangerous
and the man ran to the nearest phone to call us.

"This is an extremely serious incident and an exclusion zone has been set up
around the bomb find.

"The devices had only been buried a short time."

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.

                              173 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                            August 27, 2000, Sunday

DOG DIGS UP BOMBS IN A FIELD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 123 words


A DOG has foiled a massive terrorist bombing campaign on mainland Britain.

It dug up a cache of explosives in an isolated field after pawing at freshly
-dug soil while being taken for a walk.

Up to 10 devices - described by police as very sophisticated - were wrapped in
polythene just beneath the surface of the field near Freeland, Oxfordshire.

Army bomb disposal experts and Scotland Yard Anti-Terrorist Branch officers were
still working to make the hoard safe yesterday more than 24 hours after the
initial discovery.

Suspicion immediately fell on rebel IRA brigades who are suspected of planting
bombs on London's Hammersmith Bridge last month.

Animal liberation extremists were also possible culprits.

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.

                              174 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                August 27, 2000

TERROR BOMB CACHE UNEARTHED BY A DOG

BYLINE: By Yvonne Ridley

LENGTH: 466 words


A devastating terrorist bomb attack in Britain has been foiled by a man walking
his dog, it emerged last night.

The animal uncovered part of a cache of explosives as it pawed the ground in
woodland near Witney, Oxfordshire. Police called in Scotland Yard's
anti-terrorist branch and imposed a 24-hour news blackout as the area was made
safe.

The bombs bore a striking resemblance to the device that exploded on Hammersmith
Bridge in West London in June. The attack was carried out by republican
dissident group the Real IRA.

Each new bomb was packed in a putty-like substance, with nuts and bolts to cause
fatal injuries. The timing devices were believed to have been set two hours
apart.

The bombs were in large plastic mineral water bottles buried in the grounds of
Eynsham Hall, which is owned, say locals, by a former SAS officer. The site is
also used as an annual summer camp by Army cadets, although it is thought the
terrorists had their sights on a different type of target.

In recent weeks security throughout the country has been increased after a
mainland bombing alert. Police believe the bombs were hidden at the remote spot
some time in the last two weeks by at least one cell of the dissident group,
which is intent on derailing the peace process in Northern Ireland. "We were
bracing ourselves for a so-called spectacular on the mainland but we can't
become complacent as this could be one of many stashes used by the terrorists,"
said one intelligence source. The dog apparently was attracted to the "smell" of
the cache and began pawing at the ground.

Police spokesman Richard Goodfellow said the owner raised the alarm after
inspecting a "suspicious looking device" uncovered by his dog on Friday
afternoon. Each of the eight bombs had timers and other sophisticated electrical
equipment.

Detective Superintendent John Donlon said: "We are at a very early stage in our
investigation. There is a great deal to do at the scene. The information I have
at this time does suggest that these are viable devices.

"We have called in the Metropolitan Police in relation to this discovery and
officers from the anti-terrorist branch are involved."

An Army bomb disposal unit was called in to make the devices safe. A blackout
was imposed to consider the possibility of waiting for the terrorists to collect
the bombs but it is understood that safety became a major issue.

The Hammersmith Bridge explosion disrupted transport links, and later another
explosive device was destroyed in a controlled explosion near Paddington
Station.The Sunday Express recently revealed that at least two Real IRA cells
were in place on the mainland and that the group was planning a "spectacular"
with high-profile buildings such as the Millennium Dome as targets.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2000 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              175 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                            August 27, 2000, Sunday

How to make a poor nation rich

BYLINE: David Smith

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 1140 words


Economists have long been puzzled by the failure of capitalism outside the West.
A Peruvian visiting London next week thinks he has the answer.

David Smith reports.

Hernando de Soto has been praised by, among others, Margaret Thatcher, Lord
Owen, Javier Perez de Cuellar, the former UN secretary-general, and Francis
Fukuyama, the thinker and author. He has been named by Time magazine as one of
Latin America's five leaders for the new millennium.

When he visits London next week to launch a new book, he will be feted by the
Institute of Economic Affairs, the Foreign Policy Centre - the think tank close
to Robin Cook - and by the Downing Street policy unit.

The 59-year-old Peruvian economist is being celebrated because, if he is right,
he has an answer to one of the most troubling questions facing the world today.

More than a decade after the end of the cold war and the collapse of communism,
why is it that most of the world is not benefiting from what should have been
the triumph of capitalism?

The end of communism has not, for the most part, seen capitalism kick-started in
those parts of the world where it was not previously strong. The old order,
dominated by north America, western Europe and southeast Asia, remains in place.

Capitalism, according to de Soto, fails five sixths of the world's population
or, as he subtitles the new book, The Mystery of Capital (published by Bantam
Press, Pounds 15, on September 7): "Why capitalism triumphs in the West and
fails everywhere else." Nor should capitalism's stuttering progress outside this
prosperous and favoured inner circle be a cause of complacency in the West. As
he puts it: "The hour of capitalism's greatest triumph is its hour of crisis.
The fall of the Berlin Wall ended more than a century of political competition
between capitalism and communism. Capitalism stands alone as the only feasible
way rationally to organise a modern economy. At this moment in history, no
responsible nation has a choice.

"As a result, with varying degrees of enthusiasm, Third World and former
communist nations have balanced their budgets, cut subsidies, welcomed foreign
investment and dropped their tariff barriers. Their efforts have been repaid
with bitter disappointment. From Russia to Venezuela, the past half-decade has
been a time of economic suffering, tumbling incomes, anxiety and resentment."

These are not the thoughts of a Latin American maverick who is opposed to
capitalism. De Soto worked as an economist at Gatt (the body running the general
agreement on tariffs and trade) in Geneva and successfully ran a business in
Europe before returning to Peru in the 1980s and the deep economic problems
afflicting his homeland.

Ten years ago, an earlier book, The Other Path, set out some of his ideas. The
title was deliberate: a direct attack on Shining Path, Peru's notorious Maoist
terrorist group, which had its own ideas about how to lift the country's poor
out of poverty.

De Soto and his Institute of Liberty and Democracy became a target for regular
bombings and assassination attempts. Even today, while Shining Path has seen
many of its leaders arrested and lost much of its potency, he exists in a state
of permanent alert against terrorist attack.

De Soto's answer to the question of why capitalism does not work for most of the
world eschews most of the usual explanations. It is not, he says, due to a lack
of entrepreneurship - look at the ability of millions in the Third World to eke
a living out of nothing - culture, race, religion or climate. Instead, most
countries simply lack the basic ingredient of capitalism - capital.

Or rather, they lack the ability to unlock the capital that already exists.

Most capital in the developing world is "dead", he says, and as a result it
cannot perform its proper economic function.

The "poor" in much of the developing world are not poor at all. They have assets
and they have savings. In Egypt, de Soto and his researchers found that the
assets held by the poor were 55 times the amount of direct foreign investment
the country has received, including the Suez canal and the Aswan dam.

Worldwide, he estimates, the accumulated capital of the poor is worth $ 9,300
billion (Pounds 6,300 billion), more than America's gross domestic product. The
problem is that most of this capital is effectively useless, because it cannot
be used as collateral, consisting of property built on land where legal
ownership has not been established, black economy unincorporated businesses or
obscure operations being run without proper documentation.

"Because the rights to these possessions are not adequately documented, these
assets cannot readily be turned into capital, cannot be traded outside of narrow
local circles, where people know and trust each other, cannot be used as a share
against an investment," he writes.

Without adequate property rights for the assets they own, the poor are stuck in
poverty. And legitimising these assets is so tortuous a process as to be beyond
most people's reach. In de Soto's native Peru, he found, establishing a
legitimate small business involved huge costs and, even with a team of experts
engaged full-time, took nearly a year.

Getting legal permission to build a house on state-owned land takes seven years
in Peru, while in the Philippines the process of obtaining legal authorisation
for a house built on urban land takes between 13 and 25 years. Nearly 5m
Egyptians live in illegally built houses, so difficult is it to obtain
permission to build on state-owned desert land.

Giving the poor the ability to make capital work for them has its roots firmly
in economic theory. Legally enforceable property rights provided the basis for
America's economic development in the days of the pioneers, while the absence of
them has been a prime factor in Russia's post-cold war failure. It is easy to
see why Thatcher, who revitalised capitalism in Britain partly by enabling more
people to own their homes and to hold shares, finds his ideas appealing.

But can it be a solution to the failure of capitalism in most of the world? De
Soto's institute has been working with the governments of Peru, Egypt, the
Philippines and Haiti for some time. The plans are in place, but the results are
proving slow to show through.

Giving the poor property rights is more complicated than it sounds. For every
apparently legitimate claim over a parcel of land, there will be at least one
counter-claim.

Organisations such as the World Bank agree with some of de Soto's diagnosis that
the absence of property rights is a problem, but are sceptical about whether
tackling it offers a single answer to the developing world's problems.

Capitalism may yet triumph on a global basis. But it won't do so overnight.


LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2000 Times Newspapers Limited

                              176 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Mercury

                            August 27, 2000, Sunday

TERROR OF THE SIKH SINN FEIN;
 SPECIAL REPORT: THE FREEDOM FIGHTERS WHO PLOT THEIR CAMPAIGN FOR INDEPENDENCE
FROM THE SAFETY OF THE MIDLANDS

BYLINE: Amardeep Bassey

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1209 words


IT is the nerve centre of a separatist movement which for nearly 20 years has
plotted to destabilise the world's biggest democracy. And it is on our own
doorstep.

No matter that the Sandwell borough of the West Midlands is thousands of miles
from the state of Punjab in northern India. Decisions made behind closed doors
in Smethwick and Oldbury affect the future of millions of Sikhs worldwide.

The struggle for an independent Sikh homeland Khalistan (it means Land of the
Pure) has its most vociferous support firmly lodged in the heart of the West
Midlands.

No wonder then that it was to Sandwell that two Sikh militants, recently
released from jail despite being labelled a threat to national security, decided
to settle after being smuggled into the UK.

Last month, Mukhtiar and Paramjit Singh were told they could remain in the UK
under EU human rights laws because they faced a 'grave risk of torture' by the
Indian government if deported.

But their brazen statements outside the court, in which they supported an armed
struggle for Khalistan, served only to spark a national outcry.

The pair had been arrested at Smethwick's Rolfe Street station in 1998 after
Secret Service officers uncovered a plot to smuggle explosives and detonators
from Pakistan to India for terrorist attacks.

The two men denied the charges and complained that they were never shown the
evidence against them.

Their return to the Midlands was celebrated with great ceremony by several
prominent Sikh organisations based in the area.

Sandwell is home to the Sikh nation's four major separatist, and often militant,
organisations - all united in their demand for the creation of the Republic of
Khalistan.

Gurmej Singh Gill, prime minister of the exiled government of Khalistan, even
lives in the region, and regularly preaches at a Sikh temple in Smethwick.

'The Sikhs are a peaceful people but we have been betrayed time and time again
by the Indian government and enough is enough,' he told the Sunday Mercury. 'Our
aim is to achieve a political solution to the problem. I neither advocate nor
condone terrorism, which is alien to the Sikh nation.'

Yet Sikhs in the area have traditionally been among the most militant in the UK.

Smethwick has been a Sikh stronghold since the 1960s. The first Sikh temple
built in the UK still stands today in the High Street. It was in Smethwick that
the vigilante group Shere-e-Punjab was formed in the 1970s to confront racist
skinheads in the area.

And the campaigns for Sikhs to be exempt from wearing crash helmets and
construction site hard hats all stemmed from cases in Smethwick.

'The region could be said to be the British equivalent of Amritsar in Punjab,'
said Savraj Singh, of the British Sikh Federation. 'There has always been a
strong Sikh community in Sandwell and they have always kept a link with the
Punjab and its politics.

'A lot of Sikh groups have their power base in the area and hold a lot of sway
in what goes on in Punjab. Some of the more militant organisations no doubt have
contact with similar groups in Punjab.

'It's like Sinn Fein and the IRA.'

Labour MP for Warley John Spellar said: 'Sandwell has traditionally had a large
Sikh population and they have been politically very active.

'A large number of them have campaigned vigorously for the Sikh cause in the
Punjab, and I am aware that several prominent organisations are based in the
region.

'But they generally keep themselves to themselves. I cannot comment on their
activities.'

According to the Indian government, one prominent group - the International Sikh
Youth Federation (ISYF) - is considered to be indirectly involved with terrorist
groups like the Khalistan Commando Force in Punjab.

Freed Sikh separatist Mukhtiar Singh was made the group's general secretary
while still in prison.

As the largest and most vocal Sikh organisation outside India, the Federation
has been dogged by internal wrangles often resulting in the drawing of
ceremonial swords in the struggle to take control over Sikh temples and
finances.

Shortly after the Indian government stormed the Golden Temple in Amritsar in
1984, the Federation was accused of arranging attacks on Hindu temples and
businesses.

Its members were filmed celebrating in the streets of Sandwell after then Indian
Prime Minister Indira Gandhi was murdered by her Sikh bodyguards in revenge.

Warwickshire hitman Patrick Timlin was jailed in 1987 after Federation member
Gurmail Singh Basra paid the former soldier to murder three moderate Sikhs.

Two years earlier, Coventry Sikh Inderjit Reyat was jailed for a bomb blast in
Tokyo and later linked to an Air India jumbo bombing over Ireland which killed
329 people.

In 1986 two Sikhs from Leicester, reported to have links with Sandwell-based
Babbar Khalsa International, the most prominent pro-Sikh group now in operation,
were jailed at Birmingham Crown Court for plotting to kill Indian Prime Minister
Rajiv Gandhi during his visit to Britain.

A year later, fanatic Manjit Singh Sunder, from Oldbury, was jailed for life
after he admitted murdering Handsworth preacher Darshan Dass, whom he considered
to be anti-Sikh.

The spiralling violence led the then West Midlands Chief Constable Geoffrey Dear
to declare that some 2,000 Sikhs in the Birmingham region were supporting
terrorist activities in the Punjab.

And in 1991, a Metropolitan Police operation led to 150 arrests after complaints
that Sikh militants were demanding protection money from Asian businessmen.

Babbar Khalsa leader Balbir Singh, who lives in Walsall, told the Sunday
Mercury: 'We are not terrorists but freedom fighters.

'We want to enter into talks with the Indian authorities but they refuse to come
to the table.

'When a government doesn't listen, then there is bound to be an armed backlash.
It is a natural state of affairs when a community is denied freedom of speech.'

His views were echoed by Gurdev Singh Chauhan, leader of the traditionally
moderate Akali Dal UK party, originally formed in Smethwick but now based in
Handsworth.

'For a Sikh, religion and politics go hand in hand,' he said. 'All we do is try
and help the thousands of Sikh families who have lost their loved ones in the
struggle.'

A spokesman for the Indian Embassy said: 'We have been aware of various Sikh
separatist groups operating out of the Sandwell and Birmingham areas since the
early 1980s.

'We believe that they have financially backed and helped plan terrorist activity
in the Punjab in a concerted effort to destabilise the Indian government.

'The Indian state has no quarrel with the Sikhs who hold positions of power
within the government itself.'

West Midlands Police refused to comment but said it was aware of various Sikh
organisations operating in the Sandwell borough.

Professor David Charlton, a terrorism expert at Warwick University, said:
'Today's terrorists are often tomorrow's state leaders as was the case with
Nelson Mandela and Yasser Arafat.

'Terrorists will call themselves freedom fighters and there is a case to be made
that it is only through violent struggle that demands are met.'

amardeep_bassey@mrn.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The Sikh temple in Smethwick High Street was the first to be built in
Britain. Gurmej Singh Gill, prime minister of the exiled government of;
Khalistan, regularly preaches there. FEARS ... Mukhtiar and Paramjit Singh

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2000 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              177 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                August 28, 2000

Rebels offer to swap Britons;
 Sierra Leone Gang Holding 11 Soldiers Wants Boss Freed

BYLINE: Ewen MacAskill Diplomatic editor

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 697 words


A renegade west African militia demanded the release from prison of one of their
leaders yesterday as the price for freeing 11 British soldiers and one Sierra
Leonean being held hostage.

The militia, known as the West Side Boys, set out their conditions in
face-to-face talks with a team from the British army and the Sierra Leone
government at a secret location near the capital, Freetown.

The 11 soldiers of the Royal Irish Regiment, members of a 90-strong contingent
training the Sierra Leone army, disappeared on Friday afternoon, along with a
colleague from the Sierra Leone army, near Masiaka, about 60 miles east of
Freetown. Intensive weekend searches, mainly by helicopter, failed to find them.

The Ministry of Defence confirmed that they were being held hostage by the West
Side militia, an ill-disciplined gang that was once part of the Sierra Leone
army. It has gained a grisly reputation for extortion, rape and murder.

A Sierra Leone official demanded they release the 12 without preconditions.

Another official said: The West Side Boys are making demands for the immediate
release of one of their leaders who has been detained at the central prison in
Freetown for almost two months.'

He said the prisoner was known variously as Bomb Blast or General Papa. The
militia members have also asked for food and medicine.

The MoD insisted that it would not negotiate with terrorists'. It said
yesterday's talks had been to discover how the soldiers had come to be held and
what the West Side Boys wanted.

If the soldiers had been captured by the Revolutionary United Front there would
have been serious concern for their safety. But the British government was
hopeful that the West Side Boys would accept a peaceful solution.

The defence minister John Spellar said the leader of the 11-man team had been in
touch to say they were being fed and well treated. He added that other hostage
situations in Sierra Leone had been resolved peacefully.

The 12 were captured on their way back from talks with the Jordanian contingent
of the UN peacekeeping force. The area where they were taken, though a
stronghold of the West Side Boys, had been classified as safe.

Their capture caused embarrassment in Whitehall because of the criticism of
members of the UN peacekeeping force who let themselves be taken hostage by
rebels in May. An MoD spokesman said it was not known whether there had been an
exchange of fire, the soldiers had been duped, there was some other explanation.

The capture refocused attention on Britain's role in Sierra Leone. The defence
secretary, Geoff Hoon, the foreign secretary, Robin Cook, and other ministers
were to meet on Thursday to assess the long-term situation.

There had been plans to replace the Royal Irish Regiment at the end of its
six-week stint. The 11 British soldiers, 10 from Northern Ireland and the other
from somewhere else in the UK, were based at Canterbury, in Kent. They had
recently taken over the training duties from the Royal Anglians.

Britain had more than 600 Royal Marines in Sierra Leone but pulled them out in
June. Members of the Royal Irish Regiment in Canterbury said yesterday that a
contingent of 90 was too small, and therefore exposed. One said: They should
have put more men there once they decided to deploy our boys as peacekeepers.'

The West Side Boys claim loyalty to Johnny Paul Koroma, the former junta leader
who is now a member of Sierra Leone's coalition government, but it is an
unstructured group, whose members are often high on drugs. Last night Mr Koroma
called for the immediate release of the soldiers.

The continuing holding of people coming to Sierra Leone to assist in the peace
process does not augur well,' he said in a letter to the fighters.  I therefore
ask you that, the earlier the better, you free the British soldiers.'

The British high commissioner, Alan Jones, is to see the Sierra Leone government
today to discuss what political pressure needs to be exerted if the issue cannot
be resolved on the ground.

Chris McGreal, page 3

Special report on the Guardian network at www.guardianunlimited. co.uk/sierra


LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              178 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                August 28, 2000

Bomb cache sparks terror fears: Army disposal experts work around the clock to
disarm 'unique' devices

BYLINE: Steven Morris

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 612 words


The prospect of a terrorist bombing campaign being launched in Britain with
devices never seen before by the security services was raised yesterday after a
cache of explosives was unearthed in an Oxfordshire wood.

Six army bomb disposal experts worked for almost 48 hours to make safe eight
sophisticated bombs, packed with brass nuts and designed to kill or maim, which
were found buried at a former police training centre.

Police refused to speculate on the identity of the terrorists, although it was
thought unlikely that Irish splinter groups were responsible.

They have not ruled out a theory that the bombmakers were racists planning to
target the Notting Hill carnival, which was taking place yesterday and today,
nor that animal rights activists could have made the devices - though they are
much more sophisticated than such groups are known to have used before.

Police are comparing the devices with another found on a stone wall at a farm 30
miles away in Gloucestershire last Sunday, and which could have been meant as a
test but failed to go off.

The cache was found by a man walking his dog at Eynsham Hall, near Witney, on
Friday afternoon. The animal was attracted by the smell of the explosive and
pawed at loose soil beneath a tree.

Bomb experts spent Friday evening, all day Saturday and yesterday morning making
the devices safe. Yesterday afternoon search teams continued to comb the area in
case other devices had been hidden. The bombs were taken to a laboratory in Kent
for examination.

Police were surprised by the sophistication of the devices. Made out of clear
plastic water bottles with more than 150 brass nuts packed into the bottom, they
featured anti-handling mechanisms which meant they could have exploded if
touched.

It is thought that if detonated, the nuts would fly out like shrapnel, possibly
as far as 500 metres. Police believe the devices had only been buried for a
matter of days.

Det Supt John Donlon, of Thames Valley police, said: "It's very unusual to find
devices so sophisticatedly put together, with such finesse and complication.
They are expertly put together and were designed to maim or kill."

He suggested that those who made the bombs might have a military or
private-sector explosives background and would have to be highly intelligent to
make the "unique" devices.

Police were not immediately certain how the bombs were to have been detonated.
It was possible they had a timer, were "victim-activated" or made to explode via
remote control.

Experts believe they could not have been built from amateur instructions in the
manner described by David Copeland, the London nail-bomber. Nor were they the
sort of devices Irish terrorists commonly use.

"We believe that they may have been created by groups with new, different
methods," Mr Donlon said. "Or it may be that a new group has different members
who have different methods of putting bombs together."

He added: "I would hope this find by a member of the public has thwarted a
campaign and that lives have been saved. I would also hope that we have found as
many as there are hidden."

Asked about the possibility of a threat to the Notting Hill carnival, Mr Donlon
said: "We're looking at that very closely with the anti-terrorist branch.
Because of things which have been said during the week to the promoters of the
carnival, that is one thing we are looking at."

Threats have been made to people connected with the carnival but yesterday Insp
Rod Childs, a liaison officer, said there were no specific intelligence reports
linking the cache to Notting Hill.

Notting Hill carnival, page 8


LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              179 of 299 DOCUMENTS



                               Architects Journal

                            August 31, 2000 Thursday

Conservationists to challenge Prescott's 'gherkin' go-ahead

BYLINE: David Taylor

SECTION: ARTICLE; Archive

LENGTH: 630  words



HIGHLIGHT: Conservationist campaigner Save Britain's Heritage is considering
launching a judicial review of deputy prime minister John Prescott's decision to
duck out of holding a public inquiry over the 180m tall, £150 million Foster and
Partners-designed Swiss Re building in the City of London.


The group last week joined the Baltic Exchange in condemning Prescott's final
go-ahead for the building, nicknamed the 'erotic gherkin', which will replace
the remains of the exchange's Grade II*-listed former building, bombed by the
IRA in 1992.

Save's Deborah Churchill said: 'We're disappointed Prescott didn't call in the
application and cannot see why English Heritage had a shift in attitude.

In 1992 it insisted that the Baltic Exchange be fully restored and in 1996 that
attitude obviously changed.'

Save will begin consulting its lawyers this week over mount ing the challenge to
EH's change of heart, after which it welcomed demolition of the exchange if an
architect of international repute takes charge of the redevelopment. But Save's
recent record in fighting such proposals through the court is not good - last
year it fought in vain to stop a school in Liverpool from demolition (AJ 1.7.99)
and it famously campaigned against the demolition of the Mappin & Webb building
in the City, both against the proposed Mies van der Rohe scheme and Sir James
Stirling and Michael Wilford's No 1 Poultry building which was eventually built.

Baltic Exchange chief executive Jim Buckley said he was 'naturally disappointed'
by Prescott's decision to allow the demolition of what he called 'a unique
feature of the City's architectural heritage' instead of dealing with the
conservation issues 'satisfactorily and objectively by a formal public inquiry'.

Prescott's all-clear remained the last stepping stone for the Swiss Re tower
after the City planners, the Court of Common Council, the Commission for
Architecture and the Built Environment and EH all gave it their seals of
approval. London mayor Ken Livingstone also sent Prescott a letter to let him
know how important he feels the Foster building would be in terms of the City's
ability to attract tenants to large floorplates and 'retain and enhance'London's
position as a world city.'The quality of design is of the highest order', he
said.'It certainly has my full support.'

Buckley also attacked EH's view that the badly-damaged exchange 'cannot properly
be reinstated' as 'nonsense'and claimed that the exchange has been financially
disadvantaged to the tune of around £10 million because of the policy U-turns
performed by EH in the years following the IRA bomb. But, asked if the exchange
was not simply sour about losing out financially, he said:

'Making money is not an issue that's high on our agenda. We're a not-for-profit
City institution.' Buckley would not comment on whether he would pursue the case
through the courts, however.

'In the wake of the bombing we were told that a full restoration of the building
would be required - and we were threatened subsequently with legal action
because it was alleged that we were progressing too slowly, ' said Buckley.

The exchange then sold the building and site in December 1994, with many of its
important artefacts passing under the supervision of EH for later reinstatement
in any appropriate development on site. A year later EH consented to a
redevelopment around the core, listed elements of the building.

EHstressed that it did not take the loss of the 'important Grade II* building
lightly.' 'With regret, we cannot justify requiring the replacement of the
building, ' it said. Reconstructing the exchange would have involved 'a
substantial degree of replication', as only limited amounts of the original
features and materials could be reused and, since the exchange is not interested
in returning, it would be difficult to reuse.

As part of an earlier deal Swiss Re will now pay Kvaerner at least £85 million
for the 0.75ha site. The building, London's third tallest at 41 storeys, should
be up and occupied in early 2004 after developers make a start early next year.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: Architects Journal


                            Copyright 2000 Emap Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              180 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          September 9, 2000, Saturday

IMF SUMMIT: PRAGUE BRACED FOR ANTI-GLOBALISATION SHOWDOWN;
 IMF SUMMIT PROTESTERS WHO BROUGHT SEATTLE TO A STANDSTILL AND WRECKED THE
WORLD'S TRADE TALKS HEAD FOR CZECH CAPITAL HELLBENT ON CAUSING MAYHEM

BYLINE: Justin Huggler In Prague

SECTION: FOREIGN NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 731 words


LUDVIC ZIFCAK was the secret policeman who lit the fuse that toppled
Czechoslovakia's Communist regime. In 1989, for reasons that have never been
clear, Mr Zifcak, a notorious member of the StB secret police, started the
rumour that a student had been killed in protests. The rumour fuelled street
demonstrations, prompted the Velvet Revolution.

In a bizarre twist, Mr Zifcak is staging a comeback to organise one of the
protests that could turn Prague into a battleground later this month when the
streets of the Czech capital are taken over by opponents of globalisation.

The demonstrations will unite an unlikely array of protesters. With Mr Zifcak
will march an assortment of Hitlerite skinheads and those intent on halting
global capitalism, who have vowed to turn Prague into "Seattle II".

The target is the annual summit of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and
World Bank, held in Prague for the first time on 26 September.

For a week demonstrators plan to bring the city to a standstill. Czech sources
said some plan to break in and disrupt the meetings. Hospitals have been told to
lay in supplies in case of a chemical or biological- weapon terrorist attack.

Simultaneous anti- globalisation protests are planned for 26 September in 30
countries including Britain, the United States, France and Germany. Up to 20,000
protesters are expected in Prague itself. The Czechs have drafted in 11,000
police, and 5,000 soldiers will be on stand-by.

Since the fall of the Iron Curtain in 1989 the Czech Republic has been among the
most enthusiastic of post- communist countries embracing capitalism. Securing
the IMF and World Bank meetings was seen as something of a coup until it became
clear Prague could be brought to a standstill.

If the hard left is turning out against capitalism, so is the hard right. Czech
neo-Nazi skinheads have said they too will march, prompting fears of clashes
between them and anarchist groups.

Most protesters will be the same diverse mix of pressure groups and individuals
behind November's demonstrations against the World Trade Organisation in
Seattle, which first brought the anti-globalism movement to world attention.

The protesters back a variety of causes. Jubilee 2000, the British-based group
planning a funeral procession through Prague on 23 September for child "victims"
of Third World debt, campaigns for the cancelling of the debt. It promised an
outpouring of anger on the streets of Prague after the G8 summit in Okinawa
failed to cancel Third World debt.

Many of the other groups are co-ordinating under the banner of the Initiative
against Economic Globalisation (Inpeg), a Czech-based group planning a blockade
of the summit. Its organisers say that they oppose the IMF and the World Bank,
which they claim forces developing countries to adapt their economies to suit
the needs of the West.

Inpeg and Jubilee 2000 say they oppose violence and property destruction. The
World Bank says it has good relations with many of the protesters, and has
invited several groups to join it for meetings during the summit. The Czech
President, Vaclav Havel, a globalisation critic, is organising a debate between
protesters and IMF and World Bank representatives.

Hardline groups descending on Prague include the September 26 Collective and Red
Pepper from Britain, the Black Squad Ruckus Society and Earth First from the
United States and Projeckt Interkonti and FAU from Germany.

Police from various countries are reported to have infiltrated anarchist groups
planning violence and Scotland Yard and FBI staff have travelled to Prague to
share intelligence with Czech police.

Most co-ordination of the anti-globalisation protests is via the mass medium of
globalisation: the internet.

Estimates of the total number of protesters travelling to Prague for the
demonstrations have fallen from original projections of up to 50,000 to between
15,000 and 20,000, apparently because of the cost of getting to the Czech
Republic, especially from America, and because many protesters plan to go to the
simultaneous "S26" rallies in their own countries.

Protesters have chartered coaches and struck deals with travel agents. Coaches
are leaving from London, Manchester and Liverpool, and one British travel agent
is offering a return flight and three nights' accommodation for pounds 300.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Riot police in action at this year's May Day rally in Wenceslas;
Square, Prague. Such scenes could be re-enacted later this month

                      Copyright 2000 Independent Print Ltd

                              181 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                                Sunday Business

                               September 10, 2000

LOYALISTS BLAMED FOR BOMB ATTACKS

BYLINE: (Mark Watts);

SECTION: Pg. 24

LENGTH: 668 words


Loyalists blamed for bomb attacks

SINN Fein has blamed loyalists for petrol bomb attacks early yesterday morning
on Catholic homes in south Belfast. No one was injured in the attacks, which
caused just minor damage.

Meanwhile, Irish prime minister Bertie Ahern said yesterday that Bill Clinton
will make a third visit to Northern Ireland later this year.

Hostages released

MUSLIM rebels yesterday freed four European hostages held for nearly five months
in the Philippines.

The four - a German, Frenchman and two Finns - were turned over to go-betweens
and flown by helicopter from the southern island of Jolo. The rebels are still
holding a Filipino, an American and two French hostages.

Doctors on call

NHS manager are to recruit more doctors from abroad to help address shortages in
the UK. Holland and Germany are likely to be prime recruitment targets.

Transfer fee plea

TONY BLAIR and German Chancellor Gerhard Schroder yesterday warned the European
Commission against changing the soccer transfer system amid concerns that
smaller clubs could suffer.

The EC believes the transfer system is a breach of EU rules on free movement of
individuals.

Sarah appeal

DETECTIVES received 200 fresh calls from the public after an appeal to track
down a lorry driver who may have seen schoolgirl Sarah Payne's killer.

They believe that a white van pulled out in front of the lorry on the A29 near
where the eight-year-old's body was found in West Sussex.

Power struggles

POWER regulator Ofgem faced questions over whether it vetted troubled gas and
electricity supplier Independent Energy closely enough, after the Midlands
company called in the receivers.

The National Electricity Consumers Council wants more checks on companies.

Blast suspects

CHINESE authorities were unable to say whether militant separatists were
responsible for a huge explosion in the far western region of Xinjiang.

A lorry carrying explosives blew up in regional capital Urumqi on Friday night,
killing 60 people and injuring another 309.

Members of the ethnic Uighur minority, which have carried out a series of
bombings since 1996, are suspected.

Mideast peace hopes

ISRAELI and Palestinian negotiators are to resume peace talks this week amid
suggestions that they are likely to be "decisive". Nabil Abu Rdainah, an aide to
Palestinian president Yasser Arafat, said the talks would last around four
weeks.

Driver error

POLICE investigating the coach crash in America that injured dozens of Britons
yesterday blamed "driver inattention".

Several passengers were still in hospital yesterday after the vehicle skidded on
its side along the road in the Nevada desert. All 41 people on board were
injured, including a 72-year-old woman who later had both her arms amputated.

West Timor exodus

UNITED Nations chiefs are preparing for a flood of refugees from Indonesian West
Timor after a series of murders by pro-Jakarta militia.

Hundreds of foreign aid workers fled West Timor after militia killed three UN
staff and six local residents on Wednesday.

More than 120,000 refugees, who left East Timor after last year's independence
vote, are vulnerable to attack.

Secrets unearthed

ARCHAEOLOGISTS have discovered two tombs thought to be those of the secret
grand-daughter of George III and her niece.

The tombs were found in a church in Carmarthen, west Wales, during floor
re-tiling work. One of the tombstones carries the name of Charlotte Dalton, a
descendant from the secret first marriage of George III.

Air show salute

THOUSANDS of spectators yesterday watched the largest formation of Spitfires
seen since the second world war to mark the 60th anniversary of the Battle of
Britain.

Twenty-two of the veteran fighter planes flew in formation over the Battle of
Britain Anniversary Air Show at Duxford, Cambridgeshire.

The Spitfire led the fight against the German Luftwaffe in 1940 when the Royal
Air Force halted Hitler's plans to invade Britain.


LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2000 Sunday Business Group

                              182 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 14, 2000

Yemen likely to free jailed Britons early

BYLINE: Brian Whitaker

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 9

LENGTH: 234 words


Yemen is planning an early release for five British men jailed on terrorism
charges, the Guardian has learned. The decision follows a meeting between the
foreign secretary, Robin Cook, and President Ali Abdullah Saleh in London last
week.

The men were among a group of 10 found guilty last year of plotting to attack
British and American targets in Aden. The Yemeni authorities said they had been
sent on a bombing mission by Abu Hamza al-Masri, the fiery imam of Finsbury Park
mosque in north London.

Most of the Britons were arrested in December 1998, before any attacks had been
carried out. A few days later a Yemeni-based group calling itself the Islamic
Army of Aden-Abyan - which had links with Abu Hamza - kidnapped a party of 16
mainly British tourists in the hope of securing the men's release. Four of the
tourists died in a shootout between the kidnappers and Yemeni security forces.

Malik Nassar Harhara, 27, from Birmingham, and Mohsin Ghailan, 20, from London,
the stepson of Abu Hamza, were both sentenced to seven years for their part in
the alleged bomb plot. Shahid Butt, 34, and Sarmad Ahmed, 23, both from
Birmingham, were jailed for five years. Mohammed Mustafa Kamel, 18, the son of
Abu Hamza, got three years.

The case damaged relations between Britain and Yemen, and both sides want to lay
it to rest, but the men will serve at least two years in jail.


LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              183 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                          September 19, 2000, Tuesday

MORNING VIEW: THE CULTURE OF VIOLENCE MUST BE FACED

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 632 words


YESTERDAY'S horrific incident in the centre of Bangor is a shocking illustration
of the existence of a continuously violent underworld in our midst.

This is not to cast any aspersions on the victims of this vicious attack, and we
wish them a speedy recovery and as full a return to normal life as such shock
and injuries may allow.

Nor is it to link this latest horror to the murderous feud between the UVF and
the UDA, nor even to take at any more than face value the allegations that Mr
Rice was targeted because he had stood up to drug dealers.

No: it is to point simply and steadily at a gross fact, namely, that there are
gangs in our midst who are continuously involved in criminal violence for very
shabby ends.

The only linkage is that the instability of our society since the late Sixties
has allowed such an armed underworld to flourish.

The violence between the UVF and UDA, for instance, has nothing to do with
saving or securing the Union. How could it? Every incident between them, in
fact, weakens the Union, for it says to the people of Great Britain that these
are people who call themselves loyalist, and the only possible response from
Great Britain must be to cut all links with such people.

Nor has it anything to do with whether people are for or against the 1998
Agreement, no matter what kind of short-term point-scoring perspective is spun
around it.

Nor has it anything to do with saving the RUC: the police have regularly been
attacked for the very good reason that the police are confronting the violence;
and the RUC does not forget that the first member of the force to fall in the
recent Troubles was Constable Victor Arbuckle, shot by 'loyalists' on the
Shankill Road in the middle of a gun battle with troops in October 1969.

Now, as then, moreover, it has nothing to with 'defeating republicanism':
indeed, from the first Catholic shot dead in Malvern Street in 1966, it could be
argued that this culture of violence did much to spawn the ferocious killing
machine of the Provisional IRA. Violence begat violence with a vengeance.

Nor has it anything to do with improving the housing, health, education and
prosperity of the people of the Shankill. The housing problem alone is reaching
crisis point because of this violence, in spite of a generation of investment to
build quality modern housing in place of the 'wee palaces' of the past.

So what is the point of all this violence? Is it that some people have become
addicted to it? Is it that some would not begin to know how to create a normal
life for themselves and their families within the modest limits of their talents
and energy?

Every possible allowance has been made for people caught up in the violence of
the last 30 years. Indeed, precisely this consideration was at the heart of one
of the most painful provisions of the Good Friday Agreement, namely the release
and after-care of prisoners as people whose lives had been blown off course in a
conflict they did not create.

The continuing culture of violence, when neither political nor emotional excuse
or justification might be offered as extenuating circumstances, is a problem
which our entire society must face; and the perpetrators must take full
responsibility for their actions.

Any connection between drugs and that culture of violence creates a lethal
cocktail which makes our policing problem precisely that: a major challenge of
policing - not whether policing suits this group or that, but whether it can
tackle both criminal conspiracies and the culture of violence which threatens us
all.

Wise, steady political and policing judgments are necessary, day in and day out,
to free society at last from this scourge, of which yesterday's blast was merely
the latest expression.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2000 Century Newspapers Limited

                              184 of 299 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                         September 20, 2000, Wednesday

POUNDS 100K GIFT TO OMAGH

BYLINE: Claire Collins

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 208 words


AN Omagh bomb victim received a cheque for pounds 100,000 last night at the
preview of Andrew Lloyd Webber's latest play The Beautiful Game.

Donna-Marie McGillion and her husband Gary attended the London musical, which is
based on the Troubles in Northern Ireland.

The money will go towards a new community centre in Omagh, built on the site of
the 1998 Real IRA bomb which killed 29 people and injured hundreds of others.

Donna-Marie was presented with the cheque on stage at the Cambridge Theatre by
Kingsley Aikins, President of the Ireland Fund, who was joined by Lord Webber
and writer Ben Elton.

The cash was raised at a pre- premiere charity showing of the musical.

Donna Marie, who suffered serious injuries in the bomb, says the Community House
is of vital importance to the people of Omagh.

"The core of this building will bring together those who are at the very heart
of our community and can carry forth the mantle of Omagh as a community
rebuilding and starting anew."

The Ireland Fund of Great Britain has to date raised pounds 2million to support
initiatives dedicated to peace and reconciliation in Northern Ireland. The
Ireland Fund has raised $ 100million worldwide.

Omagh inquest - See Page I

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.

                              185 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                          September 21, 2000, Thursday

NEW FEARS AS BLAST ROCKS;
 MI6 ANTI-TERROR CHIEF

BYLINE: Shaun Connolly In Republican Alert

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 450 words


A BLAST which rocked the headquarters of MI6 brought fears of a new wave of
dissident republican attacks on mainland targets today.

Anti-terrorist police launched a full-scale probe after last night's explosion
at the heart of Britain's foreign intelligence service in London.

Ironically, the building featured in the last James Bond film, The World is Not
Enough, when part of it was shown being blown up by a bomb smuggled in by a
terrorist.

In reality it has been built to withstand blasts and terrorist attacks.

Deputy Assistant Commissioner Alan Fry, head of Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist
branch, said a 'small missile' was launched at the distinctive green and cream
building, on the south of the Thames in central London at about 9.45pm.

There were no injuries and damage was 'minimal' but traffic in the capital was
crippled today as the investigation got underway - with Eurostar and other train
services cancelled and roads closed.

Mr Fry told a news conference at the scene: 'An examination of the exterior of
the building showed that some form of small missile has hit the exterior at
about the eighth floor leading on to the Albert Embankment.

'It has caused minimal damage and the work of the SIS has carried on with no
disruption.'

The attack came without warning and nobody has yet claimed responsibility.

He said it was too early to speculate on who was behind it or why the MI6
building, next to Vauxhall road bridge, was targeted.

'Clearly we have to keep in mind the capabilities of dissident Irish groups, but
at this stage we will not

be ruling out any group who might see the secret intelligence service as a
target,' he said.

The Real IRA is thought to have been responsible for this summer's bomb attack
on Hammersmith Bridge which prompted warnings of a possible new wave of attacks.

Mr Fry said it was unlikely the explosion was caused by a mortar as that would
have caused more damage but said a proper examination of the scene was being
made.

Experts believe it is possible the weapon used was a rocket propelled grenade, a
favourite device of Irish terrorists. The search for evidence included an
examination of nearby railway lines, prompting speculation that the missile
could have been fired from the tracks.

Mr Fry said the morning's train services for Waterloo were terminating at
Wimbledon or Clapham Junction. Many roads in the area between Vauxhall Bridge
and Lambeth Bridge would also remain closed while 'painstaking forensic
examination' was conducted.

Eyewitnesses reported hearing two large explosions at around 9.45pm at the hi
-tech cream and green structure which is only a mile from Parliament.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ATTACK SCENE: The MI6 headquarters and (left) police chief Alan Fry

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2000 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              186 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                          September 21, 2000, Thursday

NEW TERROR ALERT AFTER MI6 BLAST;
 WARNING AS MISSILE ROCKS HEART OF BRITISH INTELLIGENCE OPERATIONS

BYLINE: John Deane

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 333 words


ANTI-TERRORIST police were today scouring the area surrounding the headquarters
of Britain's Secret Intelligence Service after a missile smashed into the eighth
floor.

The attack, which damaged a small section of the MI6 centre but caused no
injuries, sparked new fears about the dangers posed by Irish republican
dissidents, who are believed to have launched two previous bomb attacks on the
capital this year.

The distinctive green and cream HQ on the south bank of the Thames in London,
which featured in a recent James Bond film, was rocked by the blast at 9.45 last
night.

The device, described as a "small missile" by Deputy Assistant Commissioner Alan
Fry, head of Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist branch, hit the southern side of the
building, leaving a section of metal frame twisted and two panels damaged.

Mr Fry said: "An examination of the exterior of the building showed that some
form of small missile has hit the exterior at about the eighth floor leading on
to the Albert Embankment.

The attack came without warning. Nobody has yet claimed responsibility.

Mr Fry said it was too early to speculate on who was behind it.

"Clearly we have to keep in mind the capabilities of dissident Irish groups, but
at this stage we will not be ruling out any group who might see the Secret
Intelligence Service as a target," he said.

The Real IRA is thought to have been responsible for this summer's bomb attacks
on Hammersmith Bridge and a railway line at Ealing Broadway.

Mr Fry said it was unlikely the explosion was caused by a mortar as that would
have caused more damage.

One of the most dramatic Irish-related attacks on the capital was the Downing
Street bombing in February 1991, when the IRA fired mortar bombs at Downing
Street during a Gulf War Cabinet meeting. No one hurt.

Mr Fry said: "As I have warned, we all need to be vigilant. We have a genuine
threat of terrorism in London and that is against a number of targets, as we
have seen."

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TERROR TARGET: The damage (above) on the eighth floor of the
distinctive building (right, pictured this morning), which is just a mile from
the Houses of Parliament

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2000 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              187 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               September 21, 2000

A Dutch auction

SECTION: Pg. 13

LENGTH: 774 words


THE BITTER petrol price row, which has provoked a series of devastating opinion
polls for the Government, threatens to degenerate into fiscal farce. The
political parties have taken to engaging in a Dutch auction for the affections
of the public, like a cost-cutting struggle between rival supermarkets offering
competitive discounts, accompanied by cheap plastic gifts. The Liberal Democrats
were the first to make their pitch, offering to freeze petrol prices for the
presumably indefinite future. If nobody knows how the oil markets will go, how
can they count the cost? Now the Tories have gone further, pledging a cut of
three pence per litre which they calculate would cost over a billion pounds. Any
more bids? The last must come from the Government, and given the competition and
the approaching election, it seems doubtful whether the puritanical line
preferred by Mr Gordon Brown can hold.

Rightly, the Government will refuse to commit itself till the autumn statement.
Equally rightly, it will decline to accept formally the deadline for action
handed down to the elected Government by a handful of lorry drivers and farmers.
But realistically, in one way or another, Mr Tony Blair seems likely to find
himself under pressure to join in the bidding game.

Politically it is one he is not well placed to win. If he goes further than the
Tories, Mr William Hague will claim the credit for forcing him into concessions,
and Mr Brown will have to find the extra cash. If he is less generous, the
Tories will not let him forget it, and in the electorate's eyes he will have
lost the race. Meanwhile, a fall in oil prices could negate the entire bidding
process, leaving the Tories with a cheap moral victory, for those impressed by
such things, and the Government, in the voters' eyes at least, with egg on its
face. Conversely yet another rise in the international price of oil would
sharpen the competition.

Given these imponderables, and the need for government to proceed with a modicum
of decorum, which the Prime Minister must continue to stress, both he and the
Chancellor would be wise to treat the populist accounting of the Tories and the
Liberal-Democrats with the disdain they deserve.

London's blast

ALTHOUGH no group has yet claimed responsibility for last night's blast at MI6
headquarters in Vauxhall, the overwhelming likelihood must be that it was the
work of an IRA splinter group. Scotland Yard and the intelligence organisations
have been warning for months that IRA factions have been stockpiling weapons on
this side of the Irish Sea, and planning some high-profile attack in London.
Their purpose, as ever, is to intensify pressure on the British Government for
new concessions to the Republican movement. Peace in Northern Ireland itself is,
as ever, precarious. Any new terrorist attack makes the business of normalising
government in the province more difficult - as it is designed to do. It seems
highly likely that the terrorists chose the timing of the Vauxhall attack to
coincide with today's South Antrim by-election. If indeed the Real IRA is behind
today's attack, it is only realistic to expect more of the same. London can
weather the attacks, of course, as the city has always done in the past. But
once again, the patience and vigilance of Londoners will be put to the test in
the most irksome possible manner.

A muddled verdict

YESTERDAY'S acquittal by a jury of Lord Melchett and a group of Greenpeace
demonstrators who destroyed experimental GM crops reflected public sentiment.

People in this country are profoundly uneasy about genetically modified foods
and crops. This is despite the extensive GM programme in the United States,
which has been carried out for years without much public opposition. GM crops
are going to play a substantial part in the world's agriculture, with or without
Britain, and there is a strong case for carefully monitored trials.

Following the verdict yesterday, these will be very hard to carry out. Lord
Melchett and his companions will reckon they have a mandate from the public to
demolish any other crops they can find, which will encourage official secrecy,
which in turn is bad for democracy. There is no doubt that the Greenpeace group
broke the law. The jury would have served the public interest better by finding
the saboteurs formally guilty, while making plain their acceptance that they
acted with good intentions. As it is, the demonstrators have scored another
triumph for the doctrine of direct action, and struck another blow against the
rule of law. Some time, we may all have cause to be sorry about it.


LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2000 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              188 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                     September 21, 2000, Thursday Edition 1

Missile attack at heart of MI6 - Massive hunt starts amid fear of new terrorism
outbreak

BYLINE: by Bill Peters

SECTION: BRITAIN TONIGHT, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 306 words


   A blast which rocked the HQ of MI6 brought fears of a new wave of dissident
republican attacks on the mainland today.

Anti-terrorist police launched a full-scale probe after last night's explosion
at the heart of Britain's foreign intelligence service in London.

Deputy Assistant Commissioner Alan Fry, head of Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist
branch, said a "small missile" was launched at the green and cream building on
the south of the Thames.

Tracks

There were no injuries and damage was "minimal." At the scene Mr Fry said: "An
examination showed that some form of small missile has hit the exterior at about
the eighth floor leading on to the Albert Embankment.

"It has caused minimal damage and the work of the SIS has carried on with no
disruption."

The attack came without warning and nobody has claimed responsibility.

He said it was too early to speculate on who was behind it or why the MI6
building, next to Vauxhall road bridge, was targeted.

"Clearly we have to keep in mind the capabilities of dissident Irish groups, but
at this stage we will not be ruling out any group who might see the secret
intelligence service as a target," he said.

The Real IRA is thought to have been responsible for this summer's bomb attack
on Hammersmith Bridge.

There is speculation that the missile could have been fired from nearby railway
tracks and Eurostar services were cancelled with train services for Waterloo
terminated at Wimbledon or Clapham Junction. Many roads between Vauxhall Bridge
and Lambeth Bridge were also closed for forensic examination.

Eyewitnesses reported two large explosions last night.

Andrew Preece was with his girlfriend when he saw a flash of light coming from
the top of the building.

He said: "It was followed by a large bang and the ground seemed to shake."

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FULL SCALE ALERT - a police officer stands on guard outside the MI6
building after the missile attack brought fears of a new wave of terrorism

                Copyright 2000 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              189 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                               September 21, 2000

Missile fired at intelligence HQ
 BLAST: Terrorism suspected as MI6 rocked by explosion

SECTION: Agency: AGENCY, Pg.25

LENGTH: 419 words


A BLAST which rocked the headquarters of MI6 has brought fears of a new wave of
dissident republican attacks on the mainland.

Anti-terrorist police launched a full-scale investigation today after last
night's explosion at the heart of Britain's foreign intelligence service in
London.

Deputy Assistant Commissioner Alan Fry, head of Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist
branch, said a 'small missile' was launched at the distinctive green and cream
building next to the Thames in central London at about 9.45pm.

There were no injuries and damage was 'minimal'. But traffic chaos was set to be
severe today as the investigation got underway, with Eurostar and other train
services cancelled and roads closed.

Mr Fry told a news conference at the scene early this morning: "An examination
of the exterior of the building showed that some form of small missile has hit
the exterior at about the eighth floor leading on to the Albert Embankment.

"It has caused minimal damage and the work of the SIS (secret intelligence
service) has carried on with no disruption."

The attack came without warning and nobody has yet claimed responsibility.

He said it was too early to speculate on who was behind it or why the MI6
building was targeted.

"Clearly we have to keep in mind the capabilities of dissident Irish groups, but
at this stage we will not be ruling out any group who might see the secret
intelligence service as a target," he said.

The Real IRA is thought to have been responsible for this summer's bomb attack
on Hammersmith Bridge which prompted warnings of a possible new wave of attacks.

Mr Fry said it was unlikely the explosion was caused by a mortar as that would
have caused more damage.

Eyewitnesses reported hearing two large explosions at around 9.45pm at the
hi-tech building which is only a mile from the Houses of Parliament.

Andrew Preece was driving home when he saw a flash of light coming from the top
of the MI6 building.

He said: "The flash of light was from the top of the building. It was followed
by a large bang and the ground seemed to shake and my car was shaking."

Security expert Stephen Dorril said it was likely the attack was the work of a
dissident republican group: "It may have been the case that they have got
successful, got the right building, and got the headlines they were looking
for."

INVESTIGATION: A police officer on guard outside the headquarters of the British
intelligence service MI6 following a missile attack; inset, a close-up of the
damage

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                         Copyright 2000 Evening Herald

                              190 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                              Gloucestershire Echo

                               September 21, 2000

GCHQ on safety alert
 Missile attack hits security base

SECTION: News: 999, Pg.2

LENGTH: 623 words


Cheltenham's two GCHQ offices stepped up security today in the wake of a missile
attack on the headquarters of sister organisation MI6.

A "small missile" was launched at the building, on the south of the River
Thames, in central London at 9.45pm yesterday.

The blast brought fears of a new wave of dissident republican attacks on other
security bases today.

Construction workers at the new Benhall "doughnut" had to go through extra
security checks at the gates as they arrived for work.

A spokeswoman for GCHQ said: "We can't tell people exactly what we're doing
about it because that would be making a rod for our own backs.

"We always keep our procedures under review to account for potential threats.
We're aware of the incident in Vauxhall and all I can say is that those
procedures will be adjusted accordingly."

A spokesman for developers Carillion, which is co-ordinating the construction of
the GBP 330 million "doughnut" said: "We already have a high level of security
which we reviewed this morning. We take every threat very seriously."

A police spokesman in Cheltenham said: "Security measures for key installations
in the county are constantly under review and obviously events in London
overnight are being taken into account."

Anti-terrorist police launched a probe after the explosion at the heart of
Britain's foreign intelligence service.

Deputy Assistant Commissioner Alan Fry, head of Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist
branch, said the missile caused no injuries and damage was "minimal".

But traffic was in chaos today as the investigation got under way, with Eurostar
and other train services cancelled and roads closed.

Mr Fry said: "An examination of the exterior of the building showed that some
form of small missile has hit the exterior at about the eighth floor leading on
to the Albert Embankment.

"It has caused minimal damage and the work of the SIS has carried on with no
disruption."

The attack came without warning and nobody has yet claimed responsibility.

He said it was too early to speculate on who was behind it or why the MI6
building was targeted.

"Clearly we have to keep in mind the capabilities of dissident Irish groups but
at this stage we will not be ruling out any group who might see the secret
intelligence service as a target," he said.

The Real IRA is thought to have been responsible for this summer's bomb attack
on Hammersmith Bridge which prompted warnings of a possible new wave of attacks.

The search for evidence was set to include a thorough examination of nearby
railway lines, prompting speculation that the missile could have been fired from
the tracks.

Mr Fry appealed to the public to remain alert.

He said: "As I have warned, we all need to be vigilant.

"We have a genuine threat of terrorism in London and that is against a number of
targets, as we have seen.

"We have seen the attack on Hammersmith Bridge, we have seen the attack on the
railway system and tonight we have seen an attack on the Special Intelligence
Service headquarters."

Eyewitnesses reported hearing two large explosions at around 9.45pm at the
hi-tech structure which is only a mile from the Houses of Parliament.

Andrew Preece was driving home with his girlfriend when he saw a flash of light
coming from the top of the MI6 building.

He said: "It looked as if it was internal from the centre of the building, but
the flash of light was from the top of the building.

"It was followed by a large bang and the ground seemed to shake and my car was
shaking."

Firefighters and ambulance crews were also called to the scene at Vauxhall
Cross, although no casualties were reported.

Anyone with information was urged to contact the Anti-Terrorist Branch on 0800
789321.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2000 Gloucestershire Echo

                              191 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 21, 2000

Fears of resumed Real IRA campaign: Blasts may have been from mortar built by
republican 'engineer' defector: The attacks

BYLINE: Colin Blackstock

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 7

LENGTH: 541 words


The blasts that echoed around Vauxhall Cross last night marked the start of what
is likely to be yet another chapter in the history of terrorist attacks in
London and comes just four months after dissident republicans tried to blow up
Hammersmith bridge.

That attack in June prompted top security sources to warn that dissident
republican groups could try to cause maximum chaos across mainland Britain and
police urged the public to be vigilant.

The summer of terror that was feared failed to transpire, but the latest
explosions at the MI6 building will exacerbate fears that a new terrorist
campaign is about to start.

Just after the Hammersmith bomb intelligence reports said the Real IRA had
perfected a highly accurate mortar, believed to be the work of a former
provisional IRA "engineer" who had defected to the breakaway terrorist group.

He is believed to be the same man behind the mortar bombs that were fired at
Heathrow airport in 1994. He helped build the provisional IRA's
"barrack-buster", a mortar capable of penetrating heavily-fortified army bases
in South Armagh and is thought to have played a part in making the mortars that
landed in Downing Street during a Cabinet meeting being chaired by John Major,
in February 1991.

The attack on the high-security MI6 building follows the republican pattern of
targeting high-profile buildings or areas where they believe they can cause
major disruption.

If the attack is another Real IRA attack it would be the second successful
attack on the mainland since they restarted their campaign - the Ham mersmith
bomb being their first successful detonation of a device.

Should the attack on the MI6 headquarters explosion proves to be the work of
terrorists, it will add to a long list of attacks on main London landmarks.

The vast majority of the major incidents have involved Irish republican
terrorists, though the combatants in the Arab-Israeli conflict have also brought
their quarrel to London's streets in violent fashion.

Some of the most notorious London attacks have been:

*Hyde Park bombing - July 20 1982. Eleven soldiers killed and 50 people injured
in attacks on Household Cavalry in Rotten Row and at the band stand in Regent's
Park.

*Harrods bomb - December 17 1983. Six killed, three of them police, and 90
injured in IRA bombing.

*City of London bomb - April 10 1992. Three killed when IRA bomb exploded
outside the Baltic Exchange.

*Bishopsgate bomb - April 24 1993. An IRA truck bomb devastates the Bishopsgate
area of London's financial centre, killing one and injuring 44, as well as
causing damage running into hundreds of millions of pounds.

*Docklands bomb - February 9 1996. The IRA signals the end of its first
ceasefire with the bombing of South Quay in London's Docklands, killing two
people.

The Middle East conflict also resulted in some notable incidents in London.

*August 20 1978 - An El Al air hostess was killed and six fellow crew members
injured in a gun and grenade attack outside the Europa Hotel, Mayfair. One
bomber also died.

*June 3 1982 - A gunman linked to Abu Nidal shot and crippled Shlomo Argov,
Israel's 53-year-old ambassadorin an attack outside the Dorchester hotel.


LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              192 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 21, 2000

'Babylon on Thames' a high-risk fortress: Millions spent on 'invulnerability' of
spy headquarters: The target

BYLINE: Rebecca Allison

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 7

LENGTH: 424 words


It was in 1994 that MI6 moved into its brand new pounds 240m building on the
banks of the river Thames from its more prosaic headquarters in south London.

The imposing edifice was quickly dubbed Babylon on Thames by the media, having
provoked controversy from the very beginning of its high- profile life. A
dramatic 200ft facade of cream terraces and green glass designed by Terry
Farrell was revered by some as a triumph of postmodernism but reviled by others
who saw it as a vulgar monstrosity.

The then Conservative MP and spy writer, Rupert Allason, said that the
less-than-discreet HQ was flaunting the secret service's existence.

As MI6 employees prepared to move in, Mr Allason commented: "It'll be on the
tourist bus tours of the city next. It's probably the most inappropriate
building in London."

The HQ also attracted severe criticism from MPs, after the cost of construction
and fitting-out over ran the estimates and finally came out at many hundreds of
millions of pounds.

As the headquarters of the Secret Intelligence Service, the high-tech structure
was designed to be one of the most secure buildings in the world.

The SIS, which answers directly to the foreign secre tary and ultimately to the
prime minister, has been redefining its role since the collapse of communism and
the end of the cold war, and is thought to work closely with the domestic
security service, MI5, in keeping track of Irish terrorist groups.

Given the nature of the highly sensitive work that goes on inside its walls, the
distinctive building that dominates Vauxhall Cross has always been regarded as a
high-risk target.

The site is also at the centre of an area of crucial strategic importance, less
than a mile from the Houses of Parliament at Westminster and almost opposite the
headquarters of MI5, the domestic secret service.

Thames House, a neo-classical fortress, was refurbished for MI5 at a cost of
more than pounds 200m, and sits near Millbank, the Labour party's HQ, and also
the Tate Britain on the north side of the Thames. Vauxhall Cross is also a major
artery for traffic. The MI6 building bristles with security features, including
an extensive CCTV system, and bomb and bullet-proof walls and windows.

Much of the complex is constructed below street level to protect the most
sensitive areas from the possibility of terrorist attacks. In the most recent
James Bond film, The World is Not Enough, a scene showed part of the building
being blown up by a bomb smuggled in by a terrorist.


LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              193 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                            Herald Express (Torquay)

                               September 21, 2000

Rocket attack on MI6 offices

BYLINE: By Jeff Bolitho

SECTION: News;999;Others, Pg.2

LENGTH: 218 words


ANTI-TERRORIST police launched a full-scale probe today after a blast rocked the
headquarters of MI6 last night.

The explosion at the heart of Britain's foreign intelligence service in central
London was heard at 9.45pm.

Deputy Assistant Commissioner Alan Fry, head of Scotland Yard's anti -terrorist
branch, said a eesmall missilei had been launched at the building on the south
of the Thames.

There were no injuries and damage was eeminimal'.

But traffic chaos was severe today as the investigation got underway - with
Eurostar and other train services cancelled and roads closed.

Mr Fry told a news conference at the scene early this morning: eeAn examination
of the exterior of the building showed that some form of small missile has hit
the exterior at about the eighth floor leading on to the Albert Embankment.

eeIt has caused minimal damage and the work of the SIS has carried on with no
disruption.i

The attack came without warning and nobody has yet claimed responsibility.

Mr Fry said it was too early to speculate on who was behind it or why the MI6
building was targeted. He added: eeClearly we have to keep in mind the
capabilities of dissident Irish groups, but at this stage we will not be ruling
out any group who might see the secret intelligence service as a target.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                         Copyright 2000 Herald Express

                              194 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               September 21, 2000

MI6 building hit by explosions

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 591 words


Police throw

cordon

around central London

area after

two blasts

MI6 headquarters in London suffered two explosions late last night. The area
around the building was sealed off by police.

Eyewitnesses reported seeing smoke over the top of the building, home of the
foreign intelligence service.

The ambulance service said nobody had been injured in the blasts which were
reported just before 10pm.

There was no immediate indication of the cause, but according to reports
Scotland Yard said a device was involved. A massive police operation was soon
under way and firefighters were also called to the scene at Vauxhall Cross.

Eyewitness Andrew Preece was driving home with his girlfriend when he saw a
flash of light coming from the top of the MI6 building.

He told BBC News 24: "It looked as if it was internal from the centre of the
building but the flash of light was from the top of the building. It was
followed by a large bang and the ground seemed to shake and my car was shaking.
I looked at my girlfriend and said, I think that was a bomb."

A Scotland Yard spokesman said explosives officers were at the scene. "There has
been minor damage to the building, believed to be on the eighth floor."

Another witness also said he heard two blasts and saw smoke pouring over the
roof. Sridharan Balakrishnn, 23, who works at the Texaco garage on the Albert
Embankment behind the building, said the blasts were "very loud and hurt my
ears. Then I saw smoke coming from the MI6 building. I was very scared."

He said police were very quickly at the scene.

Police sealed off a huge area around the building and closed the road between
Vauxhall Bridge and Lambeth Bridge.

The building is about a mile from the Houses of Parliament. It featured in the
last James Bond film, The World is Not Enough, when part of the building was
shown being blown up in one scene by a bomb smuggled in by a terrorist.

Matt Tiller, who lives nearby, told BBC News 24 the explosion was "absolutely
massive".

Another eyewitness, Alex Frank, said he heard two explosions from his bedroom
across the railway line. He said: "I heard two distinct explosions and massive
white clouds over the railway tracks." He said the blasts were "loud enough to
shake the building I'm living in".

James Trott, 42, from Hull, East Yorkshire, said: "I was coming over Vauxhall
Bridge in a minibus and I heard two explosions coming from the MI6 building. We
looked up and I saw panes of glass shattering on the pavement. A couple of the
windows had been blown out on the eighth floor."

Theresa Harding, who lives in the area, said there was an an "almighty bang and
then another one seconds later. It sounded like an extremely loud firework. Then
I came to have a look and all the police were arriving in droves."

A spokesman for MI6 said only that the police "are investigating, but we are not
aware of any casualties at the moment." He said Foreign Secretary Robin Cook was
being kept in touch with developments.

Liberal Democrat defence and foreign affairs spokesman, Menzies Campbell, said:
"This is clearly a serious breach of security."

Stephen Dorrill, an expert on MI6, told BBC News 24, he would be "extremely
surprised" if anyone had managed to get inside the building and plant two bombs.
''It's possibly something like a mortar attack if it was a terrorist attack at
all." He also speculated that the blast could be part of a campaign by the
Continuity IRA or a similar group against mainland Britain.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2000 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              195 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          September 21, 2000, Thursday

ATTACK ON MI6: SERIES OF EXPLOSIONS LED YARD TO ISSUE WARNINGS

BYLINE: Kate Watson-Smyth

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 249 words


OVER THE last couple of months, police anti-terrorist officers have repeatedly
warned of possible attacks in London by IRA splinter groups, particularly the
Real IRA.

The first sign that the dissident republican group was moving its attention to
the capital came on 1 June when a bomb exploded on Hammersmith Bridge, causing
only minimal damage but substantial disruption to traffic and temporary closure
of the bridge.

Six weeks later another device was found on a railway line at Ealing, and last
month false bomb threats were made against three London bridges, all of which
caused massive disruption to commuters.

Since the beginning of September, teams of officers have been keeping a round
-the-clock guard on the main Thames river crossings, all of which are considered
prime targets for groups determined to halt the peace process.

Although the Republican dissidents have launched a number of high-profile
attacks in Northern Ireland, most notably the Omagh bombing, an attack on the
MI6 building ranks as a major strike at the heart of the British establishment,
on a par with the IRA mortar bomb raid on Downing Street. Mortar bombs were also
used by the IRA to attack Heathrow airport in 1994

After the Hammersmith and Ealing attacks in the summer, a police source warned:
"We have to accept the very real possibility that there's a team operating here
in Britain." He added that the bombs were likely to continue and the campaign
could move to large devices.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2000 Independent Print Ltd

                              196 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          September 21, 2000, Thursday

ATTACK ON MI6: RENEGADE REPUBLICAN GROUP WILL BE PRIME SUSPECTS;
 T ATTACK ON MI6 DISSIDENT TERRORISTS MAY NOT HAVE MANY SUPPORTERS, BUT MEMBERS
ARE WELL-EQUIPPED TO MOUNT CAMPAIGN

BYLINE: David Mckittrick

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 543 words


THE PRIME Irish suspects for the MI6 attack will be the Real IRA, the renegade
republican group which was responsible for the bomb that killed 29 people in
Omagh, County Tyrone, just over two years ago.

Although the Omagh attack was followed by fierce condemnation from around the
world, the group not only remained in existence but in recent months has managed
to escalate its campaign.

While most of its activities have taken place within Northern Ireland, there
have been several attempts to carry the campaign to Britain. Republican
organisations have always been aware that attacks in London generate far more
attention than incidents in Northern Ireland.

In this instance, the MI6 building offered a prestige target, with any even
half-successful attack being certain to produce huge publicity at home and
abroad. Although the intelligence organisation is sometimes mentioned in
reporting on Northern Ireland, its sister organisation, MI5, figures much more
often in terms of operating against Republican groups.

MI5 is certainly to the fore in intelligence-gathering and surveillance on
Republican subjects, in particular in England, but the MI6 building provided
such a choice target that it may have proved irresistible to the Real IRA.

Although the exact method of attack was not immediately known, the Real IRA has
launched a number of mortar attacks in recent months.

The most recent took place a week ago when a device was fired into an RUC
station in Armagh from a van parked on a building site beside the base. No
serious injuries were caused when it exploded inside a perimeter fence, but a
number of police officers and civilians were treated for shock.

The Real IRA emerged several years ago when a handful of senior IRA figures took
exception to the Republican movement's involvement in the peace process. The
numbers involved were small, but they included some big figures.

One of them was the IRA's quarter-master general, while another was an important
man in the "engineering department," who was skilled in the design and
construction of the IRA's assortment of home-made but deadly weapons.

Among the recruits to the Real IRA were a number of members of the IRA in the
south Armagh region, which has traditionally been heavily involved in campaigns
of violence in England. The group is minuscule compared to the IRA itself but,
with IRA technology at its disposal, it has become clear that even a small
number of activists can cause considerable damage and disruption.

The security forces on both sides of the border have had considerable success
against the Real IRA, repeatedly foiling bombing attempts and charging a number
of suspects with serious offences.

However, although large numbers of security and intelligence personnel are
involved in anti-Real IRA activities, some of its attacks still get through.

Both the Royal Ulster Constabulary and the Irish police, the Gardai, have warned
that the Real IRA and a similar organisation, the Continuity IRA, are trying to
step up their activities.

No fatalities have been attributed to either group this year. However, of the
nine deaths during the year, eight have been the work of loyalist rather than
Republican organisations.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Police secure the area outside the MI6 building last night Max Nash

                      Copyright 2000 Independent Print Ltd

                              197 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                     September 21, 2000, Thursday Edition 1

Missile attack on MI6 building

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 657 words

The missile attack which rocked the headquarters of MI6 has brought fears of a
new wave of dissident republican terrorist activity on mainland Britain.
Anti-terrorist police launched a full-scale probe after last night's explosion
at the heart of Britain's foreign intelligence service in London.Deputy
Assistant Commissioner Alan Fry, head of Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist branch,
said a "small missile" was launched at the distinctive green and cream building,
on the south of the Thames in central London at about 9.45pm.There were no
injuries and damage was "minimal".But traffic chaos was set to be severe today
as the investigation got underway - with Eurostar and other train services
cancelled and roads closed.Mr Fry said: "An examination of the exterior of the
building showed that some form of small missile has hit the exterior at about
the eighth floor leading on to the Albert Embankment."It has caused minimal
damage and the work of the SIS has carried on with no disruption."The attack
came without warning and nobody has yet claimed responsibility.He said it was
too early to speculate on who was behind it or why the MI6 building, next to
Vauxhall road bridge, was targeted."Clearly we have to keep in mind the
capabilities of dissident Irish groups, but at this stage we will not be ruling
out any group who might see the secret intelligence service as a target," he
said.The Real IRA is thought to have been responsible for this summer's bomb
attack on Hammersmith Bridge which prompted warnings of a possible new wave of
attacks. Mr Fry said it was unlikely the explosion was caused by a mortar as
that would have caused more damage. But said a proper examination of the scene
could not be made until light.The search for evidence was set to include a
thorough examination of nearby railway lines, prompting speculation that the
missile could have been fired from the tracks.Eurostar services were cancelled
during the rush hour and Mr Fry said this morning's train services for Waterloo
would terminate at Wimbledon or Clapham Junction.Many roads in the area between
Vauxhall Bridge and Lambeth Bridge would also remain closed while the
"painstaking forensic examination" was conducted.Mr Fry appealed to the public
to remain alert.He said: "As I have warned, we all need to be vigilant."We have
a genuine threat of terrorism in London and that is against a number of targets,
as we have seen."We have seen the attack on Hammersmith Bridge, we have seen the
attack on the railway system and tonight we have seen an attack on the Special
Intelligence Service headquarters."Anyone with information was urged to contact
the Anti-Terrorist Branch on 0800 789321.Eyewitnesses reported hearing two large
explosions at around 9.45pm at the hi-tech cream and green structure which is
only a mile from the Houses of Parliament.Andrew Preece was driving home with
his girlfriend when he saw a flash of light coming from the top of the MI6
building.He said: "It looked as if it was internal from the centre of the
building, but the flash of light was from the top of the building."It was
followed by a large bang and the ground seemed to shake and my car was shaking.
I looked at my girlfriend and said, I think that was a bomb."Firefighters and
ambulance crews were also called to the scene at Vauxhall Cross, although no
casualties were reported.The attack will inevitably cause embarrassment to
MI6.Its bombproof headquarters was featured in the last James Bond film, The
World is Not Enough, which showed part of the building being blown up by a bomb
smuggled in by a terrorist.Foreign Secretary Robin Cook was being briefed on the
incident, said the Foreign Office.He was "relieved that there have been no
casualties", said a spokesman.Liberal Democrat defence and foreign affairs
spokesman Menzies Campbell, speaking from the party's annual conference in
Bournemouth, said: "This is clearly a serious breach of security."

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The MI6 building near Vauxhall Bridge in London, which was the target
of a missile attack on Wednesday night.

                Copyright 2000 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              198 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                               Leicester Mercury

                               September 21, 2000

Probe after 'missile' rocks MI6 building

SECTION: Agency: PA, Pg.9

LENGTH: 372 words


ROAD chaos: Traffic around the MI6 headquarters in London after following the
explosion

hit: Damage caused by the blast at the MI6 building

alert: Blast brings new fears of terrorist attacks

A blast which rocked the headquarters of MI6 brought fears of a new wave of
dissident republican attacks on the mainland today.

Anti-terrorist police launched a full-scale probe after last night's explosion
at the heart of Britain's foreign intelligence service in London.

Deputy Assistant Commissioner Alan Fry, head of Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist
branch, said a ''small missile'' was launched at the distinctive green and cream
building, on the south of the Thames in central London at about 9.45pm.

There were no injuries and damage was ''minimal''.

But traffic chaos was set to be severe today as the investigation got under way
n with Eurostar and other train services cancelled and roads closed.

Mr Fry told a news conference at the scene early this morning: ''An examination
of the exterior of the building showed that some form of small missile has hit
the exterior at about the eighth floor leading on to the Albert Embankment.

''It has caused minimal damage and the work of the SIS has carried on with no
disruption.''

The attack came without warning and nobody has yet claimed responsibility.

He said it was too early to speculate on who was behind it or why the MI6
building, next to Vauxhall road bridge, was targeted.

''Clearly we have to keep in mind the capabilities of dissident Irish groups,
but at this stage we will not be ruling out any group who might see the secret
intelligence service as a target,'' he said.

The Real IRA is thought to have been responsible for this summer's bomb attack
on Hammersmith Bridge which prompted warnings of a possible new wave of attacks.

Mr Fry said it was unlikely the explosion was caused by a mortar as that would
have caused more damage.

The search for evidence was set to include a thorough examination of nearby
railway lines, prompting speculation that the missile could have been fired from
the tracks.

Eurostar services were cancelled during the rush hour and morning train services
for Waterloo terminated at Wimbledon or Clapham Junction.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                        Copyright 2000 Leicester Mercury

                              199 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                            Manchester Evening News

                               September 21, 2000

TERROR ALERT

BYLINE: DERIC HENDERSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 344 words


Warning as missile slams into headquarters of MI6


BRITAIN was on full terrorist alert today after a missile smashed into MI6's spy
HQ in the heart of London.  Two blasts which blew out windows of the nine-storey
GBP 500m building on the South Bank of the Thames, also rocked the nearby home
of Home Secretary Jack Straw.

The attack, which caused no injuries, sparked new fears about the dangers posed
by Irish republican dissidents, who are believed to have launched two previous
bomb attacks on the capital this year.  The distinctive green and cream HQ,
which featured in a recent James Bond film, was shaken by the blasts at 9.45
last night.

Today the damage caused was clearly visible.  Only shards of glass remained in
the frame of a reinforced window.

The device, described as a small missile'' by Deputy Assistant Commissioner Alan
Fry, head of Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist branch, hit the southern side of the
building, leaving a section of metal frame twisted and two panels on the eighth
floor damaged and spewing insulation material.  Mr Fry told reporters at a news
conference at the scene early this morning: An examination of the exterior of
the building showed that some form of small missile has hit the exterior at
about the eighth floor leading on to the Albert Embankment.  It has caused
minimal damage and the work of the SIS has carried on with no disruption.''

The attack came without warning and nobody has yet claimed responsibility.  Mr
Fry said it was too early to speculate on who was behind it or why the MI6
building, next to Vauxhall Bridge, was targeted.  Clearly we have to keep in
mind the capabilities of dissident Irish groups, but at this stage we will not
be ruling out any group who might see the Secret Intelligence Service as a
target,'' he said.

The Real IRA is thought to have been responsible for this summer's bomb attacks
on Hammersmith Bridge and a railway line at Ealing Broadway, which prompted
warnings of a possible new wave of attacks.  Turn to Page 2



LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: SHATTERED - damage to spy HQ

                     Copyright 2000 Manchester Evening News

                              200 of 299 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          September 21, 2000, Thursday

MI6 BOMBED;
 TWO 'MASSIVE' BLASTS ON 7TH FLOOR OF SPY CENTRE

BYLINE: David Pilditch And Steve Atkinson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1, 2

LENGTH: 435 words


TWO explosions rocked the MI6 headquarters in London last night.

Eyewitnesses reported hearing two blasts near the secret service HQ at Vauxhall
Bridge.

Emergency services raced to the scene, south of the River Thames, around 9.50pm.

Police immediately sealed off the entire area while firefighters tackled the
blaze.

There were no reports of casualties.

The building - which was shown being attacked by terrorists in the James Bond
film The World Is Not Enough - houses the headquarters of Britain's
international spying operation.

The blast was heard by residents living near the secret service nerve centre.

They said the explosions came from the top of the building "near the seventh
floor".

Derek Cooper of Bermondsey, South London, said: "It was one hell of an explosion
- it struck me straight away that it must be a bomb.

"My first thought was 'Oh God, they've hit the Docklands again'.

"I was watching football on the TV when I heard the massive blast."

Anti-terror police in London have been on high alert recently amid fears that
dissident Real IRA terrorists would target bridges in and around central London.

Three months ago the Real IRA detonated a 1kg Semtex bomb under Hammersmith
Bridge in West London.

The MI6 brain centre has always been a high-risk target for terrorists.

There was road chaos after the blasts.

"It's absolute bedlam down here," said cab driver Wayne Mitchell.

"Nobody knows which way to go to escape the jams. I knew it had to be something
big going on."

Another witness said: "Police were sealing the area off. They told me to stay
out of the way. It didn't sound like a massive blast."

The Foreign Office last night said they had no reports of any casualties at the
scene.

An official said: "We are aware of the incident, but we don't know any details
as yet.

"The police are investigating, but we are not aware of any casualties at the
moment."

Eyewitness James Trott said: "A friend of mine was on a bus and he was coming
over the bridge and heard two big explosions and glass shattered all over the
place and the next thing we knew there were about six fire engines coming up the
road and police were blocking all the roads off.

"They have got Vauxhall Bridge completely blocked off. There's no cars coming
down here at all.

"I believe someone said there was another bomb in the building as well."

Last night security services were investigating the possibility that mortars had
been fired at the building.

Last week, the Real IRA launched a mortar attack on Armagh RUC station.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: EXPLOSIONS: The MI6 spy HQ on the Thames after the blasts last night

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.

                              201 of 299 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          September 21, 2000, Thursday

SPY BASE BOMBED;
 TWO BLASTS ROCK MI6 BUILDING

BYLINE: David Pilditch And Steve Atkinson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1, 2

LENGTH: 342 words


TWO explosions rocked the MI6 headquarters in London last night.

Eyewitnesses reported hearing two blasts near the secret service HQ at Vauxhall
Bridge.

Emergency services raced to the scene south of the River Thames around 9.50pm.

Police immediately sealed off the area while firefighters tackled the blaze.

There were no reports of casualties.

The building - which was shown being attacked by terrorists in the James Bond
film The World Is Not Enough - houses the headquarters of Britain's
international spying operation.

The blast was heard by residents living near the secret service nerve centre.
They said the explosions came from the top of the building "near the 7th floor".

Derek Cooper of Bermondsey, South London, said: "It was one hell of an explosion
- it struck me straight away that it must be a bomb.

"My first thought was 'Oh God, they've hit the Docklands again'."

Anti-terror police in London have been on high alert recently amid fears that
dissident Real IRA terrorists would target bridges around central London.

Three months ago the Real IRA detonated a 1kg Semtex bomb underneath Hammersmith
Bridge in West London.

The MI6 brain centre has always been a high risk target for any terrorist
attack.

Cab driver Wayne Mitchell said: "Its absolute bedlam down here.

"No one knows which way to go to escape the jams. I knew it had to be something
big going on."

Other witnesses in the area reported hearing two explosions accompanied by the
sound of breaking glass.

The Foreign Office last night said they had no reports of any casualties at the
scene.

An official said: ""We are aware of the incident but we don't know any details
as yet.

"The police are investigating but we are not aware of any casualties at the
moment."

Witness James Trott told BBC News 24: "A friend of mine was on a bus and he was
coming over the bridge and heard two big explosions and glass shattering all
over the place. Next thing we knew there were six fire engines coming up the
road."

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: EXPLOSIONS: Police seal off roads at the base last night

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.

                              202 of 299 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          September 21, 2000, Thursday

MI6 HQ BOMBED;
 ROCKET GRENADE HITS 8TH FLOOR MIRACLE AS NO-ONE IS KILLED

BYLINE: Jeff Edwards And David Pilditch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1, 4, 5

LENGTH: 679 words


AN explosion rocked the MI6 spy headquarters in central London last night.

The building was thought to have been hit by a grenade fired at the eighth floor
from a rocket launcher.

There were 50 people inside the secret service offices at the time and it was a
miracle no-one was killed or injured. A huge area south of the Thames was sealed
off after broken glass and metal debris fell from the building.

The HQ, which was shown being attacked by terrorists in the James Bond film The
World Is Not Enough, is the nerve centre of Britain's international spying
operation.

The blast, near Vauxhall Bridge, was heard by Derek Cooper who lives in
Bermondsey, nearly two miles away. He said: "It was one hell of an explosion -
it struck me that it must be a bomb. My first thought was 'Oh God, they've hit
Docklands again'."

Police spokesman Frank Parker said: "There is some minor damage to the external
part of the building. There is one broken window."

The building - regarded as one of the most secure in the world - is less than a
mile from the Houses of Parliament and almost next door to disgraced Tory Lord
Archer's penthouse.

The peer, who was told to stay indoors, said: "It is very alarming."

As detectives began studying closed circuit video tape from dozens of hidden
cameras near the scene, Jim Trott, who was in a van crossing Vauxhall Bridge,
said: "It was like a James Bond film."

He said he heard two explosions, but it was thought later that the second was an
echo of the blast.

Mr Trott added: "I saw glass come flying out from windows.

"I couldn't believe it. I was certain it was a bomb.

"Within a couple of minutes the place was swarming with police cars, fire
engines and ambulances.

"Police were blocking all the roads off.

"A friend of mine was on a bus and he was coming over the bridge and heard two
big explosions and glass shattered all over the place.

"They have got Vauxhall Bridge completely blocked off. There are no cars coming
down here at all."

Tube worker Robin Price, 25, who lives half a mile away, said: "There was a huge
bang and the whole building shook."

Channel 4 producer Tom Whitter, 35, said: "There is a broken window about a
hundred feet above street level. Masonry has been chipped off and a few exterior
metal planks are missing.

"It looks like the sort of damage that would have been caused by a hand
-propelled grenade launcher." Alex Frank, who was in his bedroom not far from
from the HQ, said: "I heard two distinct explosions and saw massive white clouds
above the MI6 building.

"There were definitely two explosions of the same strength. They were loud
enough to shake the building I'm in."

Another eyewitness, Andrew Preece, said he was driving home with his girlfriend
when he saw a flash of light coming from the top of the MI6 building.

"It looked as if it was from the centre of the building but the flash of light
was from the top.

"It was followed by a large bang and the ground seemed to shake and my car was
shaking. I looked at my girlfriend and said ' I think that was a bomb'."

Sridharan Balakrishnn, 23, who works at the Texaco garage opposite the spy HQ,
said: "It was very loud. I saw smoke coming from the building." Taxi driver
Wayne Mitchell said: "It's absolute bedlam down here. Nobody knows which way to
go to escape the jams."

Other witnesses reported hearing a blast "like a bomb." One said: "Police were
sealing the area off."

Anti-terrorist police in London have been on high alert recently, fearing that
dissident Real IRA terrorists opposed to the Ulster peace deal would target
bridges in and around central London.

Three months ago the Real IRA detonated a 1kg Semtex bomb under Hammersmith
Bridge, just a few miles from the scene of last night's blasts.

A Foreign Office official said: "We are aware of the incident."

Liberal Democrat defence and foreign affairs spokesman Menzies Campbell said:
"This is clearly a serious breach of security.

"It's a relief that there are no casualties."

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ALERT: Police last night seal off the area around the MI6 building
after an explosion; WITNESS: Andrew Preece last night; AFTERMATH:; Firefighters
assess the damage around the spy headquarters last night.; Debris and glass
showered on to the ground; IMPACT: Shattered windows and blast damage; SHUT:
Nearby railway station closed last night

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.

                              203 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                               September 21, 2000

Rocket may have hit MI6 building

SECTION: Accidents: Blasts/Explosions, Pg.4

LENGTH: 401 words


Anti-terrorist detectives investigating an attack on the headquarters of
Britain's Secret Intelligence Service believe the attackers may have used a
rocket launcher, they said today.

Officers are scouring an area stretching 500 yards around the MI6 building on
the south bank of the Thames in central London, which suffered only minor damage
to windows on the eighth floor.

The attack, which was launched without warning at 9.45pm last night, is likely
to have caused serious disruption to operations at the heart of Britain's
international spying network.

The incident sparked new fears about the dangers posed by Irish republican
dissidents from the splinter group the Real IRA, who are believed to have
launched two previous bomb attacks on the capital this year.

Metropolitan police Deputy Assistant Commissioner Alan Fry, head of Scotland
Yard's anti-terrorist branch, told reporters at the scene today that the device
used to launch the attack was "possibly a rocket launcher".

He said Irish terrorists were known to have access to such weapons.

Mr Fry said: "There was no warning, nor have there been any claims of
responsibility."

He said: "Clearly the sort of weapon we believe was used in this attack is known
to be in the hands of certain groups. They will be uppermost in our minds."

He said he was keeping an open mind about who was behind the attack.

But asked where the device could have come from, he added: "Certainly there have
been finds in both the south and north of Ireland and similar devices may have
been used here."

He added: "These types of devices were are available in places like the former
Yugoslavia and Russia."

Mr Fry said the device was fired at the building from a range of between 200 to
500 metres.

A thorough examination of the scene of last night's attack was being made today,
taking in nearby railway lines running into Waterloo station, prompting
speculation the missile could have been fired from the tracks.

The investigation caused major disruption to London commuters. Rail services,
including Eurostar, and major roads around the building in Vauxhall were
affected.

Mr Fry said: "A very painstaking examination of the scene is taking place and
that search will continue." He appealed to the public to remain alert. "We have
a genuine threat of terrorism in London and that is against a number of targets,
as we have seen," he said.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Deputy Assistant Commissioner Alan Fry speaking today lThe damaged
window of the MI6 building

                          Copyright 2000 The Sentinel

                              204 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          September 21, 2000, Thursday

New weapons for dissidents increase fears

BYLINE: Christopher Walker

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 643 words


THE Real IRA is the prime suspect in the attack on the MI6 headquarters building
in London, security sources said last night.

The group is known to have been rearming, and recently acquired new types of
rocket launched grenades obtained from Croatia in a smuggling operation, part of
which was discovered by the Irish police.

Other terrorist groups will also be looked at, including Middle Eastern Muslim
groups. Police will also look closely at the possiblility of links with Serbia
and other Balkan states, or with drugs cartels, but the dissident Irish
terrorist group is regarded as the biggest current threat.

Earlier this week a "barrack buster" mortar bomb with a large amount of
explosive was fired at RUC headquarters in the cathedral town of Armagh. It
caused only minor damage because a large amount of the explosive - estimated at
200lb - failed to explode.

It is feared that any new campaign in Britain is being masterminded by a former
leading member of the Provisional IRA who was commanding officer of the
organisation's Southern wing but who left after a row in 1996 and is now working
with the IRA dissidents. Earlier this week senior security officers in the Irish
Republic reported disquiet after the man disappeared from his normal haunts and
was thought to have moved to the British mainland to lead the campaign there.

He had fallen out with the IRA leadership over its peace campaign and is
understood to have brought over a number of disillusioned IRA men. Young,
untrained recruits have also joined the dissidents and, according to reliable
security sources in Dublin, have set up at least two Real IRA units in London.

They are men and possibly women living in safe houses who only occasionally make
a foray into launching a terrorist operation when they receive instructions from
the main Real IRA command which is based in the border county of Louth.

In recent months, the two main dissident IRA groups, the Real IRA and the
Continuity IRA have joined forces to bring in new weaponry from the former
Yugoslavia where they are reportedly able to acquire rocket launchers for as
little as $ 40 (Pounds 28) a piece. The sophistication of the weaponry that they
have acquired and the expertise they have in using it has caused considerable
concern amongst British security officers. They had been expecting some sort of
terrorist action to proceed or accompany today's South Antrim by-election, which
is regarded as a referendum on the Good Friday peace process.

At the by-election, the Ulster Unionist Party is being challenged by the
Democratic Unionist Party, led by the Reverend Ian Paisley, which hopes that
victory will sabotage the deal made in 1998.

The Real IRA has re-inforced its membership in recent months and is now regarded
as a formidable terrorist group. Its members are difficult to trace because many
do not have previous criminal records. In the past, the Real IRA has not claimed
its attacks in London for fear of affecting the treatment of its prisoners.
Under agreements recently reached between the British and Irish Governments,
three Real IRA members - all university students - who conducted a fire bomb
campaign in London in the summer of 1998 were due to be transferred to the Irish
Republic to finish their sentences.

MI6 does not have primary responsibility for countering Irish terrorism. That
role belongs to MI5 both in Northern Ireland, on the mainland and overseas.
However, MI6 provides covert assistance to MI5 in keeping track of known IRA and
dissident IRA terrorists.

It is believed that MI6 played a significant role in the recent discovery by
Croatian police of an arms smuggling deal between the dissident Continuity IRA
and an arms dealer in the port of Split. A huge cache of arms was uncovered
which was to be shipped to the Irish Republic.


LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2000 Times Newspapers Limited

                              205 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          September 21, 2000, Thursday

Heavy security at Pounds 75m building

BYLINE: Mark Henderson

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 276 words


THE MI6 building is well known for its role in the recent James Bond film The
World is Not Enough in which it was blown up by terrorists.

The building, otherwise known as Vauxhall Cross, was designed by Terry Farrell
and Partners, a London firm of architects which is well known for its work
across the capital and in Asia.

The firm's other prominent work includes Embankment Place and the TV-AM studios
that are now used by MTV.

The building, which is commonly described as a "modern ziggurat", was voted the
37th most popular modern building in Britain last November in a poll organised
by Channel 4 and English Heritage. The high -tech headquarters bristles with
security features, including an extensive closed circuit television system, and
bombproof and bulletproof walls and windows. Much of the complex is below street
level to protect the most sensitive areas from terrorist attacks.

It was built in 1993 at a cost of Pounds 75 million as the new headquarters of
the Security Service. The original cost had been estimated at Pounds 22 million
and the cost over-run attracted severe criticism from MPs.

The structure is built around a steel-and-concrete skeleton, with distinctive
sandstone-and-glass cladding on the exterior.

It also features a large underground labyrinth of corridors in which many of
MI6's most sensitive functions are carried out.

The windows are triple glazed which may explain why so little glass appeared to
have shattered last night.

The structure is not the first of Mr Farrell's creations to suffer a mishap
recently. The MTV studios were badly damaged by a serious fire last year.


LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2000 Times Newspapers Limited

                              206 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                 UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Brighton

                               September 21, 2000

Conference security tightened after MI6 attack

BYLINE: John Bedford (author email john.bedford@argus-btn.co.uk)

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 286 words

DATELINE: brighton__hove



Anti-terrorist security was stepped up in Sussex today in the wake of last
night's bombing of MI6 headquarters in London.

Police gearing up for next week's Labour Party conference in Brighton launched a
series of vehicle checks throughout Sussex.

Senior officers are taking the threat of a bombing seriously and are apologising
in advance for the disruption to traffic the new measures will bring.

The MI6 building - headquarters of Britain's Secret Intelligence Service - was
rocked by an explosion from a small missile last night.

Dissident Republican terrorists were thought to be behind the attack.

Tight security is already in place around the Brighton conference centre to
prevent a repeat of the IRA's bombing of the Grand Hotel in 1984, when five
people died and 30 were injured.

It includes a ring of fences surrounding the centre and neighbouring hotels.

Police reinforcements have been brought in from London, Hampshire and Surrey,
and a fixed-wing aircraft from Hampshire has been made available.

Sussex Assistant Chief Constable Nigel Yeo said: "Our security operation for the
conference has been many months in the planning but it has a built-in
flexibility to enable us to adjust our level of response, according to the
security threat.

"Clearly, we cannot ignore the implications of last night's incident in London.

"Among other measures, people locally will see an increase in the number of
police road checks, not just in Brighton, but across Sussex.

"We are sorry if this causes inconvenience and disruption but I am sure people
will understand the need."


LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2000 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              207 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                               September 21, 2000

Police hunt for bomb as explosion hits MI6
 MI6 experts points to terrorist attack as investigations into security breach
begin

SECTION: Agency: AGENCY, Pg.21

LENGTH: 577 words


A MASSIVE police operation was under way today after the headquarters of MI6 was
rocked by a blast late last night.

Explosives experts were at the scene after eyewitnesses reported seeing smoke
pouring over the roof of the building on the south bank of the River Thames in
central London.

A Scotland Yard spokesman said: "Officers were called at approximately 9.46pm to
reports of a possible explosion at a premises in SE1.

"Officers are in attendance at the scene and there are no reports of casualties.

"There has been minor damage to the building, believed to be on the eighth
floor."

All the roads around the distinctive hi-tech cream and green structure which is
only a mile from the Houses of Parliament were sealed off as the investigation
into the explosion began.

Eyewitnesses spoke of two blasts.

Andrew Preece was driving home with his girlfriend when he saw a flash of light
coming from the top of the MI6 building.

He told BBC News 24: "It looked as if it was internal from the centre of the
building but the flash of light was from the top of the building.

"It was followed by a large bang and the ground seemed to shake and my car was
shaking. I looked at my girlfriend and said, I think that was a bomb.

"We drove off along the Embankment trying to look at the building trying to see
something and I didn't. Coming back, all the roads were closed off."

Firefighters and ambulance crews were also called to the scene at Vauxhall Cross
although no casualties were reported.

Sridharan Balakrishnn, 23, who works at the Texaco garage on the Albert
Embankment behind the building, told PA News the area was swarming with police
within minutes.

He said: "I heard two large bangs at around 9.55pm. It was very loud and hurt my
ears.

"Then I saw smoke coming from the MI6 building."

James Trott, 42, from Hull, East Yorkshire, told BBC News 24: "I was coming over
Vauxhall Bridge in a minibus and I heard two explosions coming from the MI6
building.

"We looked up and I saw panes of glass shattering on the pavement. A couple of
the windows had been blown out on the eighth floor. Police, ambulances and fire
engines all arrived minutes later."

The building was featured in the last James Bond film, The World is Not Enough,
when part of the building was shown being blown up in one scene by a bomb
smuggled in by a terrorist and has been built to withstand blasts and terrorist
attacks.

Stephen Dorril, an expert on MI6, told BBC News 24 he would be "extremely
surprised" if anyone had managed to plant bombs inside the building, prompting
speculation of a mortar attack.

He said: "It's very difficult to believe if that was done. It would be an
absolutely major security breach if that was the case. It's speculation, it's
possibly something like a mortar attack if it was a terrorist attack at all."

Mr Dorril also speculated that the blast could be part of a campaign by the
Continuity IRA or a similar group against mainland Britain.

But he added: "It may have been the case that they have got successful, got the
right building, and got the headlines they were looking for, but whether they
could continue it I don't know."

He added that security services bosses would be "shocked" by the attack.

"It's like anything, after a time you become complacent."

Foreign Secretary Robin Cook was being briefed on the incident, said the Foreign
Office. He was "relieved that there have been no casualties", said a spokesman.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2000 Western Morning News

                              208 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               September 22, 2000

MISSILE HIT SPY HQ AT 500MPH

BYLINE: BY JOHN TWOMEY AND DENNIS RICE

LENGTH: 1706 words


A ROCKET launcher was used to fire a 500mph missile at the eighth floor of MI6's
secret service HQ, anti-terrorist police revealed yesterday.

The Real IRA are the chief suspects and the authorities are now facing up to the
fact that an active service unit has smuggled a high-tech arms cache into the
UK. Explosive experts last night found a part of a rocket-propelled missile
launcher. They were also thought to have found a piece of the missile's fin
after several hours of searches which brought massive disruption to London's
rail and roads.

The blast damaged windows on the eighth floor of the building in central London
as witnesses spoke of seeing a trail of sparks in the night sky seconds before
the impact at around 9.45pm on Wednesday. Although there were staff in the
offices at the time there were no casualties, thanks to the armoured glass.

Shortly after the attack, high-profile targets such as Buckingham Palace and
major government buildings were on full alert.

No-one admitted responsibility and no warning was given when a terrorist fired
the RPG - rocket- propelled grenade - from his shoulder across a busy main road,
possibly from the cover of a railway station.

The attack came six years after the Sunday Express revealed how the SAS had
exposed a fatal flaw in MI6's then newly-opened GBP 240million HQ - its
vulnerability to a rocket attack from the commuter platforms at Vauxhall BR
station opposite.

The launcher part was found in Spring Gardens park in Vauxhall Cross, behind the
railway station.

A Metropolitan police spokeswoman said it was not known if the launcher had been
fired from the spot where the part was found. "It is now being examined by
experts," she said. "This will enable us to determine precisely what type of
launcher it is."

Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist chief Alan Fry stopped short of blaming the Real
IRA but his words gave every indication that the renegade republicans were at
the top of his list of suspects.

He revealed that one of the likeliest sources for the RPG was the former
Yugoslavia. One expert said they can be bought for as little as GBP 700 on
eastern Europe's black market.

Less than two months ago Croatian police seized an arms shipment and arrested a
number of Republican dissidents. The haul was destined for Eire and included
anti-tank guns, rocket launchers, ammunition and plastic explosives.

Subsequent inquiries showed a substantial number of weapons had already made
their way to Ireland from the former Yugoslavia and a number of Croatian RPGs
were seized by the Gardai at a farm in County Meath. Other consignments said to
have been sent to England were not found.

Speaking yesterday at the scene of the explosion, Mr Fry said: "Clearly the sort
of weapon we believe was used in this attack is known to be in the hands of
certain groups. They will be uppermost in our minds."

He said similar devices to that used in the attack had been found in Northern
Ireland and Eire.

Asked if he believed the the Real IRA was behind the explosion, he said: "I
can't rule out dissident Irish republican groups."

The Real IRA - thought to have been responsible for this summer's bomb attacks
on Hammersmith Bridge and a railway line at Ealing Broadway - was formed in 1997
by breakaway dissidents who opposed a ceasefire declared by the mainstream IRA.
It rarely admits responsibility for attacks and a security source said the use
of a rocket launcher presented the authorities with new problems.

"The terrorist cannot give warnings because the range is limited and the
terrorist would be caught in the act," the source said. "Take that to its
natural conclusion and you are going to get people being killed."

As Mr Fry warned the British public to be "extremely vigilant", forensic
scientists and explosive experts conducted a painstaking search. A 500-metre
security cordon was thrown around the area around the railway tracks and Spring
Gardens behind - both provided the terrorist with a necessary "line of sight" to
the MI6 building.

The search for evidence caused major traffic disruption as several roads and
railway lines were closed. The Eurostar line was closed for several hours in and
out of Waterloo station, which is used by more than 100,000 travellers each day.
The London Chamber of Commerce estimated the cost of the delays to be GBP
5million but MI6 insisted that its staff were working normally.

Foreign Secretary Robin Cook, who has responsibility for MI6, said: "The Chief
of SIS, Richard Dearlove, has confirmed there was no damage inside the Vauxhall
Cross building. If the intention of the attackers was to disrupt SIS's
operations, they have failed."

Phil Roberts, 32, who lives in a homeless hostel next to Vauxhall station, was
in a van waiting at the traffic lights next to the MI6 building when the
terrorists struck.

He said: "I was looking up at the building when I saw these orange sparks about
eight floors up. The next thing there was a huge explosion. There was still a
lot of traffic and people around. It was a miracle nobody was seriously hurt."

Rachel Read was in her flat above the Royal Vauxhall Tavern public house when
she heard the first explosion as the missile left the terrorist's RPG. Seconds
later she heard a second blast as the device found its target. "I saw a huge
bright light above the railway tracks," she said. "Then I saw what looked like
debris falling over the wall next to the tracks."

Police are hoping CCTV cameras dotted around Vauxhall station may give some clue
to the identity of the terrorists. They also appealed for anyone who was in the
area between 9.15pm and 9.45pm on Wednesday who witnessed anything out of the
ordinary - particularly people acting strangely - to contact them.

The Anti Terrorist Branch hotline is 0800 789 321.

We can strike anytime, boasts Real IRA THE missile attack was a stark warning to
the Government that dissident Republican terrorists can strike anywhere at any
time (writes John Twomey).

The Real IRA - prime suspects for Wednesday night's attack - are believed to
have at least one active service unit operating in and around the capital.

The group, at least four-strong, is believed to have been responsible for
planting two Semtex bombs in West London earlier this year - one at Hammersmith
Bridge and the other on a railway line at Ealing on the day of the Queen
Mother's birthday pageant. But a dramatic switch of tactics to strike at the HQ
of the Secret Intelligence Service - MI6's formal name - underlines the constant
threat posed by the Real IRA.

In a departure from the first two attacks, Wednesday's terror gang took the very
grave risk of being captured to hit a spectacular target in the run-up to the
Labour Party conference at Brighton next week.

A security source said: "The terrorists who planted the devices at Hammersmith
and Ealing appeared to take extra special steps to minimise the chance of being
arrested at or near the scene or being identified as suspects. But Wednesday's
attack was very much more audacious - and the risk of being apprehended was very
much higher."

Sources suspect at least two people were involved - one to fire the
shoulder-held RPG rocket launcher and the other sitting close by behind the
wheel of a getaway car.

Experts say it is highly likely the two were carrying guns and would have been
determined to shoot their way out of trouble if confronted by a suspicious
police officer of member of the public.

The Real IRA, which is committed to resolving the Ulster question by violent
means, is a mixture of old provisional IRA personnel and what sources describe
as "young guns". One intelligence expert said: "They appear to be attracting
young people making their very first contact with violent Repub-licanism. They
represent the crucible which keeps alive the violent tradition of 'Brits out of
Northern Ireland' through violence."

The expert said attacks like this week's are meant to warn the Government by
underlining their capability of striking at any target - but also to help
recruit new members.

"High-profile attacks draw in supporters from being non-active to taking a much
more active role," said the source. Members could be former prisoners released
under the Good Friday agreement or English-born sons and daughters of parents
with republican sentiments.

Real IRA members in and around London will regularly be visited by personnel
from Ulster and the Irish Republic who travel to Britain to carry out a specific
operation then slip back across the Irish Sea - perhaps during the same day.

Experts say one of the biggest challenges facing Tony Blair's Government is to
stop the Real IRA becoming the Provisionals of the 21st Century.

Only nuclear bomb can pierce castle THE GREEN and cream castle at 85 Vauxhall
Cross is the HQ of one of Britain's most secretive organisations.

As the centre of MI6 ops, the GBP 236million building bristles with high-tech
security features, including an electronic monitoring system, extensive CCTV and
bomb and bullet-proof walls and windows.

Sitting on the south bank of the Thames, next to Vauxhall Bridge, the structure
was built in 1993. Large parts are underground, with rooms and passageways
extending beneath the road in front.

Documents considered too secret to be put on computer are stored in paper form
in the Central Registry in the basement. There is said to be a bomb shelter
which can survive all but a direct hit by a nuclear missile. An electronic
security system monitors all movements within 50 metres of the building.

There are apartments for MI6 chief Richard Dearlove and other senior staff if
they need to stay the night. He also has a lavish private dining room. There are
two messes with canteens for intelligence officers and senior admin staff. A gym
and a bar allows spies to get fit or go for a drink after work without fear of
being overheard.

Wednesday's attack broke through two layers of the triple glazed bomb and
bullet-proof glass. The structure is built on a steel and concrete skeleton.
Many workers are civil servants providing intelligence analysis reports for
ministers.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2000 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              209 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               September 22, 2000

Aim to divide and defeat;Brian Cloughley considers the logic behind the latest
attack

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 501 words


In the days of the British Empire many dissident groups operated in the colonies
(and in Ireland), and it was an important objective of the special branches and
security services to persuade them to split.  "Divide and defeat" was the aim,
and in many cases it was effective, if only by causing groups to fight among
themselves.

One thing the policy made more difficult was penetration of the gangs by agents,
because breakaway groups impose even more intense security than the organisation
they split from, as they are not only targeting security forces and the country
they hate, but are likely themselves to be targets of their former comrades.

The immediate reaction to incidents such as the rocket attack on SIS HQ in
London is to call it "mindless terrorism", but no terrorism is mindless. There
is always a reason, although it might be almost impossible for a normal person
to understand it.

The Omagh bombing, for example, seemed to achieve nothing but the deaths of 29
innocent citizens. There was no political gain, and it is presumed by most
rational people that for such an atrocity to have meaning at all, it must have
political motivation, with a tangible objective. But the terrorists of such as
the Real or Continuity IRA and the Irish National Liberation Army (INLA) think
differently.

They have no realistic chance of forcing Irish unity, but do have an objective:
to eventually wear Britain down by encouraging civilians to question whether it
is worth while for resistance to continue. This aim was partially achieved by
the IRA, which is now stymied by the peace process, which works as much against
the core of the nationalist agenda - a united Ireland - as it works in favour of
removing the threat of their bombs and guns.

But the IRA is now in a blind alley. Sinn Fein has much more political power
than it would achieve by purely democratic means, as the voting figures in
Ulster demonstrate only too unpalatably for them, but at least there is a
semblance of normality in the governance of the province that might, possibly,
be transformed into something more permanent.

The motive for the attack was probably to cause as much disruption in the
nation's capital as possible without risking the revulsion that another Omagh
would create.

The hard-line extremists of the splinter groups have good security, plenty of
money, and a large stack of weapons. They can strike where and when they want
to, provided they can maintain secrecy.

They learned a lot when they were part of the IRA, and although their war
against Britain is being conducted with fewer resources than the IRA had (and
still has, stashed away), they do present a moderate threat to normal life in
this country.

There will be more attacks, but what we will never know is how many have been
thwarted, and may in future be prevented, through hard and dangerous work by the
people in the building that was rocketed on Wednesday night.

q Brian Cloughley is a defence analyst.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2000 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              210 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           September 22, 2000, Friday

MI6 MISSILE ATTACK: ONE MAN ON A GRASSY KNOLL TAKES A POT-SHOT AT THE HQ OF MI6.
IT'S AS SIMPLE, AND AS TERRIFYING, AS THAT

BYLINE: Kim Sengupta

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1035 words


THE ROYAL Vauxhall Tavern in south London presents a cabaret by Regina Fong on
Thursday evenings and Benjamin's karaoke on Tuesdays. But on Wednesday night it
was shut and padlocked when a car pulled up outside. Two men got out. A third
remained on the driver's seat.

One of the men who had stepped out of the car hung around outside the gate,
keeping a close eye along Kennington Lane. His companion, clutching something
under his jacket, strolled through the open gates of Spring Gardens, a park
behind the pub and quickly clambered up a six foot grassy knoll. He produced a
rocket propelled grenade launcher, aimed at the top of a building 300 metres
away, visible over a railway bridge, and squeezed the trigger. As the grenade
hit a set of windows on the eighth floor with its customary whoosh and bang, the
men scrambled back into the car and drove off. The time was 9.45 pm.

That, the police believe, was how the terrorists carried out their attack on the
headquarters of Britain's Secret Intelligence Service, MI6, and secured a major
propaganda triumph. Although the police said officially that a number of groups
may have been responsible for the attack, suspicion had focussed on the Real
IRA, the dissident Republican group responsible for the 1998 Omagh bomb that
killed 29 people.

The damage to the MI6 building was minor thanks to the reinforced, blast- proof
windows. Two panels and a section of the metal frame bore the brunt of the
explosion. But By striking at such a high profile and symbolic target in the
heart of London, the dissident Republicans had sought to prove that they too
could carry out "spectaculars" like their former comrades in the Provisional
IRA, who launched a mortar attack on 10 Downing Street while John Major was
holding a cabinet meeting in 1991.

The weapon used, security sources believe, was an RPG 7, designed to penetrate
steel, which had been used extensively against the armoured Land Rovers of the
Royal Ulster Constabulary in Northern Ireland.

The RPG weighs 7.5kg, can be easily folded under a jacket, and is cheap;
thousands were sold by former Warsaw Pact armies and a large consignment is
known to be in the hands of dissident Republicans. Their appearance on the
mainland for the first time sent a thrill of apprehension through the security
forces.

Within minutes of the blast, Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist routine had swung
into action. Dozens of vehicles sealed off the area on the south side of
Vauxhall Bridge. Helicopters with searchlights patrolled overhead and armed
officers searched through surrounding buildings. But the attackers had
disappeared.

Deputy Assistant Commissioner Alan Fry, the head of the Yard's anti-terrorist
branch, appeared in front of the media just after 3.15am yesterday looking tired
and strained.The police had warned of possible attacks and that terrorists were
back on the mainland, he said. "We have a genuine threat of terrorism in London
and that is against a number of targets. This was an audacious attack in the
busy heart of London and we are going to hunt down whoever was responsible."

Senior government figures were kept abreast of developments. The Prime Minister,
who was at Chequers, said he was "relieved there was no loss of life". The
Foreign Secretary Robin Cook, who has responsibility for for MI6, said "I have
spoken to the chief of MI6, Richard Dearlove. He has confirmed there was no
damage inside the building. I asked him to commend SIS staff for maintaining
business as usual".

The MI6 HQ, with its hi-tec styling, cost pounds 240m to build. The service
moved there from Century House in 1994 as part of a move away from its cloak
-and-dagger image to one of supposed transparency. It's location was no great
secret.

Standing outside the building - underneath a mauve sign saying "The Pod Landing
Zones" which was to do with the "Vauxhall Circus Traffic Problem" - a detective
explained how the terrorists had mounted the operation. The angle of trajectory
led them to Spring Gardens and the knoll from where they believed the RPG was
fired. An office block backs on to the park with security cameras on the walls.
The police will be studying whether anything had been caught on film.

"They (the terrorists) didn't give a warning presumably because they were
hitting a building late in the evening and there was less chance of human
casualties," the detective said. "But these are fire-and-forget weapons and they
can easily miss their target. Sooner or later, we are going to get casualties
among people like these," he said, waving at a gathered crowd.

Among them were people who had heard the sound of the missile strike, many of
them said they had heard two separate bangs and most of them knew immediately it
was some kind of a bomb. Sridharan Balakrishnan, 23, who works at a nearby
Texaco garage, said: "I had gone to buy some burgers near the MI6 place when I
heard explosions. There were two of them within two seconds of each other, they
were very loud and they hurt my ears. Then I saw what looked like fire coming
out."

Tom Whitter, who was nearby, said: "The first noise sounded like a detonation,
but the second did not sound like a full explosion".

Andrew Preece was driving home with his girlfriend when he saw a flash of light
from the top of the MI6 building. "It was from the top of the building. It was
followed by a large bang and the ground seemed to shake. I looked at my
girlfriend and said 'That was a bomb'"

William Davis, 35, an actor, was at his fifth-floor flat in Victoria Mansions,
South Lambeth Road. "First it sounded like rockets. I thought it was kids
playing with fireworks. Then I heard a big explosion. There was smoke rising
from the building and an acrid smell wafted over my flat."

Police and security forces were gearing up for what is feared to be the first
concerted terrorist campaign in the mainland since the Provisional IRA declared
their last ceasefire. There will be a major upgrading of security and urgent
evaluation of intelligence with the RUC. One detective said: "We shall get these
people. But for the time being, the public has got to remember that the bombers
are back."

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2000 Independent Print Ltd

                              211 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                      September 22, 2000, Friday Edition 1

Rocket launcher is found near MI6 HQ

BYLINE: by Geoff Meade

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS, Pg. 16

LENGTH: 688 words


   Police investigating an attack on the headquarters of Britain's Secret
Service have found part of a rocket launcher, Scotland Yard said yesterday.

The discovery was made in a park in Vauxhall Cross, central London, near the MI6
building which was rocked by an explosion on Wednesday night.

A Metropolitan Police spokeswoman said it was not known if the launcher had been
fired from the spot where it was found.

"This afternoon, while carrying out a detailed search of the Spring Gardens area
of Vauxhall Cross, Metropolitan Police Service officers recovered part of a
rocket-propelled grenade launcher," the spokeswoman said.

She added: "This is a dangerous military weapon.

"At this stage it is not possible to say if the launcher was fired at the
location where it was found but detailed inquiries continue.

"The launcher is now being examined by experts. This will enable us to determine
precisely what type of launcher it is."

The spokeswoman added that Met officers would continue to carry out "extensive
searches" in the area and forensic work would also continue.

Officers are scouring the area around the distinctive green and cream MI6
building on the south bank of the Thames.

It suffered only minor damage to windows on the eighth floor and no-one was
injured in the attack.

The spokeswoman would not say what part of the rocket launcher was found, what
size it was or exactly where in Spring Gardens it was discovered.

Security will be stepped up in the capital in response to the threat of
terrorism, the spokeswoman continued.

"The MPS continually monitors and reviews its security measures. London will be
policed according to the current threat.

"This will include high-visibility policing and appropriate security measures.

"We would ask the public to remain vigilant and contact police if they notice
anything suspicious.

"Communities defeat terrorism and could play an important role in helping police
to arrest the people responsible for this crime."

Yesterday's search took in nearby railway lines running into Waterloo station,
prompting speculation the missile could have been fired from the tracks or
nearby.

The investigation caused significant disruption to London commuters.

Major roads around the building were closed for much of the day and rail
services, including Eurostar, were badly disrupted.

Foreign Secretary Robin Cook, who has responsibility for MI6, praised the
service's staff for continuing to work yesterday. "If the intention of the
attackers was to disrupt SIS's operations, they have failed in their objective,"
he said.

Neither MI6 nor the domestic security service, MI5, are believed to be involved
in the investigation into the attack.

Security chiefs believe the Real IRA - which is opposed to the Northern Ireland
peace process and which bombed Omagh, killing 29 people in August 1998 - was
behind the attack.

A senior security source cautioned: "This is clearly an organisation which is
becoming more and more aggressive and confident of what it can achieve and
sustain.

"It has the capacity to strike right at the heart of London. It has an overseas
team in place, indicating it's a force to be reckoned with."

If Wednesday's attack does prove to be the work of the Real IRA, it would be the
dissident group's third attack on the British mainland this year.

The group is thought to have been responsible for this summer's bomb attacks on
Hammersmith Bridge and a railway line at Ealing Broadway.

Although the group called a ceasefire in the aftermath of the Omagh tragedy, it
is now known to be active again and security services in Northern Ireland are on
full alert against further attacks.

Earlier this month, the group was suspected of a mortar attack on the Royal
Ulster Constabulary station at Armagh, and also fell under suspicion the
previous day when two 80lb bombs were found at a military training camp at
Magilligan, County Londonderry.

The prospect of an active terrorist group at large on the mainland prompted an
immediate upgrading of security at other security-sensitive buildings.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Impact limited: The missile attack apparently damaged a single window,
two glass panels and part of the metal framework.

                Copyright 2000 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              212 of 299 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           September 22, 2000, Friday

MISSILE LAUNCH ON MI6: WE'LL STRIKE AGAIN;
 FEARS FOR TERRORIST ATTACK ON LABOUR'S CONFERENCE

BYLINE: Jeff Edwards, Christian Fraser Tom Newton-Dunn And Ted Oliver

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4, 5

LENGTH: 850 words


BOMBERS who attacked the MI6 spy HQ in London could blitz the Labour conference
in Brighton next week, security experts feared last night.

Special Branch officers said the Grand Hotel in Brighton - scene of the IRA's
notorious attack on Margaret Thatcher's government in 1983 - could again be the
target.

They believe the rocket that smashed into the MI6 building on Wednesday night
was a warning to the Government from the Real IRA, which planted the car bomb
that killed 29 people in Omagh in August 1998.

A senior Scotland Yard source said: "The timing is not a coincidence. The rocket
could just as easily been aimed at the Grand Hotel next week.

"After what the Provos did to the Tories when they bombed the Grand in 1983, it
sends a chill down the spine."

Yesterday Sussex police and the Yard were making plans to step up security for
the Labour conference.

A Sussex police source said: "The missile attack on MI6 brings the danger of an
attack during the conference into sharp focus.

"We know Brighton could be a target and we are doing everything we can to
minimise the risk."

Kevin Toolis, author of the book IRA Rebel Hearts, said yesterday: "The MI6
mainland attack is the Real IRA's first significant greeting card to the world
announcing their deadly presence.

"The message is simple: 'All the King's horses and all the King's men have not
stopped us, and we are going to do it again'."

Police revealed that the weapon used against the MI6 headquarters at Vauxhall
Cross was a Russian-made anti-tank rocket, known as an RPG 7.

Parts of the weapon, including one of its stabilising fins, were discovered by
detectives sifting through the debris that fell from the eighth floor of the
building.

Scotland Yard narrowed down the launch site to a small park known as Spring
Gardens alongside Vauxhall main line station and about 200 yards from the MI6
building. Police found part of the launcher in the park.

The shoulder-launched RPG 7 is a devastating weapon and has been used in Ulster
to blow up armoured cars.

But the attack in the heart of London is believed to be the first time one has
been used on the mainland.

Bizarrely, the inspiration for the bombing may have been the latest James Bond
film The World is Not Enough, which features an attack on MI6 with an RPG.

Yesterday people living near the building told how they heard the rocket being
fired and hitting the target.

Pensioner Eric Whittington, 71, whose flat overlooks the park where the grenade
was launched, said: "I was watching TV with my wife when we heard this enormous
bang.

"We are about 300 yards from the MI6 building. I looked towards the window and
saw a brilliant red flash and sparks flying in the air. Almost instantly I heard
a second bang further away, which must have been the missile exploding on the
target.

"By the time I got to the window whoever fired the rocket was gone."

Mark Gale, who runs The Lavender pub, said: "There was a huge blast from the
park and then a second bang, not quite so loud, straight after it.

"It shook the whole pub and made the spirit bottles rattle on the shelves." The
RPG 7 rocket carries a four-pound high-explosive warhead travelling at 1,000
feet a second for about 600 yards.

The weapon makes a loud bang when it is fired - thought to be why some witnesses
who heard the attack reported two explosions.

An anti-terrorist officer said yesterday: "The weapon is devastating but is
small and light enough to be easily operated by one man. The whole unit folds
down to the length of an umbrella. We think the shooter probably got out of a
car, walked a few metres into the park, took aim and fired. He then got back in
the car and they were away.

"The whole of the action could have taken less than 90 seconds."

Despite the large blast, the building, which has bullet-proof glass, was only
slightly damaged. MI6 said that justified the controversial pounds 220million
bill for their heavily-fortified HQ, which was completed in 1994. The rocket
passed over one of Britain's busiest rail routes - the five track approach to
Waterloo, which carries hundreds of commuter trains and Eurostar expresses every
day.

Scotland Yard Assistant Commissioner Alan Fry, said: "It was a reckless act that
endangered the lives of many people." MI6 staff were reported to be working
normally yesterday but several offices in the area were sealed off. Detectives
were checking footage taken from several video cameras covering busy traffic
junctions in the area and from cameras on the building itself.

The area around the park and the site of the explosion were subjected to a
finger-tip searches by specially trained police teams.

Police believe the attack was launched by the same Real IRA terror cell that
planted two bombs in London during the summer. The first seriously damaged
Hammersmith Bridge in June and blew out windows in nearby homes.

The second, in July, was left alongside railway lines at Ealing, west London.
All the bombs, including Wednesday's, caused transport chaos.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: EVIL: Terrorist with rocket launcher; TARGET: The heavily-fortified;
MI6 building that suffered a direct hit from the grenade fired from a rocket
-launcher across a busy rail route; HUNT: Police search for clues;; SMASHED:
Window in the HQ; CLOSE: MI6 from Vauxhall station

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.

                              213 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                           September 24, 2000, Sunday

MI5 SPIED ON CELTIC FOOTBALL ACE;
 EXCLUSIVE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1, 6

LENGTH: 392 words


MI5 spent a fortune spying on innocent Celtic football ace Anton Rogan, the
Sunday People can reveal today.

The Secret Service men wrongly suspected the Ulster-born star of helping IRA
terrorists in Britain.

Defender Rogan, 34, who quit the game last year, was secretly tailed on trips
across the Irish Sea and closely monitored at his home in England. But MI5
finally realised the Parkhead star had no paramilitary connections and was
totally innocent. The operation was called off but by then had cost hundreds of
thousands of pounds.

Rogan, from the nationalist Lenadoon area of west Belfast, fell under suspicion
about 10 years ago when MI5 operations were at a peak.

The Secret Service feared he could have IRA links and might have carried
information or terror hardware to Provo cells in Britain.

MI5 whistle blower David Shayler revealed in a recent interview how agents
became interested in a Belfast football player.

We have now established through a source that worked close to intelligence
chiefs that the player was Rogan.

"It could be that Rogan himself was aware of it," the source said. "The part of
Belfast he came from has a history of young men getting involved in republican
paramilitaries. Rogan was tarred with this brush mainly due to the concerns
about bombings in England. But he has always been anti-violence."

Family man Rogan also played for Northern Ireland, Millwall, Oxford, Blackpool
and Sunderland. He now lives in Oxford and keeps in touch with former Parkhead
team-mates.

He stopped playing when two operations failed to cure problems with cysts on an
artery behind his knee. He is thought to be about to start a college course to
study fitness and nutrition.

Rogan hit the headlines in 1990 when his penalty was pushed away by Aberdeen
goalie Theo Snelders in the dramatic finale to the Scottish Cup Final shootout
at Hampden.

Rogan was unavailable for comment last night but a friend said: "He is a
gentleman. He wasn't involved in politics."

-TERRORISTS were captured on film launching last week's rocket attack on the MI6
headquarters in London, the Sunday People can reveal today.

Security video cameras trained on the park from where the gang - believed to be
members of the Real IRA - fired their grenade launcher filmed them as they
carried out their mission.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: STAR: Ulster-born Anton

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.

                              214 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                                Sunday Business

                               September 24, 2000

EURO RESCUERS WILL BE TESTED AGAIN

SECTION: Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1074 words


T

J

HERE is an old saying among currency traders: "When the ducks are quacking, feed
them." On Friday, the world's main central banks played the role of our
feathered friends, quacking for euros. We will soon discover whether they were
merely fed, or well and truly stuffed.

Having agreed to pay above the market rate to shove up the ailing euro's price,
central banks will almost certainly have their appetite for the synthetic
currency tested again this week. The signals late on Friday were not propitious
for a quick-fix of the euro.

Intervention had an immediate impact because the timing, cleverly masked, caught
traders by surprise. From a low of 84.4 cents, the euro immediately raced up to
90 cents. But once the initial shock had passed, it drifted back to 88.15 in
London then fell even further in late New York trading to 87.66.

The validity of the rescue mission was later undermined by US treasury secretary
Larry Summers who, far from talking up the euro, insisted "a strong dollar is in
the national interest of the United States".

The market will interpret Summers' comment as a hint that America is not
committed to a long-term buttressing of the euro and, without sustained US
support, few dealers believe the European Central Bank has enough clout to
reverse the currency's slide.

One of the great myths that has been allowed to circulate around the euro is
that its 25% devaluation since launch in January 1999 has been inspired by
nefarious speculators. Europhiles would have us believe that a tightly-knit
cadre of shady moneymen are punting daily against it in order to secure its
destruction.

Even yesterday another British broadsheet newspaper reported that central banks
in Europe, the US and Japan "took on the speculators". This is a fallacy. What
has happened to the euro is not a re-run of 1992, when sterling was driven out
of the exchange rate mechanism by an avalanche of speculative money.

That occurred because Britain had joined the ERM at a hopelessly high rate. It
was crystal clear that the peg could not be maintained, prompting the likes of
George Soros to spend their days at the races betting against the pound until
the Bank was bust and sterling plunged.

The euro's slide has nothing to do with gambling. It has been driven by massive
capital outflows from the euro zone to America, as European companies have
invested directly in the booming US economy. In order to pay for their
purchases, such companies have had to sell euros for dollars, propelling one
lower and the other higher.

From the beginning of 1998 through to the first half of 2000, the US attracted
more than $ 580bn in direct foreign investment and in 1999 some 84% of that came
straight from the European Union. This trend is likely to continue for as long
as Europe ranks worse than America in terms of complex and punitive taxation,
restrictive labour laws and unnecessary corporate and personal bureaucracy.
Indeed, thanks to last week's central-bank intervention, dollar-based assets,
which were looking very expensive on account of the greenback's heady rise, have
become 3%-4% cheaper.

Having picked an intervention rate of about 86 cents, the central banks have
indicated that this is their line in the sand. If the euro slips back towards
that level, the ECB and its counterparts will be under pressure to come back for
more. Then we'll see whose nerve is stronger.

Ulster's fury

UST when Tony Blair thought it could not get worse, it did. Victory by
Democratic Unionist William McCrea in Thursday's South Antrim by-election
signals the end of the peace process in its current form.

By rejecting David Burnside, candidate for David Trimble's Ulster Unionist
party, this mainly Protestant constituency demonstrated its disgust with the
UUP's role in the province's power-sharing executive and Labour's miserable
record of broken promises to loyalist voters.

With masterful understatement, Northern Ireland secretary Peter Mandelson
admitted "there is some unease among Unionists". Fury is more accurate for a
community that feels it has conceded much and won little in return.

A fresh challenge to Mr Trimble's UUP leadership now seems inevitable.
Frontrunner to do so is Jeffrey Donaldson, the youthful MP for Lagan Valley, who
has been an outspoken critic of the Belfast agreement. No doubt Mr Blair and his
Irish counterpart, Bertie Ahern, will try to shore up Mr Trimble's crumbling
position, but the harsh fact is that he has lost the confidence of his core
supporters.

This UK government's credibility among Ulster's loyalists is in tatters.When Mr
Blair promised there would be no place for Sinn Fein in a devolved executive
without IRA arms decommissioning, they believed him.

But what happened? Martin McGuinness, a former IRA commander, has been welcomed
into local government, even though his terrorist colleagues have not given up a
single bullet. True, they have shown a couple of arms caches to international
monitors, but it is a wicked deception to suggest that mainstream nationalist
terrorists could not swing back into action tomorrow.

Sinn Fein leader Gerry Adams has made perfectly clear that his party regards the
Belfast agreement as merely a stepping stone to a united Ireland. Pressure will
be kept up on the British government to abandon more than a million of its
citizens to a foreign authority.

Meanwhile, fringe terrorists are mounting rocket attacks in London. Is it any
wonder Ulster's Unionist majority see conspiracy against them round every
corner. Their British identity is remorselessly being stripped away.

Chris Patten's proposed reforms of the Royal Ulster Constabulary have upset
loyalists far more than Mr Blair anticipated. For many nationalists, the RUC was
the armed wing of unionism, but for the Ulster majority its officers were
front-line defenders of law and order.

The real mistake of Labour's Ulster policy, however, has been the early release
of terrorist prisoners - from both camps. With the province still awash with
illegal weapons, ordinary people have been sickened by the sight of killers
being set free in a disgraceful display of appeasement to perpetrators of
violence.

Unionists are being told they cannot fly British flags on local government
buildings or police stations, while those who have murdered walk Ulster's
streets.

South Antrim's voters showed they have had enough of this nonsense.


LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2000 Sunday Business Group

                              215 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                                Sunday Business

                               September 24, 2000

Leading Article: Euro rescuers will be tested again

LENGTH: 1072 words



THERE is an old saying among currency traders: "When the ducks are quacking,
feed them." On Friday, the world's main central banks played the role of our
feathered friends, quacking for euros. We will soon discover whether they were
merely fed, or well and truly stuffed.

Having agreed to pay above the market rate to shove up the ailing euro's price,
central banks will almost certainly have their appetite for the synthetic
currency tested again this week. The signals late on Friday were not propitious
for a quick-fix of the euro.

Intervention had an immediate impact because the timing, cleverly masked, caught
traders by surprise. From a low of 84.4 cents, the euro immediately raced up to
90 cents. But once the initial shock had passed, it drifted back to 88.15 in
London then fell even further in late New York trading to 87.66.

The validity of the rescue mission was later undermined by US treasury secretary
Larry Summers who, far from talking up the euro, insisted "a strong dollar is in
the national interest of the United States".

The market will interpret Summers' comment as a hint that America is not
committed to a long-term buttressing of the euro and, without sustained US
support, few dealers believe the European Central Bank has enough clout to
reverse the currency's slide.

One of the great myths that has been allowed to circulate around the euro is
that its 25% devaluation since launch in January 1999 has been inspired by
nefarious speculators. Europhiles would have us believe that a tightly-knit
cadre of shady moneymen are punting daily against it in order to secure its
destruction.

Even yesterday another British broadsheet newspaper reported that central banks
in Europe, the US and Japan "took on the speculators". This is a fallacy. What
has happened to the euro is not a re-run of 1992, when sterling was driven out
of the exchange rate mechanism by an avalanche of speculative money.

That occurred because Britain had joined the ERM at a hopelessly high rate. It
was crystal clear that the peg could not be maintained, prompting the likes of
George Soros to spend their days at the races betting against the pound until
the Bank was bust and sterling plunged.The euro's slide has nothing to do with
gambling. It has been driven by massive capital outflows from the euro zone to
America, as European companies have invested directly in the booming US economy.
In order to pay for their purchases, such companies have had to sell euros for
dollars, propelling one lower and the other higher.

From the beginning of 1998 through to the first half of 2000, the US attracted
more than $ 580bn in direct foreign investment and in 1999 some 84% of that came
straight from the European Union. This trend is likely to continue for as long
as Europe ranks worse than America in terms of complex and punitive taxation,
restrictive labour laws and unnecessary corporate and personal bureaucracy.
Indeed, thanks to last week's central-bank intervention, dollar-based assets,
which were looking very expensive on account of the greenback's heady rise, have
become 3%-4% cheaper.

Having picked an intervention rate of about 86 cents, the central banks have
indicated that this is their line in the sand. If the euro slips back towards
that level, the ECB and its counterparts will be under pressure to come back for
more. Then we'll see whose nerve is stronger.

Ulster's fury

UST when Tony Blair thought it could not get worse, it did. Victory by
Democratic Unionist William McCrea in Thursday's South Antrim by-election
signals the end of the peace process in its current form.By rejecting David
Burnside, candidate for David Trimble's Ulster Unionist party, this mainly
Protestant constituency demonstrated its disgust with the UUP's role in the
province's power-sharing executive and Labour's miserable record of broken
promises to loyalist voters.With masterful understatement, Northern Ireland
secretary Peter Mandelson admitted "there is some unease among Unionists".

Fury is more accurate for a community that feels it has conceded much and won
little in return.

A fresh challenge to Mr Trimble's UUP leadership now seems inevitable.
Frontrunner to do so is Jeffrey Donaldson, the youthful MP for Lagan Valley, who
has been an outspoken critic of the Belfast agreement. No doubt Mr Blair and his
Irish counterpart, Bertie Ahern, will try to shore up Mr Trimble's crumbling
position, but the harsh fact is that he has lost the confidence of his core
supporters.

This UK government's credibility among Ulster's loyalists is in tatters.

When Mr Blair promised there would be no place for Sinn Fein in a devolved
executive without IRA arms decommissioning, they believed him.

But what happened? Martin McGuinness, a former IRA commander, has been welcomed
into local government, even though his terrorist colleagues have not given up a
single bullet. True, they have shown a couple of arms caches to international
monitors, but it is a wicked deception to suggest that mainstream nationalist
terrorists could not swing back into action tomorrow.

Sinn Fein leader Gerry Adams has made perfectly clear that his party regards the
Belfast agreement as merely a stepping stone to a united Ireland. Pressure will
be kept up on the British government to abandon more than a million of its
citizens to a foreign authority.

Meanwhile, fringe terrorists are mounting rocket attacks in London. Is it any
wonder Ulster's Unionist majority see conspiracy against them round every
corner. Their British identity is remorselessly being stripped away.

Chris Patten's proposed reforms of the Royal Ulster Constabulary have upset
loyalists far more than Mr Blair anticipated. For many nationalists, the RUC was
the armed wing of unionism, but for the Ulster majority its officers were
front-line defenders of law and order.

The real mistake of Labour's Ulster policy, however, has been the early release
of terrorist prisoners - from both camps. With the province still awash with
illegal weapons, ordinary people have been sickened by the sight of killers
being set free in a disgraceful display of appeasement to perpetrators of
violence.

Unionists are being told they cannot fly British flags on local government
buildings or police stations, while those who have murdered walk Ulster's
streets.

South Antrim's voters showed they have had enough of this nonsense.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2000 Sunday Business Group

                              216 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               September 29, 2000

WARNING OF ATTACKS BY IRA REBELS

BYLINE: BY TED OLIVER

LENGTH: 219 words


SECURITY chiefs yesterday warned the public to be on their guard amid fears that
dissident Irish republicans are planning a terror campaign in the run-up to
Christmas.

Terrorists could strike anywhere in Britain, police said, and have a wider range
of weapons than ever before, including an arsenal normally reserved for military
battles.

Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir John Stevens said that a commitment to
fighting terrorism meant that fewer officers would be available to concentrate
on other crime.

But he declared: "Fighting terrorism has got be our number one priority."

The security warning comes days after the rocket attack on M16's HQ in London.

Anti-terrorism chief David Veness said that exhaustive inquiries were going on
to trace witnesses to the attack, which damaged the Secret Intelligence Service
building at Vauxhall, although nobody was injured.

Mr Veness added: "This was the third incident in the capital since June and
although the attack on the SIS building was different in nature from others at
Hammersmith and Acton in London, all three could well be part of a terror
campaign."We cannot rule out further incidents in the capital or elsewhere in
the country. It is essential that the public remain vigilant and report anything
suspicious to police."

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2000 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              217 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 29, 2000

Nationwide alert for bomb attacks

BYLINE: Richard Norton-Taylor

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 411 words


Security services expect a bombing campaign by dissident Irish republicans
between now and Christmas, and yesterday warned the public to be on guard.

The Real IRA, believed to have been behind the rocket fired at MI6's
headquarters in central London last week, has the capacity to mount further high
profile attacks in Britain, according to intelligence sources.

David Veness, head of special operations at the Metropolitan police, said
yesterday that inquiries were under way to trace witnesses.

"This was the third incident in the capital since June and although the attack
on the SIS (Secret Intelligence Service, commonly known as MI6) building was
different to those at Hammersmith and Acton, all three could well be part of a
terror campaign."

He warned: "We can not rule out further incidents in the capital or elsewhere in
the country. It is essential the public remain vigilant at all times."

Sir John Stevens, the Metropolitan police commissioner, said: "Fighting
terrorism has got to be our priority. When you have limited resources then other
areas such as fighting street crime are going to suffer."

The Real IRA's tactics appear to be to attack targets for propaganda value and
disruption. The attack on MI6 and the placing of bombs on Hammersmith bridge in
June and on a railway at Acton, west London, in July led to widespread chaos.

Intelligence sources believe the Real IRA has up to 200 supporters, half of them
prepared to engage directly in terrorist activities. Though they include a
number of defectors from the IRA, many are young recruits with no previous
record.

Security sources say the dissident group has no links with the IRA and is not
acting for it. They do not know whether the group has old IRA weapons.

The Real IRA possesses battlefield weapons which can be carried in bags.

Scotland Yard has reviewed the safety of public buildings and popular
attractions in London.

However, it acknowledged that it was impossible in an open society to guarantee
the security of buildings by physical means.

The 3ft-long rocket-propelled grenade anti-tank weapon which hit the MI6
building, but caused little damage, is believed to have been smuggled into
Ireland from Croatia via France and subsequently into Britain.

It is the first time such a weapon - designed to penetrate light armour - has
been used by Irish groups in Britain. Part of the launcher was left behind and
is being tested.


LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              218 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            October 2, 2000, Monday

A FINAL GOLDEN MOMENT FOR SYDNEY AND BRITAIN

BYLINE: James Lawton In Sydney

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 565 words


THEY WERE the Olympic Games which fought back from the edge of self
-destruction, which rose from a morass of corruption and widespread fear of
massive drug abuse by the athletes, and yesterday, on a warm night of early
summer, they ended as they began two weeks ago - in a riot of Aussie hubris.

The whole Olympic movement heaved with relief at a spectacular closing ceremony
which culminated in two F-111 fighter bombers trailing plumes of flame through
the night skyas a prelude to a spectacular cascade of fireworks. "I am proud and
happy to proclaim you have presented to the world the best Olympic Games ever,"
said the head of the International Olympic Committee (IOC), Juan Antonio
Samaranch.

The celebrations of Britain's vibrantly successful team were led by the rower
Steve Redgrave, who won a fifth gold in his fifth Olympics. The athletes, buoyed
by financial support from lottery funds, exceeded all expectations right up to
the final stages yesterday, with two more gold medals, from the boxer Audley
Harrison and the modern pentathlete Stephanie Cook.

British successes on the track, in cycling, shooting and yachting brought
success unknown since the "Chariots of Fire" Olympics in Paris in 1924 - and
made the British performance in Atlanta four years ago seem like an old
nightmare. Then, Redgrave and his team-mate Matthew Pinsent won the only British
gold.

Harrison spoke for the team yesterday when he said: "All British sportsmen and
women ever needed was the chance to compete on a level playing field."

British success, though, was just part of a wider sense that the Olympics have
been saved. Although there are still problems concerning the use of
performance-enhancing drugs, the sluggish preparations of the 2004 hosts Athens,
and the fear of more negative publicity with the trial of American "fixers" of
the awarding of the 2002 Winter Olympics to Salt Lake City, there is new
optimism among the hierarchy of the IOC.

Australia's passion for sport, it is widely agreed, produced the best organised
- and best spirited - games since the start of the "modern era" in 1896. The
Olympics had moved from one crisis to another since the massacre of Israeli
athletes in Munich in 1972. The 1976 games in Montreal all but ruined the city's
finances. Moscow was boycotted by the Americans in 1980, Los Angeles by the
Russians in 1984. In 1988, Ben Johnson, the 100 metres champion, was stripped of
his gold medal after testing positive for steroids.

But although Sydney has had its drug scandal, it still managed to create an
extraordinary atmosphere of both hope in the future of the Olympics and a
genuine celebration of its enduring power to capture the imagination of the
world.

In Australia this process was given momentum by the success of the swimmer Ian
"Thorpedo" Thorpe and the emotional triumph of the athletic heroine Cathy
Freeman.

The mood of intoxication was writ large in Sydney last night. In scenes of
remarkable bonhomie, athletes from all over the world mingled with ordinary
Australians and tourists. For anyone trapped in the grubby commercialism of the
Atlanta Olympics four years ago - and the terror which came with a fatal bomb
attack - it was different world.

Some within the IOC feel that in the past two weeks Australia has done no less
than save the Olympics.

Full reports,

Sport section

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Sydney Harbour lights up with a spectactular cascade of fireworks to
mark the end of the Olympic Games AP/Steve Holland; Audley Harrison, left, and
Stephanie Cook continued the British success to the final day of the Games

                      Copyright 2000 Independent Print Ltd

                              219 of 299 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            October 6, 2000, Friday

OMAGH INQUEST: JAMES' DAD SLAMS ADAMS & MCGUINNESS FOR FAILING TO CATCH KILLERS

BYLINE: Ted Oliver

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 918 words


THE father of one of the youngest Omagh bomb victims yesterday slammed Gerry
Adams and Martin McGuinness for failing to help catch the terrorists
responsible.

Surrey solicitor Victor Barker whose 12-year-old son James died from severe
internal injuries condemned the Sinn Fein leaders for not persuading republican
followers to provide vital information to police on the bombers.

He said he had also written to Northern Secretary Peter Mandelson to ask how he
was trying to push the republican leaders into throwing their weight behind his
appeal.

He said: "Mr Adams and Mr McGuinness don't have to go public.

"They could talk to people in private and ask them to come forward, not to the
RUC but to the Irish police.

"And I am sorry that I have not got a proper reply from Mr Mandelson or had a
chance to speak to him directly about this.

"I have written to him a number of times and the response I have is indifferent
to say the least."

A Northern Ireland Office spokesman later said Mr Mandelson had repeatedly said
he would give any assistance and any resources necessary to those investigating
the atrocity.

He said: "Both he and the Prime Minister have called for anyone with fresh
information to come forward to the police - that is the way to bring those
responsible to justice."

In an emotional statement after the brief inquest yesterday into his young son's
death, Mr Barker spoke of the Real IRA bomb in Banbridge, Co Down, just a
fortnight before Omagh.

HE also mentioned another test blast by the terrorists just days before the
North's worst single atrocity.

He said: "My condemnation is directed towards the government and their failure
to grasp and convey to the public what was a real security alert situation in
the days leading up to Omagh.

"In confining the Army to barracks as part of this so-called peace settlement,
and indeed their continued inaction, they failed to give all the help and
assistance to those investigating this outrage.

"I find it inexcusable that the government of Great Britain has only chosen to
give us pieties about the hunt for the Omagh bombers.

"It has singularly failed to deliver any form of justice to the innocent
victims, especially the many innocent children whose lives and bodies were
shattered, including my son James."

He said that even if the RUC response to the misleading telephone bomb warnings
had been inadequate, "there is a singular difference between security forces and
terrorists when bombs are planted".

He said: "The security forces have to run towards them, the terrorists only have
to run away."

Mr Barker said he was sure "right-minded people" will condemn the "tunnel vision
barbarity which pervades the Real IRA and their political wing, the 32 County
Sovereignty Committee.

(He said: "I know that I share the views of many who will continue to pursue
those responsible with every means at their disposal and to bring those who
perpetrated this atrocity to justice, no matter how long it takes. The victims
of Omagh have not gone away."

He claimed that he had invited Adams and McGuinness to attend the inquest with
him but had received no reply.

He said they had attended his son's funeral and that Mr McGuinness had later
offered to help but he had been unable to contact them since.

He called on the Sinn Fein leadership to encourage anyone in the republican
community who had information to assist the Garda as soon as possible.

He said: "My message to those involved is simply this - don't talk to me about
the armed struggle.

"Don't attempt to justify the indefensible.

"There was no military or political target in Omagh - you have simply murdered
the innocent in cold blood and to your eternal shame you have murdered women and
children.

"My family's thoughts and prayers and tears are with the families of all the
bereaved and injured, both of this atrocity and of the many years of conflict in
Ireland and the UK.

"There can be no peace without justice."

BUT he said he was not confident the killers would ever be brought to trial.

Referring to other victims' families standing behind him, he said: "I can only
say that there are people here who will continue to do everything they can to
bring those responsible to justice."

Mr Barker told Coroner John Leckey that James was to have caddied for him on the
day of the blast, but opted instead to join his friends on the ill-fated trip to
the town.

Mr Leckey said: "It's terrible to think that this happened because of a late
change of mind by James."

Mr Barker replied: "Yes, I think you can look back and say, if I hadn't done
this, and if I hadn't done that, or if I hadn't been playing golf James would
not have gone'.

"Mercifully, we had the afternoon before fishing, which we thoroughly enjoyed.
That was something."

He praised and thanked the RUC officers and civilians who had treated and
comforted his son at the scene of the bomb.

He said: "No human being ought to be asked to endure the horror of that day,
they deserve the gratitude of everyone."

The Barker family had moved to Buncrana, Co Donegal, from England seeking a
better quality of life.

They buried their son in Buncrana, but last April they had his body exhumed and
reburied in the grounds of his former school, St George's Prep in Weybridge.

They made the decision after learning that republican ceremonies were to be held
in the cemetery to celebrate the 1916 Easter Rising.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TRAGIC: James Barker, aged 12, one of the youngest victims

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.

                              220 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Mercury

                            October 8, 2000, Sunday

GIVE PEACE A CHANCE;
 MERCURY EXCLUSIVE: REMARKABLE COURAGE OF THE PUB VICTIM FORGING LINKS WITH THE
IRISH COMMUNITY

BYLINE: Bob Haywood

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 870 words


MAUREEN Lord fixed the man across the busy room with a steely gaze. Then, with
butterflies in her stomach, she stood up and walked the few paces to his side.

'Hello,' she said haltingly. 'My name is Maureen. Would you like to go for a
walk?'

The man agreed and the couple stepped out into the cold night air. For 30
minutes, they strolled along the country lane outside, their path lit only by
the stars.

They talked of their lives, their background and what had brought them together
in the heart of the Wicklow Mountains, near Dublin.

But this was no romantic tryst. It was an astonishing leap of faith by a man and
a woman on opposite sides of the divide which has ripped apart the British Isles
for more than 30 years.

Maureen is a survivor of the Birmingham pub bombings, the worst IRA outrage ever
carried out on the British mainland in which 21 people were killed and 167
injured.

The man at her side is a one-time IRA terrorist, now at liberty after being
jailed for his crimes. Maureen knows him only as Sean, that he comes from
Belfast and is a family man.

He will not say exactly what he did, whether with the bullet or the bomb.

Against all odds, Maureen and Sean share a dream of an end to the Irish tragedy
which has has caused so many deaths, so many maimings and so many shattered
dreams.

They came together at the Glencree Centre for Reconciliation during L.I.V.E.
(Let's Involve the Victims Experience), a series of weekend workshops for the
victims and survivors of violence in Ireland, north and south, and in Britain.

Maureen, aged 47, who was so badly injured in the pub bombings 26 years ago that
she was given the Last Rites, says: 'It was a very odd experience walking alone
at night with a convicted terrorist.

'At one stage, I thought: 'What on earth am I doing?'

'But if there is to be lasting peace in Northern Ireland, we all have a part to
play - some more than others.

'The decision to invite Republican ex-prisoners to Glencree for one of the
weekends was taken by the group after much soul-searching. Sean was one of six
men who came and someone had to take the initiative in talking to them - so I
did.

'Sean told me he was born and brought up in a Catholic area of Belfast where the
Republican paramilitaries were seen as fighting against social injustice and he
just drifted into terrorist activity. He told me he was just in the wrong place
at the wrong time. Now he appears to want the Belfast Agreement to work. And so
do I.

'Meeting the ex-prisoners is only part of the programme, although it might be
repeated.

'The main purpose is to bring together people from both sides of the Irish
border, and from Britain - and from both sides of the political and religious
divide.

'People may ask: 'What is the point?' But I think we have all gained from the
programme and we have been able to help the others.

'I thought I had got over it, but now I realise I hadn't. I needed to talk to
others who had been through the same kind of trauma. I feel I have gained
enormously from attending these weekends and that I have been able to help
others.

'I am more at peace with myself.'

Maureen first heard about Glencree - a non-religious project funded by the
European Peace and Reconciliation Programme - just before Christmas.

Project director Ian White called on the then Lord Mayor of Birmingham,
Councillor Ian McArdle, to ask him to let pub bombing victims know of his
organisation's work.

Maureen is the only one who has taken up the offer, although she is now anxious
to involve other survivors and has written to the present Lord Mayor, Coun
Theresa Stewart, and her MP, Robin Corbett (Labour, Erdington) asking if the
city could host a weekend gathering.

'The first time I went to Glencree, I didn't know what to expect,' she admits.
'Many of the people there had not even told their husbands or wives where they
were going because they didn't know how it would be received.

'As we all talked on the Friday night, I suddenly realised I was the only one
there who had not lost someone to violence. The next morning, I broke down in
tears, and asked myself: 'Why should I have lived while their loved ones died?'

'It just seemed so random and unfair. I wanted to go home on the Saturday
morning and have nothing more to do with the programme. But I spoke to the
others and they convinced me that I ought to stay.'

Maureen is no woolly-minded liberal when it comes to terrorism and finds it
difficult to come to terms with the twisted psyche of the men of violence.

'What we are doing is not a case of forgive and forget,' she says. 'I will never
forget what happened to me and so many others - and it is not for me to forgive.

'The pub bombings were cowardly acts of barbarism against totally innocent
people just having a quiet night out. I don't think the bombers will ever be
unmasked but if I could talk to them, I would just ask: 'Why?'

'It is pointless becoming consumed by bitterness. We have to move on to put this
era of madness behind us for good.'

Survivors of the pub bombings and relatives of those who were murdered, are
invited to contact Maureen on 0121 357 1812.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: RECONCILIATION ... convicted terrorists arrive for the emotional
meeting with pub bomb victim Maureen Lord MEMORIES ... Maureen Lord and husband
Dave yesterday. They share a dream of lasting peace in Ireland.; DEVASTATION...
the Mulberry Bush bomb nearly cost Maureen her life

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2000 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              221 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                October 13, 2000

Optimism is Holy Land's latest victim;Cook's mask slips as adversaries continue
to shun negotiating table

BYLINE: Michael Settle Chief Political Correspondent, Jerusalem

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1004 words


THE mask of optimism that Foreign Secretary Robin Cook had worn since he arrived
in the Middle East on Wednesday, finally fell last night as he addressed the
press and media outside a balmy Amman Airport in Jordan.

Concern was etched on Mr Cook's face as he told how Prime Minister Tony Blair,
aware of the gravity of the situation, had told him to remain in the Holy Land
to try to prevent the Arab-Israeli tensions spilling into all-out conflict and
thus destabilising the region.

"Stop escalating and start talking" was Mr Cook's message as he flew from Amman
to Tel Aviv for an emergency meeting with UN Secretary General Kofi Annan.

Only 48 hours earlier, Mr Cook had arrived in Israel full of optimism, with warm
words, and talking up the chances of restoring the peace process. His sound-bite
was to urge the leaders "to step back from the brink and forward to the
negotiating table".

The Foreign Secretary has been on a punishing schedule. On Wednesday, there were
meetings with Israeli prime minister Ehud Barak and the Palestinian leader
Yasser Arafat. While yesterday there were meetings with Egyptian president Hosni
Mubarak in Sharm el-Sheik, Syria's leader Bashar al-Assad in Damascus, King
Abdullah, the Jordanian premier in Amman, and Mr Annan in Jerusalem. This was
shuttle diplomacy at its busiest.

After each of the meetings, Mr Cook, accompanied by the Prime Minister's special
envoy to the Middle East, Lord Levy, sought to talk up the prospect for peace.
In the circumstances he had to, but the body language told a different story.

At his meetings with the Arab leaders, Mr Cook was told time and again of the
outrage they felt at the killings by Israel's defence forces. In recent times,
nearly 100 people have been killed with 3000 injured, about one third of whom
will be disabled for life.

The Secretary of State was keen to express Britain's distress at the killings,
particularly those of young children, yet he sought to maintain a necessary even
hand while putting gentle pressure on Barak and Arafat to get them back around
the negotiating table.

However, after each successive meeting it became clear the situation was not
improving and a breakthrough was proving extremely elusive.

Yesterday in Egypt, the country's foreign minister, Amr Moussa stressed the
atmosphere was not right for any prospect of Cairo hosting a peace summit.

Later in Syria, its foreign minister, Farouk al-Shara'a, declared: "The region
is going through a dangerous and difficult pass."

Within hours, the Israeli reservists had been killed by a Palestinian mob and
the West Bank including Mr Arafat's Gaza HQ was being strafed by Israeli
gunfire.

The real fear today is that the trouble in Israel and the Palestinian Authority
will spill across to other Arab nations. This had been one of the major concerns
raised by Mr Mubarak when Mr Cook met him yesterday morning.

Following the recent violence, Arab states have been queuing up to express
support for the Palestinians. While the less hostile ones have been moderating
their language, others like Libya and Iraq have been employing their usual
rhetoric. Saddam Hussein has already threatened Israel with a "holy war on
behalf of the Palestinians".

Even the usually placid Morroco has seen students on its streets wearing
mourning clothes. There have also been reports that King Abdullah of Jordan has
volunteered to give blood.

More ominous words have come from Crown Prince Abdullah of Saudi Arabia. He
said: "Barak has to think before making the next step. Nobody should think the
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and the whole Arab and Islamic nation would walk away
with their hands tied."

The real danger now is that one or more of the militant Arab factions will
inflame the situation.

Palestinian refugee groups in Lebanon are linked by some to terrorist Osama bin
Laden, the Saudi exile accused of being behind the two US embassy bombings in
East Africa two years ago.

The Iranian-backed militant Shiite Hezbollah has also called for an uprising.
Its aim is to liberate Jerusalem from Israeli control. Yesterday, its message to
Palestinians was "each of you should carry a knife and fiercely stab an Israeli
occupier".

Before yesterday's killings, Marwan Barghuti, leader of the Tanzim paramilitary
forces in the West Bank, issued the most worrying warning. He said: "This
blessed Intifada is looking ahead and the mass activity is moving forward."

He said a meeting of "all the national and Islamic forces could be expected". He
insisted what was needed was not a cessation of the violence but "the
continuation of the Intifada at full scale".

Meanwhile, Hamas was said to be interpreting Mr Arafat's decision to release 60
of its Islamic Jihad's activists from jail as a "green light" to launch attacks.

Needless to say, Israel has insisted it will hold the Palestinian Authority
responsible for any terrorist attacks by Hamas or Islamic Jihad.

Mr Cook has maintained he is very confident an international committee of
inquiry will be set up to look into the causes of the recent violence.

The Israelis seemed very cool on the idea. One security official said: "What the
Palestinians are looking for is not a fact-finding mission but an international
kangaroo court."

With the violence building, time is now of the essence. Arab leaders meet in
Cairo on October 21 when Mr Arafat will be urged to declare a Palestinian state,
which would enrage the Israelis.

By the end of the month, the Knesset resumes in full with the possibility of the
Barak government, already under pressure, seeking a coalition with the
right-wing Likud party. There is even talk of hard-liner Ariel Sharon becoming
foreign minister. This would be the coup de grace of the peace process.

Furthermore, US President Bill Clinton is effectively heading for the exit door;
the US elections take place on November 7.

With the pressure mounting, the land of miracles is in dire need of a new one.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: CRIPPLED: The huge hole in the side of the USS Cole caused by a rubber
boat filled with explosives

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2000 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              222 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                           October 14, 2000, Saturday

MIDDLE EAST CRISIS: BOMBERS HIT BRITISH EMBASSY

BYLINE: Angeline Nissad In San'A

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 791 words


A bomb blast rocked the British embassy in Yemen yesterday, igniting fears that
Westerners were being drawn into the Middle East conflict as it threatened to
spiral into all-out war.

The bomb was thrown into the embassy compound in the Yemeni capital, San'a,
causing substantial damage in an explosion which was heard more than a mile and
a half away.

The device landed near a generator, leading to a blast which caused considerable
damage to a building inside the embassy compound, according to Foreign Office
sources.

No-one was hurt in the explosion, which shattered windows at the embassy and an
adjoining school in the capital, San'a.

Omar Bakri Mohammed, leader of Al-Muhajiroun, a London-based Islamic group, said
he had received a claim of responsibility in an international telephone call at
the Shariaa Court, which handles marriages, divorces and other matters for
Moslems in Britain.

The caller claimed responsibility for the attack on the destroyer in the name of
Muhammad's Army, an extremist group previously known to be active only in
Chechnya and Dagestan.

Bakri said he was sceptical of the validity of the claim but that some of his
scepticism waned after the British embassy explosion because the group promised
more attacks in its call yesterday.

It warned that 'strikes will continue until the Moslem land and Palestine are
liberated', he said.

Foreign secretary Robin Cook said he had no reason to believe the terrorist
attack was connected to the recent outbreak of violence in the Middle East.

He said from the British Embassy in Tel Aviv: 'I deplore this totally pointless
but potentially dangerous terrorist attack.

'I have no reason to believe it is in any way directly related to the Middle
East.

'There are people in that region who have their own agenda and are capable of
terrorist attacks without anything happening in the Middle East.'

Foreign Office sources said it appeared that a small incendiary device was
thrown over the embassy's wall and landed by a diesel generator, sparking a
large explosion.

The embassy was empty apart from a night guard.

There were no casualties and the sources described it as 'not a major incident'.

Victor Henderson, the British Ambassador in Yemen, said local people had become
'steamed up' at what had been happening to their Arab brothers in the region but
added: 'I wouldn't have thought that they would go to such lengths.'.

The explosion happened at 4.10am local time.

An embassy spokeswoman said the compound consisted of two buildings, a chancery
commercial building, which was damaged in the explosion and a consular
management building.

'They are behind considerable walls with substantial railings on top,' she said.

'We have a 24-hour guard inside the embassy and a Yemeni military presence on
the perimeter outside.

'I was a mile-and-a-half away but I woke up as soon as I heard it. It sounded
like a bomb,' she said.

'It's very messy in there. We have very ornate upper windows made of plaster of
Paris and they shot out all over the place.'

A Foreign Office spokeswoman said Scotland Yard had been informed and a forensic
investigation would be carried out.

'We suspect it was a terrorist bomb,' she said.

'We need to conduct a thorough examination of the scene.'

She could not say at the moment whether there was a link to Thursday's bombing
of the American destroyer USS Cole in the Yemeni port of Aden.

British embassies in the Middle East have already been told to step up security
because of Israeli-Palestinian violence.

Diplomatic staff have been told to check under their cars, consider varying
their routes to work and to be more wary about who they let in to their grounds.

Requests have also been made for more local police to guard the perimeters of
British missions.

Later a Yemen interior ministry official suggested that the explosion was caused
by an electricity generator.

But the Foreign Office reiterated that its 'chief suspicion' was of a terrorist
attack as described by Mr Cook.

A spokesman for the British Embassy in Yemen said: 'We haven't completed our
investigation yet but we strongly suspect terrorist action.'

A team of Scotland Yard forensic experts was being sent to Yemen, the Foreign
Office said.

A British naval frigate is providing support to the stricken US warship in Yemen
after an offer of support from the Ministry of Defence.

HMS Malborough was diverted to the port of Aden while on its way back to Britain
after a tour of duty in the Gulf.

The ship has a full medical team and damage control experts, and the Ministry of
Defence said it would remain in Aden for as long as its assistance was required.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Robin Cook

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2000 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              223 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 14, 2000

Middle East conflict: Yemen bombers hit UK embassy

BYLINE: Brian Whitaker in Sana'a

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 588 words


The British embassy in Yemen was hit by a bomb yesterday less than 24 hours
after a suicide attack on a US warship in the south of the country killed 17
people and injured 35.

The early morning blast at the embassy in the capital, Sana'a, smashed windows
but caused no injuries. Guards had been on duty at the front of the building but
the bomb appears to have been thrown over the wall of the compound from
wasteland.

"We understand that a bomb was flung over the wall of the embassy in Yemen. By
ill luck it hit a diesel generator, which created a substantial explosion," the
foreign secretary, Robin Cook, said.

Meanwhile, US navy divers began a search for clues in Aden harbour where the
guided missile destroyer USS Cole was refuelling on Thursday when an explosion
ripped a hole in its side. US officials believe that two men on an inflatable
craft packed with explosives were responsible.

The bodies of seven US sailors have been recovered and the navy has confirmed 10
are missing, presumed dead. Another 33 were injured. Those killed were mainly
ratings on duty below deck.

"In my view this was clearly a terrorist act," said Admiral Vernon Clark, the
chief naval officer. He said the blast came from outside the ship, countering
suggestions that weapons on board might have exploded.

President Bill Clinton denounced the attack as a "despicable and cowardly act".

It is not known whether the two attacks in Yemen are connected, but Sheikh Omar
Bakri Mohammed, a British-based Islamic activist, said he had received a
communique from a group calling itself the Army of Mohammed and the Army of
Aden-Abyan, claiming responsibility for the ship attack.

The group said the attack was not their first and would not be their last.
Yesterday Yemeni journalists said they had never heard of the Army of Mohammed,
although the Islamic Army of Aden-Abyan is well known and is regarded by some
Yemenis as the most likely suspect.

But some US sources say the Aden attack was too sophisticated for the Islamic
Army, and suspect involvement by the Afghanistan-based terrorist Osama bin
Laden, whose family came from southern Yemen.

The attack may have been prompted by the Israeli conflict but the US has been
warning of possible attacks against its interests in Yemen for a long time.

The Islamic Army of Aden-Abyan includes veterans of the Afghan war and Islamists
from various countries. For several years it ran a training camp at Huttat, in a
remote part of southern Yemen. When the government tried to close it a Bin Laden
representative attempted to mediate.

In December 1998 the Islamic Army kidnapped a party of 16 mainly British
tourists in southern Yemen. Four of the tourists died during a rescue by Yemeni
security forces, and the leader of the Islamic Army at the time, Abu al-Hassan
al-Mihdar, was executed.

According to the Yemeni authorities the kidnappers were seeking to exchange
their hostages for a group of young Muslim men from Britain who had been
arrested on terrorism charges and were alleged to have been plotting attacks on
US and British targets in Aden. Yemen said the young men had been sent by Abu
Hamza al-Masri, the imam of Finsbury Park mosque in London, to undergo training
with the Islamic Army and carry out bombings.

During 1998 and 1999, Sheikh Hamza circulated a series of communiques on behalf
of the Islamic Army. One of these ordered "infidels" to leave Yemen or risk
being killed. He was arrested by Scotland Yard, but not charged.


LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              224 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                October 14, 2000

Yemen explosion fuels fears of further Western targets

BYLINE: Lorna Martin

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 302 words


A SUSPECTED bomb blast rocked the British embassy in Yemen yesterday,
heightening fears that Westerners are being drawn into the Middle East conflict.

As intense diplomatic efforts to end violence between Israel and the
Palestinians continued, a bomb was apparently thrown into the embassy compound
in the Yemeni capital, San'a, causing substantial damage. No-one was injured.

The explosion came a day after a suicide attack on a US warship in the country's
main port, Aden, which killed seven sailors and wounded more than 30. Ten more
sailors are missing and presumed dead.

There was confusion as to the source of yesterday's explosion, which was heard
more than a mile-and-a-half away from the embassy compound. Foreign Secretary
Robin Cook said a bomb was hurled at the building and expressed fears of a
resurgence of terrorist activities.

But the official Yemeni news agency SABA denied the blast was caused by a bomb
and blamed an electric power generator explosion.

The blast caused substantial damage, shattering windows at the three-storey
British embassy, an adjoining school, and the nearby Dutch Embassy.

Mr Cook said he did not believe the terrorist attack was connected to the
outbreak of violence in the Middle East.

Speaking from the British Embassy in Tel Aviv, he added: "There are people in
that region who have their own agenda and are capable of terrorist attacks
without anything happening in the Middle East."

However, Mr Victor Henderson, the British Ambassador in Yemen, said local people
had become "steamed up" at what had been happening in Israel. Britain is widely
resented in Yemen, where it is regarded as subservient to the United States, and
as a former colonial power that intervened on the Saudi-backed royalist side in
Yemen's own civil war.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2000 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              225 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                            October 15, 2000, Sunday

A crisis catches Blair between continents

BYLINE: Martin Ivens

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 1170 words


Came, saw, blathered. Stopping only to savour "his" triumph over Slobodan
Milosevic last week, Robin Cook joined the throng of great and good gathered in
Israel. His reward was a walk-on part in a tragedy that unfolds at its own pace,
oblivious to the presence of Mr Cook.

Why was the foreign secretary rushing in where even American presidents hesitate
to tread? Cook was claiming to act as an "honest broker" between Arab and Jew.
Earlier at the United Nations, he had joined other European Union governments in
passing a security council resolution blaming Israel for the bloodshed.
Brokerage and blame are uneasy bedfellows.

Some saw the hand of the Foreign Office's Arabists behind his intervention. They
have form. Under Margaret Thatcher, Lord Carrington and David Mellor made
disastrous forays into the region. They made themselves unpopular with the
Israelis, the Americans and, most dangerously, their own prime minister.

Others detected rivalry with the French. Anything the Elysee can do pro-Arab, we
Brits can do better. If so, the terrorists who attacked our embassy in Yemen on
Friday weren't listening.

But Mr Cook is just a bit player enjoying his moment under the spotlight. The
thread of British foreign policy, indeed any and every policy under this
government, always leads straight back to the prime minister.

Mr Blair is pro-European and moralistic within the bounds of what public opinion
will swallow. Senior civil servants note that the prime minister's intervention
in foreign affairs is a mixed blessing. He is capable of great focus and quick
strategic thinking. There then follow periods of marked indifference during
which it is almost impossible to grab his attention.

All great foreign policies in America since Monroe - that's President James, not
the truly great American Marilyn - get to be called a doctrine. For
convenience's sake, let's call Blair's foreign policy the Cooper doctrine after
Robert Cooper, an ambitious diplomat seconded to the Cabinet Office. Mr Cooper
codified the Blairite view that the new Europe is built on "values". Bismarck is
out. Gladstone is in.

The Cooper doctrine looks forward to a post-cold war era when there is no need
to make allies of "sons of bitches who are our sons of bitches". Like Britain's
campaign against the slave trade, the Kosovo crusade was also about enforcing
civilised values with civilised allies.

By this theory the kingdom of human rights is at hand. The International
Criminal Court at the Hague will be the arbiter of the new world order and at
home we have incorporated the European Convention. Baddies like Pinochet and
Milosevic will be locked up. All very well: but even Mr Blair isn't keen to see
the UK corralled into expensive social policies under the charter of rights
signed at Biarritz yesterday.

The white man's burden now begins at Brussels, soldiers on to Bosnia and then
moves by way of Sierra Leone to Africa. In the Middle East we are not deranged
enough to intervene, but some form of presence is deemed essential when fighting
flares, however useless. It is nothing less than a new crusade: the European
mission to civilise. But the government is better at projecting paper European
armies to distant locations than deciding the UK's own future.

Labour has called for a great debate on Europe. Mr Blair appears to be losing
it. The polls show overwhelming hostility to further European integration. Like
John Major, the prime minister wants to be "at the heart of Europe" but cannot
quite think how to win over sceptical British public opinion. The French and
Germans, though friendly, want to see the colour of new Labour's euro money.
Otherwise, why not move ahead without British participation to an inner core of
good Europeans? Time for Mr Blair to produce an ace.

The prime minister's best card was his recent Warsaw speech. He proposed Europe
should become "a superpower without becoming a superstate". Two messages for two
different audiences.

The voters were being reassured that a federal Europe is out - no nasty
superstate. The Franco-German alliance was reminded that Britain is one of only
two existing military powers in Europe - worth wooing as the building block of a
superpower.

The French have already been enticed with a common European security and defence
policy. Last December at Helsinki the EU made a formal agreement to develop a
defence identity distinct from America. When the next Kosovo arises, the
Europeans are supposed to have real fire power.

But Europe is not spending more wisely or getting a bigger bang for its buck.
Defence budgets continue to decline. The ability to mount peacekeeping let alone
peacemaking operations is highly doubtful. Pan-European forces need
communications, intelligence and logistical back- up. They're just not there.

A silly man called Jacques Poos once declared about the break-up of Yugoslavia:
"This is the hour of Europe." Europe allowed the Balkans to coast all the way to
the massacre of Srebrenica. This time, surely, it's a case of pay up or shut up?

It is striking how much of the government's foreign policy is built on wishful
thinking. The public hates the euro? They'll accept it after we've run a
campaign with Richard Branson in it. The public distrusts a superstate? Fine,
we'll call it a superpower.

In its transatlantic relations the Blair team was so seduced by the prospect of
a continuing Democrat presidency that the realisation that George W Bush might
be the hand that TB shakes is causing jitters. The Republican foreign policy
team takes a cold view of where America's interests end and where human rights
crusades begin. Blair wants peace on Earth. So, George will say, Europe can go
make it.

And so to Al Gore, the Democrat contender. A friend of the Blairs perhaps.
Except Mr Gore is a friend of Israel above all friends of Israel. Last week,
like good Europeans, we voted against Israel in the security council. Like good
Europeans we followed the French line and demanded an international inquiry into
the causes of the violence. Like useful idiots...

The French offer of an inquiry encouraged Yasser Arafat to take an intransigent
line with Ehud Barak in their peace talks in Paris when a breakthrough was
imminent. So in practice, being a European superpower may mean taking sides
against America in the Middle East or anywhere else as the French have always
wanted.

Can Mr Blair realise his vision of giving the UK a leading role in an integrated
Europe without falling into such obvious traps?

The evidence so far is not reassuring. He should not underestimate the
sensitivity of America, whether of the Bush or Gore variety, in allying itself
to gestures of French defiance.

A treacherous gap is opening up between the prime minister's hankering for a
European superpower and his role as custodian of the robust post-war link
between London and Washington. As he rushes to his European future Mr Blair
should mind the gap.


LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Comment; Opinion

                    Copyright 2000 Times Newspapers Limited

                              226 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                            October 16, 2000, Monday

FREED HOSTAGES ON WAY HOME

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 468 words


THE freed hostages from the hijacked Saudi Arabian Airlines jet were allowed to
fly straight back to the UK from Riyadh last night.

The plane arrived in the Saudi capital shortly after 10.30pm UK time and the 90
passengers were given a choice as to whether they wanted to board a plane
directly back to the UK or spend the night in Riyadh, the airline said.

Those who took up the offer to come home immediately should be back in Britain
this morning.

The Foreign Office confirmed that a plane on stand-by at Riyadh airport was
seeking clearance to fly last night for those eager to get back to the UK.

The passengers - including 40 Britons - and up to 17 crew members were freed
unharmed in Baghdad on Saturday night after a seven-and-a-half hour ordeal.

They spent the night at the city's Rashid Hotel after the hijackers diverted the
plane to land at Saddam airport.

The jet was hijacked moments after leaving Jeddah on its way to Heathrow on
Saturday.

Passengers on board included a member of the Saudi royal family.

The hijackers - two Saudis, who said they had wanted to highlight human rights
abuses in their country - were arrested. They had claimed to have the explosive
TNT on board.

Passenger Waqas Hussein, 21, said there had been little or no security at Jeddah
airport when they began their journe.

"There wasn't any checking of our luggage or ourselves," he said.

He said the captain of the plane told him the hijackers had three bombs and one
gun.

"After four hours sitting in the plane the captain announced they had
successfully negotiated with the hijackers.

"Everybody onboard clapped as the hijackers left," he said.

The two hijackers told a news conference that they were ordinary people calling
for decent education and health services for their compatriots at home.

Saudi Arabia and Iraq severed diplomatic relations after Iraqi troops invaded
Kuwait in 1990.

Earlier Foreign Secretary Robin Cook welcomed the release of British hostages -
but refused to thank the Iraqis for helping to end the crisis.

At a news conference in central London this morning, he said he would not thank
them because it was their "obligation" to prevent terrorist acts.

He said: "I am pleased that all the passengers in the hijacked plane have been
released and I am glad the hijack was brought to a conclusion swiftly and
peacefully."

It emerged tonight that the airline held a hostage negotiation course just over
a fortnight before the hijacking.

The so-called crisis management and hostage negotiation course was held at the
Crowne Plaza Hotel in Jeddah on September 25 to 27, the company's web site said.

It was not clear whether any of the staff on the course had been involved in
last night's drama.

end 15-Oct-00 20: 32

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2000 Century Newspapers Limited

                              227 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                            October 16, 2000, Monday

DELOREAN IN BACK TO THE FUTURE DREAM OF GULL WING

BYLINE: Kevin Dowling

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 706 words


MAVERICK motor mogul John Zachary De Lorean, now 75 years old, has plans to go
back to the future.

The creator of the gull-winged DMC sports car, which cost British tax- payers $
200m and Northern Ireland 2,500 jobs in the early 80s, says he has two new
speedsters on the drawing board.

The first, he said, would be "an extremely limited production, state- of-the
-art high-performance auto- mobile".

DeLorean described it as: "A vehicle that will out-perform any street- legal
automobile in the world by virtue of its power-to-weight ratio and its highly
stylised aerodynamic shape."

Industry gossip says the 1,450-pound sports car's body shell will be made of
lightweight structural plastic which will allow it to accelerate from zero to 60
miles per hour in 3.2 seconds.

Also equipped with gull wings, it could leave his original stainless steel
flier, which needs 9.6 seconds to hit 60, limping at the traffic lights.

The second vehicle under development is described as "a ground - breaking
-technology, high-performance car that will be as affordable as it will be
unique".

DeLorean has spent several years adapting aerospace technology for motoring use.

He is expected to unveil a revolutionary ceramic engine early next year.

In theory, it could power a mini sports roadster at a fraction of the cost of
con- ventional engines.

The former bankrupt has been free and clear of debt since his remaining 260
creditors - among them the British Government - accepted a $ 20m deal brokered
by accountants Arthur Andersen last year.

But can the man who created the muscle-car generation find the finance to give
his tempestuous life's story a happy ending?

A news release announcing the formation of DeLorean Time LLC to produce and
market "high quality, limited production, custom-personal accessories and
wearables" has been posted at www. deloreantime.com on the Internet.

To start with, the company will design and distribute "innovative" products,
"starting with watches, sunglasses and eyeglass frames".

Anyone who buys a De Lorean watch for $ 2,400 will be "entitled to a priority
position on line to purchase a De Lorean automobile - if and when any such
vehicle is built".

The priority certificate signed by John Z that comes with every DeLorean DMC2
Timepiece "in John's signature stainless steel", is "significant, because
overwhelming response to purchase either automobile is anticipated", the news
release says.

About 8,500 gull-winged DMCs were made between 1981 and 1983 at a Dunmurry
factory financed by the taxpayer on a 72-acre bog separating Belfast's Catholic
Twinbrook estate and the Protestant Lisburn Road.

The chariots forged in the fire of the Troubles achieved world-wide fame when
Michael J Fox drove one into the fourth dimension in his box-office smash film
Back to the Future.

Always short on working capital, DMC was put into receivership on February 19,
1982, when it was unable to meet a $ 500,000 debt.

The company had an outstanding claim of $ 136m against the Government at the
time after losing a factory building containingimportant engineering drawings in
a terrorist attack.

The DeLorean Motor Company was the only car firm in Britain to have made a
profit in the previous year - over a million pounds - and had US orders for
15,000 more cars.

But Mrs Thatcher refused to write off the debt even when DeLorean offered to
surrender his entire shareholding in the company to the Government if she would
keep it running.

Then, he was arrested in Los Angeles in an FBI sting operation and accused of
laundering drug money in an effort to keep his company afloat.

DeLorean spent 10 days in the cells while his friends raised bail - and then
slipped through his enemies' fingers when the case against him was dismissed on
the grounds of entrapment.

But the company went belly-up and DeLorean lost everything he'd worked for,
including his marriage and his Californian ranch.

Only 8,583 DeLorean cars were made.

Collectors have elevated the DMC to that of a cult classic.

That's the sort of enthusiasm DeLorean needs to realise his dreams.

"I don't look back at all," he said.

"Cars are in my blood."

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COMEBACK PLANNED: by veteran motor manufacturer John DeLorean below; -
whose Northern Ireland-built gull-winged DMC sports car was driven by; Michael J
Fox in the film Back To The Future; BACK: John DeLorean

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2000 Century Newspapers Limited

                              228 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                October 18, 2000

WAS IT A BOMB?

BYLINE: BY ADRIAN LEE AND CYRIL DIXON

LENGTH: 1186 words


POLICE last night refused to rule out a terrorist attack as the cause of
Britain's latest rail tragedy.

Four people died and more than 80 were injured when the King's Cross to Leeds
express was derailed at 115mph as it sped through Hertfordshire. Detectives
revealed there had been bomb threats to that stretch of track two days earlier
and the line had been searched but nothing found.

Civilian investigators were barred from the crash site as it was declared a
"scene of crime" and sniffer dogs were brought in to search for traces of
explosives. A bomb squad officer in full protective clothing was one of the
first to examine the debris and overhead a high-tech RAF spy plane put the
entire area, near Hatfield station, under surveillance.

Speaking near the scene, Assistant Chief Constable Paul Nicholas, of the British
Transport Police, said: "On Sunday threats were received against the line
between King's Cross and Peterborough. As a result of that we cannot rule out
the possibility of terrorism. The Metropolitan Police antiterrorist squad will
be examining the scene.

"Injuries we have seen do not show anything consistent with a bomb blast but we
would be foolish to close that line of inquiry."

He would not confirm if a coded warning had been given during the bomb threats
to British Transport Police. The train company involved, GNER, was not told of
the threats, said its chief executive, Christopher Garnett.

Police said they took the bomb threats seriously and had traced them to a call
box in nearby Welwyn.

A Scotland Yard spokesman said: "We are aware of the threats received by police
on Sunday. These were not calls that we would link to recent incidents by Irish
Republican dissident terrorist groups.

"While we continue to examine the scene, at this early stage there is no reason
to suggest an explosion, but we have to be absolutely sure."

Survivors described hearing a loud bang before seven of the train's nine
carriages were derailed less than 20 minutes into its journey. Screaming
passengers were thrown from carriages which toppled on to their sides, slid
along the track and disintegrated. Experts said other possible causes were wheel
or axle failure, a track fault or vandalism. GNER said the train was less than
10 years old and had undergone safety checks, including its wheels, a week ago.

The accident happened 12 days after the first anniversary of the Ladbroke Grove
disaster, in which 31 people were killed, and brings the number of deaths in
rail crashes since 1988 to 105.

Survivors described how they fought to free the injured from the wreckage. Mark
O'Neill, from Belfast, who was in one of the front carriages, said: "There was
an explosion, the train began shuddering and some of the windows exploded.

"Everything came to a grinding halt and smoke started to fill the carriage so we
smashed the emergency window to open the doors." He said the roof of the buffet
car was ripped off and debris was strewn along the track as the remains of the
train travelled more than 1,000ft before coming to rest.

Mr O'Neill added: "We tried to get elderly passengers off. Some people were in a
bad way. You think a train is a very solid object but this one was ripped to
shreds like a tin can."

Actress Anna Brecon, who plays Lady Tara Thornfield in the ITV soap Emmerdale,
was on the train travelling to Leeds for filming. Anna, who escaped with a cut
cheek, said: "It's fair to say I'm lucky to be alive. We stopped very suddenly
and the train started to tilt.

"I was in first class carriage H and it came off the track. It was juddering a
lot and tipping over. There was glass and dust and debris everywhere. Gravel was
spraying in through the open window. It didn't last very long and when it
stopped I crawled out. Everything was very quiet. I shouted, 'Is anyone
injured?' No one replied. There was a stewardess who seemed quite badly hurt.

"The carriage behind us was derailed and badly mangled. I got quickly away from
it for safety. We were covered in mud and blood and the whole thing has been
terribly shocking for everyone."

The 35-year-old driver and nine other GNER staff were among the survivors. Most
of those who died are believed to have been in a first class carriage behind the
buffet car.

Passenger Stephen Morgan, who suffered a broken hand, said: "I was walking to
the bar to get a drink when there was a bang and the carriage went over. We
managed to get out by opening a door. We got some women and children out, then
scrambled clear."

Dianne Hudson, 47, a local government officer with Leeds City Council, said: "I
was flung out of my seat and ended up under a table. I just thought, 'My God,
it's a bomb'. The carriage I was in had pretty much overturned. I didn't hear
any screaming. I just heard the noise of the crash. It was the most horrendous
noise I have ever heard. Just screeching and banging. It was terrible."

Businessman John Stevens, 48, from Yorkshire, was in a first class carriage
which flew off the track and overturned. He said: "I feel I am a very lucky man.
In comparison with some people I have got off very lightly.

"I was drinking a coffee when there was a massive jolt. I flew out of my seat
and smashed into the table but I managed to grab on to one of the legs and hang
on. I passed out for a while. When I came around everything seemed under
control."

A senior paramedic also described the "eerie silence" as he and his team saw
that four people had died instantly.

Kevin Walsh said: "I climbed up the embankment and I could see there were
several carriages upright and several that were turned over. Towards the back
end of the train there was a tremendous amount of debris. Further up the line
there were more carriages. There were also two people trapped and it took quite
a long while to release them." Bodies were laid by the trackside as they were
released from the shattered carriages. Mr Walsh added: "The scene was
surprisingly tranquil and actually quite silent."

Last night four of the 150 people on board were still being treated in hospital.
Doctors said it was remarkable there were not more fatalities. John Saetta,
accident and emergency consultant at Queen Elizabeth II hospital in Welwyn
Garden City, said: "It's a miracle that so many people escaped unhurt."

Transport Minister Lord Macdonald, visiting the site, said: "It is too early for
us to speculate on the causes of this terrible derailment."

During the crash the locomotive and first two carriages remained on the rails
but the rear two carriages overturned and were destroyed. Debris hit homes and
gardens near the track.

Sarah Rodgers, 21, heard part of the train crash just feet from her garden. She
said: "Me and my friend were watching TV when we heard this huge screech. Stone
and metal crashed against my wall and windows."It is thought that Deputy Prime
Minister John Prescott, whose responsibilities include transport, will cut short
a visit to China, where he has been on a trade mission, to lead the Government
response to the incident.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2000 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              229 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                October 18, 2000

Mystery of the fatal 115mph train crash;Police rule out terrorist bomb attack on
rail line despite threat

BYLINE: Roy Rogers Industry Correspondent And Annette Mccann

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 868 words


RAIL safety inspectors are today expected to focus on either track or wheel
failure as the probable cause of yesterday's high-speed train disaster which
claimed four lives and left more than 30 people injured.

They could find no explanation late last night, but police ruled out a
possibility that terrorists may have been involved in an attack on the 12.10pm
GNER InterCity service from King's Cross to Leeds.

It left the line near Hatfield in Hertfordshire at 115mph, resulting in the
train being cut in two pieces, with seven of its nine rear carriages derailed.

Police said an unspecified terrorist threat had been made about the same stretch
of track just two days before, but Chief Constable Paul Acres of Hertfordshire
police said: "We had investigated the potential that this was caused by an
explosion: this has now been ruled out. There were early indications from
witnesses that they heard the sound of an explosion which we now believe was the
sound of the impact."

He confirmed that there "were two calls at the weekend suggesting bombs may have
been placed on the line", but added: "The wreckage has been extensively searched
by the anti-terrorist branch of New Scotland Yard together with explosive
ordinance disposal experts and we are now satisfied there was no explosion."

The Government has ordered an urgent report into the crash, which is to be
investigated by the Railway Inspectorate.

Assistant Chief Constable Paul Nicholas, of the British Transport Police, said
the scene would be kept secure overnight while the bodies were removed, and a
thorough search made of the site this morning.

TV actress Anna Brecon, better known as Lady Tara Thornfield in Emmerdale, was
one of those who crawled from the derailed first class carriage. The actress was
travelling with her mother.

At hospital in Welwyn Garden City, she said: "I was incredibly lucky. I was
aware of a lot of glass and dust flying around near my face. The window beside
me had completely smashed. The train was dragging along the ground and the
gravel came into the window, spraying in until we stopped.

"We were incredibly lucky to get just a few cuts and bruises." There was a cut
on her face, but it did not need stitches.

The train carried 200 passengers, and more than 80 walking wounded were ferried
away from the scenes of debris and wreckage.

One survivor described how she at first thought a bomb had gone off as the
train's middle coaches left the line as it reached a speed of more than 100mph
some 20 miles north of London.

A Railtrack director, Mr Nick Pollard, said it was important for public
confidence in rail travel to establish quickly the cause.

Mr Pollard told BBC 2's Newsnight there was "absolutely no reason" to believe
the train was travelling too fast. He confirmed that the track was severely
damaged, but that was only to be expected following such a major accident. The
track stretch was not regarded as a vandalism hotspot.

GNER chief executive Christopher Garnett said a trainee driver was in the cab
alongside a fully qualified driver.

The crash, coming less than a fortnight after the first anniversary of the
Paddington disaster, in which 31 people were killed, has sharply refocused
attention on Britain's rail safety record.

It is understood deputy Prime Minister John Prescott, whose departmental
responsibilities include transport, will cut short a visit to China, where he
has been on a trade mission, to lead the Government's response to the

incident.

Unlike most recent crashes, there has been no suggestion of "driver error". Nor
has any evidence come to light to suggest vandals were to blame, though they
have been known to operate on this stretch of line.

According to Railtrack, the train was on the correct line, the signalling
equipment appeared to have been working normally, and the track had been checked
the previous day.

With no other train around, and the point of derailment apparently located at or
behind the central buffet car, Health and Safety Executive investigators will
pay particular attention to the condition of the wheels and bogeys of the
relatively modern InterCity 225 train.

It appears that neither of the two safety systems being considered in the wake
of previous fatal accidents would have prevented yesterday's accident.

The cheaper Train Protection Warning System (TPWS) operates only when trains are
travelling below 70mph, while the ''fail-safe" Automatic Train Protection (ATP)
over-rides only those

at first thought a bomb had gone off as the train's middle coaches left the line
as it reached a speed of more than 100mph some 20 miles north of London.

A Downing Street spokesman said: "The Prime Minister is obviously deeply
saddened at the death and injuries caused by this accident, and all his thoughts
are with the families and friends of those involved."

Conservative leader William Hague also extended his sympathies to the injured
and the relatives of those killed.

A Buckingham Palace spokes-man said the Queen and Duke of Edinburgh had sent
messages of sympathy to victims and their families via Lord Macdonald.

Injured: actress Anna Brecon

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2000 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              230 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          October 18, 2000, Wednesday

ANTI-SEMITISM: JEWS ON ALERT AFTER STUDENT STABBED ON BUS;
 ATTACK IN LONDON IS LINKED TO MIDDLE EAST CRISIS, WHILE AROUND THE WORLD MUSLIM
MILITANTS CALL FOR JEWISH BLOOD

BYLINE: Ian Burrell Home Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 576 words


BRITAIN'S JEWISH community was under a state of alert yesterday after the
multiple stabbing of a Hasidic theology student as he sat wearing a skull cap
and reading psalms on a London bus.

David Myers was stabbedaround 20 times in the chest, face, arms and legs by a
man wielding a six-inch huntingknife. A 27-year-old man, believed to be an
Algerian living in north London, was being held yesterday by police, who are
treating the attack as racist.

Mr Myers was in a serious but stable condition in the intensive care unit of a
London hospital yesterday.

The stabbing, at 11am on Monday, has created a sense of panic in the north
London district of Stamford Hill where the attack took place. The area is the
centre of London's Orthodox Jewish community.

Mike Whine, a spokesman for the Board of Deputies of British Jews, said the
attack may be linked to inflammatory statements from Islamic militants, who have
called for attacks on Jews worldwide after clashes between Israelis and
Palestinians in the Middle East.

Mr Whine said: "We have been getting calls from people in the Stamford Hill
area. They are really panicky."

Demonstrations by Muslim groups against Israel have taken place in London,
Birmingham, Manchester and Leicester in the past 10 days, leading to at least 16
arrests for public order offences. Leaflets have been circulatedwith headings
such as "Kill The Jews", and the windows of eight synagogues have been broken.

Mr Myers, a theology student at the Gateshead Yeshiva, a Jewish college, had
returned to his family home in Finchley, north London, to be with his parents
for last weekend's festival of Succoth, when Jewish families make ceremonial
tents outside their homes to symbolise the departure of the Jews from Egypt.

His stabbing caused schoolchildren to flee the 253 bus in terror, as he
collapsed on the upper deck. The attacker threatened the driver before getting
off and boarding another bus.

Volvy Kupferstein, who works at a bakery in Stamford Hill, said he saw the
attacker calmly putting a hunting knife into his pocket as he walked off the
bus.

Mr Kupferstein said he had picked up a first-aid kit and tried to tend to Mr
Myers.

"He looked like a proper Orthodox Jew, with a full beard," he said. "It was
shocking. He was soaked in blood and had deep wounds in his forehead and his
chest.

"I tried to ask him what had happened but he was too weak to say."

Mr Myers was also treated by the crew of an ambulancethat was flagged down by
bus passengers and passers-by.

Police were called by a passenger on his mobile phone, and they arrested a man
shortly afterwards near South Tottenham railway station. He was taken to a
police station at Shoreditch, east London.

Omar Bakri Mohammed, a Syrian-born militant Islamic leader based in London, said
yesterday that Britain's Muslims were "not at war" with the Jewish community.
But he warned: "If they are going to raise funds for Israel they are going to
put themselves in the conflict and become legitimate targets for Muslims
wherever they are."

At a rally in London on Friday, Mr Bakri Mohammed told a crowd: "All Israeli
targets are legitimate for you. All Israelis must be destroyed."

He said yesterday that the England cricket team was wrong to travel for its
imminent tour of Pakistan and risked being attacked by anti-Western extremists
who "do not distinguish between civilian and military targets".

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The bus stop in Stamford Hill, north London, where the 253 bus pulled
in after the stabbing National Pictures; Students from the Jewish college in
Gateshead where stabbing victim David Myers has been studying theology Ted
Ditchburn/North News

                      Copyright 2000 Independent Print Ltd

                              231 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                               Leicester Mercury

                                October 18, 2000

News

SECTION: News, Pg.12

LENGTH: 317 words


Europe will not go away

Wherever you stand on the debate about Europe, the euro and whether we should
have a completely integrated federation, one thing is for sure, it is not going
to go away.

Britain joined the European family in January 1973 and it would take a suicidal
Prime Minister to take us out of it now.

There has been much good come out of it as well as bad. As this newspaper
records today, Leicestershire has seen substantial cash come its way, whether in
the form of subsidies to farmers, economic regeneration or transport schemes.

However, there is a determined lack of interest from voters in European issues
and our own MEPs, witnessed by the appallingly low turnout at this year's
elections.

This may not be helped by the perceived excesses and luxurious lifestyle these
publicly-appointed members are allowed to have.

The European Commission has been revealed as a hotbed of corruption and saw most
of its members being forced to resign last year.

If MEPs are to convince the British electorate that what they do is worthwhile,
then they have to embark on a major publicity campaign to highlight just how
important Europe is to the average person on the street.

Rail safety is the top priority

The crash of the high-speed InterCity train that left four dead and many injured
yesterday was indeed a tragedy. Work to establish the cause of the accident now
has to be a top priority.

Some of the earlier unfounded talk of terrorist attacks is frankly at best
unhelpful.

There has been the predictable talk about safety on the railways n and safety
has to be the top priority over everything else.

If safety has been found to be compromised for any reason, there will indeed be
a public outcry.

But whatever the conclusions of rail investigators, it must be pointed out that
death toll on our country's roads yesterday far exceed the four deaths on the
railways.

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                        Copyright 2000 Leicester Mercury

                              232 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                            October 22, 2000, Sunday

Police carry pistols on routine street patrols

BYLINE: Adam Luck

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 740 words


A POLICE force has introduced armed foot patrols on the streets for the first
time in mainland Britain in an attempt to combat rising gun crime.

Officers wearing Walther P990 pistols on their hips are conducting regular
patrols on estates in Nottingham. The move, called Operation Real Estate,
represents a significant shift in British policing, which has prided itself on
the tradition of the unarmed bobby on the beat.

Until now, armed officers have been deployed on the streets of Britain only for
diplomatic duties or to tackle specific incidents such as sieges, armed
robberies and terrorist attacks. In Northern Ireland, however,officers have
patrolled for years armed with at least a handgun.

The use of the foot patrols in Nottingham is being monitored by at least six
other forces, including Merseyside and West Yorkshire, which face similar
problems over gun crime, largely drug-related.

Chief constables are free to make their own decisions on how they deploy armed
officers, and the Home Office was not consulted over the move by Nottinghamshire
police.

This weekend Charles Clarke, the Home Office minister, admitted that he had not
been aware of it until last week. "I would stress this is an operational matter
for the chief constable, but I have asked for a full briefing," he said. "For
the time being, I am not going to say more than that."

The patrols were launched by Nottinghamshire police after a series of shootings
on the city's St Ann's and Meadows estates sparked by a turf war between rival
gangs of drug-dealers.

At least six officers, armed with pistols and operating in pairs, spend up to
five hours from dusk until midnight patrolling the streets. They are supported
by two police vans, in which Heckler and Koch MP5 rifles are kept, to be used
only for special incidents or road checks.

Out on patrol on Wednesday evening last week, the police were met by groups of
roaming children, many on bikes, who were fascinated by the sight of the
holsters.

"Why are you carrying a gun and other policemen don't?" one boy asked. He did
not receive an answer. Another child pretended to shoot the policeman,
repeatedly mouthing: "Pop, pop".

Senior Nottinghamshire officers believe the use of armed patrols, which are
reviewed weekly, has sent a "strong message" to criminals not to use weapons and
has, so far, helped prevent gun crime spiralling out of control.

Marcus Beale, the chief superintendent overseeing the operation, said: "You have
got to the point in Leeds where you have had executions - likewise, Birmingham,
Manchester and Liverpool all suffer from widespread gun violence.

"One of the challenges we face is looking to prevent that cycle increasing to
the point where you find bodies. Put simply, this measure is about preventing
gun violence becoming the norm and someone being murdered."

The operation - which also includes increased unarmed patrols and is linked to
other schemes for inner-city improvement - has been largely welcomed by the
community, although some have their reservations.

Vincent Lloyd Robinson, 63, whose son was killed when he intervened in a fight
between two gangs in Nottingham, said: "I support it, although I am worried that
innocent people might end up being killed in any crossfire."

The officers are specially trained in the use of firearms and abide by
guidelines that insist they draw weapons only where there is "a danger or threat
to life". Police are facing increasing gun crime, up by 10% in the past year.

The move has provoked controversy, however. Geoffrey Bindman, a leading human
rights lawyer, warned that it could encourage more criminals to carry weapons.

"This could get you into a worrying spiral." he said. "You only have to look at
the appalling example of America where everyone seems walk around with a gun.

There is a concern with implementing this type of zero tolerance measure that it
becomes hard to reverse."

Some senior police officers are also concerned. Chief Inspector John Powell, of
the Metropolitan police, said: "One would hope that it is not the thin end of
the wedge. British policing has been based on the principle of consent."

However, Sean Price, Nottinghamshire assistant chief constable, said that,
although the initiative was open-ended, "I still hope we are a long way away
nationally from approaching the position of permanently arming officers."


LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2000 Times Newspapers Limited

                              233 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                October 25, 2000

Threat of more terror attacks:US forces put on maximum alert as bin Laden is
blamed for Cole bombing

BYLINE: Ian Bruce Geopolitics Editor

SECTION: Pg. 17

LENGTH: 652 words


AMERICAN forces throughout the Middle East are on maximum alert today after
intelligence warnings about new terrorist threats in the wake of the suicide
bombing of the destroyer USS Cole in Aden harbour two weeks ago.

All US service personnel in Bahrain and Qatar in the Persian Gulf and air force
crews at Incirlik air base in Turkey were ordered to step up security as a
precaution, after the Pentagon received "specific threats" targeting military
assets in the region.

Bahrain is the headquarters for the US Central Command's naval forces and for
the US 5th Fleet. Qatar houses a limited number of air force crews.

All US warships in Gulf harbours put to sea immediately after the surprise
attack on the Cole, which left 17 sailors dead and 39 injured.

Incirlik plays host to US and RAF bomber and reconnaissance aircraft policing
the "no-fly" zone imposed over northern Iraq after the 1991 Gulf War. Britain
has 160 men and four Jaguar reconnaissance jets on site.

The finger of blame for the suicide attack on the Cole is pointing ever more
firmly towards the world's most wanted terrorist, Saudi dissident Osama bin
Laden.

Bin Laden heads and funds a global Islamic terrorist network known as Al Qaeda,
which is believed to be responsible for the bombing of US embassies in Kenya and
Tanzania in 1998. The simultaneous attacks left 258 people dead and almost 5000
wounded.

FBI sources who were on the scene of the USS Cole incident within four hours of
the explosion say early examination of bomb fragments has revealed similarities
in materials and construction to the devices used two years ago in East Africa.
Investigators are privately convinced that the attack was planned by Al Qaeda,
Arabic for "The Base".

Operating from his mountain stronghold, bin Laden controls the purse-strings of
Islamic terrorism world-wide. He continues to rake in cash donations from Saudi
and Gulf businessmen hedging their bets against fundamentalist takeovers in
their countries.

His main income, however, comes from acting as middleman and fixer for Afghan
narcotic producers, from whom he is estimated to rake off up to £500m a year.
The money is used to set up front companies in Yemen, Sudan, and Albania and to
fund mujahideen training camps at Rishkor, Khost, and Laghman in Afghanistan.

Russia is certain that some of the cash and hardcore Islamic fighters from the
camps have been funnelled to help the Chechens in their ongoing resistance to
Moscow's occupation. Others, they claim, are helping to destabilise states
across the Caucasus.

Albania, bin Laden's toehold in Europe, has also become a conduit for drugs and
dissidents. Nato's intelligence agencies fear that a number of cells have
already been set up across the continent via the lawless Balkan state.

The West's main problem, if proof can be found to tie the Saudi militant to the
latest atrocity, is how to hit back. The last effort involved launching £50m
worth of cruise missiles against his Afghan hideouts two weeks after the East
African embassy bombs.

A few Pakistani and Kashmiri volunteers were killed or injured, several missiles
went astray and ended up helping China improve its guidance technology, and
others alienated the Arab world by destroying a Sudanese chemical factory which
apparently produced powdered baby milk rather than biological weapons.

Bin Laden, who was tipped off about the missile strike in advance by Pakistan's
ISI intelligence agency, has now surrounded himself with between 4000 and 5000
guards, many veterans of the war with the Soviets in the1980s.

Short of the Taliban handing him over to face justice, it would take a daring
and almost necessarily suicidal commando raid to end his reign. Contingency
plans for a direct assault on his headquarters have been drawn up by both the
Pentagon and Britain, but have so far been considered too risky.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2000 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              234 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          October 25, 2000, Wednesday

US Gulf forces put on terror alert

BYLINE: Michael Theodoulou in Nicosia

SECTION: Overseas news

LENGTH: 330 words


AMERICAN forces in Qatar and Bahrain have been put on the highest state of alert
after intelligence warnings that terrorist attacks against United States
citizens and facilities could be imminent, defence officials said yesterday.

Associates of Osama bin Laden, the millionaire Saudi dissident, were the main
suspects, although there was no direct evidence linking him to the latest
threats. The warnings came amid growing anti-American sentiment in the Arab
world, driven by Washington's perceived pro-Israeli bias.

Bin Laden is one of several suspects being investigated for the October 12
suicide bomb attack on the USS Cole, a guided missile destroyer, which killed 17
American sailors in the Yemeni port of Aden.

The similarities between the Cole attack and the terrorist bombings of two
American embassies in East Africa in 1998 warranted the "Threat Condition Delta"
alert, US officials said. The highest of five states of military alert, it is
used to prepare for imminent attack.

Bin Laden, who has a Pounds 3 million bounty on his head, has been indicted in
the US for the twin embassy bombings, which killed 301 people, 12 of whom were
Americans.

American forces at a Turkish airbase used by American and British military
aircraft policing a no-fly zone over northern Iraq were also on a higher state
of alert.

While Britain is closely identified in the Middle East with American foreign
policy, it has not received similar terrorist threats and has not put its forces
on a heightened state of alert in the region.

"We're very much aware what is happening there and would change the state (of
alert) if we felt it appropriate," a spokesman for the Ministry of Defence in
London said.

The US has thousands of troops deployed in the oil-rich Gulf, including Bahrain,
which is the headquarters of the Fifth Fleet, and in Saudi Arabia, where
militants staged two attacks on US military targets in 1995 and 1996, killing 24
Americans.


LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2000 Times Newspapers Limited

                              235 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                                 MAIL ON SUNDAY

                                October 29, 2000

Shayler will give police details of MI6 plot to kill Gadaffi;
Double vindication for Mail on Sunday's campaign to reveal MI5 whistleblower's
claims

BYLINE: Jason Lewis

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 747 words


FORMER MI5 agent David Shayler is to give evidence to the police on his claims
that the British security services were behind a plot to assassinate Libyan
dictator Colonel Gadaffi.

He is due to be interviewed by two senior Special Branch detectives on Tuesday
to discuss MI5 and MI6's involvement in the bomb plot in February 1996.

The move comes days after he was praised in the Court of Appeal following a
judge's decision to halt temporarily the appeal of two Palestinians who were
convicted of bombing the Israeli embassy in Kensington.

The case was stopped when a security services document was handed to the defence
team. It backed Mr Shayler's claims that the security services had received a
warning from a non-Palestinian terror group before the 1994 bomb attack.

That, in turn, suggests the two Palestinians, Jawad Botmeh and Samar Alami, were
not involved.

The judge halted the appeal to allow the defence time to make use of the new
information.

The two developments are vindication of The Mail on Sunday's decision to publish
Mr Shayler's claims more than three years ago.

The paper was forced to fight a series of legal battles with the Government over
gagging orders banning reporting of the claims despite them amounting to serious
allegations of incompetence and illegal activity by the security services.

Last night, Mr Shayler said: 'For years I have been trying to report the details
of this crime the Gadaffi plot and at last the authorities have decided to take
it seriously.

'What I have been talking about all along is a conspiracy to commit murder by
the intelligence services.

'The decision to interview Mr Shayler over the Gadaffi claims appears to be
major change of heart by the police and is potentially embarrassing for the
Government.

It was when Mr Shayler, then on the run in France, first attempted to reveal
details of the Gadaffi plot to The Mail on Sunday in 1998 that the British
Government issued a

warrant for his arrest. He was imprisoned in Paris while he fought extradition
Foreign Secretary Robin Cook then told Parliament that Britain was not involved
in the plot.

But now the former secret agent, who voluntarily returned to the UK last August
and is on bail awaiting trial on charges of breaching the Official Secrets Act,
intends to give the police full details to back his claims.

The bomb under Gadaffi's motorcade missed him but killed several people.

Mr Shayler, 34, who was on MI5's Libya desk at the time of the attack, gave an
account of British involve-

ment in the affair to The Mail on Sunday and BBC TV's Panorama.

He revealed how an agent known as Tunworth received more than GBP 100,000 in
1995 and 1996 to help finance preparations for a coup and the arrest or killing
of Gadaffi.

Mr Shayler said he was told of the planned assassination by an MI6 officer
codenamed PT16B.

Last night, Mr Shayler said: 'The MI6 officers involved did not refer to the
Government and took it upon themselves to do it and that meant that they were
operating outside Government control. I will now be giving their names to
Special Branch.

'We may not like Colonel Gadaffi but to arrange his murder is a crime. We
supposedly live in a free country under the rule of law, but this is a case of
people wanting to ignore those laws when it suits them.' British Government
officials have since declared that the assassination story is false and Mr Cook
has made assurances that MI6 was not involved.

He described claims of British involvement as 'pure fantasy' and insisted that
MI6 had no interest in such a plot.

He reiterated that: 'I am perfectly satisfied that the SIS Secret Intelligence
Service never put forward any such proposal for an assassination attempt, nor
have I seen anything ... which would suggest that the SIS has had any interest,
any role or any experience over the recent decades of any such escapade.' But
details of Mr Shayler's story appeared to be confirmed when a four-page MI6
document, designated UK Eyes Alpha, was published on the Internet.

Mr Shayler returned to Britain with girlfriend Annie Machon also a former MI5
agent after a three-year exile in France prompted by his decision to turn
whistleblower.

He first revealed details about the security services' bungling of the Israeli
embassy bomb threat to the Mail on Sunday in February 1997.

The disclosures were only made after a court battle with the Government.


LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2000 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              236 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Mirror

                            October 29, 2000, Sunday

QUEEN VISIT OFF;
 MONARCH'S SECURITY 'CANNOT BE GUARANTEED IN IRELAND'

BYLINE: John Breslin

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 676 words


PLANS for a historic visit to Ireland by Queen Elizabeth have been scrapped
after her security staff warned she would be a target for the Real IRA.

And a special team in Britain set up to liaise with their Irish counterparts to
draft proposals for the trip has also been scrapped.

The Irish Sunday Mirror has learned that Irish officials in favour of the 2001
visit are said to be "deeply disappointed" at the decision.

Some claim that cancelling the trip might boost the profile of the renegade
paramilitary group.

And there is simmering anger on the Irish side that some in the British camp
were making such a "big issue" of the visit.

They were annoyed at attempts to link it with the peace process and the Queen's
50th anniversary celebrations.

"We have had decades of experience of hosting visits by heads of state," said a
senior government source. "A visit by the Queen is not the highest thing on
Ireland's agenda."

Discussions on the visit have been ongoing since late last year following a
meeting between President Mary McAleese and the British monarch.

The talks were at an advanced stage, with the British wanting to use it as a
launch pad for the Queen's 2002 golden anniversary celebrations.

It was provisionally scheduled for 2001 and, according to sources in London, all
sides were in favour.

But an upsurge in Real IRA activity in the north and following the rocket attack
on MI6's HQ in London, the Queen's security advisors told her: "It would be
unsafe to go to the Republic."

One well placed security advisor told the Irish Sunday Mirror: "Her safety
cannot be guaranteed.

"The Real IRA pose a very real threat. Its numbers are growing and has shown it
can attack in Belfast and London."

A team made up of senior Irish and British officials along with representatives
of the Queen and the President have met.

The London group, named the Anglo-Irish Committee, was only recently disbanded.

Irish officials have been working on the proposed visit since Foreign Affairs
junior minister Liz O'Donnell announced in the Dail late last year that plans
were being made.

But up until a few months ago, no official invitation - by the government
through President McAleese - had been made.

A Foreign Affairs aide this weekend refused to comment on the fact that the
visit has been scrapped.

Spokesman Aidan O'Hara said the department would not comment on speculation or
claims made by un-named sources. But a British security source said: "The Irish
government still wants it to go ahead but we are claiming her safety cannot be
guaranteed.

"The Queen's visit was due to be the summit of the Peace Process and she was
going to travel with Tony Blair.

"There were provisional plans for a Tory, possibly John Major, to be there as
well."

There were reports earlier this summer the visit had been scrapped.

But it is understood that at that stage, discussions on the trip were
continuing.

A key supporter of a visit is President McAleese, who has met the British head
of state on a number of occasions, including once at Buckingham Palace.

Relations between President McAleese and the Royal household are said to be very
cordial.

On the day of the Queen Mother's 100th birthday in August, Mrs McAleese sent her
best wishes in a telegram.

It read: "You have lived through a turbulent century which has witnessed some of
the most terrible moments in the history of mankind as well as some of its
greatest achievements. Happily too, over those years you have seen the
development of better relations between the British and Irish peoples.

"We hope and pray that these relations will continue to grow and prosper to the
advantage of our two countries and for the benefit of our two peoples."

The President added: "I wish your Majesty continued health and happiness."

Earlier plans to bring Prince Charles to Ireland were also cancelled over
security fears.

He is a hate-figure in terrorist circles as he is Colonel-in-Chief of the
Parachute Regiment.

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SECURITY RISK: The Queen's advisers have told her it is too dangerous
to visit Ireland because of Real IRA

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.

                              237 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Mirror

                            October 29, 2000, Sunday

QUEEN VISIT OFF;
 MONARCH'S SECURITY 'CANNOT BE GUARANTEED IN IRELAND'

BYLINE: JOHN BRESLIN

SECTION: Eire Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 676 words

HIGHLIGHT: SECURITY RISK: The Queen's advisers have told her it is too dangerous
to visit Ireland because of Real IRA


PLANS for a historic visit to Ireland by Queen Elizabeth have been scrapped
after her security staff warned she would be a target for the Real IRA.

And a special team in Britain set up to liaise with their Irish counterparts to
draft proposals for the trip has also been scrapped.

The Irish Sunday Mirror has learned that Irish officials in favour of the 2001
visit are said to be "deeply disappointed" at the decision.

Some claim that cancelling the trip might boost the profile of the renegade
paramilitary group.

And there is simmering anger on the Irish side that some in the British camp
were making such a "big issue" of the visit.

They were annoyed at attempts to link it with the peace process and the Queen's
50th anniversary celebrations.

"We have had decades of experience of hosting visits by heads of state," said a
senior government source. "A visit by the Queen is not the highest thing on
Ireland's agenda."

Discussions on the visit have been ongoing since late last year following a
meeting between President Mary McAleese and the British monarch.

The talks were at an advanced stage, with the British wanting to use it as a
launch pad for the Queen's 2002 golden anniversary celebrations.

It was provisionally scheduled for 2001 and, according to sources in London, all
sides were in favour.

But an upsurge in Real IRA activity in the north and following the rocket attack
on MI6's HQ in London, the Queen's security advisors told her: "It would be
unsafe to go to the Republic."

One well placed security advisor told the Irish Sunday Mirror: "Her safety
cannot be guaranteed.

"The Real IRA pose a very real threat. Its numbers are growing and has shown it
can attack in Belfast and London."

A team made up of senior Irish and British officials along with representatives
of the Queen and the President have met.

The London group, named the Anglo-Irish Committee, was only recently disbanded.

Irish officials have been working on the proposed visit since Foreign Affairs
junior minister Liz O'Donnell announced in the Dail late last year that plans
were being made.

But up until a few months ago, no official invitation - by the government
through President McAleese - had been made.

A Foreign Affairs aide this weekend refused to comment on the fact that the
visit has been scrapped.

Spokesman Aidan O'Hara said the department would not comment on speculation or
claims made by un-named sources. But a British security source said: "The Irish
government still wants it to go ahead but we are claiming her safety cannot be
guaranteed.

"The Queen's visit was due to be the summit of the Peace Process and she was
going to travel with Tony Blair.

"There were provisional plans for a Tory, possibly John Major, to be there as
well."

There were reports earlier this summer the visit had been scrapped.

But it is understood that at that stage, discussions on the trip were
continuing.

A key supporter of a visit is President McAleese, who has met the British head
of state on a number of occasions, including once at Buckingham Palace.

Relations between President McAleese and the Royal household are said to be very
cordial.

On the day of the Queen Mother's 100th birthday in August, Mrs McAleese sent her
best wishes in a telegram.

It read: "You have lived through a turbulent century which has witnessed some of
the most terrible moments in the history of mankind as well as some of its
greatest achievements. Happily too, over those years you have seen the
development of better relations between the British and Irish peoples.

"We hope and pray that these relations will continue to grow and prosper to the
advantage of our two countries and for the benefit of our two peoples."

The President added: "I wish your Majesty continued health and happiness."

Earlier plans to bring Prince Charles to Ireland were also cancelled over
security fears.

He is a hate-figure in terrorist circles as he is Colonel-in-Chief of the
Parachute Regiment.

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.

                              238 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                           October 31, 2000, Tuesday

ON THIS DAY

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 230 words


October 31, 1984: Mrs Indira Gandhi, Prime Minister of India and daughter of
Jawaharlal Nehru, India's first Prime Minister, was shot dead by two of her own
bodyguards.

Indira Gandhi had fought for Indian independence alongside her father, and she
became Prime Minister for the first time in 1966.

Throughout a turbulent political career including once jailing political
opponents and declaring a national state of emergency, she earned herself many
enemies.

The last straw was dealing with Sikh demands for independence with troops
storming of the Golden Temple of Amritsar, which had been occupied by heavily
-armed Sikh militants, killing 450 people.

On October 31, two members of her Sikh bodyguard suddenly drew their weapons and
shot her, while she was walking in her garden.

After her death, her son Rajiv was sworn in as Prime Minister. In 1991, a year
after he had lost the general elections, he too was assassinated.

Also on this day: 1517: Martin Luther nailed his theses to the church door in
Wittenberg; 1795: Birth of poet John Keats; 1915: First steel helmets were
issued to British troops on the Western Front; 1926: Death of American magician
and escapologist Harry Houdini; 1940: The Battle of Britain ended; 1951: First
zebra crossings introduced in Britain; 1971: IRA bomb exploded at the top of the
Post Office Tower in London.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2000 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              239 of 299 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           October 31, 2000, Tuesday

AIR INDIA BOMBERS;
 TWO SIKHS ARE CHARGED WITH 747 ATROCITY OFF IRISH COAST WHICH KILLED 329 PEOPLE

BYLINE: Maurice Fitzmaurice

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4, 5

LENGTH: 1000 words


THESE are the two men who appeared in court yesterday charged with the worst
ever terrorist attack on a plane.

The pair, both Sikhs, are accused of killing 329 people on board Air India
Flight 182 when it plunged into the sea off the Cork coast in 1985.

Ripudaman Singh Malik, 53, and Ajaib Singh Bagri, 51, were both arrested in
Canada on Friday.

They have now been charged with murder, conspiracy to murder, attempted murder
and causing a bomb to be placed on an aircraft.

Another man, who Canadian police have not yet named, was arrested yesterday.

The two, who appeared in court in British Columbia, were also charged in
connection with killing two baggage handlers.

The workers died when a bomb being loaded on to an Air India flight in Tokyo
exploded prematurely.

That incident happened on the same day as the Flight 182 blast.

A Sikh man is serving a 10-year sentence in Canada for his involvement in the
Tokyo blast.

Malik and Bagri were seized in Surrey, just outside Vancouver and in Kamloops,
about 75 miles north east of the city.

Everyone on the flight from Montreal to New Delhi in India was killed when a
bomb exploded, causing the plane to crash into the Atlantic at 8.13am on June
23.

A 15-year investigation costing millions of Canadian dollars and using hundreds
of officers has been pursued by the Royal Canadian Mounted Police.

And a reward of $ 1 million was offered for information leading to convictions.
The charges amount to Canada's biggest mass murder case.

The bombing killed more people than the 1988 bombing of a Pan Am flight over
Lockerbie in Scotland that saw 259 people on the plane and 11 on the ground die.

Those who died in the crash are remembered each year at a ceremony in West Cork.

Locals say a sundial in the remembrance garden built by Cork County Council is
struck by sunshine every year at the exact time the 747 disappeared from Shannon
Airports' radar screens.

As the two men appeared in court yesterday, police sources confirmed that
evidence is being gathered on four more suspects, all of Sikh origin.

It is believed Sikh militants planted the bombs in revenge for India's 1984 raid
on the Golden Temple in Amritsar, the seat of faith for India's Sikh minority.

British Columbia Premier Ujjal Dosanjh said before confirmation of the arrests
that charges would be a major step for Canadian justice.

He added: "I think people of British Columbia and Canada would finally heave a
sigh of relief that the largest crime, the most significant crime in the history
of Canada, is going to be finally dealt with."

And sources in Canada have said another man, Inderjit Singh Reyat, will be
charged in connection with the bombing.

A legal technicality involving his extradition from Britain in 1990 is currently
being ironed out with the British government.

Reyat, 48, was officially named by RCMP on Friday in a charge of conspiracy to
commit the murders of all 329 people aboard the flight and the two in Tokyo.

The RCMP have also launched an international manhunt for another key suspect in
the bombings who fled his British Columbia home two months ago.

Canadian police had delayed arresting the others in the hope he would return, a
source said. But when he didn't it was feared the others might escape and
Friday's raids went ahead.

The suspect was spotted in England several weeks ago and is now thought to be in
Pakistan.

The Canadian government will ask Pakistan's military leadership to help find the
man and return him.

A source in the Canadian Sikh community said: "The man visits Birmingham
frequently but now it is suspected he is gone to Pakistan.

"My feeling is he is not going to come back."

One of the two charged, Malik, went to Canada from India in 1972 and built up
major business holdings in Vancouver.

He also headed the school where relatives of Sikh militant Talwinder Singh
Parmar have worked.

Parmar was the founder and leader of the Babbar Khalsa or Tigers of True Faith -
a group dedicated to the creation of Khalistan from India's Punjab state.

He was killed in a 1992 shoot-out with Indian police and was named as an
unindicted co-conspirator in Friday's charges.

Assistant police chief Beverly Busson said both bombs were placed on flights
originating from Vancouver and the conspiracy took place in the province of
British Columbia.

Constable Cate Galliford, an RCMP spokeswoman for the Air India Task Force,
added: "We're anticipating future arrests. The task force is feeling very
relieved today."

From the start police suspected militants among the Sikh community in British
Columbia, home to about half of Canada's 200,000 Sikhs.

In 1991, electrician Inderjit Singh Reyat from the Vancouver Island community of
Duncan, was convicted of the Tokyo bombing, which took place an hour before
Flight 182 crashed.

In 1999 government papers suggested that as many as 1,000 witnesses might
testify at any trial in the case, the Vancouver Province newspaper reported.

It also said that files indicated the cost of the investigation had reached as
much as $ 20 million (pounds 13 million).

Manu Parson of the Victims' Alliance For The Air India Disaster told the Irish
Mirror that relatives of people who died are "delighted" that the arrests have
been made.

But he added: "There are mixed feeling, since the arrests will open up many old
wounds.

"But people who lost loved ones on the flight will take solace from the fact
that at last justice is being done."

Mr Parson, who saw his best friend and family wiped out in the crash, said
justice has been a long time coming.

He added: "It was only after the Lockerbie disaster that the police started to
tell us anything about the investigation.

"It is only in the last few days that we have found out that some people did not
die when the plane blew up.

"It's awful to think of people we knew suffering in their last moments on
earth."

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TRIBUTE: Victims' memorial in Cork; ARRESTED: Air India bomb suspects
Ripudaman Singh Malik, left, and Ajaib Singh Bagri, right; TARGET:; An Air India
747 jet similar to the flight attacked in 1985

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.

                              240 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                November 1, 2000

Wheen's world: Office of secrets and lies: a nation in the grip of
information-deficiency disease

BYLINE: Francis Wheen

SECTION: Guardian Features Pages, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 903 words


Many years ago, my first editor in London taught me an essential trick of the
trade: when reporting disasters, one should always use the headline "We name the
guilty men" and a graphic captioned "Arrow points to defective part". Last
Thursday night my ex-editor sent me an email. "Just saw C4 News. Was I the only
person who felt that when we moved from UK and BSE to Russia and the submarine
admirals there was no real change? If we go on trying to run a high-tech society
with the sort of liars we have in charge now, it won't be too long before we go
the same way as the Russkies."

Lord Phillips, despite being a high court judge, does not presume to pass
judgment on the officials who deceived their ministers, who in turn misled MPs,
who then offered false reassurance to their constituents. Like Lord Justice
Scott a few years ago, however, he does provide enough detail to let us find the
defective parts of a system corroded by secrecy and negligence.

The symptoms of our National Cock-Up Syndrome are unignorable - BSE, Railtrack,
the Millennium Dome, the national lottery commission, the national stadium, the
army radio farce, plus medical scandals and educational disasters too numerous
to mention. "Last week with railways, this week with BSE," Stephen Glover
observed mournfully in the Daily Mail, "we are reminded how oddly incompetent is
the British state."

But the state is nothing to do with it. Can Glover recall what happened to
Lloyd's of London a few years ago? Does he imagine that the London stock
exchange, which has just shot itself twice in the bum, is a nationalised
industry? And has he already forgotten the magnificent blunder perpetrated last
year by the Bank of Scotland, which had to abandon its furtive joint venture
with the Rev Pat Robertson, a rightwing American evangelist?

The cock-up syndrome pays no attention to ideology, or to the private/public
distinction: it is a deep-vein infection caused by information-deficiency
disease, which is as common in large corporations as in the Min of Ag and Fish.
When, for example, the Bank of Scotland and Robertson Financial Services applied
for a national charter for their bank, much of the application was blacked out
because of "commercial confidentiality": even the signatories to the agreement
remained anonymous.

Although we are said to live in the Information Age, crucial information is
still severely rationed. David Shayler's allegation that MI5 suppressed an
advance warning of a terrorist attack on the Israeli embassy, which was widely
ridiculed as another of his "fantasies", now turns out to have been true. When
Judith Ward's wrongful conviction for the M62 bombing was finally overturned, in
1992, the appeal court admonished the prosecution for not disclosing "vital
evidence" which would have acquitted her in the first place; four years later,
the Tories pushed through the Criminal Procedure and Investigations Act, which
gave Inspector Knacker and the crown prosecution service a statutory power to
withhold material from defence lawyers. Needless to say, the new Labour
government happily accepted the law, maintaining that police and prosecutors
would never conspire to convict an innocent person by hiding relevant facts. But
as Malcolm Fowler of the Law Society pointed out in the Times last year:
"Whether it's the cock-up theory or the conspiracy theory, it doesn't make any
difference to the victim of a miscarriage of justice."

Or, one might add, to the victims of BSE and the Hatfield rail crash - or to the
thousands of service personnel who have been used as guinea pigs at Porton Down,
the government's chemical and biological weapons research centre. "I was aware
that testing on soldiers was ongoing at Porton Down - but I did not know the
details," the former defence minister Lord Healey told the Sunday Telegraph last
weekend, commenting on a new police inquiry into the affair. "Even I as minister
did not want to know all secrets at the MoD and only wished to be told on a
'need to know' basis. The great problem with this is that I was only given
information that civil servants wanted to tell me."

Beautifully put, Denis. Arrow points to another defective part: the "need to
know" principle. (Even this is something of a misnomer. Since privatisation,
every railway station in Britain has gone ex-directory, to deter inquisitive
passengers who "need to know" whether the trains are running. Is there any other
nation on earth which has such a policy?) Perhaps the most alarming lesson of
Lord Phillips's inquiry into the BSE fiasco is that Jack Straw's feeble little
freedom of information bill would have made no difference whatever. If something
similar happens again (and, be assured, it will), ministers can still conceal
the truth from the public.

Awestruck profile writers often refer to the "Rolls-Royce minds" of Whitehall
mandarins and corporate chieftains. But it seems to me more likely that we have
the most incompetent business and administration class in the western world.
Besides, even a Rolls-Royce won't get far if it is driven with the handbrake on
and the fuel tank empty. Kipling, as so often, had the right phrase. It comes
from The Secret of the Machines: "But remember, please, the Law by which we
live,/We are not built to comprehend a lie,/We can neither love nor pity nor
forgive,/If you make a slip in handling us you die!"


LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              241 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                           November 2, 2000, Thursday

RIRA'S TOLL OF TERROR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 305 words


THIS is the timetable of the most serious Real IRA terror attacks so far this
year:

February 25 - A bomb fails to detonate close to sleeping quarters inside
Shackleton military barracks at Ballykelly, Co Londonderry.

February 29 - A fully primed rocket discovered close to a police and military
base at Dungannon

March 15 - A number of men are arrested when police intercept a car carrying
500lb of homemade explosives at Hillsborough.

April 6 - A device is found at a perimeter fence at Ebrington military barracks
in Londonderry.

May 24 - Mortar bomb attack at Glassdrumman army base, south Armagh.

June 1 - A bomb attack at Hammersmith Bridge, London, the first by the Real IRA
in Britain.

June 20 - Explosives found inside a holdall, inside the grounds of Hillsborough
Castle, Co Down, are linked to the Real IRA.

July 9 - A 250lb car bomb attack at Stewartstown RUC station also damages
neighbouring homes.

July 19 - Bomb attack on a railway line in west London.

August 11 - Up to 500lb of explosives are found in Carrigans, Co Donegal after a
high-speed car chase. A car had earlier driven through a police checkpoint in
Londonderry.

September 12 - A soldier escapes unhurt when a 80lb bomb fails to detonate at a
military training site at Magilligan, Co Londonderry. A second 80lb bomb is
found nearby.

September 13 - A mortar bomb attack on Armagh RUC station.

September 20 - A missile attack on MI6 HQ in London. No-one is hurt.

September 24 - A 50lb bomb explodes on the railway line near Dunmurry, Co
Antrim.

October 18 - The Real IRA stages a public show of strength in republican west
Belfast, firing a volley of shots over the coffin of Joe O'Connor, a leading
member of the organisation shot dead five days earlier in an attack blamed on
the Provisional IRA.

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2000 Century Newspapers Limited

                              242 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                November 8, 2000

Mainland alert for terror bomb;
Police fear Christmas atrocity by Real IRA to shatter peace hopes

BYLINE: Peter Rose

SECTION: Pg. 32

LENGTH: 682 words


POLICE fear an Omagh-style car bombing on the British mainland in the run-up to
Christmas, it emerged yesterday.

Senior officers suspect the Real IRA is plotting another outrage in an attempt
to destroy the Northern Ireland peace process.

The spectre of a car bomb in the heart of a city such as London was raised
yesterday by David Veness, Scotland Yard's deputy assistant commissioner of
specialist operations.

It came as the Yard launched a set of eight posters warning the public to be
especially vigilant in the run-up to the festive period.

The posters will be displayed across the capital but police fear dissident
republicans could strike anywhere on the mainland.

Mr Veness revealed there had been more than 100 bomb threats since last December
and at least 50 of them could be attributed to republicans opposed to the peace
process.

He said he believed the terrorists now had an armoury of home-made and
manufactured explosives, incendiary devices and battlefield weapons from Eastern
Europe.

Mr Veness warned there was a real threat of a car bombing.

'This is not hypothesis,' he said. 'The most worrying form of attack, and it
brings back the spectre of Omagh, is a large vehicle bomb in a city centre with
all the butchery that enfolds such an attack.' The Real IRA killed 29 people and
unborn twins in the 1998 bomb attack in Omagh the worst single atrocity in the
Ulster Troubles.

Despite knowing the identity of the bomb team, neither the Royal Ulster
Constabulary nor the Garda have been able to gather enough evidence to prosecute
the terrorists.

At least seven families who lost loved ones in the outrage are now planning to
take civil action against the bombers and sue the Real IRA.

The Daily Mail launched its 'Justice for the Omagh Innocents' campaign to raise
funds to help the families' legal battle.

So far the appeal has raised more than GBP 70,000 and attracted support from all
sections of the political and religious divide.

At least six people are expected to be targeted in the families' civil action.

They include the four named in the recent Panorama programme about the Omagh
bombing: Oliver Traynor, Liam Campbell, Seamus Daly and Colm Murphy.

Two others likely to be included are Michael McKevitt and his wife Bernadette,
the sister of IRA hunger striker Bobby Sands who died in 1981.

Yesterday's warning follows three attacks by dissident republicans since June.
On June 1 a bomb was exploded on London's Hammersmith Bridge; in July a device
was discovered on a railway track in the capital, and in September a rocket
missile was launched at the MI6 building in Vauxhall, central London.

Sources also fear Irish terrorists are now planning a second rocket attack at
the heart of the British establishment.

A secret review of security has been mounted in the wake of the missile attack
on MI6, with Buckingham Palace and the House of Commons believed to be among the
prime targets.

It also emerged last night that the terrorist who carried out the MI6 attack may
have escaped on a 250cc motorbike.

Detectives are hunting a man dressed all in black who was spotted riding away
just seconds after the rocket was fired at the headquarters of the secret
service.

The suspect is described as being in his 20s between 5ft 5in and 5ft 8in, of
slim build and with dark hair.

Mainland Britain has been put on a war footing since the attack.

Detectives believe the rocket launcher used, a Russian-built Mark 22 antitank
weapon, was purchased in Croatia by the Real IRA and is part of a batch which
has been smuggled on to the mainland.

Alan Fry, head of the Yard's antiterrorist branch, has described the weapon as
portable, easily concealed and designed for use in battlefield conditions.

He said: 'It's designed to go through tanks and therefore it is fairly
impressive against metal and it will go through about one metre of concrete.'

The September attack was the first time this type of rocket launcher had been
seen and used on the mainland.

p.rose@dailymail.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2000 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              243 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          November 08, 2000, Wednesday

Police chief warns of car bomb attack

BYLINE: By John Steele Crime Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 17

LENGTH: 279 words

IRISH dissident terror groups could be planning an attack on mainland Britain
with the sort of vehicle bomb that killed 29 people in Omagh, security chiefs
fear.

Assistant Commissioner David Veness, head of Scotland Yard's specialist
operations, the most senior mainland police officer dealing with terrorism, said
that dissidents could launch a car or lorry bomb attack.

The last known attempt to move a car bomb from the Irish Republic to the
mainland, in 1998, was foiled by the Irish police.

Mr Veness said of a possible attack: "This is not a hypothesis. The most
worrying, and it brings back the spectre of Omagh, is a large vehicle bomb in a
city centre."

He was speaking at a news conference to mark a Scotland Yard appeal for renewed
vigilance over the threat from dissident groups, particularly the Real IRA.
Posters warning the public to be on its guard are to be displayed across London,
although police fear that terrorists could attack anywhere on the mainland.

Scotland Yard is investigating three attacks in London this year: on Hammersmith
Bridge in June, on a rail line near Acton in July, and on the MI6 building in
Vauxhall, south London, in September.

Mr Veness said that these were among 13 attacks in Northern Ireland and on the
mainland since February this year. The terrorists have high explosives,
home-made explosives, incendiary devices and battlefield anti-tank rocket
launchers like that used against the MI6 building.

Security chiefs fear that veteran terrorists among the 300-400 activists now
gathered under the Real IRA banner can construct lorry bombs of the kind that
devastated London and Manchester.
[PS]News: [ES]

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 Telegraph Group Limited

                              244 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                November 8, 2000

OMAGH-STYLE BOMB BLITZ ON MAINLAND AT CHRISTMAS

BYLINE: BY JOHN TWOMEY

LENGTH: 530 words


ANTI-TERRORIST chiefs warned yesterday of the threat of a devastating car-bomb
attack in a British city as part of a Christmas and New Year bombing campaign by
Irish dissidents.

Scotland Yard said breakaway republican groups operating on the mainland have
access to explosives capable of causing murder and mayhem on the scale of the
Omagh atrocity which killed 29 in 1998.

Senior officers issued the warning amid fears that the Real IRA is about to
launch a wave of attacks in the run-up to the festive season. Intelligence
reports suggest that as well as car bombs, the terrorists could employ a range
of weapons including incendiaries, mortars, rocket-propelled grenades and small
explosive devices on railway lines.

The RIRA have struck three times in London this year - at Hammersmith Bridge in
June, on the railway at Acton in July and with a rocket attack on the MI6
building at Vauxhall in September.

Assistant Commissioner David Veness said the London incidents and a range of
attacks in Northern Ireland by dissident groups should be seen as being part of
a single campaign.

He revealed the dissidents have an armoury of weapons ranging from factory and
home-made explosives to automatic assault weapons.

Mr Veness said: "This is not hypothesis. The most worrying form of attack - and
it brings back the spectre of Omagh - is a large vehicle bomb in a city centre
with all the butchery that would result." The Yard warned the public to be
vigilant, especially in Britain's big cities, and to call 999 immediately if
they see anything suspicious. The alert came as Anti-Terrorist Branch detectives
revealed they have a description of the man who fired the rocket at the Vauxhall
HQ of the Secret Intelligence Service, also known as MI6.

He is between 20 and 30, 5ft 5in to 5ft 8ins, slim, with dark hair and wearing
dark clothing. He escaped on a motor-cycle without lights and may have had a
dark helmet and been carrying a bag.

Deputy Assistant Commissioner Alan Fry appealed to anyone who has sold a
motor-cycle of 125cc or above in odd circumstances to ring the Anti-Terrorist
hotline on 0800 789 321.

He said people who had sold motorbikes should ask themselves: "Did someone call
in response to an advert? Did they pay cash and make little or no attempt to
negotiate? Did they try to disguise themselves with sunglasses or headgear? Did
they ask about buying a helmet at the same time?" Mr Fry said people who sell or
rent residential and commercial property should also call the hotline if they
deal with anyone suspicious.

The dissidents first struck in London in June when a bomb exploded at
Hammersmith Bridge, West London. Police now believe it contained about one kilo
of TNT and was detonated using a household timer similar to those used to switch
on lights remotely. A similar device and timer was planted alongside the Acton
railway on the day of the Queen Mother's 100th birthday pageant.The Yard
revealed there have been more than 100 bomb warnings since December. At least
half are believed to have been made by dissident republican groups aiming to
cause massive disruption to Britain's rail and road network.

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2000 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              245 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                November 8, 2000

Police chiefs fear Christmas terrorist attack on mainland

BYLINE: Deborah Summers Parliamentary Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 658 words


FEARS of an Omagh-style attack on mainland Britain this Christmas grew yesterday
as Sinn Fein President Gerry Adams attended peace talks with the Prime Minister.

Attempts to break the deadlock in the Ulster peace process resulted in a "full
discussion about the outstanding issues" a Downing Street spokesman said.

However, as diplomacy continued at No 10, security chiefs were preparing for the
worst. Scotland Yard launched a high profile campaign warning of the threat of a
"butcherous" act of terrorism in the run-up to the festive period.

A set of eight posters urging the public to be on guard are to be displayed
across London but police fear that dissident Republicans could strike anywhere
on the mainland.

Assistant Commissioner Specialist Operations David Veness revealed that there
had been more than 100 bomb threats since last December.

He said at least 50 of them could be attributed to dissident Republicans and he
warned that he believed the terrorists were now in possession of an armoury of
weapons including home-made and manufactured explosives, incendiary devices and
battlefield weapons from Eastern Europe.

Mr Veness said there was a real threat that a car bomb could be used by the
terrorists.

"This is not hypothesis," he said. "The most worrying form of attack - and it
brings back the spectre of Omagh - is a large vehicle bomb in a city centre with
all the butchery that entails."

The warning follows three attacks by dissident Republicans since June.

On June 1, a bomb exploded on London's Hammersmith Bridge; in July a device was
discovered on a railway track in the capital and in September a rocket missile
was launched at the MI5 building in Vauxhall, central London.

Mr Adams arrived for his meeting in Downing Street at 11.15am against the
backdrop of republicans considering a legal challenge to First Minister David
Trimble's ban on Sinn Fein Ministers Bairbre de Brun and Martin McGuinness
taking part in North-South Council summits.

Mr Trimble took the controversial step in protest to Sinn Fein's approach to
decommissioning. The First Minister wanted the IRA to restart talks on
disarmament with General John de Chastelain's decommissioning body as soon as
possible, claiming it had been necessary to use sanctions to "bring the weapons
issue into close focus".

Following the talks, the Sinn Fein president said he had had a "good meeting"
with the Prime Minister. "I'm hopeful in the next short while that we will see
some of these matters resolved," he said. But he warned: "I am concerned that
the situation will become untenable in a very short period of time. We all know
that December is a short month."

Mr Adams said the impasse threatened to drag on until January adding: "If it
isn't resolved long before then we will be in a serial crisis."

The Sinn Fein president also thanked out-going US President Bill Clinton for his
help in the peace process. I think we will all miss Bill Clinton. I think people
in Ireland will miss Bill Clinton.

"The out-going president has shown leadership in terms of how peace processes
are assisted. I hope that's become institutionalised."

Mr Adams added he would be consulting with colleagues early next week to see
whether legal moves should go ahead.

A Downing Street spokesman described the meeting as an "important confidence
building measure".

He said: "We are working hard to see how we can find a way forward."

Meanwhile, the Government yesterday announced lump sum payments for RUC widows
whose husbands were killed as a result of terrorist activity before 1982.

It follows the publication of the Steele report that recommended payments of
more than £11m over three years to help widows, disabled officers and families.

Widows will received £1000 a year for each year their partner has been deceased.
The fund will also help seriously injured police officers and retired officers.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2000 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              246 of 299 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          November 8, 2000, Wednesday

YARD WARN OF XMAS BOMBING ATROCITY

BYLINE: DAMIEN PEARSE

SECTION: Ulster Edition; NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 195 words


SECURITY chiefs fear a "butcherous" act of terrorism in Britain over Christmas
on the scale of the Omagh bombing.

Police in London yesterday told people to be especially vigilant in the run-up
to the festive season.

Eight warning posters will go up across London - but Scotland Yard believes
dissident republicans could strike anywhere in the country.

David Veness, Assistant Commissioner Specialist Operations, said more than 100
bomb threats had been made in the past year - at least 50 attributed to
republican renegades.

The terrorists have home-made and manufactured bombs, incendiary devices and
battlefield weapons from Eastern Europe. Mr Veness said the worst fear,
recalling the spectre of Omagh, was a "large vehicle bomb in a city centre with
all the butchery that enfolds such an attack".

Twenty-nine people were killed by the ReaI IRA at Omagh in August 1998.

The Yard also said that a young man on a 250cc bike was a suspect over the
missile attack on the MI5 building in London's Vauxhall in September.

-THE Bomb Disposal Squad yesterday blamed an increase in explosives alerts on
DIY information available on the internet.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.

                              247 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          November 09, 2000, Thursday

Mandelson ends moves to extradite IRA killers

BYLINE: By David Graves in Belfast

SECTION: Pg. 17

LENGTH: 438 words

TWO convicted IRA murderers, sentenced to life for killing an SAS captain, are
to escape extradition from the Irish Republic after the Government signalled
that proceedings would be dropped because of the Good Friday Agreement.

Several other extradition cases, and those involving suspected terrorists who
feared arrest if they returned to Northern Ireland, were also likely to be
dropped by ministers as part of the Government's commitment to the agreement.

Angelo Fusco, 44, and Paul Magee, 51, members of the IRA gang that murdered Capt
Richard Westmacott in 1980, had been held in the Republic pending extradition.

But the Irish High Court was told on Tuesday that Lord Williams of Mostyn, the
Attorney General, had told his Dublin counterpart that Britain would no longer
seek the extradition.

Extradition proceedings against the men would be formally discharged on Nov 29,
bringing to an end almost 20 years of repeated arrests, court appearances and
imprisonment for the pair.

Republicans now believe that British officials are examining ways of "clearing
up" outstanding terrorist cases against other IRA members as part of the
agreement. Fusco and Magee both escaped from Crumlin Road prison, Belfast, in
June 1981, the day before they were due to be sentenced for the murder of Capt
Westmacott during a botched Army ambush in north Belfast the previous year. Both
were jailed for life in their absence.

They fled to the Republic, where Fusco lived with his family in Tralee. He was
arrested in 1982 and sentenced to 10 years. A further three years were added in
1986 when he attempted to break out of prison.

In 1992 he was released and immediately confronted with an extradition request
to serve his sentence for murder. After a long battle the Irish Supreme Court
cleared the way for his return in 1998 but again Fusco absconded. He was
re-arrested by the Irish police in January.

Magee was also arrested in the Republic and served a similar sentence for his
escape but on his release he became involved in the IRA bombing campaign in
England during the early Nineties. He was captured and given a second life
sentence.

He was released temporarily last December as part of the Agreement but was
re-arrested in March to face extradition to Ulster.

Sarah Womack, Political Correspondent, writes: Peers rejected moves to keep the
RUC's title in the newly formed Police Service of Northern Ireland last night.
They voted by 198 votes to 99, a Government majority of 99, against plans for a
dual name - The Royal Ulster Constabulary-Police Service of Northern Ireland -
to be adopted.
[PS]News: [ES]

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 Telegraph Group Limited

                              248 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                          November 11, 2000, Saturday

POLICE EXPERTISE MUST STAY -TRIMBLE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 136 words


THE Government must not lose counter-terrorist expertise in its reform of
policing in Northern Ireland, Ulster Unionist leader David Trimble warned last
night.

The First Minister said in a speech to Wycombe Conservative Association that,
while the Province had seen a reduction of paramilitary violence, it did not yet
have a "complete peace".

"Loyalist violence is a matter of grave concern and the refusal of the IRA to
begin decommissioning its weapons, as promised in May, combined with the
allegations that the IRA continues to be involved in violence against the
nationalist community poses serious problems for society," he said.

"The problem has been underlined this week by the warning from the Metropolitan
Police of the threat of terrorism from dissident republicans in Great Britain."

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2000 Century Newspapers Limited

                              249 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                           November 12, 2000, Sunday

EVIL IN PARTY FROCKS;
 THE ASTONISHING PRISON PICTURE THAT WILL CHILL YOUR HEART; FUN PHOTO BEHIND
BARS FOR OUR VILEST WOMEN VILLAINS

BYLINE: Chris Tate

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 571 words


THEY look like girls set for a hen night - but these pals in party frocks
include some of Britain's most evil women.

Their smiles disguise a chilling catalogue of crimes ranging from sadistic
murder and mutilation to terror bombings and big-time drug running.

This astonishing picture was taken in Durham Prison's H Wing and captures a
carefree girls-club atmosphere in the country's only top-security cellblock for
females.

Even those women not identified in our picture are either violent or considered
likely to try and escape ordinary jails.

The behind-bars bash was held to say goodbye to two inmates.Martina Anderson and
Ella O'Dwyer, members of the IRA gang that killed six people in the 1984
Brighton hotel bombing, were celebrating their move to an Irish prison.

An obliging prison officer snapped the celebration for the pair, whose blast
narrowly missed killing Margaret Thatcher during the Tory conference.

Anderson and O'Dwyer have now been freed under the Good Friday agreement. H Wing
is home to Britain's most dangerous women criminals, including serial killer
Rose West. It once housed Moors murderer Myra Hindley.

But the inmates - many of them lifers - are allowed luxuries and privileges
beyond the dreams of ordinary prisoners.

The women often have snaps of themselves taken to send out at Christmas and
birthdays.

A hairdresser calls and they can buy cosmetics and ingredients for their
favourite meals.

The inmates even order sexy undies from mail-order catalogues.

Last night, Prison Officers Association general secretary Brian Caton said the
regime at Durham when the picture was taken was too relaxed. He said: "I was the
area representative for the POA at the time and I believe there was a lack of
discipline at Durham."

Do you know any of the six unnamed prisoners? If so, call us on 020 7510 3201.

Paula Bailey, 67: Already had record for arson when accused of neighbour's blaze
death. Freed on appeal.

Marissa Merico, 29: Mafia man's daughter got six years for smuggling pounds 1.25
million drugs cash.

Debbie Lammy, 41: Canadian given 12 years for trying to smuggle drugs into
Britain through Heathrow.

Maria Rossi, 25: Knifed, tortured and tried to scalp blind spinster, 71, with
Tina Molloy (below).

Mariame Keita, 35: Mum of three was key figure in London-based gang that made
fortune from crack cocaine.

Shiela Stroud, 39: Got 18 years for plotting to kill couple in car fire to
collect pounds 100,000 payout.

Susan May, 55: Given life for killing 89-year-old aunt at her Oldham home to get
hold of inheritance.

Lisa Corah, 27: Accused of setting up brother-in-law's murder. Freed of life
sentence on appeal.

Bernadette McNeilly, 31: Killed girl by dousing her in petrol and setting it
alight, chanting "Burn, baby."

Tina Molloy, 25: Branded evil by judge when she was jailed with Maria Rossi for
torture killing.

Ella O'Dwyer, 40: Member of Provo gang who blew up Brighton's Grand Hotel in
1984, killing six.

Linda Calvey, 52: Gangster's moll and robber dubbed Black Widow. Life for
shooting lover.

Martina Anderson, 38: Jailed with O'Dwyer for Tory conference bomb survived by
Margaret Thatcher.

Noeleen Hendley, 54: Got hitman to beat her husband to death to collect pounds
70,000 policy.

Zoora Shah, 47: 20 years for taking revenge on drug dealer boyfriend by
poisoning sweet with arsenic.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Julie Spraggon, 30: Got seven years at Newcastle for aggravated
burglary. Since released.

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.

                              250 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                           November 13, 2000, Monday

LONDON THE TARGET FOR 600LB BOMB

BYLINE: David Barrett

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 375 words


DEFENCE Secretary Geoff Hoon said yesterday that security concerns over possible
terrorist infiltration of the fuel protest convoy were "real", just hours after
it emerged that a massive car bomb discovered in Belfast was destined for
London.

The protesters have been told they will not be allowed to bring their trucks
into London when they near the end of their journey from the North East on
Tuesday.

Mr Hoon's comment followed a warning from security chiefs that they feared a
"butcherous" act of terrorism in Great Britain over Christmas as devastating as
the Omagh bombing.

The minister said yesterday: "It was a real threat.

"The Army and other members of the security forces maintain the very highest
vigilance in the light of information we have at any given time."

Yesterday, it was revealed that a partially-made 600lb bomb uncovered in
Northern Ireland last month was a Real IRA device destined for central London in
a motorised horse-box.

The terror group responsible for the Omagh outrage was believed to have been
planning to detonate the device before Christmas at a major event such as the
showjumping champ- ionships at Olympia.

The plot was foiled when the RUC intercepted the explosives at Hannahstown on
the western outskirts of Belfast on October 26.

Scotland Yard has launched a high-profile campaign urging people to be
especially vigilant in the run-up to Christmas.

Assistant Commissioner David Veness said last week he believed the terrorists
were now in possession of an armoury of weapons including home-made and
manufactured explosives, incendiary devices and battlefield weapons from Eastern
Europe.

Mr Veness said there was a threat that a car bomb could be used by the
terrorists, adding: "This is not hypothesis."

When the 600lb bomb was found, police indicated that it was being linked to
dissident republicans intent on wrecking the peace process but no other details
were made public.

Fuel protest spokesman Andrew Spence, a farmer from Consett, Co Durham, was
dismissive of the Defence Secretary's comments.

"Mr Hoon wants to come back down to reality," he said.

"It's totally preposterous.

"We are peaceful people doing our peaceful, rightful protest."

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2000 Century Newspapers Limited

                              251 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                           November 14, 2000, Tuesday

DISSIDENTS SEEK ONE BIG HIT;
 'FIGHT FOR FREEDOM' GOES ON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 693 words


DISSIDENT republicans are working to plunge Ulster into renewed bloodshed and
mayhem.

While mainstream repub- licans once considered the splinter groups to be
amateurish upstarts, the extent of their capabilities has become clear this
year.

There has been a steady growth in the number of attacks on security bases -
including at Armagh, Stewartstown, Glassdrumman and Ebrington, bombs in London,
including an attack on the MI6 HQ, and numerous finds of explosives and weapons
in Ulster and the Republic.

Security chiefs here and in Great Britain are clear that there is a growing
terrorist threat.

The Real IRA has become the leading dissident group.

It was born out of a repub- lican split in October, 1997, when the IRA
quartermaster-general resigned over the direction Sinn Fein was taking in the
peace process.

He founded the Real IRA as a response to a significant body of staunch
republicanism which believed the movement had "sold out" and abandoned the cause
of a united Ireland by negotiating a compromise with unionists.

It took less than a year for the Real IRA to make its mark.

In August, 1998,it carried out the Omagh bomb atrocity and quickly took over
from the older Continuity IRA as the leading home for dissidents.

The Real IRA declared a ceasefire after the outcry over Omagh but security
forces said that it continued to recruit.

A security source said: "Indications are that dis- sidents have been able to
play on the opening of arms dumps or Sinn Fein's move into government with
unionists and portray it as a surrender.

"In their world of romantic republican idealism, the fight for freedom goes on
and there are enough followers of that ideal to create support and target
recruits."

The Real IRA's membership is thought to number at least 100.

It is understood that it has had access, at the very least, to IRA arms dumps
containing explosives and detonators.

Membership is strongest in the border areas, around Dundalk and Monaghan, as
well as in Dublin and west Belfast.

The Real IRA is believed to have successfully replicated the IRA's highly
-disciplined "active service units" which comprise just a handful of members
living under the cover of apparently ordinary lives, designed to allow
operatives in London and elsewhere to work without exposing themselves to
capture.

A security source said: "There is reason to believe they have increasing
strength in numbers and in terms of organisation but, as a fledgling group, they
still do not have the widespread ability and expertise of the IRA who, at one
time, struck anywhere and everywhere with alarming regularity."

He added: "However, as we have seen, that does not mean the security forces
under- estimate their capability in any way."

There have been reports that former IRA members have stolen arms from their
former organisation while other indications have pointed to a closer complicit
relationship between members of the two groups.

A weekend report said that the IRA was now allowing members to provide direct
support to the Real IRA - a move which could enable it to launch a major bloody
offensive.

Either way, the Real IRA has shown signs of becoming a skilled procurer of arms
in much the same vein as the IRA.

In particular, it appears to have turned to the Eastern European illegal arms
market for weapons.

In July, security services apprehended a major arms shipment in Croatia which
they believed was heading for Northern Ireland.

Weapons similar to those found in Croatia had been intercepted in Co Meath in
October, 1999.

The security source said: "We know there are ex- perienced former IRA
campaigners in their number who have brought bomb- making capabilities and
military intelligence with them.

"There is no question they are stronger and intelligence suggests they are
looking for one big hit at the moment to boost their profile and their claim to
be the true bearers of the republican cause.

"The law of averages may suggest that, eventually, a major device will slip
through the security net and hit its target. We are working tirelessly to
prevent that."

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2000 Century Newspapers Limited

                              252 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               November 15, 2000

Paris terror suspect still in British jail five years on

BYLINE: Lucy Lawrence

SECTION: Pg. 22

LENGTH: 450 words


A MAN wanted in France in connection with a 1995 bombing campaign which killed
10 people is still languishing in a London prison fighting extradition five
years after his arrest.

French justice ministry officials are becoming increasingly frustrated with the
British system which has allowed Rachid Ramda to lodge appeal after appeal to
avoid trial.

Ramda, 31, who was granted political asylum in Britain when he arrived from
Algeria, is accused of conspiracy to cause explosions in France.

Described by the French press as the "mastermind" of the deadly attacks, Ramda
is alleged to have passed on funds to Armed Islamic Group (GIA) terrorists,
enabling them to rent flats and purchase bomb-making materials.

Ramda - who was the editor of a GIA newsletter published in London which has
been reported to the Crown Prosecution Service for racial incitement - was
arrested in November 1995 and has been in Bel-marsh prison at a cost of £35,500
a year ever since.

He is being represented in his battle against extradition by Gareth Peirce, the
human rights lawyer who helped free the Guildford Four and the Birmingham Six.

As his fight dragged on, the trial opened in Paris last week of two other men
allegedly involved in the terrorism campaign. Boualem Ben-said, 32, an Algerian
and Karim Koussa, 28, a Frenchman, face life in prison if convicted by the panel
of antiterrorism judges.

The pair are already serving 10-year sentences for being part of a support
network for the GIA, Algerian insurgents who have been waging a deadly campaign
of violence in their homeland for the past eight years.

The GIA claimed responsibility for some of the eight attacks that, for the most
part, targeted trains and the Paris Metro, killing 10 people and injuring some
250. Gas cooking canisters loaded with nails were used in most of the attacks.

Bensaid is charged with a failed attempt to blow up a Lyon-Paris express train
in August 1995, and, with Koussa, with taking part in a gunfight after running a
police blockade. Three policemen were injured.

Koussa is also suspected of taking part in a September 1995 gunfight with
police. Bensaid faces a third trial for his alleged role in an attack in July
1995 on a train at Paris's Saint Michel station that killed eight people.

A French justice ministry official said: "We have an ongoing application lodged
with the British Government for the extradition of Mr Ramda. It is our wish that
he be returned to France."

A Home Office spokesman said: "The reason for the delay is because of heavily
contested court stages along the way. The nature of these cases makes it very
difficult to put a time limit on it."


LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: RACHID RAMDA IS FIGHTING EXTRADITION TO FRANCE WHERE HE IS ACCUSED OF
FUNDING BOMB ATTACKS ON THE PARIS METRO

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2000 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              253 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               November 15, 2000

Many faces of terrorist bomber:Palestinian fighter tells Lockerbie trial of
complex life of false identities and bloodshed

BYLINE: Bruce Mckain Law Correspondent, Camp Zeist

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 831 words


One of the many aliases used by convicted Palestinian terrorist Abu Talb
apparently means "he who takes revenge".

He insists that the name has no particular significance - just one of the many
false identities he has assumed over the years in his mission to further the
cause of Palestinian liberation.

Talb is serving a life sentence in Sweden for, among other atrocities, a bomb
attack on a synagogue, but at least one member of his family has paid the
ultimate price for her devotion to the cause.

When his sister-in-law, Dalal, launched an attack on a bus in Tel Aviv, she was
gunned down by Israeli soldiers, one of whom was Ehud Barak, now the country's
Prime Minister.

Yesterday, Talb described his dead sister-in-law as a martyr and when asked
about his family's involvement in the Palestinian struggle, he replied: "It's a
duty every Palestinian should undertake."

Talb has been outlining his complex life as a Palestinian activist at the
Lockerbie trial where has been led, briefly, as a Crown witness, and was cross
-examined all day yesterday by counsel for the two Libyans accused of the
destruction of Pan Am 103 on December 21 1988.

Abdelbaset Al Mohmed Al Megrahi and Al Amin Khalifa Fhimah have notified the
court of their intention to lead evidence indicating that Talb and a number of
Palestinian organisations may have been implicated in the bombing.

By putting Talb in first as a Crown witness, the prosecution hopes to lessen the
impact of the defence onslaught on his character and credibility.

Talb was born in Port Said, Egypt, one of a family of nine, and his life became
irredeemably complicated when he decided to desert from the Egyptian army as a
young man. According to his version of events, he headed at first for Jordan
using someone else's passport.

He was unlucky with passports. One was still in his pocket when he put his
trousers in the washing machine. Another was reduced to charred remains when the
Israelis invaded Beirut and set his house on fire.

By his own admission, though, he has never had much trouble finding a
replacement or a new country in which to live with his Beirut-born wife Jamilla,
39 and their four children.

Before he decided to start a new life in Sweden in 1983 he was a highly-valued
member of the Palestinian Peoples Struggle Front (PPSF), rising to become
bodyguard to the organisation's leader.

Talb was convicted after trial in Sweden for bombings in Stockholm, Copenhagen
and Amsterdam in 1985 and 1986 which killed one person and injured dozens of
others.

He is presently 11 years into his life sentence, but still maintains that he was
wrongly convicted and had ended all political and military activities when he
went to Sweden to start a new life in 1983. His "retirement" is hotly disputed
by the defence, who describe him as a professional terrorist.

According to Talb, about the time Pan Am 103 came down, he was at home looking
after his four children while Jamilla was at the hospital where her sister-in
-law was giving birth.

Jamilla - who has visited her husband at Camp Zeist - had several brothers and
sisters, including a brother called Mahmoud, whom Talb is alleged to have sent
to Syria to learn how to make bombs.

Mahmoud is alleged to have been handed $ 5000 (£3125) in Syria to help finance a
terror campaign in Europe in 1985 and to have been carrying a letter he was
instructed not to open until he got back to Sweden.

When he arrived in Sweden, he opened the letter and discovered that the handle
of the bag he had been carrying had been used to carry four detonators for use
in terrorist activities.

Talb professed no knowledge of this and denies that he had been the leader of a
terrorist cell responsible for three bombs planted in a synagogue, at the El Al
and North West Orient airline offices. Talb has visited many countries in the
course of the past 20 years. One was the UK, where his wife's sister Rashida was
in jail for a terrorist attack on the Iraqi ambassador in London in July 1978.

Immaculately turned out in a dark blue suit, light blue shirt and dark tie, the
bespectacled, neatly-bearded Talb gave his evidence in a calm and measured
manner until late yesterday afternoon when he reacted to aggressive questioning
from defence counsel Richard Keen QC.

Perhaps the question that angered him most of all was Mr Keen's assertion: "It's
not as if you're even a devout Muslim, are you Mr Talb?"

He replied: "I am a Muslim and I thank God for that."

Terror: keeping it in the family

n Abu Talb is serving a life sentence in Sweden for bombings in Stockholm,
Copenhagen and Amsterdam in 1985 and 1986.

n His sister-in-law, Dalal, died when she launched an attack on a bus in Tel
Aviv, and was gunned down by Israeli soldiers, one of whom was Ehud Barak.

n His wife's sister, Rashida, was jailed

in Britain for a

terrorist attack on

the Iraqi ambassador

in London in July

1978.

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: INSIDE STORY: Abu Talb, seen during a TV interview in August in Sweden,
where he is serving a life sentence, claims he ended his political and military
activities in 1983 Picture: TV4

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2000 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              254 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 16, 2000

Labour allows Livingstone pro-Europe role

BYLINE: Michael White Political editor

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 13

LENGTH: 681 words


Tony Blair has given the go-ahead for Ken Livingstone to become chairman of
Britain in Europe's new regional campaign in the capital as part of the process
of bringing the renegade mayor of London back into the Labour fold.

Mr Livingstone, who broke with Labour to run an independent campaign which got
him elected mayor last May, will head the London launch of Britain in Europe's
efforts to boost the EU cause at a meeting on Monday.

Officials and MPs confirmed that Mr Blair had sanctioned the move.

It comes as both the prime minister and his foreign secretary, Robin Cook, made
speeches this week to explain the importance of British EU membership in an
increasingly interdependent world, which Mr Cook harnessed to an attack on the
Eurosceptic media in the run-up to next month's Nice summit.

In Sheffield today he will take his case further by outlining the three
principles on which Britain will conduct its negotiations in Nice, where
Eurosceptics are already predicting a sell-out to Euro-federalism.

Mr Cook will say the principles are:

*That a strong Europe spells a strong Britain which enjoys greater bargaining
power as a result

*That Europe is a union of democratic nations "which is not and will not become
a superstate"

*That Britain "achieves more by playing a leading role than by standing on the
sidelines".

The charismatic Mr Livingstone used to be an anti-European, but swung full
circle like many other leftwingers in the 1980s and now advocates British
membership of the single currency as vital to the economic interests of London -
Europe's financial centre with 1m jobs in finance related services.

Since being expelled from Labour for running against Labour's official
candidate, Frank Dobson, the Brent East MP has made no secret of his wish to
heal the breach.

He has considerable grassroots support, but at the weekend conference of the
Greater London Labour party, a Blairite loyalist, Chris Robbins, easily beat
Geoff Martin, a Livingstone ally, for the vacant post of chairman.

Coincidentally or not, 24 hours later Mr Livingstone appeared on BBC1's current
affairs programme, On the Record, and made a series of conciliatory remarks
ranging across the policy spectrum, albeit with the exception of transport
policy.

On John Prescott's public private partnership plans for the tube and his own
plans for congestion charges for cars, Mr Livingstone insisted he is right,
while making light of alleged rows with the deputy prime minister.

But on taxes for motorists, the need to prevent fuel protesters' lorries jamming
up London's streets and the need to remain vigilant against dissident IRA
bombers, he sounded on New Labour's message.

He even argued that the dome minister, Lord Falconer, should not be forced to
resign.

"He had this mess dumped in his lap when it was unsaveable. I don't think anyone
else would have actually spent less or managed it better."

He also predicted that he would be back inside the Labour party.

"As you can imagine, I am in regular contact with party officials and government
ministers. This is something that bubbles along in the background. There will be
a time when it is right."

The deal in Scotland which has allowed the veteran leftwing MP Dennis Canavan
back into the fold after he ran for the Scottish parliament as an independent
has also encouraged the mayor.

His prediction of a reconciliation will gain credibility now that he is on a
platform backed by Mr Blair, sharing it with Tony Nelson, a Tory ex-minister and
banker, Nick Raynsford, the minister for London, and with Susan Kramer, the
defeated Liberal Democrat candidate for London mayor, who now works with him on
transport policy.

In his speech at the Sheffield Star newspaper today, Mr Cook will say "you only
score goals if you play in the team" and will liken Eurosceptics to the
"bar-room bore sitting at a table in the corner, criticising the club committee
for how badly they are running the show but never actually running for election
to the committee himself".


LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              255 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 18, 2000

Saudi car explosion kills Briton: Blast follows warnings of threat to British
interests

BYLINE: Brian Whitaker

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 553 words


One Briton died and another was injured when their car exploded at a crossroads
in the centre of the Saudi capital, Riyadh, yesterday.

In a statement, the Riyadh police chief, Abdullah al-Shahrani, said the car,
suspected to be booby-trapped, exploded while it was being driven.

Other Saudi sources said earlier that explosives had been thrown through the
window of the car. A Foreign Office spokeswoman in London said she could not
confirm the cause of the blast.

The dead Briton was named as Christopher Rodway. His wife Jane, who was in the
car with him, was treated at Al-Hammadi hospital for superficial injuries.

The Foreign Office said the couple had been living in Saudi Arabia for six or
seven years and that Mr Rodway worked in a hospital in Riyadh.

Security forces sealed off two main streets in the Saudi capital's commercial
district where the blast occurred before removing the four-wheel-drive vehicle.

The attack came immediately after Friday prayers and a few hours before Crown
Prince Abdullah was due to open an international energy conference in the city
attended by officials from more than 40 oil producing and consuming countries.

Last August, a Briton was injured when a man opened fire on two cars carrying
employees of BAE Systems, which provides support services for the King Faisal
air base. That attack was said not to have been politically motivated.

Current Foreign Office advice is that "Saudi Arabia is one of a number of
countries where there is an increased threat to British interests from global
terrorism". Britons should "exercise particular caution", it says.

Between 25,000 and 30,000 Britons work in the kingdom.

The explosion comes at a time of widespread Arab and Muslim anger over American
support for Israel. Britain, in turn, is perceived as a close ally of the US and
is still remembered for the 1917 Balfour Declaration which led to the creation
of Israel.

Some of the more extreme Islamist groups in the Middle East also resent the
presence of westerners, which they see as a corrupting influence. These feelings
are fuelled by the stationing of American and British forces in the Gulf to
patrol the no-fly zone over southern Iraq.

In 1995, five Americans were killed by a car bomb at a US military headquarters
in Riyadh. The following year, a truck bomb near Dhahran killed 19 US Air Force
personnel and injured more than 500 Americans and Saudis.

Last month, 17 people died and 39 were injured in a suicide attack on the
American guided missile destroyer USS Cole, in Aden harbour, Yemen. The next
day, a bomb caused serious damage at the British embassy in the Yemeni capital,
Sana'a.

Yemeni authorities believe the Aden attack was carried out by Jihad - a local
organisation started by Arab veterans of the Afghan war - possibly with outside
help.

Security in Kuwait was stepped up last week following the discovery of a
suspected plot to attack American and British forces in the country. Six
Kuwaitis are under arrest. A Moroccan, thought to be the group's explosives
expert, is still at large.

According to the Kuwaiti authorities, the suspects had buried 293lb of
explosives in the desert and planned to use it to bomb a US army camp and
western military personnel in their homes and vehicles.


LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              256 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          November 18, 2000, Saturday

BSE IN FRANCE: FRENCH MAY CHARGE THE TORIES OVER CJD DEATHS;
 FRENCH FAMILIES HAVE FILED A GROUND-BREAKING LAWSUIT IN PARIS WHICH, IN PART,
ACCUSES BRITISH CONSERVATIVES OF SPREADING BSE

BYLINE: John Lichfield In Paris

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 810 words


THE FAMILIES of two French victims of the human variant of Mad Cow Disease
yesterday brought a legal action for manslaughter and "poisoning" against two
former British Conservative governments.

If a French magistrate decides that there is a criminal case to answer, British
ministers or senior officials, from the Margaret Thatcher and John Major
governments, could, in theory, be summoned before a French court.

British officials in Paris believe it is unlikely that the case will go that
far, but legal documents on the case have been sent to London for expert advice.

The families of the French victims of CJD have formally accused unnamed British,
French and European Union officials, from the period between 1986 and 1996, of
"manslaughter, poisoning and placing the lives of others in danger". They accuse
the "agents of British institutions" of allowing, or even encouraging, the
export of UK cattle meat-and-bone meal to France, after it was banned in Britain
in 1988 as the near-certain cause of the British BSE epidemic. They also accuse
the Thatcher and Major governments of encouraging the export of British beef
offal to France, even though its human consumption had been forbidden in the UK.

French and EU officials are accused of allowing both trades to continue, even
though they knew, or should have known, that there was a serious risk to human
health.

The case, if accepted, would break new legal ground in France. There is no
precedent for a French criminal action against decisions taken by another
European government. French courts have, however, allowed criminal actions
against non-European governments, including, recently, an accusation that the
Libyan leader Col Moammar Gaddafi ordered a terrorist attack on a French
airliner.

During the time covered by the French legal action, John Gummer and Stephen
Dorrell were the agriculture ministers in the Thatcher and Major governments.

The legal action marks a further stage in the anxiety, bordering on hysteria,
surrounding BSE in France over the last two weeks, which is now communicating
itself to other EU countries. The Italian government, faced with its own
consumer revolt, defied EU rules yesterday and imposed a unilateral ban on
imports of French beef on the bone. Since most beef is transported on the bone,
this amounts to a near -total ban on French beef.

Spain and Austria have already banned imports of French live cattle.

The French government is hardly well-placed to object, having taken an equally
illegal decision to ban the limited imports of "young" British beef, which were
declared safe by the EU a year ago.

Nonetheless, President Jacques Chiirac protested against the Italian decision
yesterday, accusing Italy of having BSE in its own cattle herds without
admitting it. He said that there were no Italian cases because there were no
Italian tests.

The suit calling for criminal action against British, French and EU officials
for their actions - or failures to act - in 1986-1996 has been brought by the
families of two of the the known French victims of new-variant CJD. (A fourth
possible case in France is under investigation.) Lawyers for the families of
Laurence Duhamel, 36, and Arnaud Eboli, 19, base their case on the steep
increase after 1988 in the sale to France of British animal feed, containing the
ground-up remains of British cows.

Although this feed had been identified as the likely cause of BSE, and banned in
Britain, 12,500 tonnes were exported to other EU countries (mostly France) in
1988 and 25,000 tonnes in 1989. The trade continued, nominally to feed pigs and
poultry, up until 1996.

British officials point out that there was nothing illegal about these exports.
There was no French ban, at that time, on imports of meat and bone meal from
Britain.

The moral case against the UK is stronger. It is generally accepted that British
exports of suspect cattle fodder - both before and after it was banned in the UK
in 1988 - caused the smaller epidemic of BSE now causing intense consumer
anxiety in France. A rash of cases this week has brought the number of BSE
attacks in France this year to just more than 100, compared to 31 last year. At
the height of the UK epidemic in 1992, there were 32,000 cases, or 80 each day.

t First it was only mad dogs and Englishmen, but now even Germans who might have
eaten too many British hamburgers have been branded a health risk. The German
Red Cross confirmed yesterday that Germans who have spent six months in Britain
between 1980 and 1996 may not donate blood.

The decision, welcomed by the Health Ministry in Berlin, follows recommendations
by the prestigious Paul Ehrlich and Robert Koch Institutes. Their scientists
based their verdict on fresh research in Britain indicating that CJD could be
transmitted through the blood.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Dominique and Eric Eboli, whose son is seriously ill with CJD,
yesterday at a Paris court Emmanuel Pain/AFP; A French BSE lawsuit may implicate
former agriculture ministers: John Gummer, left, and Stephen; Dorrell

                      Copyright 2000 Independent Print Ltd

                              257 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 20, 2000

Survey reveals widespread child abuse: Charity calls for government action to
protect youngsters as comprehensive study shows perpetrators are often siblings

BYLINE: John Carvel Social affairs editor

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 10

LENGTH: 698 words


More sexual abuse of children is perpetrated by siblings than by fathers or
stepfathers and violence towards children is more likely to come from mothers
than fathers, according to a survey for the National Society for the Prevention
of Cruelty to Children.

The charity, which last night demanded urgent government response to its
findings, published the most comprehensive survey so far of child abuse in the
UK, showing 6% suffered serious physical neglect, 6% were emotionally maltreated
and 1% were sexually abused by a parent.

Mary Marsh, the charity's director, called on the government to rethink its
opposition to the appointment of children's commissioners for England, Scotland
and Northern Ireland.

"The appointment of such watchdogs, as is being advanced in Wales and across
Europe, must be the government's first response to this report."

The charity's findings come from a UK-wide survey of the childhood experiences
of 2,869 young people aged 18-24 by the research company BMRB International.

By asking a large representative sample of young adults to give their
recollections con fidentially on computer terminals, the charity thinks it
obtained the most accurate picture so far of the extent of abuse. It says it
would have been ethically wrong and difficult to survey children directly.

According to the findings, published today on UN Children's Rights Day, one in
14 suffered serious physical abuse at the hands of parents or carers, including
being hit with a fist or implement, beaten up, or burned and scalded on purpose.

That proportion is equivalent to nearly 1m of the children in Britain today. The
NSPCC said 49% of the victims were treated violently by their mother, 40% by
their father and 8% by a step-parent.

One in 12 suffered bullying and discrimination regularly and more than four in
10 experienced it at some point. In the first polling research into the
prevalence of emotional maltreatment, the charity found 6% experienced multiple
attacks on their self esteem, including terrorising, humiliation, withdrawal of
affection and harming of possessions or pets. Girls were twice as likely as boys
to suffer from this type of cruelty.

One in 10 - mostly girls -have been forced into sex acts under the age of 16 and
involving people known to them. In 43% of cases, the perpetrator was a brother
or stepbrother, compared with 19% saying a stepfather and 14% naming their
father.

The survey found more than nine in 10 young people said they grew up in a loving
family, but one in four said there were childhood events that they found
difficult to talk about.

Ms Marsh said: "For many young people, serious stresses and unhappiness cast a
dark shadow over what should have been an otherwise happy childhood.

"Some young people interviewed in this research suffered serious forms of abuse
during their formative years, often on a regular basis and often in silence. For
many, the damage done will last long into adulthood."

She repeated the charity's call for independent commissioners to protect
children, similar to the statutory bodies for women, ethnic minorities and
disabled people. This was Labour policy in its 1992 election manifesto, but was
dropped in 1997.

A Department of Health spokesman said: "Any type of child abuse is unacceptable
and the government has already taken steps to tackle this. This includes a
national care standards commission by April 2002 with 70 officers around the
country.

"It will have a national director for vulnerable children who will understand
the new standards for those in care or at risk of abuse."

But David Hinchliffe, Labour chairman of the Commons health committee, said:
"The time is ripe for the government to follow the example of other European
countries by introducing an independent children's rights commissioner . . .
There are now no excuses for putting off such a move."

Julian Brazier, president of the Conservative Family Campaign, said: "I'm very
much in support of the campaign for a children's commissioner. I strongly
believe that politicians and the public must unite to help the NSPCC rid society
of cruelty to children."


LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              258 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           November 24, 2000, Friday

Four Britons injured by Saudi car bomb

BYLINE: By Anton La Guardia Diplomatic Editor

SECTION: Pg. 21

LENGTH: 677 words

THE 26,000 Britons in Saudi Arabia were warned yesterday to "exercise extreme
caution" yesterday after four expatriates were injured by a bomb in their car.

The attack comes days after a similar blast killed Christopher Rodway, 47, a
British engineer working in Riyadh's military hospital, and injured his wife,
Jane.

Despite fears of a terrorist onslaught, there was growing evidence last night
that the attacks arose from a personal dispute. The Foreign Office confirmed
that two of those injured in the latest blast were nurses in the same hospital
where Mr Rodway worked.

The attacks have echoes of the mysterious murder in 1996 of Yvonne Gilford, an
Australian nurse at the military hospital in Dhahran, who was stabbed to death
because of a supposed lesbian love quarrel.

Two British nurses, Lucille McLaughlan and Deborah Parry, were jailed in
connection with the murder but they fell out bitterly after they returned to
Britain in 1998.

The latest bomb exploded late on Wednesday night as the four-wheel-drive car
carrying the Britons blew up on the capital's old airport road, King Abdul Aziz
street. Three of the passengers, identified as Mark Paine, Stephen Coughlan and
Jacqueline Gill, were taken to hospital.

Mr Paine underwent surgery for his wounded right leg but was said to be in a
stable condition. The other two were discharged with slight injuries.

The fourth passenger, who was not identified, later made her own way to
hospital.

The two men worked for the Al-Salam Aircraft company, a Saudi firm half owned by
the US aircraft giant, Boeing.

Workers near the blast said they heard the explosion and saw police cordon off
the area on Wednesday night. By the following morning, at the start of the Saudi
weekend, the mixed residential and business neighbourhood was quiet.

The daily newspaper Okaz quoted Saudi Arabia's Deputy Interior Minister, Prince
Ahmed bin Abdul Aziz, as saying: "The incident is a rare case; it had no
political dimension and was primarily a personal affair."

He added: "Security authorities have started their investigation to reveal the
details of the case and to investigate any link to the previous incident,
especially since circumstances were similar and so were the nationalities."

Saudi Arabia has rejected offers of British assistance. But diplomats said a
British "technical adviser" who was already in the country was working with
Saudi investigators.

"They are giving us full access," said a Foreign Office spokesman. "The Saudi
authorities have told us the latest explosion was caused by explosives but we
have not been able to confirm what kind."

One British diplomat said last night: "The first thing you think of is a
terrorist attack. But the fact that the attacks have both taken place at the
Saudi weekend, and both involved British nationals who worked in the same
hospital, may steer us towards the theory that it may be some kind of personal
motive."

Fear of terrorist attacks against Westerners has increased because of growing
popular anger in the Arab world over the violence that broke out two months ago
between Israelis and Palestinians.

In October, a suicide bomber blew a hole in the hull of an American warship in
Aden, and a bomb was thrown at the British embassy in Yemen.

The Foreign Office said it was reviewing its consular advice for visitors to
Saudi Arabia.

In the meantime, the 26,000 Britons in the country have been warned by local
diplomats to be extremely careful, especially when driving.

"We are urging people to be vigilant, not to leave cars parked in the open if at
all possible and to check them before driving," one envoy said. "They should
make sure that any attachments on their cars are supposed to be there."

US forces have been placed on maximum alert in most of the Gulf states.

During a tour of the region last week, the plane carrying the US Defence
Secretary, William Cohen, was twice the object of false alarms of missile
attacks.

It dropped decoys as it flew over Saudi Arabia and Kuwait, according to its
co-pilot, Bob Allardi.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 Telegraph Group Limited

                              259 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               November 24, 2000

THREE BRITONS HURT IN CAR BOMB TERROR

BYLINE: BY MICHAEL THEODOULOU

LENGTH: 607 words


A second car bomb attack on Britons in Saudi Arabia raised fears of a new
terrorist campaign by anti-Western militants yesterday.

Three Britons - two men and a woman - were injured when their booby-trapped car
exploded in the Saudi capital Riyadh, completely blowing out the front of the
vehicle.

The attack came less than a week after British engineer Christopher Rodway, 47,
was killed in a similar incident in Riyadh. His wife Jane, 50, was injured.

Saudi authorities, keen to dispel the notion extremists may be at work,
suggested "personal motives" rather than terrorism were behind both attacks.

But the Foreign Office said it "certainly hasn't been told that officially",
acknowledging the likelihood of a terrorist motive by renewing a warning to
Britain's 30,000 ex-pats in Saudi.

"We think Saudi Arabia is one of a number of countries where there is an
increased threat to British interests from terrorism and British nationals
should exercise caution," said a spokesman.

The two men injured in yesterday's attack work for Al-Salam Aircraft Co, a Saudi
firm half-owned by the US aircraft giant Boeing. One of them was identified as
Mark Paine, who was seriously wounded and underwent surgery on his right leg.
Al-Salam is involved in modification and maintenance work on military and
civilian aircraft imported from abroad.

A woman travelling with them, Jacqueline Gill, is believed to be an employee at
the Security Forces Hospital in Riyadh, where Mr Rodway had worked as an
engineer.

"There's increased concern and we've all been listening to the news but there
isn't what you could call a climate of fear," said a British woman living in
Riyadh, who declined to be named.

An Irish nurse who identified himself as Brendan said: "As westerners we stand
out a mile here because of our appearance. When we go out we're extremely
careful."

Terrorist strikes on foreign civilians in the Kingdom have been extremely rare,
although 24 Americans were killed in two explosions in 1995 and 1996 at military
targets in Riyadh and the oil centre of Dharan.

There are several probable motives for the latest attacks. There is widespread
anger across the Arab world at what is seen as Western silence in the face of
Israel's heavy-handed response to the Palestinian uprising. London is often seen
as a close supporter of America's Middle East policy.

Crown Prince Abdullah, Saudi Arabia's effective ruler in place of the sickly
King Fahd, has voiced unprecedented criticism of the US, a key ally, for its
perceived blind support of Israel - a country he insisted yesterday had "no
shame, humanity, morals or principles".

Sympathy for the Palestinians has also been linked across much of the region
with anger over continued sanctions against Iraq, with London again generally
following Washington's tough line. British military aircraft still patrol
controversial no-fly zones over Iraq together with American warplanes.

A more alarming possibility is Islamic extremists want to send Britain a message
its presence in the Kingdom or the wider Persian Gulf is no longer welcome.
America has been their main target so far, but last month a bomb was thrown over
the wall of the British embassy in the Yemeni capital, Sana'a, causing
substantial damage.There are an active number of Islamic extremists in the
Kingdom, including Osama bin Laden, the Saudi-born terrorist fugitive who has
vowed to drive American forces from the Persian Gulf. He is suspected of
involvement in last month's suicide bombing of the American destroyer, USS Cole
that killed 17 sailors in the Yemeni port of Aden.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2000 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              260 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 24, 2000

Leading article: Into the whirlpool: Where the US falters, others should act

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages, Pg. 25

LENGTH: 612 words


In the Middle East, another day, another atrocity. With accelerating fury, the
cycle of violence spins. In Gaza, in occupied Palestine, four men are
machine-gunned to death by Israeli troops. "Fatah will not let this crime pass,"
declare Yasser Arafat's militiamen. In Hadera, in Israel's broken heartlands, a
car bomb kills, dismembers, destroys. "The state of Israel will get even,"
declares its half-dove, half-hawk prime minister, Ehud Barak.

Mutilated children; endless funerals; bitter, hardening enmity; blood soaking
into the soil that both sides claim as their own: this is is the daily butcher's
bill, the price paid for the failure of peace. And just when it seems it cannot
get worse, it does. "Only war, that is all we can do," says a shell-shocked
Jewish woman in Hadera, quoted by our correspondent Suzanne Goldenberg. "We have
the power. We must do it." But she is wrong. Israel cannot win this "war". It
does not face an army. It faces a people. Nor can the Palestinians "defeat"
their enemy. For both, the choice has long been clear. They either live together
- or die together.

Another day, another radiating ripple of mindless mayhem, deepening hate, and
political impotence. Was the explosion in Riyadh that injured three Britons,
after the killing in the Saudi capital of a British man last Friday, the work of
Islamic militants enraged (and encouraged) by the Palestine morass? Given the
way the wave of anti-Israeli feeling in the Arab world has swelled into a
broader, anti-western ire, it seems last month's attacks on a US warship and the
British embassy in Yemen certainly were. The FBI appears to think so. Its
inquiries point even further afield, to fundamentalist Afghanistan and the
terrorist training camps of the Saudi renegade millionaire, Osama bin Laden. In
Cairo, the recalled Egyptian ambassador to Israel twiddles his thumbs; another
pathway to peace has just closed. In Jordan, a destabilised government puts
bilateral relations into deep-freeze. In Jerusalem, they get a call from
Washington. A new initiative is under way! But within hours, live fire drowns
out the talk of truce.

Another day, another geopolitical own goal. Here is the news from Baghdad:
Saddam Hussein's triumphant rehabilitation continues apace. While the US counts
chad, and Europe plays soldiers with an imaginary army, Iraq reopens its oil
pipeline to Syria in further mockery of UN sanctions. Here is the news from
Damascus: Bashar Assad, after a brief window of opportunity for the west, has
decided to play the hard man, just like his old dad. Who lost Syria? Better ask
the guys at the state department (but only when the Palm Beach recount is
finished). And what is the Arab League saying? It says, with growing conviction,
that the entire Arab and Islamic world is on the brink. . . and the west should
remember who controls its oil.

With each day that passes, the damage caused by the failure to end
Israeli-Palestinian violence and resume peace talks grows and spreads
exponentially. If the principal antagonists are incapable of stopping it
themselves, and if the US is as devoid of new ideas and new energy as it now
appears to be, then radical solutions must be sought. Plans to send in British,
French and other "observers" to try to calm the two sides, now under discussion
at the UN, should be expedited. But that can only be a first step. The big,
imaginative leap would be for Britain and the EU, plus Russia, to replace a
discredited and distracted US as lead mediator and jumpstart the Oslo process -
lest it die the death of a thousand, daily cuts and finally expire amid an
explosive, widening conflagration.


LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              261 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           November 24, 2000, Friday

Britons injured by Saudi car bomb

BYLINE: Michael Theodoulou in Nicosia

SECTION: Overseas news

LENGTH: 560 words


THREE Britons were injured, one seriously, after an explosion tore through their
car in the second attack on expatriates in Saudi Arabia in less than a week.

Mark Paine was recovering in hospital last night after having surgery on his
right leg. Jacqueline Gill and another man, who was not identified, were
discharged from hospital after suffering minor injuries in the attack in Riyadh
on Wednesday night.

The two men were employed by Al-Salam Aircraft, a Saudi firm half-owned by the
US aircraft company Boeing.

Al-Salam is involved in modification and maintenance work on imported military
and civilian aircraft. The woman was believed to work at the hospital.

The force of the explosion all but destroyed the four-wheel- drive vehicle in
which the three were driving..

Last Friday Christopher Rodway, a British engineer working at a military
hospital in Riyadh, was killed and his wife injured when their car exploded in a
central shopping district in the city.

There was no claim of responsibility for either car bomb attack but the Saudi
authorities, keen to dispel the notion that extremists may pose any threat to
the stability of the regime, have been quick to suggest that personal motives
rather than terrorism were behind the attacks.The Foreign Office said last week
that there was no history of terrorist attacks against Britons in Saudi Arabia.

In August, however, a British worker for BAE Systems was slightly injured when a
lone gunman opened fire on his car near an airbase at Khamis Mushayt, 500 miles
southwest of Riyadh.

Terrorist strikes on foreign civilians in the kingdom have been rare, although
24 Americans were killed in two explosions in 1995 and 1996 at military targets
in Riyadh and the kingdom's main oil centre of Dharan.

"There is increased concern and we've all been listening to the news, but there
isn't what you could call a climate of fear," a British woman living in Riyadh,
who did not want to be named, said.

An Irish nurse who identified himself as Brendan said: "As Westerners we stand
out a mile here because of our appearance. When we go out we're extremely
careful because we don't want to be mistaken for British or Americans."

Crown Prince Abdullah, Saudi Arabia's effective ruler, has expressed
unprecedented criticism of the United States, a key ally, for its perceived
blind support of Israel, a country he insisted yesterday had "no shame, no
humanity, no morals and no principles".

One theory was that in two recent incidents, the attackers had mistaken the
Britons for Americans. Mr Rodway was driving a US-made four-wheel vehicle.
Riyadh declined an offer from Britain, one of its key Western allies, to helpto
investigate last week's bombing. The offer was conveyed on behalf of the British
Government by the Duke of York who arrived in Saudi Arabia hours after that
attack.

Some Britons and Americans in Riyadh said anti-Western anger over the Middle
Eastern conflict had not translated into personal antipathy on the streets.

A US Embassy official said that invitations to their functions had not been
turned down. A Saudi telephone operator at one hospital yesterday expressed his
sorrow at the bomb attacks on British citizens. He said: "We are sorry because
they are serving our country and are our guests here."

Leading article, page 23


LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2000 Times Newspapers Limited

                              262 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           November 24, 2000, Friday

Aerospace employees at risk

BYLINE: Michael Binyon

SECTION: Overseas news

LENGTH: 167 words


BAE Systems, the largest employer of British nationals working in Saudi Arabia,
has to worry about the security of 5,500 people, of whom about 3,000 are Britons
(Michael Evans writes).

BAE employees have been a significant presence in Riyadh and elsewhere in Saudi
Arabia for the past 15 years, ever since the al-Yamamah defence contract was
signed with Britain to supply Tornados, Hawks and other weapon systems to the
Royal Saudi Air Force.

Although Saudi Arabia has not generally been regarded as a country in which
Britons would be targets for terrorist attack, BAE has always instilled in its
workforce the need to be security-conscious.

A team of BAE security experts is based out in Saudi Arabia and keeps in touch
with local authorities and the British Embassy to monitor any intelligence
indicating danger to Britons.

The BAE workforce there has grown as the contract moved into a second stage,
bringing the total value of the deal to more than Pounds 15 billion.


LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2000 Times Newspapers Limited

                              263 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           November 24, 2000, Friday

Britons and bombs

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 596 words


Last Friday a British engineer working in Saudi Arabia was killed by a car bomb,
and his wife was injured, just before the Duke of York began a visit to Riyadh.
The night before last, a second car bomb in Riyadh injured three more Britons.
Since car bombs are an unusually dramatic way of dispatching enemies, it seems
prudent to assume the possibility of a terrorist motive.

The list of reasons for this assumption is long. Unrest in the region has
heightened tensions. Crown Prince Abdullah yesterday lambasted the United States
for its support of Israel. Coupled with Muslim sympathy for downtrodden
Palestinians is compassion for Iraqis, still subject to Western sanctions and
unwelcome visits from US and British warplanes.

Simmering domestic discontents fester, too, both over lack of opportunity for
young Saudis and harsh security policing to clamp down on dissent (though the
high world oil prices that have boosted Saudi government coffers in the past
year have temporarily eased some of these tensions). The House of Saud is viewed
as corrupt by many Muslim subjects; they dislike the Royal Family's dependence
on American military muscle and see Britain as America's junior partner in
foreign policy. Among Saudi extremists is Osama bin Laden, blamed by America for
bombing its embassies in Kenya and Tanzania; he has sworn to drive American
troops from the Gulf. While terrorist attacks are rare in Saudi Arabia, 24
Americans were killed in two explosions in the mid-1990s. In nearby Yemen, bin
Laden is thought to have been involved in the suicide bombing last month of an
American ship in which 17 people died; one day later, a bomb was thrown at the
British Embassy in the Yemeni capital.

The Saudi Government's line so far, however, is that both attacks on Britons
were made for personal reasons and that terrorism was not a likely motive. While
this is not a response that inspires confidence that an ongoing Saudi
investigation will fully explore all possible reasons for the attacks (an offer
of British help in investigating the first killing was swiftly turned down), it
is at least a logical position for a state that wants to protect itself and its
foreign investments by denying that terrorism could threaten its stability.

More disturbingly, the Foreign and Commonwealth Office has done very little more
than the Saudi Government to protect the interests of the 26,000 British
nationals living in Saudi Arabia. The Foreign Office is simply referring
inquirers to its neutrally phrased current travel advice on the Middle East,
which blandly notes an increased threat "to British interests" from global
terrorism.

This feeble response indicates that the British Government, one of Saudi
Arabia's biggest trading partners, is placing the safeguarding of its commercial
contracts with the Saudi Government above the safeguarding of its own subjects'
interests. This inversion of priorities is not only unprincipled, but may also
be courting further danger if the suspicion proves justified that British
citizens are being picked off as softer terrorist targets than their US
colleagues.

The Foreign Office's primary concern should be the protection of its citizens on
foreign soil. Its duty now is not just to press harder to take part in the
investigation into the two attacks of the past week (as the United States has
insisted it does with the investigation of last month's suicide bombing in
Yemen), but also, crucially, to be seen to be taking urgent steps to upgrade
security for all British nationals in the region.


LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2000 Times Newspapers Limited

                              264 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          November 25, 2000, Saturday

Thomson attacked over Eilat travel ban Company wrongly blames FO for decision to
pull out. Rosemary Behan reports

BYLINE: By Rosemary Behan

SECTION: Pg. 04

LENGTH: 436 words

Thomson, one of Britain's biggest tour operators, was this week accused of
misleading customers about the safety of travelling to the Red Sea resort of
Eilat.

The company announced last week that it had cancelled all its holidays to Israel
for the next year because of "political unrest" and a "large number of
cancellations".

Because of the violence in the Gaza area, the Foreign Office has advised against
travel to the West Bank, Gaza and Jerusalem.

However, Helen Dawson, from London, contacted The Daily Telegraph after being
told by a Thomson sales representative that the FO "have advised us to withdraw
from all areas of Israel". Mrs Dawson, 37, said: "I called them to see if I
could book a Christmas break to Eilat. I was amazed to hear that it was not
safe."

A spokesman for Thomson, which takes 5,000 British travellers to Israel each
winter, said it had "made a mistake" and would correct the information given to
sales advisers. "We will make it clear that it is our view that Israel is not
safe and not that of the Foreign Office." He said that, although Eilat had not
been affected by the violence, the overall situation was "erratic". "If anything
was to happen, we would be responsible. Customer safety is our top priority."

Amnon Lipzin, the director of the Israeli Government Tourist Office in London,
said Thomson's advice had been "wrong, uncalled for and unnecessary". "If they
are giving this information they are damaging us beyond what is needed," he
added. "If people say they want to go to Eilat, they should be given the correct
advice. Eilat is more than a hundred miles from Jerusalem and totally remote
from the hostilities seen on television."

Heather Freedland, another spokeswoman for the tourist office, said she thought
the company was trying to avoid the added cost of dealing with cancellations.
"They want to protect their own skins from a financial point of view," she said.
Israel had always had "random terrorist bomb attacks" and heightened security.
The Thomson spokesman, however, said the decision to pull out was "nothing to do
with cost" and was based solely on customer safety.

Other tour operators, including First Choice and the Israel specialist,
Peltours, this week said they would continue to send tourists to Eilat, although
they had cancelled all tours to Jerusalem.

Tourism ministers from Israel, Jordan and Egypt said at a meeting at the World
Travel Market exhibition in London last week that tourism to the countries had
fallen respectively by 60, 50 and 35 per cent since the start of the latest
violence between Israelis and Palestinians.

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 Telegraph Group Limited

                              265 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                           November 27, 2000, Monday

ARMY PULL-OUT THREAT IF WATCHTOWERS GO;
 PM WARNED OF BORDER WITHDRAWAL

BYLINE: Ian Starrett

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 382 words


PRIME Minister Tony Blair has been warned by Army commanders that they will
withdraw from the south Armagh border if they are forced to abandon their
hilltop observation posts.

For the second time in 18 months Britain's most senior soldiers have told the
Government that it would be a resigning issue for officers if they were ordered
to close them.

Last week RUC Chief Constable Sir Ronnie Flanagan caused controversy when he
attended a meeting of Derry City Council to tell them that the security tower at
Rosemount would not be dismantled because of the continuing threat from
republican dissidents.

In south Armagh the towers enable the army to provide cover for a number of
permanent security bases, including Forkhill and Crossmaglen.

The towers, which Sinn Fein are demanding be pulled down as part of the
"demilitarisation" process, not only enable the security forces to maintain
constant human surveillance but the equipment deployed can detect and interrupt
radio signals used to detonate large bombs.

A senior military source said yesterday that the towers are essential in south
Armagh.

"If we were denied them we would have to put more patrols on the ground in
force. That would inevitably mean casualties. We judge the risk is too great,"
he said.

One security source said that with breakaway groups mounting an attack, on
average, every 12 days the military has been lucky to have avoided casualties
this year.

Officers point to an elaborate two bomb ambush that was foiled at the Army
shooting ranges at Magilligan recently and to another bomb attack on a
residential block at Shackleton Barracks in Ballykelly. The source said that
both these Co Londonderry attacks could have caused major fatalities.

Security sources in Londonderry said yesterday that the threat of dissident
republican terrorism is still very real and they pointed to the weekend
discovery of a "significant" arms cache in a house in the Shantallow area.

On Saturday afternoon in Londonderry, shoppers were evacuated from the Foyleside
Centre and adjoining streets during a bomb alert.

One angry shop worker said: "These bomb scares are becoming a regular occurrence
at weekends yet we don't seem to hear any condemnations from our Mayor Cathal
Crumley. Why?"

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2000 Century Newspapers Limited

                              266 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               November 27, 2000

Trimble praises Omagh families who confronted Real IRA

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 414 words


Families of Omagh bomb victims who confronted members of the group recognised as
the political wing of the Real IRA at a London fund-raising meeting at the
weekend were praised last night by David Trimble, the Northern Ireland first
minister.

Relatives of some of the 29 murdered in the 1998 Real IRA atrocity picketed a
pub where a branch of the 32 County Sovereignty Movement and the Irish
Republican Prisoners' Welfare Association met supporters of a Turkish-Kurdish
terror group on Saturday night.

There were highly-charged scenes inside the Cock Tavern in Euston after one
member of the republican group, Francis Mackey, an Omagh councillor and chairman
of the 32 County Sovereignty Movement, was recognised.

The challenge by the families came the day after the Irish government joined
Britain in a call to US authorities to designate the Real IRA as a terrorist
organisation in a bid to thwart fund-raising.

Mr Trimble, leader of the Ulster Unionist Party, praised the relatives for their
"tireless" campaign against the Real IRA and 32 County Sovereignty Movement.

"The relatives of the dead and injured from Omagh are an inspiration to all of
us who want to see an end to terrorist violence in these islands," he said.

About a dozen Omagh relatives and their supporters entered the pub in Euston
just before 8pm, followed by a pack of journalists and TV crews. Donna-Maria
Barker, whose son, James, was a victim, made a tearful appeal for an end to
violence and murder in Ireland.

The pub fell silent as she said: "These people killed my beautiful boy. I feel
so angry. That person is upstairs (Mr Mackey) and we know what he is doing."

Michael Gallagher, whose 21-year-old son, Adrian, died in the bombing, said:
"There is no accountability for the money that is being raised. I believe the 32
County Sovereignty Movement has an agenda to keep the bodybag in Irish
politics."

q Police who seized a major haul of weapons believed to have been stockpiled by
dissident republicans were continuing to question two men and a woman yesterday.

Experts believe the guns found in a nationalist area of Londonderry on Friday
night were most likely to have been stockpiled by the Real IRA.

q The Army yesterday closed Long Kesh base, which has stood guard over Northern
Ireland's top security Maze prison for almost three decades. The prison was
closed in the summer following the freeing of the last prisoners under the Good
Friday Agreement.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2000 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              267 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                               Leicester Mercury

                               November 27, 2000

Agency: Agency

SECTION: Agency: Agency, Pg.9

LENGTH: 311 words


Autumn's rain is record-breaking

Beleaguered Britain has had the wettest autumn since records began in 1727,
weather experts confirmed today.

But with three days left to the end of the last month of autumn, forecasters
said more rain was expected and the rainfall would exceed all record-breaking
predictions.

The last all-time record for the wettest autumn in England and Wales was in 1852
when 455.8mm (17.94 inches) fell n 75 per cent more than normal.

But this year there has been 77 per cent more with 460mm (18.11 inches) falling.

Brain beds cut

A hospital which has closed neurosurgical beds because of a shortage of trained
nurses said today its actions reflected a national crisis.

Nine of the 41 staff in the neurosurgical unit at Derriford Hospital in Plymouth
are away from work because of sickness, training or leave.

This means that eight of the 19 beds in the unit have been closed so the
remaining staff can concentrate their efforts on those needing emergency care.
Patients who require routine surgery have been told their operations have been
put on hold until February 2001.

Bodies are found

An autistic 10-year -old boy drowned along with his part-time carer in
storm-blown seas, police disclosed today.

Timmy Barry, from Peacehaven, East Sussex, was found on the beach close to
Brighton Marina yesterday nine hours before a major sea search discovered the
45-year-old woman's body two miles away.

It is believed the pair might have been swept into the sea during high winds
that gusted up to 90mph at times over the weekend.

Terrorism alert

Police today launched a campaign across the capital warning about possible
terrorist attacks over Christmas.

David Veness, Assistant Commissioner Specialist Operations, warned that there
was a threat of further terrorist attacks following four incidents in London
since June.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                        Copyright 2000 Leicester Mercury

                              268 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                December 2, 2000

BBC pays friend of Gerry Adams to write drama on Irish history;
Trimble condemns commission for Republican sympathiser

BYLINE: Matthew Hickley

SECTION: Pg. 45

LENGTH: 559 words


THE BBC has been condemned for paying an Irish Republican sympathiser to write a
GBP 6million drama series intended as an epic history of the early struggle for
partition.

Ronan Bennett is a friend of Sinn Fein president Gerry Adams and was jailed in
1975 for the murder of an RUC officer although his conviction was later quashed
at appeal.

The writer recently admitted he would not hand the names of the Omagh bombers to
the authorities if he knew them because he believed the RUC and the justice
system in Northern Ireland were 'discredited.' David Trimble, First Minister of
Northern Ireland, has written to the BBC condemning the choice of Mr Bennett.
Relatives of victims of the Omagh atrocity also voiced grave misgivings about
the project.

The BBC defended Mr Bennett as 'an acclaimed writer' who had produced 'a
powerful fictional drama set against real His drama, Rebel Heart, a four-part
series due to be broadcast early next year, deals with Ireland's violent history
between 1916 and 1922 as it tried to break away from British rule.

It tells of young Irishman Ernie Coyne, played by James D'Arcy, who is jailed
for his role in the 1916 Easter Rising and later joins the IRA.

His romance with a Belfast girl allows Mr Bennett to include a thinly disguised
depiction of a real massacre of a Belfast Catholic family in 1922, which was
blamed on police. In the drama, masked officers burst into the home, herd the
male members into one room and shoot them.

The scene risks stirring up anger among Protestants, since equivalent atrocities
carried out by Republicans at the time are not included.

Bennett, 44, was born in Britain but raised in Belfast, attending the same
school as Gerry Adams.

He was arrested in Britain in 1977 and again the following year on a range of
firearms and robbery charges but was cleared in court.

In 1987 he was banned from the House of Commons, where he worked as a researcher
for Labour MP Jeremy Corbyn, when his security pass was withdrawn.

Mr Benevents.' nett's books have won acclaim his novel The Catastrophist was
short-listed for last year's Whitbread Prize but his screenplays have attracted
repeated criticism for their political leanings and apparent support for
violence.

His 1997 drama A Further Gesture and a 1992 BBC thriller Parole both featured
IRA gunmen as heroes.

In his letter, Mr Trimble criticised Mr Bennett's screenplays as 'hopelessly
one- sided'. He added: 'He would seem a most unsuitable person to be
commissioned to write a screenplay dealing with a controversial aspect of Irish
history for transmission in Northern Ireland.' Michael Gallagher, chairman of
the Omagh Self-Help and Support Group, said: 'When people advocate violence I
think they should get the disrespect they deserve.' Mr Bennett insisted he
approached the subject matter 'purely as a dramatist' and strongly denied trying
to make political points.

Robert Cooper, BBC Northern Ireland's head of drama, who commissioned the
series, said he chose Mr Bennett for his writing skills and claimed at the time
he was 'not particularly aware of his political views'.

Daily Mail readers have raised more than GBP 100,000 towards the Justice for the
Omagh Innocents campaign to fund legal actions against those suspected of the
bombing.

m.hickley@dailymail.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2000 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              269 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           December 2, 2000, Saturday

MONITOR: JOHN PRESCOTT - THE UK PRESS REACTS TO THE FRENCH ENVIRONMENT
MINISTER'S LABELLING OF THE DEPUTY PRIME MINISTER AS 'MACHO'

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 712 words


The Mirror

A FEW years ago I got to see John Prescott at close quarters. He was among the
thousands of us thrown out of Aintree's Grand National after a threatened
terrorist attack and happened to be stuck in the same part of the course as me.
He was unsmiling and grumpy as his personal assistant attempted to extricate him
from the ensuing mayhem. His mood became increasingly tetchy as she grappled
with a mobile phone which no longer worked. One of the more frustrating problems
that miserable day produced was that all phone networks were blocked. As the
poor woman attempted to find some line of communication to the real world he did
nothing but stand there with an expression on his face that would have soured
milk. It occurred to me then that this was not a man of hidden resources or
humour and certainly not one you'd choose to accompany you in the jungle,
political or otherwise. (Sue Carroll)

u

The Sun

FLOUNDERING JOHN Prescott is drowning in a sea of failure three years after
being plunged hopelessly out of his depth into the wrong job. The Cabinet's
biggest let-down will be humiliatingly demoted after the election. For the man
with four jobs and the biggest title in government - Deputy Prime Minister and
Secretary of State for the Environment, Transport and the Regions - is also the
man who has delivered the least. Not content with being made Tony Blair's deputy
in May 1997, Mr Prescott demanded a massive spending department. Like a bad
circus act, he has had too many plates spinning and simply cannot keep them in
the air. And one by one they have crashed to the floor. (George Pascoe-Watson)

u

Edinburgh Evening News

"MACHO? MOI?" I wasn't fooled by the Deputy Prime Minister's feigned surprise
that anyone, even the idiosyncratic French Minister for the Environment he had
gallantly described as tired (rather than just a bit simple), should think him
aggressively masculine. John Prescott is a man's man. That's not to say he
doesn't take women seriously. Politically, though, like the Rex Harrison
character in My Fair Lady, he'd prefer them to behave more like a man. The
French Minister he annoyed at the environment conference on climate change held
in The Hague was probably more woolly than womanly in style, otherwise she
wouldn't have been daft enough to accuse him of machismo. (Margo MacDonald)

u

The Daily Telegraph

JOHN PRESCOTT was the perfect choice to represent Britain at the World Climate
Change conference. It was clearly in our interests that the talks should fail.
Nothing could be more damaging to economic growth - and therefore to health,
education and everything else that matters - than an international agreement to
cut the use of energy. So who better to put in charge of negotiating an
agreement than Mr Prescott? From the moment when this amiable buffoon was picked
to broker a deal between America and Europe, it was obvious that nothing would
come of it. (Tom Utley)

u

Daily Express

A LOT of ink has been spilt discussing this Prescott v Voynet spat, but the
reasons for it are obvious and simply put. Dominique Voynet is a neighbour from
hell; John Prescott is a neighbour from Hull. The British and the French have
always found each other difficult. We are too similar, we are all mixed up.
After all, 934 years ago the Normans gave us a good thrashing, put up some
decent buildings, mixed up the gene pool a bit and we have been bad neighbours
ever since. We spent 800 years fighting each other - Britain always playing away
and always winning. Then we spent 50 years rescuing them from the Germans and
being patronised for it.

u

Daily Mail

JOHN PRESCOTT entered the chamber with the swagger of a British adolescent who
has just goosed a Champs Elysees mademoiselle. Officially, Deux Jags was
reporting to the Commons about last week's climate change negotiations at The
Hague. Most Labour men, if charged with being an Anglo-Saxon "male chauvinist
pig", will these days descend into self-flagellatory anguish and plead
forgiveness for any anti -female prejudices. His very first word, on rising to a
swell of ironic cheers from the Tories, was to say a French "pardon?" and give a
wheezy chuckle. He was dead proud of himself. (Quentin Letts)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2000 Independent Print Ltd

                              270 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                                 MAIL ON SUNDAY

                                December 3, 2000

I CHEER THE MURDER OF BRITISH SOLDIERS;
The Mail on Sunday confronts the godmother of the Real IRA ... and hears in her
own chilling words why she has raised millions to kill innocent Britons

BYLINE: Sharon Churcher;William Lowther

SECTION: Pg. 42;43

LENGTH: 1439 words


DOROTHY ROBINSON is a much-respected figure in the canalside artists' colony of
Lambertville, New Jersey, where she runs an antiques business specialising in
fine glassware, silver and porcelain.

To local residents, the attractive 57-year-old divorcee epitomises everything
that is good about their peaceful village. She has refined tastes and strong
family values, with three grownup sons.

Yet this seemingly innocuous woman leads a bizarre and shocking secret life as
the head fundraiser for Clan na Gael, a clandestine Irish-American organisation
that has raised hundreds of thousands of pounds, possibly millions, for the IRA.

Prior to the 1998 Good Friday peace agreement, the group's sprawling network of
cells, or 'camps', boasted 40,000 members. But despite the peace in Northern
Ireland, a hard core of just under 1,000 people led by Robinson are still
committed to the cause of terrorism.

Now they plan to send funds instead to the 32

Now they plan to send funds instead to the 32 County Sovereignty Committee, a
front organisation for the Real IRA which, according to British intelligence
sources, is plotting terror attacks on mainland Britain over Christmas.

Tony Blair is so concerned about the threat that he has asked the Clinton
administration to put the Real IRA on a US terrorist list, which would make it
illegal for Robinson to transfer money to the group that planted the August 1998
Omagh car bomb which killed 29.

Last week, she was defiant after being tracked down by The Mail on Sunday.

In Last week, she was defiant after tracked down by The Mail on Sunday. an
extraordinary interview she pledged to go to whatever extremes she judged
necessary to force the reunification of Ireland.

'British soldiers are our first target of choice,' she revealed in the same
matter-of-fact voice with which, a few minutes earlier, she had been discussing
the distinguishing marks of a rare 18th Century sherry glass.

'It has been alleged that I cheered the assassination of Mountbatten,' she said.
'I did no such thing. He was an old, retired dope, who wasn't worth the
gunpowder. What was very popular in our group was the 18 active soldiers who
were blown up the same day at Warrenpoint.

'Ireland has 32 counties and we aim to drive the British out of all of them. We
are required by our constitution to support all organisations that believe as we
do. In the past, we supported the Provisional IRA and Sinn Fein. New groups have
taken over their role, like the Real IRA, which some people allege has a
connection to the 32 Counties Committee, which we support.

'We also plan to support Republican Sinn Fein, which some people allege is
linked to Continuity IRA.

You may call these groups terrorists.

I call them freedom fighters who fit the criteria for a legitimate army,
including their codes of conduct, in a very legitimate war.

'The only money we have sent to Ireland recently was to pay for brambles to be
removed from republican martyrs' graves but we are in the process of fundraising
and we hope to have ample money to give to everyone we support in the spring. I
am not squeamish about physical force provided it is used against the right
targets. I think it has to be part of the solution. The British have never left
any colony without being forced.

'We also approve of English civilian targets, so long as there is care taken to
keep them as "clean" as possible. We like to to see economic devastation but we
don't like innocent people being unnecessarily hurt. For example, the 1993 IRA
bombing of London's financial centre was on a Saturday morning so it was almost
empty.' A newspaper photographer, Ed Henty, was killed in the explosion and 44
people were injured. But Robinson, who became the group's national organiser in
1990, continued: 'They couldn't have picked a better target. It cost England
hundreds of millions of dollars. At times it is a necessary evil for civilians
to be killed.

'Right now, a military operation against the British in the North would be
doomed to failure because people there are very tired of war and they wouldn't
give the fighters the support they need on the ground, like food and places to
hide.

Hopefully that will change as the Irish people realise they have been betrayed
by Black Friday, as I call the decision by Sinn Fein to sell out to the British.

'Until there is that wonderful upsurge of opinion, it will be a good idea
strategically to hit targets on the English mainland again. England is like
America in that there is a lot of freedom to move around. It's a soft target.'
The day before Robinson made her declaration of hate which she smilingly admits
will sicken most readers of The Mail on Sunday Britain and the Irish Republic
formally demanded that America take the steps that would ban her group from
collecting funds.

British intelligence is understood to have persuaded Tony Blair to make this
move, expected to be opposed by the Clinton administration, after learning that
the Real IRA may attempt to stage a major mainland attack on Christmas Eve. The
fear is that a large bomb will be planted in a public place.

If the Real IRA succeeds in mounting a major new attack this Christmas, experts
believe it might undermine the entire peace process which is, of course,
precisely Dorothy Robinson's dreadful goal.

A Tory Ulster affairs spokesman, Andrew Mackay, has called for her to be banned
from the United Kingdom.

'She has blood on her hands,' he charged. 'She should not be allowed into this
country when she is involved in fundraising which supports the maiming and
killing still going on.' Until the peace agreement, Clan na Gael was the
second-largest Irish republican fundraiser after Noraid, now seemingly defunct,
leaving the clan at the head of the shadowy maze of Irish-American organisations
which the FBI claim have channelled GBP 350,000 to the Real IRA in the past two
years.

Last Saturday, Robinson's executive committee held its annual meeting in an
electronically-locked motel room on the outskirts of Philadelphia, followed by a
clan recruitment meeting. A statement from the 32 County Sovereignty Committee
was lying on a table.

Robinson and three other clan stalwarts, including a tweed-jacketed
Irish-American shipyard supervisor and a stern young Belfast-born computer
expert, briefed four would-be new members over lunch. One was an executive at an
international pharmaceutical company.

It is the clan's broad demographic composition, rather than its numbers, that
has made it such a potent force in the Irish-American community.

Chances are that someone in the group knows someone who can drum up support for
its marching pageants and banquets or put collecting jars in the local tavern.

Robinson speaks with the experience of regular trips to Northern Ireland, during
which she admits to having couriered cash, prior to the Good Friday agreement.

British intelligence sources suggest that the Real IRA is cultivating ties to
young Irish-Americans in the US Army who will steal detonators, sniper rifles
and rockets and smuggle them to Ireland.

Robinson insists the clan has banned gunrunning since 1981.

'In the past we could have filled the QE2 three or four times over with guns
purchased for the republican cause,' she elaborated. 'But nowadays it is
unnecessary because the Irish can buy all the weapons they want from Libya and
Afghanistan or Eastern Europe.' A petite, slightly overweight, woman with
blue-green eyes, a beautiful complexion and carefully-muted makeup, she goes to
great lengths to be charming, even about 'the enemy'. 'I don't hate the
English,' she said over a cup of tea at her home in a Philadelphia suburb.

'You are likeable, nice people until you take over someone else's country.' But
she says her seething anger began when she heard that her great-grandparents
left Ireland to escape the potato famine. She became active in the American
civil rights movement in her early 20s. From there, it was a logical step, she
says, to join Clan na Gael.

Robinson's husband, a successful American businessman, was dismayed by her
ascension in an organisation that many Americans regard with loathing.

Their marriage broke up while her sons were small boys.

Today, a more pressing problem for her group is that many Irish-Americans who
backed them during the original Troubles were revolted by the murderous attack
on Omagh.

'It was a stupid target,' Robinson said.

'My thinking is that somebody was planted in the Real IRA to do it. It was a
set-up, to damage the cause.'


LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2000 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              271 of 299 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            December 4, 2000, Monday

TERRORISTS PLOT XMAS CAMPAIGN

BYLINE: DENIS CASSIDY

SECTION: Eire Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 222 words


POLICE in Britain are cracking down on Irish terrorists trying to fund a
Christmas bombing campaign by selling contraband alcohol and cigarettes, it was
revealed yesterday.

Police and Customs officers have targeted London's M25 as the main route for
smuggling.

Stop-and-search roadblocks have been set up on the motorway and hundreds of
vehicles pulled in.

It is officially a counter-smuggling operation, but both police and Customs
officers have admitted tthe real reason is to cut off the cash lifeline to
dissident republican groups.

Intelligence has indicated that republican supporters are using money raised
from cross-channel runs to pay for a planned terror campaign in the lead-up to
Christmas.

Det Insp Richard Chase of Surrey Police said: "The main aim is primarily to
prevent a dissident Irish republican terrorist campaign on the British
mainland."

For three nights in a row last week more than 40 police officers from Surrey and
the Metropolitan area rounded up truck and van drivers at Junction 9 near
Leatherhead as part of the on-going campaign.

They were joined by 24 Customs and Excise officers from Staines, Reading,
Southampton, Croydon and Wembley.

A special compound was set up and hundreds of thousands of cigarettes, rolling
tobacco, wine, beer and spirits were seized.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.

                              272 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                December 5, 2000

Omagh bombing cited by agencies demanding access to all phone calls

BYLINE: Richard Norton-Taylor

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 8

LENGTH: 554 words


The security and intelligence agencies are using difficulties in pursuing the
perpetrators of the Omagh bombing in August 1998 in their demand for access to
records of every phone call made in Britain.

The full classified report written by Roger Gaspar, deputy director general of
the national criminal intelligence service (NCIS), has been posted on the
internet. It says the agencies should have the right to access all telephone
calls, emails, and internet con nections. Though individuals suspected of
involvement in the Omagh bombing, which killed 29 people, have been named in the
media, none has been charged.

"The only evidence currently available to link suspects is that provided by data
from the use of their mobile phones," Mr Gaspar says. "This places them within
the proximity of the incident."

He adds: "Recent advances in location-based customer services have reached the
stage where more precise data can now pinpoint the where abouts of the user of a
mobile phone at a specific time. In the absence of any other evidence
(particularly from witnesses who are likely to be intimidated) communications
data will be the only means of securing a prosecution. Deletion of data would
seriously damage the ability of the agencies to reactively investigate acts of
terrorism."

Mr Gaspar, who says he wrote his report to the Home Office on behalf of MI5,
MI6, GCHQ, and Customs, as well as the Association of Chief Police Officers,
wants all communications service providers to retain their records for seven
years. Some now delete their records after 24 hours.

"It is not just the current communications data that is needed," says Mr Gaspar.
"Identification of users (particularly with anonymous pre-paid mobiles) is
invariably dependent upon research through older data and analysis of links with
other callers and locations. This kind of research is used so frequently that at
least two major software programmes exist for the analysis of this data. All law
enforcement agencies use these programmes."

In a revealing insight into the activities of the security and intelligence
agencies, Mr Gaspar says it is difficult to overstate the value of
communications data as an intelligence tool.

"The intelligence officer's toolbox of techniques comprise informants,
eavesdropping, interception, observation, surveillance and analysis of latent
data," he says. "Latent data is both open and closed source material which is
created by our everyday human activity and can range from the Electoral Role
(sic) and DVLA (the vehicle licence agency) to that retained in bespoke
intelligence databases.

"Major criminal conspiracies," he adds, "utilise the same business techniques as
legitimate business and conse quently communications between criminal associates
is a crucial component.

"Whereas the Kray brothers had to rely on a physical location to run and control
their criminal structure the more common structure of organised criminality
today has far wider geography."

The proposals, which would require legislation, conflict with the right to
privacy enshrined in the data protection and human rights acts, civil rights
groups say.

"It is clear the police want the ability to track every citizen as they go about
their business," said John Wadham, director of Liberty.


LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              273 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           December 5, 2000, Tuesday

Balkan peacekeepers bed down for another winter of discomfort

BYLINE: John Phillips in Pristina

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 431 words


British peacekeeping soldiers face a second bleak winter in Kosovo as
temperatures plummet to -15C and the UN- administered province grapples with
severe shortages of electrical power and water.

By contrast with last year, most of the 6,000 British troops in the Kfor
peacekeeping force have been moved into accommodation in snug, centrally-heated,
air-conditioned containers known as Temporary Field Accommodation (TFA). But
about 100 Royal Marine commandos in and around Pristina still live in tents.
Others spend the nights exposed to the elements in observation posts on flat
roofs of 16-storey blocks of flats, surveying the streets for signs of trouble.

Among those still under canvas are the men of X Company from 45 Commando Group
based at a police station in the overcrowded, violence-prone Dardagna district
of the provincial capital.

The Marines share accommodation three to a tent, using external showers and
outside "thunderbox" lavatories. Recreation is available in tents housing a
small gym and a television room showing videos such as The Killing Fields, about
the Cambodian war.

Temperatures at night in Pristina hit -5C and will fall further as the harsh
Kosovo winter progresses. There is little complaining, however. Most of the
Marines have undergone Arctic training in Norway, including learning how to ski
while carrying 80lb packs.

"If they start moaning we ought to remind them they are cold weather troops,"
Captain Simon Garnham, 25, from Harwich, X Company's operations officer, said.

Lance Corporal Justin Cowden, 30, a military policeman from Aldershot, said
conditions have improved immensely since he stormed into the province while
attached to The Parachute Regiment last year.

"When the heater is on in our tent it's warm enough. But when the generator
packs up it's a bit frosty," he said, sitting on his camp bed. "We were in
bombed-out buildings at first so it's much better now." His tent-mates, Marine
Chris Petrie, 18, from Newcastle upon Tyne, and Corporal Ian Ripley, 33, from
Plymouth, cheerfully agree, wryly noting only that "they wouldn't put up with it
in the RAF".

Plans are under way for X Company to move into TFAs under construction near by.
As well as providing comfort, Captain Garnham also would like to get his men out
of tents eventually so that they are less exposed in the unlikely event of
terrorist attacks by the local population.

Lighting, heating and water shortages as well as an inadequate sewage system
remain a feature of Kosovo life, compounding soldiers' winter discomfort.


LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2000 Times Newspapers Limited

                              274 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                            Manchester Evening News

                                December 6, 2000

Bomb-town choir flies out on musical peace mission to Ireland

BYLINE: TERRY JOHNSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 275 words


AN award winning choir flies out on Friday for a Christmas peace mission to
divided Ireland.

Leading the 97-strong Warrington Male Voice Choir will be former Beirut hostage
Terry Waite and civic chiefs from the town. The mission, entitled Help Heal the
Wounds, has the backing of Colin Parry, whose son Tim died in the IRA bombing of
Bridge Street, Warrington, in 1993.

The choir, making its seventh annual visit to Ireland, flies from Manchester
into a huge security operation mounted in advance of President Bill Clinton's
visit next week.  Choir chairman Barrie Johnson said: We shall be singing on
both sides of the Irish divide.  The rationale of the mission is to bring people
together through music - yet celebrate differences.''

The choir, one of the oldest and strongest in Britain, will be singing at
Clonard Monastery, off the Falls Road in West Belfast.  On Saturday, they will
be in Omagh, helping the healing process after the devastating bombing of its
centre.

They will sing Christmas carols in the town centre and there will be a concert
in a Catholic church with a choir from Newry.  The Cheshire choir will then
travel to Londonderry for a festive concert with the Apprentice Boys of Derry.

The Irish Peace Institute is linked with the Warrington choir and Terry Waite,
its patron, will deliver a Christmas message in Belfast and Omagh.  The former
Archbishop of Canterbury's envoy will deliver the sermon on Sunday at East
Belfast Methodist Mission, in loyalist paramilitary heartland.

Members of the choir also hope to sing for the Northern Ireland Assembly in
Stormont Castle.


LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2000 Manchester Evening News

                              275 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          December 09, 2000, Saturday

Humbug blights Ethelburga George Trefgarne tells a tale of parsimony over giving
to rebuild St Ethelburga's

BYLINE: By George Trefgarne

SECTION: Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1172 words

SCROOGE, the City merchant in Dickens' A Christmas Carol, was not one for giving
to charity. He could not be doing with scroungers - oh, no, Sir. Based in
Cornhill, just up from the Bank of England, he was in particularly crotchety
form when two gentleman turned up at his door raising money for a worthy cause.
They asked what they should put him down for.  "'Nothing!" Scrooge replied.

"You wish to be anonymous?"

"I wish to be left alone," said Scrooge. "Since you ask me what I wish,
gentleman, that is my answer. I don't make merry myself at Christmas and I can't
afford to make idle people merry. I help support the establishments I have
mentioned - they cost enough." And with that he sent the two gentlemen packing.

But that was all in the far off days of the 19th century. It couldn't happen
now, right? Wrong.

The potential stinginess of today's City came to light this week over the
campaign to restore St Ethelburga's, the tiny 14th-century church blown up in
the Bishopsgate IRA bomb explosion of 1993. For seven years, this sad little
pile of rubble has been a scar on the face of one of the financial district's
most prosperous streets.

The campaign to rebuild it is a modern Christmas Carol, with the two gentlemen
played by the splendidly Victorian figures of the Rt Rev Richard Chartres,
Bishop of London, and Viscount Churchill, a former director of CCLA, a fund
manager for local authorities. They have been struggling to raise just pounds
3.6m to restore the church as a Centre for Reconciliation and Peace - a sort of
think-tank to study the role of religion in ethnic conflicts.

They too have banged on the doors of the houses of the City. So far, in two
years, the rich businesses of the Square Mile have contributed just pounds
175,000 - about the same as a middle-ranking 30-year-old banker can expect as
his bonus.

Most of the money raised has come from the old City guilds, with pounds 1.2m
from the Clothworkers alone, as well as grants from the Corporation of London.
Enough has been scraped together to start rebuilding in April, but at least
another pounds 800,000 is needed to complete the project and, like Scrooge, the
bankers and lawyers are either turning a blind eye, or merely tossing their
small change into the collection plate. Clifford Chance, for instance, the
world's biggest law firm, shelled out just pounds 250, about 10p for each of its
London employees.

"I am very grateful to all those who have contributed," said the bishop. "But
most of the donations from the corporate City have tended to be on the small
side."

He is the first bishop to live in the City since the 17th century and has wined
and dined 40 chief executives in the Old Deanery, his town house opposite St
Paul's, and written to many more. Although few have turned him down altogether,
they have coughed up on average, just pounds 4,000 apiece. Alarmed at words like
"heritage" and "religion", they have bolted for the exits, muttering about how
they prefer to support educational projects in the East End and other, more
"worthy" causes.

So the modern City really is mammon, pure and simple? Despite the bishop's
frustration, this impression is not quite right. For instance, at the annual
International Financial Review dinner in January, the investment banks always
bid to run an imaginary share offering. Last year, according to one banker, they
raised pounds 1m for Save the Children in 45 minutes. "It was amazing," he says.
"Princess Anne was there and was just astounded at so much money being raised so
quickly."

Goldman Sachs, the US investment bank which now dominates the City and Fleet
Street, seconds its staff for a day a year to a charity. Nick Prettejohn, chief
executive of Lloyd's of London, is one of many who spends one day a month
"mentoring" underprivileged children. According to Business in the Community,
Dresdner Kleinwort Benson donated pounds 300,000 to charity last year, and by
the time you add in management time, that was worth pounds 900,000.

So how come St Ethelburga's has been shunned? The bishop blames "the
bureaucratisation of giving". The big companies all have "community officers" to
channel money towards politically correct causes like education, or to things
which will give them a bit of publicity.

The worst offender is HSBC, Britain's biggest bank. True to its Scottish roots,
the Hong Kong and Scrooge Banking Corporation turned down a request to
contribute to the restoration, and then put up pounds 50,000 towards a
foundation for Jill Dando, the murdered TV presenter. The original Scrooge
justified his meanness by saying he had already contributed to the Union
workhouse, and HSBC's giving is also tinged with self-interest.

A spokesman said: "We did receive a letter from the appeal, but our budget is
concentrated on two main areas, education for underprivileged children and the
environment. The St Ethelburga's request did not meet our criteria and therefore
we had to turn it down." It is not obvious where a Dando foundation donation
fits either of these aims.

HSBC hands out about pounds 15m a year to charities round the world. That might
sound a lot, but the bank made pounds 5 billion in profit last year. Asked if it
might change its mind on St Ethelburga's, the spokesman said: "HSBC never
changes its mind." HSBC is soon to move its headquarters to a new tower at
Canary Wharf, which should guarantee that Sir John Bond, its chairman, is not
haunted by the ghost of Christmas Past.

Barclays is scarcely more helpful to the bishop. It contributes pounds 21m to
charity each year but also says: "St Ethelburga's does not meet our criteria. We
give to the disabled, the disadvantaged, education, the environment and the
arts." ABN Amro, which is almost next door to the site, has also refused to
contribute.

Other excuses are more understandable. Goldman Sachs said it already supports St
Bride's in Fleet Street. Lasmo, the oil company directly opposite St
Ethelburga's, said: "We don't think we have been contacted. But if they pick up
the phone, we may be able to help. But we are under offer from Amerada Hess at
the moment and this year's budget has mostly been spent."

The best response comes from Garban, a money broker less than 1pc the size of
HSBC. Its chairman, Michael Spencer, runs a special day when all the firm's fees
- usually about pounds 3m - are donated to charities chosen by the staff. This
year's charity day is on Monday, which means that St Ethelburga's is too late
for this year. Said Spencer: "But I will put them on the list for next year.
Give me the number and I will call them now."

While it remains in ruins, the church is a bizarre and unwitting monument to all
the worst things about contemporary Britain: embarrassment about our history,
our inability to deal with the IRA, bureaucracy, and the Scroogey indifference
of big corporations.

As the bishop says: "Buildings like this connect us with the past and promote
spiritual progress. They deflect the frenzy of the present moment."

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 Telegraph Group Limited

                              276 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           December 10, 2000, Sunday

MANDELSON WARNS OF HOLIDAY BLITZ BY REAL IRA

BYLINE: Colin Brown And Steve Richards

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 415 words


BRITAIN IS today being put on high alert by the Northern Ireland Secretary,
Peter Mandelson, to foil a possible pre-Christmas terrorist attack by the Real
IRA.

Days before President Bill Clinton visits the province with Tony Blair, Mr
Mandelson is warning the public to "be vigilant" for an attempt by the breakaway
Real IRA to destroy the peace process with an attack on the mainland.

Mr Mandelson said: "The threat is real. The so-called Real IRA are organised,
equipped and quite bold in their desire to disrupt the peace process and inflict
injury and damage both in Northern Ireland and in England. So people need to be
vigilant." It is the first time that a minister has publicly warned of the
terrorist threat before Christmas, which has led to disruption in the capital,
with a series of security clampdowns by the police. In speaking out about
security, Mr Mandelson has overridden some of the advice he received from his
advisers.

Ministers are concerned to avoid causing panic, or increasing hoaxes, but Mr
Mandelson revealed that the police were already on high alert in Northern
Ireland and England to raise public awareness.

Security checks in London were stepped up before the Queen's State Opening of
Parliament. Security cordons have also been widened around the city's Docklands
area - the target for the last bombing by the Provisional IRA before the renewed
ceasefire was secured.

The Real IRA were believed to be responsible for a number of bomb attacks in
recent months in London, including the bombing of a bridge and a grenade attack
on the headquarters of MI6. Mr Mandelson has been advised by security chiefs
that the terrorist group has become stronger in the past year, with more arms
smuggled in from former communist countries such as Croatia.

Mr Clinton will fly to Dublin next Tuesday at a time of growing crisis in the
peace process. Mr Clinton will not take part in peace negotiations when he
travels to Ulster on Wednesday, but Mr Mandelson privately believes the presence
of the President in Belfast before Christmas will help rekindle the spirit of
peace in the province after recent sectarian murders and political in-fighting
among Ulster Unionists over the IRA's refusal to dispose of its weapons.

Mr Mandelson also brushed aside reports that his job was at risk over alleged
off-the-record remarks to journalists at a Christmas party in London about
George W Bush leaning towards Sinn Fein.

FOCUS, PAGES 20 AND 21

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2000 Independent Print Ltd

                              277 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                               December 10, 2000

Treat all Irish as suspects, police ordered

BYLINE: by Gaby Hinsliff and Martin Bright

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 619 words


BRITISH police have been secretly ordered to treat all Irish-born citizens on
their patch as potential terrorist suspects, according to a memo leaked to The
Observer

The investigation, codenamed Operation Pre-Empt, instructs officers to report
all dealings with anyone of Irish descent or background - including the most
routine checks on drivers and even reports from suspicious landlords - to
Special Branch, as a precaution against a feared terrorist bombing offensive.

The crackdown, which emerges as President Clinton is due to visit Northern
Ireland in an attempt to reinvigorate the peace process, also came as Northern
Ireland Secretary Peter Mandelson last night warned that a Real IRA attack on
London was imminent.

But the move to treat all Irish people as potential terrorists was condemned as
racist and offensive by politicians in Northern Ireland and on the mainland last
night. Lawyers warned it could be challenged under human-rights legislation,
while Sinn Fein called for the matter to be raised in Parliament.

'This is a prime example of racism and it has no place whatsoever in any
so-called police service,' said a spokes-man for Sinn Fein. 'We would call on
all Irish organisations in Britain to voice their opinion to this very, very
strongly and very, very openly. This sort of activity certainly does not
contribute to the search for a reconciliation between our two nations.'

The leaked memo comes from Humberside Police, whose patch includes two major
ports and a cluster of chemical factories regarded locally as a bombing target.

The force's chief constable, David Westwood, last night promised a review to
ensure that nationality was not used as the basis for suspicion without
considering 'all the circumstances'.

'The use of Humberside as a route into the UK mainland to import terrorist
devices cannot and will not be ignored,' he said. 'We must take steps to prevent
the horror of terrorist action. I am not suggesting all Irish people are
terrorists. Our intelligence suggests that the threat relates to Irish terror
groups.'

The Home Office said last night that it did not believe the controversial
tactics had spread to forces nationwide.

A Home Office spokeswoman said security precautions were an operational matter
for individual forces responding to ACPO guidelines. 'Their guidance does not
say they should treat all Irish people as suspects,' she said.

Gareth Peirce, the lawyer who helped the Guildford Four to overturn their
convictions, demanded urgent clarification of how many other forces could
secretly be using similar rules. 'This provides an open-ended licence for
arbitrary arrest,' she said. 'The police are making an entire community suspect
on the basis of national origin. It violates every possible guarantee under the
new Human Rights Act.'

The Humberside memo, dated 20 October, describes Operation Pre-Empt as a drive
to 'identify, prioritise and monitor likely targets for terrorist attack'.

It asks divisions and bran-ches to notify Special Branch as soon as possible of
'anyone of Irish origin, descent or background' who is brought into custody,
subject to a routine street or driver check, subject to police inquiry 'for any
reason', or brought to police attention by members of the general public 'in
particular when seeking accommodation'.

The tactics risk throwing up mountains of low-grade information on innocent
people, rather than identifying serious suspects.

Kevin McNamara, MP for Hull North, and himself of Irish origin, said last night
he would table questions to Ministers. 'This is offensive and it is racist,' he
said. 'I thought the days of snooping on the Irish were over.'


LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2000 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              278 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Mercury

                           December 10, 2000, Sunday

I WANT TO TURN BRITAIN INTO AN ISLAMIC STATE...

BYLINE: Amardeep Bassey

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1063 words


MILITANT cleric Sheikh Omar Bakri Mohammed has a mission. He visits Birmingham
regularly to recruit young men to his cause - which is nothing short of
worldwide domination.

Translated literally, Islam means 'peace through submission' - but Sheikh
Mohammed lusts for the establishment of a global Islamic regime called Al
Khilafah, starting here in Britain.

He says that:

Prime Minister Tony Blair would be a legitimate target for assassins if he were
to set foot in a muslim country.

British laws and democracy are nothing more than phoney rules made up by 'the
monkeys in parliament'.

The world's most wanted terrorist is 'an honourable man' despite the deaths of
250 people in bomb attacks.

He wants to see Britain turned into the first Islamic state in a new world
order.

His Al-Muhajiroun movement, which means 'the emigrants' does not recognise
British law.

Yet in Birmingham, the Sheikh has found fertile ground for recruiting members,
some of whom are sent abroad to secret military training camps.

His passionate rhetoric, which includes a poster campaign urging muslims to
'kill the Jews,' has recently seen his group double its membership in the
Midlands.

Globally, it is now considered the fastest-growing organisation within the
world's fastest-growing religion.

As judge of the Islamic Court in the UK, Sheikh Mohammed also has the authority
to issue a Fatwa - an Islamic death warrant.

He recently exercised that power by calling for the death of writer Terrence
McNally, who had portrayed Jesus Christ as a homosexual in his play Corpus
Christi.

With links to Middle East Islamic terrorist groups like Hezbollah and Hamas,
Sheikh Mohammed is also spokesman for the UK-based International Islamic Front.

The group's Afghanistan military wing, called the Islamic Front for Fighting the
Jews and Crusaders, is headed by the world's most wanted terrorist - Osama Bin
Laden.

The multi-millionaire, whom Sheikh Mohammed describes as a 'peaceful and
honourable man' has a $ 5 million bounty on his head after bomb attacks on two
US embassies in Africa which killed 257 people.

Calling on the Sheikh at a follower's house in Alum Rock, Birmingham, I half
-expected to be greeted by a phalanx of Mujahadeen armed with scimitars and
Kalashnikovs.

Holy war

So it was a surprise when I was met by a serene-looking figure who looked
nothing but a well-mannered scholar, complete with flowing robes and a walking
stick.

That is until he broke out into a diatribe against the West and spoke of his
support for a Jihad - or holy war - against Islam's enemies.

'Allah does not permit the believers to let the disbelievers have authority over
them,' he said. 'That is why we do not recognise British law and democracy.

'It is a phoney set of rules made by the monkeys in Parliament. It is not God's
law.

'Freedom brings nothing but chaos. Khilafah is God's law and because I am in
Britain now, I don't see why it shouldn't begin here.'

The Sheikh arrived on these shores in 1985 after being deported from Saudi
Arabia. He had moved there after being forced to leave Lebanon when the Syrians
invaded in 1979.

The Syrians believed he was a key figure in an attempted military coup in
Damascus by the militant Hizb-ut-Tharir party, whose UK branch is headed by the
Sheikh.

Despite his implacable opposition to the British state, he has applied for
British citizenship and sporadically claims state benefits.

'The Government has taken my passport off me and my foreign assets have been
frozen by the Syrian regime,' he said. 'I have indefinite leave to remain in
this country and things are going very well.

'Membership of Al-Muhajiroun has doubled since the recent troubles in Palestine.

'Birmingham is very important to us because of its increasingly active muslim
community. Al-Muhajiroun and its underground groups have had a long history of
activity in the city.

'We believe it is a key area which must be targeted to ensure that the message
of Islam permeates every section of the British society.'

Sheikh Mohammed admitted that his members supported the Jihad 'verbally,
financially, physically and even militarily.'

'My people are willing to lay their lives for the cause, their conviction is
that strong,' he said.

'We have had lots of volunteers wanting to attend our camps for military
training to help the cause against Islam's enemies.

'We send them to South Africa, Nigeria, Afghanistan, Kashmir and the US where
they receive tuition in combat.

'In this country, we only run physical training camps. It is every muslim's
obligation in the Koran that when they reach the age of 15 they must get
military training.'

The Sheikh admitted that he knew some of the five Birmingham men who went on
trial in Yemen for planning terrorist activities.

Targets

'I have met some of them since they were released,' he said. 'Before they went,
a couple of them had attended some of my lectures and asked for advice on where
to study Arabic and I did suggest Yemen.

'There are no military training camps in Yemen and it is absurd to say they were
planning to cause disruption there. We do not condone the killing or maiming of
innocent civilians.'

But politicians ARE seen as legitimate targets. In 1991 Sheikh Mohammed was
quizzed by MI5 for allegedly calling for the assassination of John Major.

He told the Sunday Mercury: 'I was misquoted. I said Major would be a legitimate
target for muslims if he entered a muslim country.

'The same applies with the present Prime Minister. If Tony Blair visits a muslim
state, he will be a legitimate target for assassination and I would not condemn
his killers.'

A spokesman for Downing Street refused to comment on the threat.

Quizzed about his anti-semiticism and homophobic attitudes Sheikh Mohammed
denied the allegations.

'Although homosexuality is a crime and disease, we have nothing against gays as
long as they do what they do in private,' he said. 'It is also wrong to say we
are at war with the Jews. It is the state of Israel and its supporters who are
our enemy.

'I believe the Holocaust is just a political tool used by Jews in order to
justify their own hegemony over muslims in Palestine. 'Much worse crimes have
been committed against muslims in Chechnya, Kashmir and Palestine.'

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: THREAT...The disturbing poster campaign urging muslims to kill Jews;
DANGER MAN ... Sheikh Mohammed says Tony Blair would be a legitimate target for
assassins in a muslim country

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2000 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              279 of 299 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           December 11, 2000, Monday

CLINTON TO VISIT REAL IRA AREA

SECTION: 2 Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 74 words


BILL Clinton will visit the Real IRA's heartland tomorrow in a final effort to
halt terrorist violence.

The US President will travel to the border town of Dundalk in the Irish Republic
to put pressure on the splinter group - responsible for the Omagh bomb massacre
- to end its opposition to the peace process.

The move come as police and security forces in Britain and Ireland gear up for
the threat of a Christmas bombing campaign.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.

                              280 of 299 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           December 11, 2000, Monday

BRITISH POLICE TARGET ALL IRISH AS TERRORISTS;
 RACE ROW OVER SECRET MEMO

BYLINE: LYNNE KELLEHER

SECTION: Eire Edition; NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 307 words

HIGHLIGHT: SHOCKED: Lawyer Gareth Pierce, left, hit out at Humberside Police
memo


A SECRET memo from British police chiefs ordering detectives to report all
Irish-born citizens as terror suspects sparked outrage yesterday among
politicians and human rights groups.

The document, called Operation Pre-empt, instructs officers to report findings
directly to the Special Branch.

Uncovered at Humberside Police, it said the aim was to "identify, prioritise and
monitor likely targets for terrorist attack".

Shocked politicians and human rights campaigners hit out at the order, calling
it a racist infringement of basic civil liberties.

Guildford Four lawyer Gareth Pierce said she wanted to know how many English
forces were using these rules.

She said: "It provides an open-ended licence for arbitrary arrest.

"The police are making an entire community suspect on the basis of national
origin.

"It violates every possible guarantee under the new Human Rights Act."

Ms Pierce said it was this kind of prejudice which led to the gross miscarriages
of justice against Irish people.

However, Humberside Police Chief Constable David Westwood denied the memo was
anti-Irish.

He said: "The use of Humberside as a route into the UK mainland to import
terrorist devices cannot and will not be ignored.

"We must take steps to prevent the horror of terrorist action.

"I am not suggesting that all Irish people are terrorists.

"Our intelligence suggests that the threat relates to Irish terror groups."

Sinn Fein yesterday slammed the memo as an example of systematic anti-Irish
racism among British police.

A spokesman said: "It has no place whatsoever in a police service.

"We would call on Irish organisations in Britain to voice their opinions very
strongly.

"This sort of activity does not contribute to the search for peace and
reconciliation between our two nations."

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.

                              281 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                               December 12, 2000

Help;
Campaign leader writes impassioned open letter to a VIP visitor

BYLINE: Michael Seamark

SECTION: Pg. 34;35

LENGTH: 731 words


THE mother of an Omagh bomb victim makes an impassioned plea today for Bill
Clinton's help in bringing her son's killers to justice.

Patsy Gallagher met the President when he visited the bomb-shattered town
shortly after the Real IRA atrocity which claimed the life of her 21-year-old
son Adrian.

Now, on the eve of Mr Clinton's third and last visit to Ireland as President,
she has written an open letter in the hope of speaking to him again.

'On September 3, 1998, you promised us that we would not be alone and that you
were but a telephone call away,' writes Mrs Gallagher, one of the parents
spearheading the Daily Mail-backed campaign to sue the terrorists who killed 29
people.

'I am calling you now. We need you now more than ever. A short meeting with you
will boost our morale and rejuvenate us for the journey ahead.' The President's
two-day visit will include a speech in Dundalk, the border town base of the Real
IRA.

The families are hoping to see him to enlist support in their civil action
against the terrorists.

Mrs Gallagher tells him: 'My son Adrian was murdered by the Real IRA on the
August 15,1998. Since that terrible day my life and that of the families of the
other victims has changed for the worse. It is hard to explain the pain and
anguish we have all felt.

'This has been exacerbated by the fact that the murderers still remain free
within our

community, which acts as a constant reminder of our loss.

'Nothing can bring our loved ones back but there is nothing that we will not do,
within the law, to seek justice.

'As such, many of us are pursuing civil law actions against the perpetrators of
the bomb.

'Our road to justice is lined with grief and at every turn there is a constant
reminder of those we have lost.

'Even so, we are determined to walk forward in hope. We need to feel we are not
walking alone.

'I realise that you are a busy man and that there are many others who equally
deserve your time and support. However, I owe it to Adrian to do all I can in my
life to seek justice for that terrible day that stole his future away from him.
Please show me faith in mankind and that there is honour in this world.' The
families are yet to discover whether they will have an opportunity to meet the
President or Hillary Clinton.

The couple and their daughter Chelsea fly into Dublin this morning, where Mr
Clinton will meet Irish prime minister Bertie Ahern.

This afternoon the President travels to Dundalk, home to many of the men the
Omagh families intend to sue, including the Real IRA leader Michael McKevitt and
his wife Bernadette Sands McKe-vitt, sister of IRA hunger striker Bobby Sands.

Tomorrow Mr Clinton will meet Ulster assembly leaders David Trimble and Seamus
Mallon at Stormont, along with Sinn Fein's Gerry Adams.

In the evening he will fly to England to have dinner with Tony Blair.

On Thursday he will have an audience with the Queen before travelling to Warwick
University to make a speech on global challenges over the next decade.

U.S. officials say the President will not become involved in negotiations
surrounding the Northern Ireland peace process but will try to create a climate
where all sides 'lift their sights a bit from the challenges of the moment to
the more distant horizon, which is a lasting and durable peace'.

His visit comes amid warnings that the Real IRA is plotting a pre-Christmas
bombing blitz on mainland Britain.

Northern Ireland Secretary Peter Mandelson said yesterday: 'The threat is real.

'The so-called Real IRA are organised, equipped, and quite bold in their desire
to disrupt the peace process. People need to be vigilant.' Since the Daily Mail
launched the Omagh campaign, readers have donated more than GBP 100,000 to help
fund the families' legal bid.

They believe a civil action is the only way of forcing the bombers to account
for their actions in public and under oath.

Both the Royal Ulster Constabulary and the Irish police know the identity of the
bombers but so far have been unable to gather enough evidence for a criminal
prosecution.

At least six people are expected to be targeted, including the four named by a
recent Panorama programme: Oliver Traynor, Liam Campbell, Seamus Daly and Colm
Murphy all from the Dundalk area as well as McKevitt and his wife.

m.seamark@dailymail.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: BOMB VICTIM: ADRIAN GALLAGHER TALKS: BILL CLINTON

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2000 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              282 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                          December 14, 2000, Thursday

SEAMUS AND SAMMY SUSPECT

BYLINE: Suzanne Breen

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 620 words


It's no great secret that the Real IRA wants to bomb Britain. Most people
thought it had gone away but the paramilitary group has dramatically rebuilt
itself since Omagh.

It is now bigger and more dangerous than ever before. It has been launching an
attack every fortnight and senior security sources say it is only good fortune
that they have sustained no fatalities.

In September, RIRA bombed MI6 headquarters in London. It has at least one cell
operating in Britain so more attacks can be expected. There has been much media
hype about a Christmas bombing campaign on the British mainland.

But that's all it is - hype by a lazy, cliche-driven media. There might well be
bombs or bomb scares at Christmas but the timing will be entirely coincidental.
There have been bombs in the summer and the autumn too.

For the paramilitaries, any time is a good time. They are no more likely to be
active at the festive season than at any other time of year. The British police,
quite naturally, want to thwart Real IRA attacks.

It isn't surprising that they are on the look-out for suspicious activity. But a
document published in last weekend's Observer showed it didn't stop there.

The newspaper disclosed that police officers had been ordered to treat all Irish
people in Britain as potential terrorists. 'Operation Pre-empt' instructed
officers to notify the Special Branch of all their dealings with the Irish.

Anyone of "Irish origin, descent or background" who was routinely stopped on
foot or in a car by a police officer, for whatever reason, was to be reported.
If an Irish person - who had been seeking accommodation, having a pint or meal,
or buying a car - was brought to an officer's attention by a member of the
public, the same rule applied.

While caution about suspicious activity was understandable, this was completely
unacceptable. It violated every possible guarantee under the new human rights
legislation. It was not simply targeting the Real IRA. It was targeting the
whole Irish race.

The police were making an entire community suspect on the basis of nationality.
It was reminiscent of attitudes in the '70s that created the environment which
allowed for the conviction of the Guildford Four and Birmingham Six.

"It seems like a racially inspired fishing exercise," Robin Corbett of the
Commons Home Affairs Select Committee said of 'Operation Pre-empt'.

I love London. It's a fantastic city. I've visited it quite a lot recently and
I'm hoping to spend more time there in future.

There are millions of Irish people or people of Irish descent in Britain.

They have built its cities, waited in its pubs and restaurants, cleaned its
offices, taught its children, worked in the City, served on its councils, and
written its newspapers.

Yet 'Operation Pre-empt' reduced all these people to terrorist suspects. Men
rape but police officers don't treat every man they meet as a potential rapist.

Negative publicity about 'Operation Pre-empt' has forced the police to withdraw
it. But the fact that it even existed says a lot about the establishment.

While racist attitudes might be expected from Essex-man stuck in a tailback on
the motorway because of a bomb scare, they are less understandable from the
authorities in Blair's supposedly PC Britain.

Nationalist politicians spoke out against these draconian measures. Unionists
remained silent. They might even have supported them and want them back. But, if
they do, they are wrong and they need to think again.

For when the English refer to the Irish, it's not just Paddy, Sean and Seamus,
they mean. It's Billy, Jackie and Sammy too. Suzanne Breen is a journalist with

the Irish Times

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2000 Century Newspapers Limited

                              283 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                               Leicester Mercury

                               December 14, 2000

Agency: Agency

SECTION: Agency: Agency, Pg.9

LENGTH: 321 words


Fishermen face savage cutbacks

Trawlermen were today facing the most savage cutbacks in fish catches for years
as EU governments meet in Brussels to consider last-ditch measures to save key
stocks from total collapse.

Massive cuts of up to 74 per cent in permitted fish catches next year are on the
cards, with North Sea cod, whiting and hake supplies particularly under threat.

The latest round of belt-tightening for Britain's beleaguered trawlermen follows
years of EU-imposed catch restrictions which have failed to deliver the promised
revival of dwindling stocks of key commercial fish.

Vauxhall anger

Union leaders were today seeking talks with Vauxhall chairman Nick Reilly as
anger continued over the announcement that car production at Luton is to close
with the loss of 2,000 jobs.

Transport and General Workers' Union general secretary Bill Morris pledged a
campaign to try to reverse the decision and called on the Government to do more.

The hoped-for talks come a day after police were called to the Luton plant as
hundreds of workers staged angry protests.

Double tragedy

Australian cricket legend Sam Loxton suffered a double tragedy when his wife
drowned and his son was killed by a shark on the same day.

Mr Loxton, 80, was a member of the 1948 Invincibles and a long-time national
selector.

His wife Joan was found floating in the swimming pool at the family's Gold Coast
home at 2.15pm on Tuesday, while son Michael, 47, was attacked by a six-metre
shark and died just 15 minutes later in Fiji.

Bomb death

Basque terrorists were blamed for a bomb attack in North East Spain that killed
a local politician today.

Francisco Cano, a member of the ruling centre-right Popular Party, was a
councillor in Viladecavalls, in the Catalonian region north of Barcelona.

It was not clear if the blast was from a car bomb or an explosive device
attached to the underside of Cano's car.

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                        Copyright 2000 Leicester Mercury

                              284 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               December 15, 2000

Car bomb attack foiled in Belfast

BYLINE: Rosie Cowan Ireland correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 11

LENGTH: 579 words


Police arrested two men and intercepted a bomb, thought to have been the work of
dissident republicans, in the centre of Belfast yesterday, hours after President
Clinton had left the city with promises of US help in a crackdown on renegade
terrorists.

The device, in a plastic box in a holdall, contained 1.5lbs of Semtex with a
timer, ready for use. Security sources said it was probably intended as an
under-car booby trap, to kill a particular individual rather than for a large
scale attack.

The RUC, acting on intelligence, swooped on a car which they believe had been
driven from west Belfast, and detectives were last night questioning two
suspects, aged 16 and 21, at Gough barracks, Armagh.

The previous night, President Clinton, speaking in the city's pounds 93m Odyssey
arena, had pledged utmost co-operation with British and Irish authorities to
root out terrorists opposed to the Good Friday agreement.

The RUC chief constable, Sir Ronnie Flanagan, and the Northern Ireland
secretary, Peter Mandelson, had earlier warned of the danger of dissident
violence, both in Northern Ireland and in mainland Britain.

Police fear the device could have been aimed at a loyalist or Protestant target,
in an attempt to escalate sectarian attacks. A Protestant taxi driver, Trevor
Kell, and a Catholic workman, Gary Moore, were shot dead last week.

Another murder the day after President Clinton's high profile farewell visit
would have been assured maximum publicity.

Sinn Fein wants the government to scale down security, particularly in the
republican heartland of South Armagh. This is one of the disputes stalling the
peace process, along with nationalists' call for the full implementation of the
Patten policing reforms. Yesterday's find will add weight to the unionist
argument that the dissident threat remains too great to contemplate further
demilitarisation.

Ken Maginnis, the Ulster Unionist party's spokesman on security, said: "The
greatest injustice to society as a whole is that Patten has failed to take into
consideration the levels of criminality and terrorism, and the changes are being
made in a virtual vacuum."

Les Rodgers, chairman of the Police Federation, which represents most of the
RUC's 13,000 officers, was furious that his members were not told details of the
plan to implement recommendations in the police bill before they leaked to the
media.

The plan sets out a recommended timetable for change, including merging special
branch and CID by April, shutting the Gough interrogation centre by autumn, and
phasing out the full time reserve force by early 2002.

"This bomb doesn't augur well," said Mr Rodgers. "We need officers on the
ground."

*Mr Mandelson is to challenge a decision to free the loyalist leader Johnny
Adair, who was re-imprisoned five months ago because of his alleged influence on
an internecine feud which has claimed seven lives since.

The sentence review commission, set up under the Good Friday agreement to rule
on the early release of paramilitary prisoners, issued a preliminary finding
that the Ulster Freedom Fighter leader should be allowed out of jail.

Lawyers for the prison service are to contest this. Adair's counsel will put his
case at a hearing at Maghaberry prison, Co Antrim, where he is held.

The Ulster Democratic party chairman, John White, a close friend of Adair's,
insisted the UFF leader is now a firm supporter of the peace process.


LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              285 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                               December 17, 2000

WARNING AFTER 'JUICE CARTON' CAR BOMBING; BRITON MAIMED IN THIRD SAUDI BLAST

BYLINE: BY MICHAEL THEODOULOU MIDDLE EAST CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 483 words


Britons in Saudi Arabia were warned to be extra vigilant last night after an
expatriate worker was maimed in another mysterious bomb attack.

It was the third explosion targeting Britons in less than a month, renewing
fears that anti-Western terrorists are singling out the 26,000-strong British
community.

David Brown, from Edin-burgh, suffered severe hand and eye injuries when he
stopped to remove a small parcel resembling a juice carton from his car
windscreen. It exploded in his right hand.

Yesterday the Coca-Cola manager in his mid-30s was in hospital in the capital,
Riyadh, where he underwent surgery. His wife Jo was not hurt.

Last night Bashar al-Qadi of Coca-Cola said: "His condition is not
life-threatening but he has sustained burns on his face and other parts of his
body.

"He's a very nice chap, very outgoing and is very, very well-liked in the
company."

The Browns married in Bahrain last year and have a baby daughter, Lucy. Mr Brown
has worked for Coca-Cola for three years and lived in Saudi Arabia for more than
two years.

Last night Foreign Office Minister Peter Hain said: "It's the third such
incident, and it's too early to say whether it is part of a pattern, but you
can't ignore one incident after another, which is why we have had a British
police team out there investigating the situation with the Saudi authorities."

The blast came just days after Jane Rodway returned home to Gloucestershire with
the body of her husband Christopher, 48, who had been an engineer for a military
hospital. He was killed by a car bomb in Riyadh on November 17 - six days before
three Britons and an Irish woman were injured by another car bomb in the Saudi
capital.

The Saudi authorities, who often try to play down threats to the kingdom's
security, blamed personal, rather than political, motives for the first two
attacks.

But a third bombing - and in a different city - will raise concern that the
attacks are the work of terrorists angered by the kingdom's close ties with
Britain and America. Anti-American sentiment across the Arab world has been high
because of Israel's heavy-handed military response to the Palestinian uprising.

Following the Palestinian uprising, some Saudis have begun boycotting US
products and retail outlets, with Coca- Cola and Burger King among the targets.

Mr Hain acknowledged the possibility that Britain's tough stance on Iraq could
also be a factor. British and American jets based in the kingdom police no-fly
zones over Iraq and frequently bomb targets there in response to challenges from
Saddam Hussein's anti-aircraft gunners.

Several suspects have been held for last month's attacks, though none has been
charged. Among them is US citizen Michael Sedlak, who lived in the same compound
as the targeted Britons and allegedly had a grudge against some of them - a
claim that is denied.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2000 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              286 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                               December 17, 2000

WARNING TO BRITISH AFTER CAR EXPLOSION; SCOT IS HURT IN THIRD SAUDI BOMB

BYLINE: BY MICHAEL THEODOULOU MIDDLE EAST CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 651 words


BRITONS in Saudi Arabia were warned to be extra vigilant last night after an
expatriate worker was maimed in another mysterious bomb attack.

It was the third explosion targeting Britons in less than a month, renewing
fears that terrorists are singling out the 26,000-strong British community.

David Brown, from Edinburgh, suffered severe hand and eye injuries when he
stopped to remove a small parcel resembling a juice carton from his car
windscreen. It exploded in his right hand.

Foreign Office minister Peter Hain insisted the bombers must be caught "as soon
as possible".

Mr Brown, a customer services manager for Coca Cola International who is in his
mid-30s, was taken to hospital in the eastern city of Al-Khobar and later
transferred to a specialist clinic in the capital, Riyadh, where he was
undergoing surgery yesterday. His wife Jo was not hurt.

"His condition is not life-threatening but he has sustained burns on his face
and other parts of his body," said Bashar al-Qadi, Coca Cola International's
Public Affairs manager.

The Browns married in Bahrain last year and have a baby daughter, Lucy. He has
worked for Coca Cola for three years and has lived in Saudi Arabia for more than
two years.

"He's a very nice chap, very outgoing and is very well-liked in the company,"
said Qadi.

Mr Hain refused to speculate on the motive. "It's the third such incident and
it's too early to say whether it is part of a pattern, but you can't ignore one
incident after another, which is why we have had a British police team out there
investigating the situation with the Saudi authorities," he said. He stressed
the Saudis were co-operating fully with British officials, but called for a
speedy resolution to their investigation.

The blast came just days after Briton Jane Rodway returned home to
Gloucestershire with the body of her husband Christopher, who was killed in a
car bomb attack in Riyadh on November 17. Five days later, three Britons and an
Irish woman were injured when a bomb tore through their car in the Saudi
capital.

Since then, Britons living in the kingdom have been issued with special security
advice, especially covering cars. Saudi authorities, which often try to play
down threats to security, have maintained the first two attacks were inspired by
personal rather than political motives.

But a third bombing - and in a different city - will raise concern that the
attacks are the work of terrorists angered by the kingdom's close ties with
Britain and America. Anti-American sentiment across the Arab world has been high
because of Israel's heavy-handed military response to the Palestinian uprising.

Mr Hain acknowledged the possibility that Britain's tough stance on Iraq could
also be a factor. "Our policy in Iraq of confronting Saddam Hussein's brutality
has evoked a lot of criticism in the region. This may or may not be related, but
I think Britain is seen as a fair-minded player in the whole of the Middle
East," he said. Not all Arab observers agree, however, with many insisting
Britain's foreign policy is too closely aligned to America's. There was a bomb
attack against the British embassy in Yemen in October but no casualties.

Several suspects have been detained for the November car-bombings although none
have been charged. They include American Michael Sedlak, who lived on the same
compound as the targeted Britons and had financial disagreements with some of
them, Saudi newspaper Al-Eqtisadiah has claimed.

But the victims in all three attacks also had connections that may have made
them targets for anti-Western militants.

Mr Rodway, 48, worked for a military hospital. The two other British men injured
in the second attack worked for Al Salam, a Saudi company 50 per cent owned by
Boeing, the American aircraft giant. And Mr Brown worked for Coca Cola, a symbol
of the American way of life.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2000 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              287 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                                Sunday Business

                               December 17, 2000

BOY STABBED IN RACIST ATTACK

BYLINE: Ross Hawkins;

SECTION: Pg. 20

LENGTH: 674 words


Boy stabbed in racist attack

A 13-YEAR-OLD boy was fighting for his life yesterday after being stabbed
repeatedly in what is thought to be a racist attack.

Danny Herbert, a mixed-race boy, was in a critical but stable condition in Guy's
Hospital after the attack in Littlehampton, West Sussex. He was discovered
covered in blood on a roadside verge early on Friday morning.

Saudi safety warning

THE Foreign Office warned Britons in Saudi Arabia to take extra precautions
yesterday as it revealed another British visitor was injured by a car bomb.

David Brown from Scotland underwent surgery on Friday night after the explosion
at Al Khobar in the east of the country. Police said it was too early to say
whether the explosion was linked to two bomb attacks on Britons in the country
last month.

Papal protest

FAR-RIGHT Austrian politician Jurg Haider sparked protests as he met the Pope in
Rome yesterday.

Haider presented the Vatican with a Christmas tree. The Italian government had
earlier denounced as "unacceptable" Haider's allegation that Italy's immigration
policies were too lax.

Two remanded

A MAN and a youth were remanded in custody yesterday on charges linked to the
discovery of a bomb in a car in Belfast on Thursday.

Sean Paul Magee, 21, and a 16-year-old were charged with malicious and unlawful
possession of explosive substances. They were also charged with the possession
of articles or documents likely to be of use to terrorists.

Rail recovering

RAIL services will be 85% back to normal by the end of January, Railtrack's
recently appointed chief executive, Steve Marshall, said yesterday. But
passengers will have to wait until Easter before services are fully restored, he
said.

Driver arrested

A MAN was arrested yesterday in connection with a crash that killed two
pedestrians, thought to be students, as they returned from a night out in
Nottingham.

A man and a woman, both 20, died after the accident which took place shortly
after 2am yesterday. Both received multiple injuries after being hit by a
Peugeot 306 travelling the wrong way up a one-way street.

Belfast shooting

A BELFAST man, 22, was abducted and shot five times in a paramilitary-style
attack early yesterday morning. He was taken to hospital after suffering gunshot
wounds to both ankles, both wrists and an elbow.

Hunt for gunman

WEST MIDLANDS police yesterday launched a hunt for a gunman who shot dead one
man and left another injured in a street attack in Birmingham on Friday night.

A 38-year-old man died from his injuries while a 30-year-old was comfortable in
hospital after receiving a gunshot wound, police said.

Home Office sorry

THE Home Office yesterday apologised to a refugee who was told Jack Straw
thought his claim to be an Afghanistan national was a "pile of pants".

The phrase was used in a formal letter refusing asylum earlier this month. The
Home Office said the letter was sent by mistake.

Bahrain poll pledge

BAHRAIN'S emir yesterday announced he would install a fully-elected parliament
and hold municipal elections.

The move is the most significant constitutional reform in the island state since
its national assembly was dissolved 25 years ago. Sheikh Hamad bin Isa Al
Khalifa promised the reforms in his national Day speech.

More flood misery

Britain endured another day of flood misery yesterday. Flood warnings were in
place in Maidenhead, Oxford, Gloucester and throughout West Sussex.

The rising water table in the south of England could mean more flooding over the
winter.

US soldier charged

AN Awol American soldier lived in a 15-year-old girl's bedroom wardrobe for
three weeks before being discovered by her mother, it emerged yesterday.

Jeffrey Scott Martin, 26, was found amid blankets, dishes and pictures of the
girl, one of which showed her naked. He had been on the run from his army unit
in Kentucky on 15 October.

He was arrested and charged with corrupting a minor and illegally using a minor
in nudity-orientated material.


LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2000 Sunday Business Group

                              288 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Mirror

                           December 17, 2000, Sunday

I THOUGHT CAR BOMB WAS A DRINK CARTON;
 WHAT SAUDI BLAST VICTIM TOLD POLICE

BYLINE: ISABEL OAKESHOTT

SECTION: Scots Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 453 words

HIGHLIGHT: WARNING: Peter Hain


A SCOTS businessman was seriously injured when terrorists planted a bomb in his
car in Saudi Arabia.

David Brown, from Edinburgh, is undergoing surgery in the Middle East after the
device blew up in his hand.

He mistook it for an empty soft-drink carton and was trying to remove it from
the car windscreen when it exploded.

Mr Brown, a customer services manager for Coca-Cola International, was with his
wife when the blast happened. She was not hurt in the attack.

Mr Brown, who is in his thirties, was rushed to hospital in al-Kohbar, in
eastern Saudi, where the attack happened on Friday, and he was treated for
burns.

He was later transferred to the King Khaled Eye Specialist Hospital in the
capital Riyadh.

Bashar al-Qadi, Coca-Cola's International Public Affairs Manager for the Middle
East and North Africa, said: "We are concerned about David's condition at this
stage, but we are not speculating on motives.

"His condition is not life-threatening, but he has sustained burns on his face
and other parts of his body." Last night, Foreign Office officials urged British
citizens in the area to be on their guard.

The incident is the latest in a series of attacks on British nationals in Saudi
Arabia and has raised fears that Islamic fundamentalists are singling out
British expatriates for a campaign of terror.

Last month a car bomb killed Briton Christopher Rodway, 48, and wounded his wife
Jane. The hospital engineer from Gloucestershire died instantly when his
four-wheel drive vehicle exploded. Five days later, on November 22, a bomb
exploded in another car, wounding three British aviation workers, including a
woman.

So far, nobody has claimed responsibility for the bombs.

Foreign Office minister Peter Hain said: "This is very serious and I don't want
to speculate on who is responsible.

"It is the third such incident, and it's too early to say whether it is part of
a pattern.

"But you cannot ignore one incident after another, which is why we have had a
British police investigating the situation with the Saudi authorities.

"We have issued special advice on extra security, especially with cars, to make
sure people check and remain vigilant."

Saudi police arrested an American, Michael Sedlak, but have since admitted that
they have no proof he was responsible.

It remains a mystery why the British are being targeted, but one suggestion is
because of the UK's relationship with Iraq.

Mr Hain said: "Our policy in Iraq of confronting Saddam Hussein's brutal regime
evoked a lot of criticism in the region.

"This may or may not be related, but I think Britain is seen as a fair-minded
player in the whole of the Middle East."

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.

                              289 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                           December 18, 2000, Monday

SIGHT WORRY FOR VICTIM OF SAUDI BLAST

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 279 words


A BRITON injured in a car bomb in Saudi Arabia may lose the sight of one eye.

David Brown from Scotland suffered severe facial injuries following the blast at
Al Khobar in the east of the country on Friday.

Mr Brown, a customer services manager for Coca-Cola International, was in the
car with his wife who escaped unhurt.

An explosive device packed into what appeared to be a fruit juice carton had
been placed near the windscreen of his car and detonated as Mr Brown - in his
mid 30s - tried to remove it.

He is being treated at the King Khaled Eye Specialist Hospital in the capital,
Riyadh.

A spokesman for the Foreign Office said: "I can confirm he has severe facial
injuries but, at this stage, I can't confirm that he has lost sight in one eye."

It is understood that the burn injuries were so severe that permanent injury was
likely.

Derek Plumbly, Britain's ambassador in Saudi Arabia, said that Mr Brown would be
transferred to Britain for further treatment if necessary.

Bashar Al Qadi, Coca-Cola International's public affairs manager for the Middle
East and North Africa, said: "His condition is not life-threatening but he has
sustained burns on his face and other parts of his body.

"We are concerned about David's condition at this stage.

"We are not speculating about the motives."

The Foreign Office has warned British expat- riates in Saudi Arabia to be "extra
vigilant" following the explosion.

Officials refused to speculate on whether the bomb attack - the third on Britons
in Saudi Arabia in a month - was being treated as a part of a new terrorist
campaign.

No-one has admitted the three attacks.

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2000 Century Newspapers Limited

                              290 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                      December 18, 2000, Monday Edition 1

Bomb victim severely injured

SECTION: INTERNATIONAL NEWS, Pg. 14

LENGTH: 209 words

Saudi arabia: a Briton injured in a car bomb attack in Saudi Arabia may lose the
sight in one eye as a result of the explosion, it was reported yesterday. David
Brown, from Scotland, suffered severe facial injuries in the blast at Al Khobar
in the east of the country on Friday. Mr Brown, a customer services manager for
Coca-Cola International, was in the car with his wife, who escaped unhurt. An
explosive device packed into what appeared to be a fruit juice carton had been
placed near the windscreen of his car and detonated as Mr Brown - in his mid 30s
- tried to remove it. He was being treated at the King Khaled Eye Specialist
Hospital in the capital Riyadh, according to the Gulf Times. A spokesman for the
Foreign Office said: "I can confirm he has severe facial injuries but at this
stage I can't confirm that he has lost sight in one eye." It is understood
however that the burn injuries were so severe that permanent injury was likely.
Derek Plumbly, Britain's ambassador in Saudi Arabia, said Mr Brown would be
transferred to Britain for further treatment if necessary.  Officials refused to
speculate on whether the bomb attack - the third on Britons in Saudi Arabia in a
month - was being treated as a part of a terrorist campaign.

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2000

                Copyright 2000 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              291 of 299 DOCUMENTS



                              Screen International

                            December 18, 2000 Monday

Bronco's Flying Scotsman secures lottery backing

BYLINE: Allan Hunter in Edinburgh

SECTION: ARTICLE; Categories.Industry / Corporate

LENGTH: 137  words


Bronco Films' $5m The Flying Scotsman was the main beneficiary of the latest
Scottish Screen Lottery Panel Awards, receiving a production grant of $738,000
(£500,000).

Described by producer Peter Broughan as "Chariots Of Fire meets The Full Monty",
the film tells the inspirational true story of world champion cyclist Graham
Obree. Part of an ambitious Bronco slate, the project is scheduled to shoot in
the Spring of 2001. A director and cast will be announced shortly.

Hart Ryan Scotland was also awarded $443,000 (£300,000) towards its drama
documentary Gas Attack which is being produced for Channel 4 and depicts a
Britain vulnerable to sustained terrorist attack.

The Panel announced six awards in total, including $111,000 (£75,000) each to
the short film schemes 81/2 run by Antonine Films and G-Mac run by Cineworks.

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: Screen International


                            Copyright 2000 Emap Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              292 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           December 24, 2000, Sunday

CLINTON AND ADAMS IN SECRET ARMS TALKS

BYLINE: Colin Brown And David Mckittrick

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 351 words


PRESIDENT BILL Clinton is engaged in secret talks with Sinn Fein leaders in a
last gasp attempt to break the arms deadlock with the IRA.

Mr Clinton, who made a goodwill visit to Northern Ireland before Christmas, has
held direct talks with the Sinn Fein leader, Gerry Adams, to put further
pressure on the IRA to announce it is beginning to decommission its weapons.

London and Dublin are urgently seeking a fresh IRA statement after the report by
the decommissioning body headed by General John de Chastelain that no progress
had been made on the issue.

Both governments fear that David Trimble, the First Minister of the Northern
Ireland Executive, could be toppled as leader of his Ulster Unionist Party if
the IRA does not move within the next two weeks.

Tony Blair will send his chief of staff, Jonathan Powell, back to Ulster this
week for a second round of talks with Sinn Fein to try to force the pace. They
are seeking a fresh statement from the IRA about its willingness to abandon its
weapons in return for the demolition of more of the disputed army watch towers
in republican areas, and the withdrawal of more troops as part of the
"demilitarisation" of the province.

One option being floated by Dublin and London is for the IRA to announce that it
will concrete over the secret arms dumps that have been visited by General de
Chastelain. That could trigger more measures by the British Government in
"sequencing" moves, including the introduction of reforms to the RUC to reassure
republicans.

Mr Clinton has assured Downing Street that he will use the CIA, the FBI and US
listening bases in Britain to combat the threat from dissident republicans in
the breakaway Real IRA who are trying to blow apart the peace process with
renewed terrorist attacks.

London and Dublin are anxious to reach a breakthrough before Mr Clinton leaves
office on 20 January. Mr Trimble was told by Downing Street in the past few days
that a breakthrough could happen this week, but the Dublin government believes
it will take another week before the IRA is ready to make a move.

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2000 Independent Print Ltd

                              293 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           December 26, 2000, Tuesday

MET CHIEF REIGNITES ROW OVER POLICE NUMBERS

BYLINE: Jason Bennetto

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 596 words


BRITAIN'S BIGGEST police force is having to pull its officers off the beat to
help answer 999 calls and carry out administrative duties because of a deepening
recruitment crisis.

Sir John Stevens, the Commissioner of the Metropolitan Police, says the manpower
shortage is so acute that his force is having to "prioritise" more than ever,
turning a blind eye to most minor drugs offences in London.

He also concedes that the Met remains "bruised" by the fallout of the Macpherson
report on the murder of the black teenager Stephen Lawrence, and he pledges to
go on a morale-boosting tour of his staff in the new year.

Sir John's comments, in an interview with The Independent, are certain to
reignite the dispute between Labour and the Tories that erupted in response to
the killing last month of Damilola Taylor, 10, in south-east London.

The Tory leader, William Hague, linked low police morale since the Macpherson
inquiry into the Lawrence murder, and chronic under-resourcing of the force, to
the death of Damilola.

Sir John said: "The person taking cannabis can never be a priority for the
police at the moment, with the priorities and resources we have got. That's
common sense.

"If you are talking about people's personal smoking of cannabis, if we enforced
that law on every single occasion, we would have a cannabis problem at the
moment, and where would we go in terms of drugs that are causing turf wars
between gangs, drugs that are changing people's behaviour?"

He stressed that while he was not advocating the legalisation or
decriminalisation of cannabis, he felt there should be a wider debate on the
issue.

There were nearly 114,000 seizures of cannabis in 1998 in England and Wales and
a similar number of people were prosecuted for cannabis possession. The Met area
accounted for 27,000 seizures.

The Commissioner said the problem of having to prioritise had arisen because of
falling police numbers, with his force losing 790 officers in the past six
months to a total of 25,399 officers - more than 2,500 down from six years ago.

He said that by February the Met would also be short of 1,000 civilians. "We
have had to take 200 officers off the street to do office duties and deal with
things like 999 calls to ensure we provide a proper service ... and that really
is just not on," he said. "We have got visible policing and officers patrolling,
obviously those are the types of things that will go first," he said, giving the
example of policing on Oxford Street in central London.

He said a big rise in shootings and murder involving drug gangs, and a security
alert over fears of further terrorist attacks by dissident Irish republicans had
also forced the Met to take officers off the street, including from the housing
estate in Peckham where Damilola Taylor was stabbed to death.

"What happens is the visible patrolling on the street declines because of the
priorities and increase demands. So you talk about three officers down to two on
the estate where Damilola was murdered in Peckham," he said.

The growth in youth gangs, whose only way to obtain status was through acts of
criminality, were party blamed, by the Commissioner, for the big rise in street
crime in London.

He also agreed that some of his officers were demoralised by the criticism that
followed the Macpherson report. "In any organisation that's been the first
institution in this country to be found guilty of institutionalised racism -
whatever that means in the Macpherson test - of course people are going to be
bruised."

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Sir John Stevens: Admits 'acute manpower shortage'

                      Copyright 2000 Independent Print Ltd

                              294 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           December 26, 2000, Tuesday

Bomb squads on alert over holidays

BYLINE: Michael Evans

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 413 words


ARMY bomb disposal teams are on full alert because of intelligence fears that
the dissident Real IRA terrorist group might mount an attack during the holiday
period.

Bomb experts on alert include 621 Squadron, part of the Royal Logistic Corps,
based at RAF Northolt, west of London. It is one of five squadrons. The Northolt
bomb disposal team, under the command of Major Richard Maybery, covers London
and the South East. London is regarded as one of the key target areas for the
Real IRA and the squadron has a wealth of experience in rendering devices safe.

The bomb disposal men are among thousands of military personnel who are on duty
over the holiday period in the United Kingdom and all over the world. For the
first time at Christmas, several hundred soldiers have been on operational duty
in Sierra Leone following the Government's agreement to continue training the
Sierra Leonean Army. The MoD said that about 600 British military personnel were
serving in Sierra Leone, including 300 members of the 2nd Battalion Royal Gurkha
Rifles who recently took over the training role at Benguema camp, about 25 miles
out of Freetown, the capital. Also on duty in Sierra Leone are HMS Iron Duke, a
Royal Navy Type 23 frigate with a crew complement of 174, and the Royal Fleet
Auxiliary support ship, Grey Rover, with 54 on board.

Elsewhere overseas, RAF Jaguars and Tornados are patrolling the northern and
southern no-fly zones over Iraq, the Royal Navy's ice patrol ship, HMS
Endurance, is in South Georgia in the South Atlantic, with two other support
vessels in the Falklands area, and HMS Cumberland, a Type 22 frigate,
accompanied by Royal Fleet Auxiliary Orangeleaf, is in the Gulf.

Maintaining Britain's round-the-clock independent nuclear deterrent patrol, one
of the four Vanguard class Trident ballistic missile submarines is on duty
beneath the ocean. For the first time, about 50 Ministry of Defence police are
in Kosovo this Christmas, backing up the 3,500 British troops serving in the
Yugoslav province with the Nato-led Kosovo Force (Kfor). The number of soldiers
in Bosnia has been reduced to 2,000 but this Christmas is the ninth spent by
British troops in the former Yugoslavia.

An MoD spokesman said: "Wherever possible we have stood people down or brought
them home so that, after a year which has seen operations in the Balkans,
Kosovo, Northern Ireland, the Gulf and Sierra Leone, they can spend time with
their families."


LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2000 Times Newspapers Limited

                              295 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               December 28, 2000

British man named as bomber who killed 10

BYLINE: Emma Brockes

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 305 words


A British man has been named by an Islamic newspaper as the suicide bomber
responsible for killing nine other people in a bomb attack in Kashmir on
Christmas Day.

Zarb-i-Momin, the weekly mouthpiece for the militant Islamic group Jaish
Mohammed, claimed in a special edition that Birmingham-born Mohammed Bilal, 24,
achieved "martyrdom" this week by loading a stolen car with explosives and
detonating himself outside an Indian army barracks in Srinagar.

The blast killed six Indian soldiers and three Kashmiris, in Pakistan's struggle
to free Kashmir from Indian rule.

Mohammed Bilal, a former student from the West Midlands, is thought to have left
Britain to join the separatist movement in Pakistan six years ago, where he
received military training from the militant faction, Harkat-ul Ansar.

While the Foreign Office said it was investigating the claims alongside the
Indian authori ties, Islamic leaders in Britain were swift to reject them.

Sheikh Omar Bakri Mohammed, leader of the radical al-Muhajiroun group based in
north London, said last night: "It is quite possible that a British Muslim was
involved in the car bomb, but Mohammed Bilal is not the correct name."

He added: "Bilal refers to whole divisions of fighters, it is a name dating back
to ancient times. It does not refer to one man."

Omar Mohammed confirmed that his organisation sends out "freedom fighters" from
Britain to Kashmir on a regular basis, and that the last batch, a group of 23-
and 24-year-olds, left some two weeks before Christmas.

It was "quite possible", he said, that one among their number had been involved
in the attack.

He said that 2,000 British Muslims go abroad each year to join armed Islamic
organisations and that 20% of them head for Kashmir to engage in the war against
Indian rule.


LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              296 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           December 29, 2000, Friday

Young Britons heed the call to arms for holy war Idealism and sense of duty spur
recruits to go abroad for weapons training, report Peter Foster and Maurice
Weaver

BYLINE: By Peter Foster and Maurice Weaver

SECTION: Pg. 06

LENGTH: 691 words

FOR young second- or third-generation Muslims growing up in centres of ethnic
Asian population such as London or Birmingham the perceived obligation to a
spiritual homeland far away can be a potent influence on their lives.

For Kashmiris in Britain, hearing stories of murder, pillage and rape by the
Indian "occupiers" of their disputed country, can sow the seeds of direct
action.

Although dismissed as "the equivalent of the IRA" by the moderate Islamic
Conference Centre yesterday some extremist Muslim groups are prepared to offer
an outlet for their anger.

Sheikh Omar Bakri Mohammed, leader of the London-based Al-Muhajiroun group,
explained the process by which young Muslims in Britain come to forsake
comfortable Western lives to follow the romantic notion of fighting a Jihad, or
holy war.

"We find young men in university campuses or Mosques, invite them for a meal and
discuss the situation for on-going attacks being suffered by Muslims in
Chechnya, Palestine or Kashmir.

"We . . . make them understand their duty to support the Jihad struggle
verbally, financially and, if they can, physically in order to liberate their
homeland."

The efforts of Al-Muhajiroun are co-ordinated through the internet with sites
which promise to answer the prayers and questions of zealous young Muslims who
wish to "travel abroad".

One such site yesterday included the FAQ (frequently asked question): "I want to
go and fight in Chechnya. How do I get there?" Potential recruits were advised
first to train and then contact members of their own communities.

Mindful of increased surveillance by security services, the instructions read:
"You will know these people and they will know you . . . you should only speak
in confidence to those whom you trust." Sheikh Omar Bakri Mohammed, who says he
has worked as an activist in Britain for almost 15 years, was open yesterday
about the volunteers who seek training abroad.

"We estimate that between 1,800 and 2,000 go abroad for military training every
year. They either go for national service in Pakistan or to "private camps" in
South Africa, Nigeria or Afghanistan where they learn of weapons and explosives.

"The recruitment really began when Muslims in Britain saw what was happening to
their brothers in Bosnia." More recently, he added, America, with its liberal
gun laws, had become a favoured destination. "If we go to Afghanistan you in the
West call us 'terrorists', but when we go to America for the same purpose we are
'tourists'. We have no military training in Britain."

Funding for these expeditions, inevitably tinged with glamour for young men such
as Mohammed Bilal, comes from a supportive local community, he adds.

Bakri Mohammed is confident that the new Terrorism Act 2000 will not affect his
group because he does not support terrorist activity.

However when asked if he considered the Christmas Day bombing in Kashmir to be a
"terrorist activity" he replied. "Of course it is not terrorism. It was an act
against gangsters who have no respect for the sanctity of life."

The British security services and police may soon take a different view when the
Terrorism Act 2000 is implemented in February.

Already in Birmingham attempts are being made to curb the fund-raising and
recruiting by "front" organisations.

The arrest of eight British men of Yemeni extraction for alleged terrorist
activity in the Yemen last year focused attention on the problem of the
involvement of British Muslims in militant overseas politics.

In June an Islamic bookshop in Sparkhill, Birmingham, was raided by West
Midlands Police and MI5. A large amount of cash and CD-Roms were taken and the
garden of a terrace house excavated.

Last month explosives were removed from a property in Hay Mills, Birmingham, and
destroyed.

Ahmed Versi, editor of the London-based newspaper Muslim News, said only a tiny
minority of Muslims became involved in such events. But tensions, he added, were
rising as Muslim communities felt increasingly persecuted by the British state.
"Birmingham is a very highly charged area. There is a lot of anger among young
Muslims."
[PS]News: [ES]

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 Telegraph Group Limited

                              297 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           December 29, 2000, Friday

Muslims still looking for martyrs

BYLINE: By Peter Foster and Ahmed Rashid in Lahore

SECTION: Pg. 06

LENGTH: 372 words

MUSLIM splinter groups operating in Britain will continue to recruit young men
for military training abroad despite the introduction of tough new
anti-terrorist legislation, an extremist Muslim cleric said yesterday.

Sheikh Omar Bakri Mohammed, the leader of the London-based Al-Muhajiroun group,
said young men who joined Islamic conflicts in Chechnya, Afghanistan or Kashmir
were fulfilling their "religious obligations".

He pledged to continue to recruit young Muslims on a voluntary basis from
universities and mosques for "military service" in the pursuit of a world
Islamic state.

"This is what you in the West call National Service. It is part of a young
Muslim's religious obligations to go for three months' military training. This
is a voluntary thing."

His comments came after a 24-year-old British Muslim was named as the suicide
car-bomber who killed 10 people outside an Indian army barracks in Kashmir on
Christmas Day. Mohammed Bilal, a member of Jaish Mohammed, an Islamic splinter
group, was said to have grown up in Birmingham but underwent military training
in Pakistan five years ago.

Jaish and other militant Pakistani groups such as Lashkar-e-Tayaba are believed
to have become significant recruiters and fundraisers from among the Pakistani
and Kashmiri community in Britain.

The attack was the latest incident in a wave of violent Muslim opposition to
Indian rule in the divided Himalayan state. Prayers were being said yesterday in
mosques controlled by militant Pakistani Islamic groups, hailing Bilal as a
"martyr for Islam".

The British Government is coming under increasing pressure to curb the
activities of extremist groups who conspire to commit terrorist offences abroad
after growing fears that Britain was becoming a centre for the funding and
recruitment of Islamic terrorist organisations.

Under the Terrorism Act 2000, scheduled to come into force on Feb 19, police are
to be given new powers to tackle organisations which, while not breaking British
laws, help terrorists abroad. The new provisions will make it illegal to raise
funds for known terrorist groups and, crucially, to invite someone to receive
terrorist training even though that training may take place abroad.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 Telegraph Group Limited

                              298 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               December 29, 2000

British Muslims take path to jihad: Kashmir terror group claims suicide bomber
was from Birmingham

BYLINE: Jeevan Vasagar and Vikram Dodd

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1017 words


Hundreds of young British Muslims have fought for religious causes around the
world, an Islamic leader claimed yesterday, following reports naming a student
from Birmingham as the suicide bomber who killed eight people in Kashmir on
Christmas Day.

Kashmiri guerrilla fighters Jaish-e-Mohammed named the bomber as Bilal Ahmed,
24, and said that he had packed a stolen car with explosives before blowing
himself up outside an Indian army barracks in Srinagar.

The attack - which killed up to six Indian soldiers and three Kashmiri students
returning home to celebrate a Muslim holiday - was one of a series intended to
derail a ceasefire announced by India during the Islamic holy month of Ramadan.

The Foreign Office has not confirmed the bomber's identity and doubt even
surrounds his name, which has also been given as Mohammed Bilal or Abdullah Bai,
the latter thought to be a nom de guerre.

Jaish-e-Mohammed, which means Mohammed's army, is one of the newest and most
active splinter groups opposed to Indian rule in predominantly Muslim Kashmir, a
burning issue not only for residents but also for Kashmiri immigrants and their
children in Britain.

Jaish claims that Bilal was born into a Pakistani family in Birmingham and was a
"nightclub-going lad" until he became a born-again Muslim at 18 after seeing the
Prophet Mohammed in a dream.

Birmingham is a focal point for such recruitment: it was home to three of the
eight Britons jailed in Yemen in 1998 over a terrorist bomb plot, while a
24-year-old Muslim convert from Birmingham was reportedly killed in a US missile
attack on Osama Bin Laden's Afghanistan base.

A striking illustration of the potency of this issue in Britain's second city
came during last summer's local elections, when a party called Justice for
Kashmir increased its representation to five council seats, making it the fourth
largest party group.

Mohammed Ghalib, president of the Birmingham-based lobby group Tehreek-e-Kashmir
UK, said of the suicide bomber: "The story will encourage the youth that this is
a good thing and may encourage them to become more militant. If you call them
terrorists then they'll become terrorists. If Indian army soldiers died in a
bomb attack then most people here wouldn't mind."

Sheikh Omar Bakri-Mohammed, founder of the London-based Islamic group
Al-Muhajiroun, claimed yesterday that around 1,800 British Muslims take part in
"military service" each year, recruited at mosques and university campuses
across the country.

The Syrian-born cleric said the recruits were often undergraduates suffering
from an identity crisis who were persuaded to rediscover their parents' faith
and encouraged to fight against infidel "occupying forces" in Kashmir, Palestine
and Chechnya.

Sacrifice

"People who go from here and sacrifice themselves to Almighty God as human bombs
will achieve martyrdom, and they will go to paradise," he said at a north London
office which he rents under a bogus business name. "The enemy who dies will go
to hellfire."

The British authorities admit they do not know how many British Muslims go
abroad to fight with terrorist groups.

A Home Office spokesman pointed out: "When someone is leaving the country they
do not say at customs they are going to be a terrorist, they say they are going
on holiday."

However, changes to anti-terrorism laws could be used by the courts to prosecute
British-based extremists.

At the moment, if extremist groups do not break any British laws, they are left
free to continue fundraising, recruiting and training.

But when the Terrorism Act 2000 comes into force in February, groups can be
banned, their assets confiscated and their members jailed if it can be proved
they conspired to commit a terrorist offence abroad.

The Labour MP David Winnick, a member of the home affairs select committee, said
he understood the passions that issues such as Kashmir could provoke, but urged
that the legislation be used to crack down on terrorists.

"I take the view that Britain should not under any circumstances be a safe haven
for any sort of terrorist activities.

"While I believe a person has a right to put forward a point of view, I draw the
line at actively promoting activities that could be described as terrorism."

Amir Khan, a spokesman for Birmingham's Justice for Kashmir party, expressed
scepticism about claims that the bomber was from the city as no family members
had come forward to ask for a funeral service at the mosque.

"The Kashmiri community is very closely linked. We haven't heard anyone saying
that anyone from Birmingham has been killed in Kashmir."

But he warned that his party had robbed Labour of safe seats at council
elections because of strong feeling over the divided Himalayan state.

"It's a war going on between the Indian army and Kashmiris. There is a very
strong feeling. Because of the modern media you can turn on CNN and see how many
people died today. I and others left the Labour party because they are
hypocritical on Kashmir. People's roots are in the area and we believe the only
way we can settle this issue is (through) ourselves.

"Roger Godsiff, the MP for Small Heath, hasn't done anything on Kashmir despite
the promises he made before the election when he was campaigning in the balti
houses.

"People feel strongly for their brothers and sisters in Kashmir."

Originally, the Justice for Kashmir party had campaigned for the home secretary
to review the sentences passed on two Kashmiris involved in an assassination
attempt, as well as the broader issue of the war-ravaged province. The group has
now renamed itself the Justice party as a means of widening its appeal to
inner-city areas and ethnic minorities generally.

Joblessness in the Kashmiri community was very high, Mr Khan added, saying that
the 10 poorest council wards in Birmingham were home to the Kashmiri community.

India and Pakistan have fought two wars over Kashmir since 1947. More than
30,000 people have died in the past 12 years in a Kashmir independence campaign.


LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              299 of 299 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               December 29, 2000

The curtain closes on 2000

BYLINE: Lorna Maclaren

SECTION: Pg. 18

LENGTH: 2133 words


Lorna MacLaren looks back on a year

during which Donald Dewar died, Madonna married in the Highlands, and Harry
Potter was the star

JANUARY

The Year 2000, prophesied to bring with it a millennium bug meltdown, suicide
cults, terrorist attacks, the second coming, or the doom-laden wrath of God,
opened rather quietly.

A flu outbreak was the unlikely culprit to cause minor chaos as it reached
epidemic

levels in parts of Scotland and hospitals declared a "red alert".

The first month of the year brought tragedy to those living in the fishing
villages of Garlieston and Isle of Whithorn when seven men on the Solway
Harvester were drowned on one of its weekly trawls of the Irish Sea. Skipper
Craig Mills, 29, his brother Robin, 33, their cousin David Mills, 18, Martin
Milligan, 26, David Lyons, 17, John Murphy, 22, and

Wesley Jolly, 17, all lost their lives.

Business tycoon Brian Souter pledged more than £500,000 in the Keep the Clause
campaign. The debate spread to Westminster as church leaders and politicians
clashed over repealing the clause which banned the promotion of homosexuality in
schools.

The future of Hampden Park and Queen's Park FC, Scotland's oldest senior club,
was thrown into doubt after the club declared

itself insolvent and placed itself in the hands of administrators.

FEBRUARY

SERIAL killer doctor Harold Shipman began life behind bars after being found
guilty of the calculated and cold-blooded murder of 15 of his female patients.

Sister Alphonso, 58, first appeared at Aberdeen Sheriff Court charged with a
catalogue of child abuse at children's homes run by the Catholic Church.

Rhona Brankin, Scottish Executive deputy sports and culture minister, was
diagnosed with breast cancer at the age of 49.

MARCH

An emotional Zoe Ball held back the tears as she wound up her final Radio 1
programme. She announced she would be spending the first weekend off with
husband DJ Norman Cook.

A Scots aircraft plant landed a jumbo jobs boost. Fifteen hundred jobs were
secured at BAe Systems in Ayrshire as the government unveiled a £530m aid
package for a new "super jumbo" to rival the Boeing 747.

A row erupted between Glasgow council officials and their London counterparts,
as 16 families of Romanian refugees who moved north just days before were sent

back to London.

The struggling textile industry in Scotland was dealt a blow when clothing firm
Daks Simpson announced more than 600 jobs

were to go because of the loss of a Marks

& Spencer contract.

Top film at the Oscars was American

Beauty, which scooped five awards.

APRIL

Jeffrey Archer was quizzed by police over allegations that he tried to pervert
the course of justice. Lord Archer was forced to drop out of the race to become
London mayor.

Thomas Brophy was convicted of the rape and murder of Paisley shop girl Laura

Donnelly. Lord Wheatley ordered that Brophy serve at least 20 years.

MAY

Top British racing driver David Coulthard described the minutes before his
chartered Lear jet crashed, killing the two pilots. Coulthard, his fiancee Heidi
Wichlinski, and his personal trainer Andy Matthews had time to prepare for the
impact after the plane diverted to Lyon

airport in France, then scramble to safety after it hit the ground.

Tony Blair was forced to bury years of

unbridled hatred for Ken Livingstone after he was confirmed as London's first
directly-

elected mayor.

Actor Douglas Fairbanks Jr, star of 80 films and a Second World War hero, died
aged 90.

The mass expulsion of tens of thousands of British passport holders from
Zimbabwe remained a threat as the crisis over white ownership of farming land
deepened.

Jack Straw, the home secretary, announced that boxer Mike Tyson would be allowed
into Britain for a fight in Glasgow. The decision sparked an outcry.

Detectives arrested a man over the murder of TV personality Jill Dando in an
early

morning raid.

JUNE

The Queen's Birthday Honours List acknowledged Michael Caine, 67, who received a
knighthood. Prominent Scots honoured include children's author J K Rowling,
singer Lulu, and golf champion Paul Lawrie.

All of Scotland's nine C&A stores, employing around 350 people, were to close
over the next nine months. A further 4450 jobs would disappear with the
scrapping of the 160-year-old group's 100 remaining UK and Irish

outlets. British Aerospace Systems, the UK's biggest defence contractor,
announced it was purging its workforce with an estimated 400 jobs to go in
Scotland, and 3400 more elsewhere. At the same time, 600 workers at two oil -rig
yards were made redundant.

Fifteen people were killed after an overnight fire at a backpackers' hostel in
Australia.

The boxing world led a wave of sustained criticism of Mike Tyson, labelling his
38-

second bout at Hampden a "total farce"' and condemning his behaviour inside and
outside the ring.

JULY

ALL Concorde flights were suspended after 113 people were killed when one of Air
France's supersonic jets crashed moments after taking off from Paris.

Channel 4 screens controversial fly-on-the-wall quiz show Big Brother.

Hollywood golden couple Brad Pitt and

Jennifer Aniston proved they were more than just good friends as they wed at an
ocean-side ceremony in California.

Tony Blair's 16-year-old son, Euan, was arrested for being drunk and incapable.

The most eagerly awaited book of the year went on sale today as hundreds queued
for the latest instalment in J K Rowling's Harry Potter series - Harry Potter
and the Goblet of Fire.

Clyde shipyards won a £1bn defence order - safeguarding at least 1500 jobs.

Police confirmed that a girl's body found in a Sussex field was that of missing
child Sarah Payne. The eight-year-old had been murdered.

Baby food and school dinners may have been the source of the Creutzfeldt-Jakob
Disease now affecting young adults in Britain, claimed Professor Robert Will,
head of the national CJD surveillance unit based in Edinburgh.

AUGUST

SCOTLAND'S teachers were flooded by calls from thousands of worried pupils as
results failed to arrive at many schools.

Staff brought in specially to help were unable to give advice to anxious
youngsters who had received incomplete results.

Veteran journalist Sir Robin Day died. The 76-year-old was best known for his
many years on BBC1's Question Time and Panorama - and his trademark bow tie.

At the High Court in London, Mr Justice Johnson gave surgeons the go-ahead to

separate Siamese twins, against the wishes of their parents.

Rangers landed Dutch star Ronald de Boer, whose lucrative £1.3m-a-year wage deal
made him the highest-paid player in Scotland.

SEPTEMBER

PETROL stations all over the west of Scotland ran dry as the fuel crisis
worsened.

Gordon Brown, the chancellor, was accused of ignoring the growing crisis sparked
by the high cost of fuel.

The shipwrecked boy who was at the centre of the world's most publicised custody
battle has started at a new school in Cuba. Elian Gonzalez joined 900
schoolmates at the Marcelo Salado school in the coastal city of Cardenas, about
90 miles east of Havana.

John Lennon's assassin planned to seek parole at a New York hearing next month -
after almost 20 years in jail. Mark Chapman, 45, is serving life in New York's
notorious Attica prison.

The troubled Millennium Dome was given another £47m to help it stay open until
the end of the year.

Craig, the Scouser, was crowned king of Big Brother after millions of Britons
voted for him to win the £70,000 prize on C4's

phenomenal TV show. The 28-year-old body-building bricklayer beat lesbian ex
-nun Anna to the top slot and confirmed he would be donating his prize money to
help his best friend's cousin have a heart and lung transplant in America.

A massive fireworks display formed a

spectacular backdrop to the Olympic

flame during the opening ceremony of the Sydney Games.

Paula Yates was found dead at her home, just three years after her rock star
lover, Michael Hutchence, committed suicide in 1997.

Nun Marie Theresa Docherty, 58, known as Sister Alphonso, was found guilty in
Aberdeen Sheriff Court of abuse of children aged eight to 17 in her care in the
1960s and 1970s.

Alex Salmond said farewell to his 10-year leadership of the SNP amid much
emotion.

OCTOBER

FIRST minister Donald Dewar died after fighting for his life in hospital
following an apparently innocuous fall on the pavement outside his official
residence in Edinburgh.

Mr Dewar, 63, had been critically ill, and on a life-support machine in the
intensive care unit of the capital's Western General Hospital, with bleeding to
his brain.

Thousands of people gathered to pay tribute at his funeral. Prince Charles,
prime minister Tony Blair, almost all the cabinet, the Scot-

tish Executive, Tory leader William Hague, Liberal Democrats' leader Charles
Kennedy, and Irish prime minister Bertie Aherne

were among 1300 mourners who attended Glasgow Cathedral.

Henry McLeish narrowly won the sprint to succeed Mr Dewar as Scottish Labour
leader and first minister.

Southern Britain was battered with storms and suffered severe flooding in some
parts.

Four people were killed and 35 injured after a train travelling at more than
100mph went off the rails at Hatfield in Hertfordshire. More than 60
firefighters had to help cut victims free from the wreckage.

An anaesthetist who blundered in the treatment of 10-year-old Scots boy Darren
Denholm, who died during a routine dental operation, was found guilty of
"incompetence and neglect". Dr John Evans-Appiah (58) of East London was also
ruled to have botched the anaesthesia of 31-year old Mrs Hazel Woolger during
the Caesarean delivery of her fourth child - leaving her screaming in agony.

NOVEMBER

THE 24-strong board of the Scottish Qualifications Authority will be out of
office shortly it was announced, the latest casualties of the Higher results
fiasco.

Confirmation of the board's departure en masse, probably by voluntary
resignation, came on the eve of the publication of an independent report ordered
by the Scottish Executive into the Higher chaos.

The US election descended into chaos when Al Gore admitted defeat to George W
Bush - only to withdraw the concession an hour later. TV networks said Bush had
won Florida, which held the key to the White House. But they were forced to
backtrack when, with

96 million votes cast nationwide, fewer than 2000 separated the rivals in the
vital state, and it went to a recount.

Scots women alleging rape could be spared the ordeal of being quizzed in court
by the accused. The proposal was among radical moves unveiled by the Scottish
Executive to give women greater protection.

Scotland is set to lose contracts worth millions of pounds with the collapse of
Kvaerner Energy, it was revealed. Union leaders said the world-famous Clydebank
yard had enough work on its books to last up to four years. That work is now
almost certain to go to the Middle East.

The revelation sparked more fury after

news that the yard is to close with the loss of 200 jobs.

Obsessive fan Michael Abram, who attacked ex-Beatle George Harrison and his wife
in their home last December, was detained indefinitely in a secure psychiatric
hospital after a jury found him not guilty of attempted murder by reason of
insanity.

A war of words broke out with accusations that the first jackpot won on ITV's
Who

Wants To Be A Millionaire? had been manipulated to win a ratings war over BBC's
One Foot in the Grave.

Judith Keppel, a 58-year-old relative of Camilla Parker Bowles, became the first
£1m winner after negotiating the 15 questions.

DECEMBER

GEORGE W Bush, the Republican governor of Texas, was this month packing his bags
for the White House. The way was cleared for him to become the 43rd

president of the United States when Al Gore, his Democrat rival, conceded
defeat, having abandoned his recount battle in the courts, and phoned the
president-elect to offer his congratulations.

Kirsty MacColl, the singer-songwriter, died after being struck by a speedboat in
Mexico. The 41-year-old had hits over two decades including Fairytale Of New
York with The Pogues and There's a Guy Works Down the Chipshop Swears He's
Elvis. She was the daughter of Ewan MacColl, the folk singer.

Zoe Ball gave birth to a baby boy whom she named Woody.

Superstar Madonna and her film director boyfriend Guy Ritchie had a fairytale
Christmas wedding at Dornoch in the Highlands. The world's press turned up in
force as the singer and an entourage of famous friends took over Skibo Castle
for the festive season.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: MAN OF THE PEOPLE: there was a national outpouring of emotion in
October when Donald Dewar, Scotland's first minister, died Picture: BRIAN HICKEY

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2000 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited



---- End of Request ----
Download Request: All Documents: (1-299)
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  21:10:58

