



Download Request: Select Items: 1001 - 1500
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  20:58:58
Send To:







Terms: (terror! )


Source: UK Publications
Project ID: None



                               1 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          November 12, 1994, Saturday

Terror threat to Jewish community; Jason Bennetto reports on the findings of a
security review ordered after two bomb attacks earlier this year

BYLINE: JASON BENNETTO

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 7

LENGTH: 611 words


Security measures are to be tightened at synagogues, Jewish schools and
community centres throughout the country after a warning from Scotland Yard that
they face a long- term threat from a Middle- Eastern terror campaign.

Up to 600 buildings, including offices, are believed to be potential targets for
the Islamic extremists. Jewish groups are expected to install new security
devices, such as surveillance cameras.

The move is a response to a warning made in a letter from David Veness,
Assistant Commissioner and overall head of Scotland Yard's Anti-Terrorist Squad
and Special Branch, to the Board of Deputies of British Jews.

He wrote: ''We must think in the longer term. The menace of terrorism motivated
by rejection of peaceful co-existence in the Middle East is real. It would be
wise to achieve security arrangements that will enhance protection over the next
few years.

''Such measures may have the further benefit of addressing non-terrorist
anti-Semitic activity. It is my firm recommendation that the vulnerability of
potential targets should be reduced by significantly enhanced security measures
to combat a threat with which we will all have to cope for the foreseeable
future.''

The letter is a result of a police security review set up in the wake of the
July bombings of the Israeli embassy in Kensington, west London, and the Joint
Israel Appeal in Finchley, north London.

Police protection was stepped up after the attacks, which are believed to have
been carried out by a Palestinian extremist group. At the high-risk sites, such
as the Israeli embassy, 24-hour armed guards are used.

Mr Veness has advised the board to adopt Home Office suggestions on security
against terrorist attacks. They include fitting closed-circuit television and
video recorders, and entryphones.

He lists six areas where security could be improved, including security patrols,
stopping and searching people, better internal security and greater vigilance.
Other suggestions include the use of protective film over windows and bomb
curtains to protect against explosions.

Britain's 300,000-strong Jewish population is concentrated in London,
Manchester, Liverpool, Leeds and Glasgow.

Neville Nagler, the chief executive of the board, said yesterday that where
possible they would be following the guidelines. ''Our community is aware that
there is a threat of further incidents.

''We are concerned about the presence in Britain of Islamic extremist
organisations. We are going to have a concerted effort to have the guidelines
followed.''

On Tuesday, the Indian High Commissioner claimed that Islamic fundamentalist
groups were turning increasingly to UK universities for recruits to train for
terrorist acts.

A statement by the board added: ''Opposition to the peace process, the spread of
revolutionary and anti-Jewish Muslim fundamentalism, and campaigns of violence
by those who are increasingly isolated by the recent positive developments in
the Middle East are all likely catalysts for a long- term campaign of terror.

''Threats to Jewish communities, as well as Israeli interests, continue to be
made by terrorist organisations, in particular, Hizbollah and Hamas.''

Jewish leaders are to complain to the Spectator magazine about an article that
has been described as anti-Semitic and has caused a furore in the US. The
feature, written by William Cash, son of the Tory MP Bill Cash, described
Hollywood's Jews as ''the white-sock mediocracy'' and argued that they now
control large parts of the movie industry.

Mr Cash says he has been misunderstood; he is ''rude and impolite about
everyone''.


LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1994 Independent Print Ltd

                               2 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           November 13, 1994, Sunday

Thatcher considered early release for IRA

BYLINE: By DAVID MCKITTRICK, Ireland Correspondent

SECTION: BRITAIN PAGE; Page 2

LENGTH: 838 words


THE Thatcher Government actively considered the question of early release for
IRA prisoners if a reduction in terrorist violence had been forthcoming,
according to former Irish Prime Minister, Dr Garret FitzGerald.

It is now known that the British and Irish governments held detailed discussions
on reviewing terrorist sentences in the run-up to the 1985 Anglo- Irish
agreement. The Government intended to make a statement in the Commons, but,
according to Dr FitzGerald, Margaret Thatcher ''took fright'' and the idea was
dropped.

The approach taken in 1985 was in marked contrast to the Government's present
position, which is to insist that despite the IRA ceasefire no early releases
are planned.

John Major has repeatedly ruled out an amnesty, while last week the Secretary of
State for Northern Ireland, Sir Patrick Mayhew, declared: ''The judges and
prosecuting authorities are independent. People have been sentenced for very
serious crimes. The law must take its course.'' The authorities have also turned
down requests for longer paroles for more prisoners this Christmas. A spokesman
said: ''The arrangements will continue as they have done in previous years.''

Last week the Irish government announced that nine republican prisoners, held in
the south, would be given early releases, but then reversed this decision in the
wake of the armed robbery in Newry, Co Down, in which a postal worker was shot
dead.

Dr FitzGerald's disclosures, about the 1985 discussions, are set out in his
autobiography, and in a largely unnoticed article a year ago in the Dublin Irish
Times. In these he gives a detailed account of the long and complicated
inter-governmental negotiations that led up to the Anglo-Irish agreement which
he and Mrs Thatcher signed in November 1985.

The issue of prisoner releases was at the time of secondary importance to more
immediate questions, such as measures to build nationalist confidence in the
Northern Ireland judiciary and security forces. None the less, the former Prime
Minister's account made it clear that the matter was considered in some detail.
He said the Irish first proposed a review early in 1985.

In his memoirs he adds: ''The question of a review of sentences in the event of
violence ceasing for a significant period was discussed at the meeting of 15
July, when the British side said they were looking at this idea.''

One formula proposed by the British, he wrote, was a statement to the effect
that a sustained reduction in violence would be taken into account by the
Secretary of State for Northern Ireland in reviewing the release of prisoners
convicted of terrorist crimes.

This was modified at Dublin's suggestion. Dr FitzGerald said his government
agreed to a British proposal that this should emerge in the Commons debate on
the agreement. This was not done, he wrote, because of British concern that it
might aggravate the hostile Unionist reaction to the Anglo-Irish agreement.

Enlarging on this in the Irish Times on 29 December last year, Dr FitzGerald
gave the text of the agreed formulation to be delivered in the Commons: ''If a
substantial and major reduction was sustained over a period of months this would
be among the factors to be taken into account by the Secretary of State for
Northern Ireland in reviewing the release of prisoners who had been convicted of
terrorist crimes.''

The statement was not delivered. Dr FitzGerald attributes this to the fact that
''Margaret Thatcher took fright at the hostile Unionist reaction to the
agreement, and despite the fact that I specifically raised the matter with her
at the time although, perhaps, not pressing it strongly enough.''

Although the issue was quietly laid to rest at that point, it had a sequel in
the Commons in December 1986 in a late-night adjournment debate on prisoners.
Nicholas Scott, who was then Northern Ireland security minister, said that if
terrorist organisations were to renounce violence ''that would obviously affect
the judgement that I and the Northern Ireland Secretary would have to make about
the release of prisoners. If the threat of violence were removed, that would
affect our judgement of the likelihood of prisoners being caught up again in a
campaign of violence.''

Last week a Northern Ireland Office spokeswoman said they had no comment on what
had been said by former ministers. A spokeswoman for Mrs Thatcher also said she
had no comment to make.

Although it received little initial publicity, a system of releases of prisoners
serving life sentences was initiated in the mid-1980s. According to official
statistics, 353 life prisoners have since been released on licence - 161
republicans, 179 loyalists, and 13 non-terrorists. Only one has been
re-convicted of an offence. Most of these were given life sentences for murder.

The question of early releases will be an important part of the Irish peace
process, with both republican and loyalist groups expecting shortened sentences
for their members.


LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1994 Independent Print Ltd

                               3 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               November 15, 1994

Major opens door to peace for loyalists Talks with terrorists depends on an end
to beatings, racketeering, and criminality

BYLINE: Geoffrey Parkhouse, Political Editor

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 433 words


THE Prime Minister last night intensified his efforts to disarm Northern Ireland
terrorists with an offer of talks "before the end of December" with the loyalist
paramilitaries.

The IRA's political representatives are already lined up for exploratory
discussions. But Mr Major insisted: "They must accept democratic practice.
Illegal weapons and explosives must be taken out of commission. There must be an
end to intimidation and punishment beatings. Racketeering and criminality must
end as well."

These, he said, are the "essential conditions for democratic legitimacy". The
"freelance" republican killing of a Newry postal worker last week which might
have endangered the peace process had reinforced the need to deal with the
weapons held by both republican and loyalist paramilitaries.

The Prime Minister chose his key-note speech to the Lord Mayor's banquet in the
City to announce the new move in his attempt to achieve a permanent end to
terrorist violence.

"Tonight, I can tell you that we have decided also to hold exploratory talks
with the loyalist political representatives.

"I hope that these talks too will open before the end of December. The purpose
in both cases is the same: to draw them into democratic politics and out of
violence."

Last night, however, it was unclear to whom Mr Major was referring as "the
loyalist political representatives".

Initial talks will take place with the leaders of small unionist parties who are
expected to represent the proscribed loyalist forces. The paramilitaries
formally announced a ceasefire last month.

The Lord Mayor of Belfast, Mr Hugh Smyth, leader of the Progressive Unionist
Party and Mr Gary McMichael, leader of the Ulster Democratic Party, are likely
to be called in first for talks as the representatives preferred by the
loyalists.

Later, if serious political negotiations begin, there could be a role for Mr
James Molyneaux, the veteran Unionist leader, or the Rev Ian Paisley or both.

Mr Paisley, leader of the Democratic Unionists, has so far boycotted preliminary
discussions, while the Prime Minister appears to have taken Mr Molyneaux into
his confidence.

Peace in Northern Ireland will bring immense economic rewards, Mr Major said.
The ceasefire has held for two months and already the benefits are showing.

Next month's investment conference in Belfast will help provide the economic
growth that can "cut off the oxygen of terrorism". Northern Ireland has a big
stake in what he called the reality of the changing economic and industrial face
of Britain today.

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                               4 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 16, 1994

LOCKERBIE REVISITED: 'BOMB WAS CARRIED BY CIA DRUG MULE'
Film alleges Gadafy was made a scapegoat to cover up Iranian and Lebanese
involvement and a US operation that went wrong: The Maltese Double Cross will be
shown by Tam Dalyell at the Commons today. It casts doubt on Britain's version
of events

BYLINE: Richard Norton-Taylor

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FOREIGN PAGE; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1014 words


OPENING shots of an investigation into the terrorist bombing of a Pan Am jumbo
over the Scottish town of Lockerbie, which killed 270 people, describe how
swarms of United States officials, including FBI agents, rushed to the scene.

David Fieldhouse, an experienced police surgeon whose contract was abruptly
ended last year, explains how labels he had placed on all but two of the bodies
he found were removed. One body, he told the Guardian yesterday, was simply
"spirited away".

It is one of many questions raised by The Maltese Double Cross about the role of
Western intelligence agencies in the events leading up to the bombing on
December 21 1988. The film challenges the official British and US version since
1991, which has been that Libya alone was responsible.

The film, withdrawn this week by the London Film Festival, will be shown in the
Commons today by the Labour MP, Tam Dalyell.  The festival organisers say it was
pulled because "certain statements similar to those made in the film are
currently the subject of legal action".

Michael Hurley, the US Drug Enforcement Agency's former attache to the US
embassy in Cyprus, is suing Bloomsbury, publishers of Trail of the Octopus,
written by a former US defence intelligence agent, Lester Coleman. The book
contradicts denials by the DEA and the CIA that they used Lebanese "assets" to
smuggle heroin to the US via Frankfurt airport.

Mr Coleman fled to Sweden after the US government accused him of perjury in an
affidavit for Pan Am which repeated his story.  The House of Representatives'
judiciary committee recently agreed to look into his claim of persecution by the
US government.

The film, made by Allan Francovich, is controversial partly because it was
produced by a British Virgin Islands-registered company, Hemar Enterprises, a
subsidiary of Metropole Hotels, owned jointly by Lonrho and the Libyan Foreign
Investment Company.

The film suggests the bomb was unwittingly carried on board by Khalid Jaafar, a
Lebanese living in the US who, it says, was a drug-carrier for the CIA and the
DEA. His baggage was either switched or tampered with, and the bomb - hidden in
a Toshiba radio cassette player - was placed inside it at Frankfurt by
Lebanese-based terrorists who had penetrated the DEA.

The original purpose of the drug deliveries was to penetrate Middle East drug
cartels, it is alleged. According to former intelligence agents, the operation
was then used to bargain with terrorists holding US hostages in Lebanon.

A former CIA agent, Oswald Le Winter, says he was approached by Colonel Oliver
North to set up a dirty tricks operation. US National Security documents seen on
the film purport to show that Col North made payments to Monzer al-Kassar, an
alleged drug dealer from north Lebanon.

This version has been linked to two other passengers on the Pan Am flight:
Matthew Gannon, the CIA's deputy station chief in Beirut and allegedly Jaafar's
handler, and Charles McKee, a defence intelligence officer involved in hostage
rescue missions.

The film suggests the bombing was financed by Iran and planned by members of
Ahmed Jibril's then Syrian-based Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine
General Command (PFLC-GC), in revenge for the US's accidental shooting down of
an Iranian airbus over the Gulf in July 1988. This was the view originally held
by Western intelligence agents.

Two months before the bombing, West German police rounded up a PFLP-GC cell,
including Hafez Kassem Dalkamoni, at Neuss, near Frankfurt. One bomb, similar to
the Lockerbie one, was found before the catastrophe. Three bombs inside cassette
recorders were found in later raids. One, perhaps two, bombs disappeared.

Dalkamoni was arrested and is in jail. British intelligence were astonished when
Marwan Khreesat, a PFLP-GC bomb-maker, was released by West German police on
grounds of insufficient evidence. According to the film, Mr Khreesat - now
believed to be living in Jordan - was freed after pressure from the US embassy
in Bonn.

The prevailing view of Western intelligence and Lockerbie investigators between
1989 and 1991 was that Mr Jibril, believing his cell was penetrated, turned to
Libya for help.

Thereafter, the finger has been pointed at Libya alone. Apparently alerted by a
Libyan agent who defected to the CIA, investigators turned their attention to
Malta. They concluded that two Libyan agents on the island - Abdel Baset Ali
Mohamed al-Megrahi and al-Amin Khalifa Fhimah, now charged by the US and Britain
with the bombing - placed the bomb unaccompanied on a plane to Frankfurt, and it
was transferred to the Pan Am flight. But an FBI report in October 1989 obtained
by the film-makers shows there was no evidence of transfers of unaccompanied
baggage from Malta to Frankfurt.

Meanwhile, Thomas Hayes, a forensic explosives expert on the Lockerbie inquiry,
discovered a fragment of a circuit board found in the debris. It was linked to a
Swiss company, MEBO, a manufacturer of timers. Edwin Bollier, the firm's
managing director, originally said he sold the timers only to Libya. He now says
similar timers were sold to East Germany. The Stasi had connections with
terrorist groups, including the PFLP-GC.

One key figure in the film is Vincent Cannistraro. Appointed to lead the CIA
investigation into Lockerbie, Mr Cannistraro had been the US National Security
Council official responsible for policy on Libya. Iran and Syria were certainly
exempt from blame when their help was needed to free Western hostages in Lebanon
and when the US was urging Damascus to join coalition forces in the Gulf war.

Coincidences, conspiracy theories, or evidence of a cover-up? What were US
officials so desperate to recover from the bombed Jumbo? Martin Cadman, who lost
a relative in the disaster, says in the film that he was told by a member of
President George Bush's commission on aviation security and terrorism in
February 1990: "Your government and ours knew exactly what happened but they are
never going to tell."

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               5 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          November 17, 1994, Thursday

Wanted: ombudsman for racial minorities; Vernon Bogdanor calls for a new
approach to the intolerance that is spreading through Europe

BYLINE: By VERNON BOGDANOR

SECTION: COMMENT PAGE; Page 20

LENGTH: 1165 words


Are ethnic minorities once again under threat in the new Europe? The
resurrection of extremist parties in Austria, Belgium, France and Italy has
coincided with the revival of popular nationalism in many of the new democracies
of Central and Eastern Europe.

In consequence, the pressure on the civil and constitutional rights of
minorities in democratic countries seems more severe than it has been at any
time since 1945. This is chronicled in a new study, Political Extremism and the
Threat to Democracy in Europe.*

In modern times, racialism seems to appear in waves in Europe and to take on a
transnational character. In the 1880s and 1890s, economic depression and the end
of dreams of a liberal Europe gave rise, in Germany and Austria, to the birth of
anti-semitic movements. In the 1930s, the depression put the Nazis in power and
led to the spread of anti-semitism.

During the post-war era, stability in Europe has been a product largely of two
political forces - social democracy and Christian democracy. With these
ideologies in disarray, it is perhaps not surprising that racist movements
should seek to fill the vacuum. In Britain in the Nineties, as in the Thirties,
extremist parties have been unable to gain a foothold in democratic politics.
Yet, the same forces that besmirch the Continent find their outlet in Britain in
racial harassment and racial attacks.

In 1993, a report from the London Research Centre reported that about 58,000
households in the capital - one in 18 of black and ethnic minority households -
had been subjected to attack. One third of these households still felt under
threat. The Runnymede Trust estimates that there are 70,000 racial incidents a
year - 200 a day, one every seven or eight minutes. No wonder the Trust
concludes that ''racial harassment is endemic to British society''.

Many organisations concerned with race relations believe that racial violence
and harassment should be defined as specific criminal offences. This, they
argue, would signify society's abhorrence of racially motivated crime and offer
moral support for harassed minorities. Yet to require proof of racial motivation
could make it more difficult to secure convictions. A racist motive should be
relevant at the sentencing stage, rather than through the creation of a new
offence which, by complicating the law, would allow some of the guilty to
escape.

Laws perhaps have only a limited role to play in securing better race relations.
In 1944, the World Jewish Congress published details of anti-racist legislation
that had been passed during the inter-war years in Austria, Czechoslovakia,
France, Germany and the Netherlands. It had done little good.

The key to improving better race relations lies less in legal reforms than in
altering a political culture which, while in principle committed to equality,
remains insensitive to the needs and aspirations of ethnic minorities.

One powerful way to combat racism is to bring the facts of racial violence and
harassment to a wider public, which can then be challenged to live up to its
principles. The Commission for Racial Equality campaigns hard for better race
relations, but its members are appointed by the Government and this limits what
it can do. A more powerful institutional instrument is needed to complement its
work.

Experience of the Ombudsman, since 1967, has shown how powerful an instrument it
can be in enforcing good practice upon the institutions of government. An
Ombudsman specifically appointed with responsibility for Race Relations could,
if backed up by a parliamentary Select Committee, exert enormous pressure for
better race relations. Such an Ombudsman should have the power to investigate
complaints against central government, the police, national public bodies,
educational institutions and local authorities.

There should be direct access to the Race Relations Ombudsman, as there is to
the Health Service Ombudsman, filtered perhaps through local racial equality
councils, where it proves difficult to persuade victims to act for themselves.
Where the recommendations of the Ombudsman are ignored, he or she would inform a
Select Committee of the Commons which would call for parliamentary action. In
this way, an Ombudsman for Race Relations, complementing rather than
substituting for the law, could, by pressing for standards of good practice,
make a very real difference to our political culture.

But, of course, responsibility for good race relations cannot be shuffled off on
to an Ombudsman or any other official body. The prime responsibility lies with
political leaders. For it is they who create the climate of opinion within which
racial harassment appears acceptable. Racist parties have never been successful
in democracies unless democratic politicians have co-operated with them. Hitler
triumphed when German democrats tried to use him for their own ends; the Front
National in France won its first electoral breakthrough by means of an electoral
pact with the Gaullist RPR, while the Italian neo-fascists have been welcomed
into government by democratic parties.

Political leaders need to show, through action as well as words, their
abhorrence of racialism. Surprisingly, perhaps, they have a better record on the
Continent than do British counterparts. When, in 1990, a Jewish cemetery at
Carpentras was desecrated, President Mitterrand and other leading politicians
led 100,000 protesters through Paris. In Sweden in 1992 the King led politicians
in a march against racism. In Britain, too, ministers ought to visit the areas
in which racial attacks occur, as they do after terrorist attacks, condemning
the incidents and offering succour to the victims.

Racial attacks, however, do not occur in a vacuum. They occur within a political
system in which immigration and asylum policies are based upon the assumption
that people from different cultures constitute a ''problem''. It is hardly
surprising then if, at the level of the streets and housing estates, members of
ethnic minorities are also seen as a ''problem'', against whom harassment is
justified. Paddy Ashdown is one of the very few leading politicians to have
perceived that good race relations are indivisible, that the cause of ethnic
minorities in Britain is also the cause of Vietnamese refugees in Hong Kong and
Muslim refugees in Bosnia.

Ministers should begin to emphasise the positive contribution that immigrants
from the Huguenots onwards have made to both the prosperity and culture of this
country. Instead of defining those from different cultures as a threat, why can
they not bring themselves to welcome that diversity which is, after all, the
hallmark of any truly liberal society?

* 'Political Extremism and the Threat to Democracy in Europe' is published by
the Institute of Jewish Affairs, 79 Wimpole St, London, W1M 7DD.

Vernon Bogdanor is Reader in Government at Oxford University and a fellow of
Brasenose College.


LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1994 Independent Print Ltd

                               6 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 18, 1994

NAGGING DOUBTS OF DEFT ADAMS

BYLINE: Jonathan Steele

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 631 words


"IT'S a disgrace that we have to let in this man who's caused all this
security," snarled the woman in the queue to go through the metal detector at
the St Stephen's entrance to the Palace of Westminster. "What are you going to
do when he comes?"

"Actually, he's been through already. He came by so fast we didn't even have
time to plant anything on him," replied the genial policeman on duty, showing a
sense of proportion and history not much in evidence from the Fleet Street
veterans waiting upstairs to greet Gerry Adams at his press conference a month
after the Government lifted the exclusion order on him.  The Sinn Fein president
said he had delayed his visit until the new session of Parliament.

His host in the Jubilee room was Tony Benn who reminded the company with regret
that he had been a member of the Cabinet which sent troops to Northern Ireland
in 1969.

Mr Adams expressed concern at the government crisis in Dublin, but the peace
process was bigger than any individual or party.  "The onus is on the parties to
ensure that a government is re-formed or re -elected as quickly as possible," so
the momentum was maintained.

But his real concern was London. "The nagging, constant concern that I've had
throughout this process is the failure, one could say, the refusal of the
British government to engage in a pro-active way."

He expressed his "frustration" with the British Government, and was not sure
whether the long-promised framework document on peace would materialise.

Asked whether he would accept a referendum as the Prime Minister has proposed,
Mr Adams said: "What business is it of Mr Major to dictate how we should hold
referendums or what form they should take?

"One has to acknowledge that we're saddled with the British government. Why
can't we be permitted the right to govern ourselves? Are we stupid? Are the
British in some way superior? Does Mr Major not make enough of a mess of your
country without having to come to our country?"

A Sun reporter urged Mr Adams to apologise to the parents of the two boys killed
by an IRA bomb in Warrington last year.  "The Sun may not have picked this up.
It doesn't often pick up real news," Mr Adams parried. 'I did acknowledge on a
number of occasions the regret I feel, and the recognition that republicans have
inflicted hurt on people, in the same way that hurt has been inflicted on us."
He had extended his condolences to the boys' parents.

Mr Adams showed he could be as deft and quick-witted with his friends as with
his critics. An earnest Mr Benn reminded reporters that he had met a long line
of people once dubbed terrorists who had sat in British jails and ended up
having tea with the Queen. "I'm sure you've met a lot of other people who've had
tea with the Queen and ought to be in British jails," Mr Adams chipped in.

There were three core issues for the bilateral talks with the British government
and for multilateral discussion, he asserted. First was the need for
constitutional and political change. "We need to end British jurisdiction and
replace it with an agreed Irish jurisdiction. Then there is a need for
de-militarisation and finally a need for the democratic rights .  . .  which
have been denied to the people in Ireland, to be restored."

When another reporter wanted to know how Mr Adams felt about being near where
the Conservative MP, Airey Neave, had died in a car bomb in 1979 the Sinn Fein
president said: "I work in an office in which three people were killed."

His refrain was that there was "a palpable sense of hope" in Northern Ireland,
including among Unionists, which people in Britain perhaps did not understand.
The peace process was "very delicate" and involved risks on all sides. The
Government must not delay.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               7 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               November 18, 1994

Adams re-enters media pack's den

BYLINE: Benedict Brogan

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 724 words


SINN Fein leader Gerry Adams returned to London and the House of Commons
yesterday for the first time since the Government lifted the exclusion order
against him.

He was met by a crowd of journalists, hostile questions, and barracking from
arch-Conservative, Lady Olga Maitland.

Lady Olga, once a journalist, was the only Tory MP to attend the Sinn Fein
president's Westminster news conference, at which he reiterated his party's
commitment to the peace process, despite the collapse of the coalition Irish
Government.

From the back of a packed room, Lady Olga demanded to know when Mr Adams would
give up "all the weapons he possesses". No dialogue with Sinn Fein was possible
unless the IRA surrendered its stockpiles, she said.

"I don't understand the question. Aren't we engaged in talks now, Mrs Maitland?"
Mr Adams said.

Lady Olga insisted she just wanted to know when Mr Adams would surrender his
weapons but was drowned out by the next question.

However, during the news conference, he said all parties to the conflict had to
disarm, not just the IRA: "The question of weapons is a matter for those who
have weapons. Sinn Fein does not have weapons."

The conference was arranged by Labour MP and former Cabinet Minister Tony Benn,
who had tried to bring Mr Adams to London earlier this year despite a Government
ban imposed in 1993 after the Shankill Road bombing.

The Commons room was packed for the occasion, with journalists and television
crews having to climb on tables to catch a glimpse of the familiar beard and
wire-rims.

As the photographers battled for position, Mr Adams declared: "I am here to try
to bring peace to the British press corps."

Mr Benn called the occasion historic. He interrupted the questioning at regular
intervals to give journalists a series of mini-lectures on the importance of
historical perspective, on the Benn view of British and Irish history, and on
the number of political prisoners -- Nehru, Makarios, Gandhi -- the campaigning
MP could once claim as friends.

Then he blamed the media for not telling the British public the truth. "The real
tragedy of the British people is that the British press has never been ready to
tell the people the truth about Northern Ireland."

The truth, he said, was that Britain had divided Ireland by force after the
First World War.

Mr Adams spoke less than 100 yards from where a car bomb killed Tory MP Airey
Neave in 1979. Asked if the thought had occurred to him, he said: "My sense of
regret over what has happened, my sense of the need to move beyond all of that,
doesn't just come to me here in the British House of Commons. It's all around in
the area where I work and where I live."

The Sun asked Mr Adams if he would apologise to the parents of Jonathan Parry,
one of the two boys who died in the Warrington bombing. Mr Adams said he had
already expressed his regret at the killings and praised the parents for the
fortitude and commitment to peace they had shown.

Mr Adams said a change of government in Dublin would not affect his party's
position.

"The need for peace remains, despite the absence of Mr Reynolds," he said. "We
deal with whatever government comes to power.

"There is an onus on the political parties to ensure a government is reformed or
re-elected as quickly as possible because any distraction from the peace process
can help to defuse the momentum which has been built up."

He urged the British Government to begin talks with Sinn Fein. "The British
Prime Minister has already acknowledged that this Government will be talking to
Sinn Fein in the near future. Why delay? There is no logic in that position," he
said.

Asked if there was a threat of violence from disgruntled republicans, Mr Adams
said: "I don't see the peace process being under any threat from any republican
element. The ongoing worry I have had throughout this process is the failure and
refusal of the British Government to engage in a proactive way."

Mr Adams, who had abandoned his trademark tweed jacket in favour of a dark
business suit and check tie, later left with his aides for a series of meetings,
including a number of private meetings with political representatives.

He would not say who they were but added: "Everyone we have asked to meet has
agreed to meet."

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Gerry Adams, watched by Tony Benn, faces the press at the House of
Commons.  Picture: JOHN STILLWELL

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                               8 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               November 21, 1994

IRA apologises for post office killing

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 585 words


THE IRA admitted last night that its members murdered a postal worker during a
robbery in the border town of Newry, County Down, 10 days ago.

It blamed a "fault" in its chain of command, and apologised for the attack.

Mr Frank Kerr was shot when armed, masked raiders burst into the sorting office
in Newry, escaping with more than £130,000 in cash.

It was the first killing by the IRA since its ceasefire began on September 1.
The IRA leadership said it had not sanctioned the raid and insisted it remained
committed to the success of the peace process.

A statement issued in Dublin said: "Those carrying out the robbery were acting
on instructions but the so-called operation had not been sanctioned by the IRA
leadership."

It added: "Responsibility for this incident lies with an identified problem in
the army's chain of command and not with the volunteers involved. This has now
been rectified.

"We have established that Frank Kerr was shot in the midst of an intense scuffle
with one of our volunteers and we take this opportunity to offer sincere
apologies to his family and friends."

The statement followed an investigation the IRA promised on November 12 when it
banned the use of firearms by its members.

Mr Ken Maginnis, the Ulster Unionist Party's security spokesman, commented: "We
knew it was the IRA and that it was a planned operation." He also asked of the
statement: "This means the IRA will be handing the money back?"

Two men appeared in court last Wednesday charged with the murder of Mr Kerr and
stealing more than £130,000 in the raid.

Police did not charge the men with IRA membership and a spokesman said last
night that so far Mr Kerr's murder had not been listed as a terrorist killing.

Loyalists killed one man in Belfast on the first day of the IRA ceasefire and Mr
Kerr, if added to the official toll, will go down in history as the 3172nd
victim of terrorist violence in Northern Ireland.

The IRA's admission came after Mr Maginnis claimed the terrorists planned to
launch an offensive of sporadic high profile attacks under the guise of a
breakaway group.

He predicted attacks would be made in mainland Britain and Northern Ireland
against high-ranking police, Army, and political figures and military and police
bases -- and could start as early as the beginning of next month, when the IRA
ceasefire becomes three months old.

Mr Andrew Hunter, the Conservative chairman of the back bench Northern Ireland
committee, predicted there would be more such operations by the IRA, even though
the people of Northern Ireland clearly wanted peace.

Downing Street was studying the IRA statement and was not expected to make any
immediate response.

The BBC later reported that Sinn Fein's president, Mr Gerry Adams, had said he
was disappointed at the IRA's involvement and added that it was now up to the
IRA to ensure there was no repetition.

But the former Northern Ireland Minister, Mr Michael Mates, reacted furiously to
Mr Adams's comments, saying: "His disappointment won't do, regret will not do.
He's got to condemn it."

Mr Albert Reynolds, the caretaker Irish Prime Minister whose government halted
the planned pre-Christmas release of nine IRA men because of the Newry shooting,
last night said he had requested a full investigation of the incident.

The post office killing came 24 hours after Dublin had announced the prison
releases as part of its response to the continuing IRA ceasefire.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                               9 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                December 8, 1994

Son of peace campaigner is killed in car crash

SECTION: Pg. 9

LENGTH: 423 words


NORTHERN Ireland peace campaigner Mr Gordon Wilson, whose daughter was killed in
the 1987 Enniskillen Remembrance Day bombing, suffered another tragedy last
night when his only son was killed in a crash.

Businessman Mr Peter Wilson, 38, was driving his Volkswagen Golf when it was in
collision with a lorry between Newtownbutler and Lisnaskea, County Fermanagh.
Married with two young girls, he ran an interior design shop in Enniskillen.

His father, Gordon, 67, was attending the Irish Senate in Dublin at the time.
The retired draper had held the hand of his dying daughter, Marie, 20, after an
IRA bomb exploded without warning at the Cenotaph in Enniskillen killing 12
other people and injuring another 63.

Immediately afterwards, in a higly emotional act of forgiveness which stunned
Britain and Ireland, Mr Wilson, a Protestant, said he would pray for the
killers.

''Dirty sort of talk is not going to bring her back to life," he said. "It's
part of a greater plan, and God is good. And we shall meet again."

His inspiring attitude brought praise from Presidents and Prime Ministers, a
personal tribute from the Queen in her 1987 Christmas address, and the title Man
of the Year from listeners to BBC Radio 4's Today programme.

Mr Wilson, who lives in Enniskillen with his wife Joan and has another daughter,
Julie Ann, added positive actions to his words, campaigning tirelessly for
peace.

He became an independent member of the Irish Senate in February, 1993, and gave
priceless comfort from his own personal experience to the relatives of the
Warrington bomb victims.

Two months later, he met the IRA in a bid to persuade them to end their campaign
but the terrorists rejected his appeal. He said afterwards: "Perhaps it was
naive of me to imagine that because it was me, they would. But I have to live
with that."

He also met Loyalist paramilitaries and five and a half weeks ago he sat at the
same table as Sinn Fein leader Mr Gerry Adams for the first meeting of the
National Forum of Peace and Reconciliation at Dublin Castle.

He said then: "When you have stood by an open grave and have laid to rest bone
of your bone, flesh of your flesh, it adds not only a poignancy to it all but an
urgency to seeking peace -- not just a temporary cessation to violence and
warfare, but a permanent resolution for all people everywhere.

"There has been too much bloodshed in this land, too many bodies bruised, too
many hearts broken for us not to call a permanent halt to it all."

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              10 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               December 10, 1994

One day at a time

BYLINE: Russell Edmunds

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1477 words


In the wake of yesterday's historic meeting at Stormont, Russell Edmunds
examines the chances for a lasting peace

WHAT are the chances of the Christmas peace in Northern Ireland turning into a
permanent one? That's the question everyone needs an answer to eventually but
which, as of now, is hedged at best with cautious optimism.

At the headquarters of the Royal Ulster Constabulary in south-east Belfast, in
the Army's HQ at Lisburn, or at Stormont Castle, the office of the Secretary of
State, the odds are on an extended ceasefire. To quote a senior security source
more precisely: "I give the peace process six chances in 10 in its favour."

Odds of six to four on, reflect the ongoing reservations of many about where the
IRA's ceasefire, which has now lasted three months and one week, will go in
1995. There are so many political permutations and imponderables that people on
the streets appear to be living for today in the hope that tomorrow will take
care of itself.

Yesterday the peace process took another historic turn with the first official
meeting between Sinn Fein and Government officials on the hill at Stormont.
Martin McGuinness and his team of five other Irish republicans drove past the
imposing statue of Lord Edward Carson, the father and hero of Ulster Unionism,
his outstretched right-arm waved defiantly against the Belfast sky. They entered
the white-portalled parliament buildings, so symbolic of Protestant and Unionist
domination in Northern Ireland for more than half a century. And, after 25 years
of bloody conflict directed at destroying British rule, the Sinn Fein delegation
sat down to ''exploratory talks" with a team of Government officials, yet
another remarkable milestone in this year of years for Ulster.

In downtown Belfast, the department store tills are red hot, night-time
hostelries packed as no-one, other than the older generation, can remember.
Taxi-drivers who rarely accepted fares beyond those areas of Belfast in which
they felt most comfortable in a sectarian sense, now venture across the city's
great religious and political divide. By the same token, young people from
Catholic west Belfast no longer feel so confined by the barriers on their
movement which sectarianism imposed for so long.

The owners of business and commerce, so long the targets of IRA bombs, have only
domestic shop-lifters to fear this Christmas. There are traffic jams, the like
of which might have been due in the past to bomb alerts or security checkpoints,
but which are now down to the influx of shoppers from suburb and country to a
city centre they once feared to frequent.

All of this peace-abiding lifestyle is dependent on what happened at Stormont
yesterday and in the weeks ahead, assuming that Martin McGuinness, Sinn Fein and
the British officials who met in private behind Stormont's impressive facade,
got beyond the initial stage.

For the Government, there are two major concerns. The first is that Unionist
suspicions and opposition to these talks does not congeal into something more
politically dangerous. The second is that those who speak for Irish
republicanism may yet fail to deliver a truly permanent end to IRA violence.

The strength of the IRA is unknown as is the whereabouts of its substantial
caches of arms and explosives. In west Belfast, nearly 30 major bomb, rocket,
and gun attacks were directed at the RUC in the first half of this year, but
then, recalls a senior officer, the tap was suddenly turned off in July and has
never restarted. Welcome as that is to his officers, he knows the potential for
further terror still lies somewhere in those same streets in terms of manpower
and weaponry.

Other worrying signs are more obvious to the police. For example, known
terrorist activists are still carrying out surveillance on potential targets in
Ireland and Britain. A senior RUC officer living in the countryside south of
Belfast and far from the republican haunts of the city, tells of terrorist
suspects acting suspiciously near his home in the past month. While peace has
brought a breaking down of barriers, it has also enabled the IRA to move more
freely than before without the same likelihood of arrest.

Senior security sources accept that the current situation carries the
possibility of resumed violence, which could have appalling consequences for a
community which has dropped its guard. The RUC's Chief Constable, Sir Hugh
Annesley, underlines the need for caution though, quietly, by word of mouth
rather than written orders, he has stood down his officers from the severity of
past anti-terrorist duties and precautions.

Just as the terrorists have not given up all of their clandestine operations,
such as intelligence-gathering, neither have the security services. Even in a
peaceful situation, the cat-and-mouse war goes on with one side watching the
other's moves in case it all goes wrong and violence restarts.

Police accept that the ceasefires announced by the IRA on August 31 and by the
loyalist paramilitaries on October 13, did not signal an end to robberies,
protection racketeering, general gangsterism, punishment beatings and drug
-trafficking.

Even without violence, the terror groups require what amounts to millions of
pounds each year to finance their operations and keep promises to prisoners and
their dependants. Most worrying to the authorities is the extent to which the
drug trade in Britain and Spain is supporting loyalist extremists, in
particular. "They are into trafficking in the major way," claims a senior RUC
source.

As for this week's controversy about Washington allowing Sinn Fein president
Gerry Adams to fund-raise again shortly in the United States, security sources
admit reluctantly that dollars from America is preferable to more armed
robberies in Ulster.

With the exception of the killing of a postal worker in Newry last month, during
an armed robbery, the IRA has demonstrated a remarkable hold on even its wildest
elements. Rumours of splits within the movement have remained just rumours
although the Sinn Fein leadership is clearly under pressure to deliver
politically in line with the terrorists' demands.

If there is a split or a breakdown of the ceasefire, it is most likely to
surface in the border counties of Tyrone or Armagh. It was the latter which
provided Sinn Fein's biggest embarrassment to date -- the murder of Frank Kerr
in Newry by an armed gang with definite IRA links. Though the IRA confirmed
swiftly that the incident was not "authorised", the substantial haul of money
taken during the raid has not been returned.

The East Tyrone "brigade" of the IRA is particularly hard-line and thought to
have resisted the ceasefire decision but reluctantly agreed to comply with it
for a short period at least. Speculation continues that its members are unhappy
and require, as do those in other border counties, constant reassurance from the
Sinn Fein leadership that progress is being made. In that respect, they would be
looking most closely at yesterday's Stormont talks for evidence of concessions
on the release of IRA prisoners and other movement by the British authorities on
what is termed "demilitarisation".

The republicans worry that they have given up what they see as the principal
pressure they can apply on the British Government, namely the campaign of
violence. In their worst-case scenario, the Government pays lip service to this
"sacrifice" and plays along Sinn Fein without meeting its political demands.

So the threat of renewed terrorism cannot be ruled out even though most people
in Northern Ireland feel that the longer the peace continues the harder it will
be for the IRA to mount a sustainable renewal of its campaign.

The first deadline in the peace process now approaches. It was probably the
IRA's intent to review its ceasefire at Christmas but security sources are
confident it will hold much longer. Certainly the cold light of January may
bring fresh strains on the peace process as the goodwill of the Christmas season
ebbs away.

Events in the Irish Republic, where the Government is in turmoil, have also
conspired to interrupt and delay the process. A new deadline of Easter is being
whispered about. That is the most emotive date in the IRA's calendar -- the
anniversary of the 1916 Rising in Dublin which led eventually to the end of
British rule in southern Ireland.

Easter seems a long way off and no-one can be certain that the peace will last
that long. What happens in the next few weeks behind the closed doors of
Stormont, will have a profound effect on life for everyone in Northern Ireland.
One way or the other.

Even in a peaceful situation, the cat-and-mouse war goes on with one side
watching the other's moves in case it all goes wrong and violence restarts

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: * When the talking had to start: Martin McGuinness, centre, with the
Sinn Fein delegation arriving for yesterday's meeting at Stormont.Picture:
CRISPIN RODWELL/Reuter

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              11 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                          December 10, 1994, Saturday

Government insists the IRA must surrender its arsenal

BYLINE: By Nicholas Watt, Ireland Correspondent

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 486 words


GOVERNMENT officials yesterday used their first public meeting with Sinn Fein in
22 years to issue a blunt warning that the IRA must surrender its weapons before
the party can enter full-scale talks.

In discussions in Belfast, 100 days after the IRA ceasefire, senior civil
servants told Sinn Fein that the Provisionals would have to show their
commitment to peace by the ''safe removal and disposal of illegally-held weapons
and explosives''.

Later, Gerry Adams, the Sinn Fein president who was not at the talks, said that
the Government had no moral authority to place pre-conditions on the party. He
said last night: ''Sinn Fein went into the talks as part of our intent to remove
all the guns from Irish politics. But everyone recognises that there needs to be
decommission of all the weapons (including) a decommission of the British Army
and its forces.''

His comments came after a five-member Sinn Fein delegation held more than three
hours of historic talks with civil servants at the Stormont Parliament Buildings
in East Belfast. The two sides arranged to meet again on December 19.

However, Michael Ancram, the Political Development Minister at the Northern
Ireland Office, who directed the talks but was not in Belfast, said after the
meeting that the ''decommissioning of terrorist arms'' would be essential for
progress to be made in discussions.

Sinn Fein came in from the cold yesterday morning when a convoy of the party's
armour-plated cars swept past the statue of Lord Carson at Stormont and up to
the imposing Parliament buildings. Martin McGuinness led the delegation, which
included Gerry Kelly, a convicted IRA bomber, into a side door.

Inside the buildings, the two delegations shook hands and then sat down round a
rectangular table in a first floor room. The Sinn Fein delegation read out a
submission paper, outlining its core demands for Britain to withdraw from
Northern Ireland and for the party to be included in inter-party talks. The
Government delegation, led by Quentin Thomas, the Deputy Secretary at the
Northern Ireland Office, then read their submission.

After the meeting, the Sinn Fein delegation strode down the steps of the
Parliament Building, regarded by republicans as the bastion of an alien and
gerrymandered ''statelet'. Mr McGuinness said the meeting marked the beginning
of an historic opportunity.

Mr Ancram described the meeting as businesslike and constructive.

However, Peter Robinson, the deputy leader of the Democratic Unionists, said:
''Today is a day of shame for the British Government. They have capitulated to
the IRA's murder gangs.''

John Major yesterday briefed European Union leaders on the talks in Belfast
(Philip Webster writes). He said that a critical period in the peace process had
been reached. The Essen summit approved a Pounds 240 million ''peace dividend''
grant to Ulster from the European Union.

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1994 Times Newspapers Limited

                              12 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Standard (London)

                               December 20, 1994

IRA men set to be freed in Dublin amnesty U-turn;
Prison is bad for our health say terrorists

BYLINE: Patrick Mcgowan

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 987 words


IRA PRISONERS in Irish jails could be set free by Christmas after the Dublin
government decided to go back on its decision to keep them in jail, sources in
the Republic said today.

The Irish government was planning to release the terrorists in response to the
IRA ceasefire, but the move was blocked after the November killing of a post
office worker during a mail raid in Newry.

The nine IRA men include two convicted murderers who had served up to 14 years
in jail. The Republic's new government was today planning to release them after
all to allay Nationalist fears that it favoured the Unionists too strongly.

But Unionists were furious. The Democratic Unionist's deputy leader, Peter
Robinson, said: "It seems to be crazy, mind-boggling incompetence that the day
after an attempted bombing it is thought to be an appropriate time to consider
releasing IRA prisoners."

John Major and Ulster Secretary Sir Patrick Mayhew accept that the release of
the prisoners is a matter for Dublin. But there could be a row if Thomas
McMahon, convicted of the 1979 assassination of Lord Mountbatten, was freed.
Ministers signalled earlier this year that freeing McMahon would cause "serious
concern" in Northern Ireland and in Whitehall.

The fate of IRA men incarcerated north and south of the border may be discussed
when Mr Major meets the new Irish premier, John Bruton, at Downing Street
tonight. The Government is keen to make progress on the framework agreement for
a broad political settlement. But it was stressed that there is no formal
agenda.

The two Prime Ministers have met only fleetingly and the main aim of today's
session was to make contact.

Sources said the last stumbling block to releasing the prisoners was the Semtex
bomb found in Enniskillen on Sunday, if the IRA is found to have been involved
despite its denials.

Deputy Irish Prime Minister Dick Spring said the incident would be discussed
tonight and new Irish Justice Minister Nora Owen said a statement would be made
within days.

Tonight's discussions on the disposal and decommissioning of terrorist arms now
have even greater significance. Mr Major, in the Financial Times today, said:
"What the planting of this device shows precisely is why it is so important to
deal with the problem of weapons and explosives." Sources in Britain point out
that only the IRA is known to have Semtex but accept the leadership may not have
known or approved.

Of 55 IRA prisoners in Irish jails, most are due for release within two years.

FOUR OF the IRA's most hardened terrorists, between them responsible for a dozen
deaths and bombing campaigns in mainland Britain, today complained that jail was
damaging their "physical and psychological health", writes Patrick McGowan.

The long-term prisoners have written to The Guardian complaining about being
held in a special security unit at Full Sutton Prison in Yorkshire, saying their
conditions are inhuman, damaging and "very claustrophobic".

The men are: Michael O'Brien, serving life for attempting to murder a policeman
in Yorkshire; Patrick Kelly, doing 25 years for driving a massive lorry bomb
into central London; Feilim O hAdhmaill, serving 25 years for planning bombing
campaigns, and Damien McComb, doing 30 years for plotting to murder the Cabinet.

Like the IRA prisoners at Whitmoor Prison, the four are demanding special
treatment. They say of the special secure units: "They are not, as some of the
newspapers would have their readers believe, five star hotels. They are the
modern day dungeons of the British prison system."

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: (1)Thomas McMahon: "Serious concern" if he is freed (2)Peter Robinson:
"Seems to be mind-boggling incompetence"(3)Michael O'Brien: Serving life for
attempting to murder a policeman

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              13 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               December 21, 1994

Film-maker says Attorney-General is investigating new claims New suspect in
Lockerbie saga

BYLINE: Duncan Black

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1470 words


On the eve of the sixth anniversary of the bombing of the PanAm Flight 103 over
Lockerbie, The Herald's Duncan Black considers the continuing controversy about
who was behind the atrocity

THE MAKERS of a documentary film on the Lockerbie disaster yesterday claimed
they had handed a dossier about a Syrian arms dealer to the Attorney-General's
office in London.

The news emerged on the eve of the sixth anniversary of the bombing of PanAm
Flight 103 in which 270 people died on December 21, 1988.

American investigative journalist Allan Francovich recently completed a film,
The Maltese Double Cross, which challenges the official view held by the British
and US that two Libyan secret agents planted the bomb.

Mr Francovich suggests instead that the atrocity was the work of Palestinian
terrorists backed by Iran and Syria and that the attack was linked to a botched
surveillance operation by Western intelligence services.

Yesterday, a spokesman for the film-maker said Mr Francovich had been approached
by an official from the Attorney-General's office last week with a request for
information about Monzer Al-Kassar.

"The official maintained that the authorities had no information about Al
-Kassar -- an extraordinary claim, given that he has been convicted in the UK
for the possession of large quantities of drugs as well as being the subject of
investigations by the German, American, and Spanish authorities, among others,"
said the spokesman.

No confirmation of this claim was forthcoming from the Attorney-General's Office
or the Crown Office in Edinburgh.

Mr Francovich's film aims to show that the Lockerbie bombing was carried out
when terrorists associated with Al-Kassar were able to put a bomb in a bag used
in a secret drug-running operation allegedly run with the co-operation of
Western intelligence services.

The documentary team claim that, despite "evidence" supporting their claim,
British and American authorities have failed to question Al-Kassar about
Lockerbie.

They further state that a book recently published in the US claims that Al
-Kassar was recruited by Britain's M16 secret intelligence service in the 1970s
and that he was used by both M16 and the White House as a link-man in the Iran
-Contra deals.

In 1992, Al-Kassar was ordered to stand trial for his alleged part in hijacking
the Italian cruise-liner, the Achille Lauro in 1985. According to the film
-makers, he is currently on bail in Spain awaiting sentence following conviction
on charges of piracy resulting in death, arising from that hijacking.

Meanwhile, Mr Francovich and his team say their offices in North London were
apparently broken into last weekend and at least one tape, containing off-the
-record comments from a former Government Minister, appeared to be missing.

Many of the relatives of the victims are suspicious of the reasons why the
perpetrators of the bombing have still not been brought to justice.

The relatives fear the quest is being sacrificed for political expediency and
the vested interests of intelligence services.

Now, some are demanding an independent, international team of experts be
appointed to conduct a review of the criminal investigation.

New York woman Marina de Larrakoetxea, whose sister Nieves was among the
victims, asks: "Who will investigate the investigators?"

She said: "A second outrage is being perpetrated on the full truth and justice
for the victims, their relatives and the rights of mankind.

"The three Governments most directly involved, the USA, the UK, and Germany, are
writing the wrong history of this carnage by conveniently ignoring and omitting
their own preventive responsibilities and giving priority to some top issues in
realpolitik: the Gulf war, the Middle East hostages, and the Middle East peace
process."

Ms de Larrakoetxea argues that during the first two years of the inquiries,
intelligence and criminal investigation sources felt there was strong evidence
that the main suspects were the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine -
- General Command (PFLP-GC), its leader, Ahmed Jibril, and Syria and Iran. But
the formation of the international coalition for the Gulf war saw the first
signs of a "drastic turn" in the criminal investigation.

She said of hearings held in the US, and the fatal accident inquiry in Scotland,
during the first two years: "All of them were lukewarm efforts that avoided
addressing the true core of this preventable massacre: intelligence, security
services, and counter-terrorism.

"The truth of the PanAm 103 will never be known until these parties are probed
and interrogated forcefully as to how this carnage happened and why no
preventive effort or plan was attempted given the high state of alert on a
possible terrorist attack against an airline, with US or Israeli interests as
prime targets, and the unprecedented wealth of detailed intelligence gathered."

She questions the role played by various intelligence and security services in
the investigations carried out by the US, Britain, and Germany. "Clearly, there
has not been an independent investigative mechanism in charge of this mammoth
probe of meagre, doubtful results."

In the past 12 months, arguments have continued to rage over where and how the
two Libyans accused by the British and American Governments of planting the bomb
should stand trial.

At the same time, the challenge to the orthodox version of events has been
receiving more attention than ever, thanks partly to Mr Francovich's
documentary.

The film alleges that the bombing was carried out by Palestinian terrorists,
backed by Iran and Syria, in revenge for a US warship shooting down an Iranian
Airbus with 300 civilians aboard in 1988. It further claims that the attack on
Flight 103 came about because of a botched drugs surveillance operation by
Western intelligence agencies who went on to cover up their involvement.

The two men accused by Britain and America are Abdel Baset Ali Mohmed Al Megrahi
and Al Amin Khalifa Fhimah, both allegedly members of the Libyan secret service.
Warrants were issued for their arrest in November 1991, but Libya has so far
refused to hand the men over for trial in Scotland or the US, despite sanctions
imposed by the United Nations.

The two accused claim they would not get a fair trial in Scotland or America.

The two Libyans have not been the only figures linked to the bombing. In June
this year, it was suggested that a Palestinian revolutionary had confessed to
the crime. Youseff Shaaban, a follower of guerrilla leader Abu Nidal's Fatah
Revolutionary Council faction, was on trial in Beirut on a charge of killing of
a Jordanian diplomat, when it was claimed that he had confessed under torture to
blowing up the plane. But judicial sources and security forces cast doubt on his
statement.

In the last few days, another Palestinian declared he had "all the information"
on who was behind the bombing. Ahmed Abu-Matar is the husband of a woman wanted
in Germany on charges connected to the hijacking of a Lufthansa airliner in
1977. His claims may be an attempt to protect his wife, currently detained in a
Norwegian prison awaiting extradition, from standing trial. But German police
have already spoken to him at least three times.

Meanwhile, what is happening on the British side of the criminal investigation
and who have officers been speaking to? Both the police force leading the
inquiry, and the Crown Office in Edinburgh, are reluctant to give information,
arguing that this could be prejudicial to any trial of the two accused Libyans.

A spokesman for Dumfries and Galloway Police said: "We have a nucleus of
officers who are still actively involved in the investigation and we carry out
such inquiries as are deemed necessary, based on developments."

A spokesman for the Crown Office said: "The Crown Office and Dumfries and
Galloway Police are currently considering the various allegations made within
the film, The Maltese Double Cross."

One of the leading members of the British group of victims' relatives, Dr Jim
Swire, believes the two accused Libyans are not guilty but he feels a trial
should take place to prove the case one way or the other.

"If they were proved not guilty, we could really force the people behind the
investigation to look elsewhere." He added: "To me, everything points away from
Libya and towards Iran and Syria."

Dr Swire, whose daughter Flora died in the bombing, made it clear that after six
years, relatives were as determined as ever to get to the truth about Flight
103.

"There are a number of people now who will say things like 'Isn't it time to
drop it?'. But when you are a family who have lost a daughter, you can not just
drop it."

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: A shadow is cast Liz Jardine from a Lockerbie is cast across the
memorial stone in the Lockerbie Garden of Remembrance. Picture: PAUL HACKETT

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              14 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               December 21, 1994

IRA bomb trial told of coded telephone numbers

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 381 words


THE jury in the trial of two suspected IRA terrorists was told yesterday how
coded telephone numbers and lumps of Semtex were discovered in the flat of one
of the defendants.

Detective Constable Adrian Dixon told the Old Bailey in London the codes and
explosives were found during a search of 25 Lochbrae, the home of Mr Hugh Jack
in Sauchie, Clackmannanshire.

It is alleged Mr Jack, 37, and his co-defendant Mr Robert Fryers, 44, used the
flat to store bomb-making equipment and to assemble one device ready to be
planted. Mr Dixon told the court he found a number of scraps of paper which
together formed one sheet.

On the sheet, police were able to make out telephone numbers relating to public
phones outside Stirling, as well as numbers for the Republic of Ireland and
Northern Ireland.

The prosecutor, Mr Nigel Sweeney, told the jury many of the numbers matched
those scrawled on cigarette papers which were found on Mr Fryers when he was
arrested on July 14 last year. One of the phone numbers was for the main
Samaritan office in Marshall Street, central London.

Mr Sweeney told the court: "In 1992 and 1993, coded bomb warnings were received
on that number from people claiming to be part of the IRA, following which bombs
exploded."

The court heard a basic code had been developed for numbers, replacing digits
with the first 10 letters of the alphabet.

Also on the paper were the letters DEM which made up the first half of the
registration number of a Ford Escort car which the prosecution alleges was used
to ship explosives into Britain from Northern Ireland.

The Crown's case is that Mr Fryers and Mr Jack plotted a bombing campaign on
behalf of the IRA in the first half of last year.

Mr Sweeney told the jury Mr Fryers collected the Escort from Scratchwood
Services on the M1 and took it back to Mr Jack's flat, where he was staying at
the time.

Then on July 14 last year, he tried to plant the first bomb but was stopped by
surveillance officers as he waited for a Number 16 bus for central London, it
was claimed. In his bag was a 2.5kg Semtex bomb, said Mr Sweeney.

Mr Fryers, of Ballymurphy, West Belfast, and Mr Jack, deny conspiring to cause
explosions between January 1 and July 15, 1993. The trial continues.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              15 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 5, 1995

1,000 POLICE OUTFLANK PROTEST AGAINST ANIMAL SHIPMENTS;
Rent-a-mob fear drives away farm campaigners

BYLINE: James Erlichman, Consumer Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1254 words


TWO hundred protesters descended on the port of Shoreham last night but failed
to halt the export of live animals to Europe.

A thousand police, there to prevent a repetition of the violence seen earlier
this week, outflanked the protesters early this morning by directing nine
lorries carrying calves and sheep to the harbour via a little-used slip-road.

Some demonstrators threw bottles and rocks at lines of police bearing riot
shields.

Earlier, the organisers of the protests on Monday and Tuesday nights withdrew
their call for another demonstration because they feared it could again be
hijacked by "rent-a-mob".

The animal welfare group Compassion in World Farming said it was appalled by the
violence which erupted at Shoreham, West Sussex, on Tuesday night, and would not
put members at risk again.

The director of Compassion in World Farming, Joyce D'Silva, urged both
demonstrators and transport operators to stay away.  She said CIWF, which has
been demonstrating at Shoreham for two months, had intended a peaceful protest
in support of animal rights, but it was taken over by extremists and hooligans
who had abused her members.

Those joining the protests at Shoreham belong to a variety of groups. At one
extreme stand the militant animal liberationists, who smash lorries and have
planted letter bombs in the offices of Stena-Sealink ferry operators. They can
be supreme idealists or disturbed, dysfunctional anarchists who deeply dislike
people, police sources say.

Less extreme are the law abiding anti-vivisectionists who oppose exploitation of
animals on moral grounds and are almost always vegetarians, if not vegans.

Next comes the broad, left, green alliance of welfarists and environmentalists
who see misuse of animals as the touchstone of man's damage to the planet. Among
these are Compassion in World Farming, the peaceful pressure group which has led
the protest against live export.

About a quarter of the organisation's 10,000 members are meat eaters, even
though its fundamental purpose is to stop all livestock rearing.

On the right of animal welfare groups are many people who eat meat, vote
Conservative and belong to organisations like the Humane Slaughter Society. They
are well-off county people who believe they treat animals better before they
sell and eat them.

There are also the far right Euro-sceptics who see live exports as an emotive
issue to focus fears about the offensive behaviour of Continentals who crate
calves and drag half-starved lambs to appalling abattoirs. If they do that to
animals, what else do they get up to?

Britain's trade in live animals to Europe is traditional.  In 1993 the trade was
worth pounds 200 million, about 20 per cent of all meat exports.

Britain is the biggest sheep producer in the northern hemisphere, supplying huge
demand in France and the rest of Europe.  Most go as carcasses, but 2 million
are shipped live each year because, after a few days of fattening, they can be
declared "French reared" and sold at a premium on the home market. The profit
here lies only with the exporter and French abattoir owner. The British sheep
farmer typically sends all his lambs to market at one price, not knowing where
they are killed.

The calf trade is different and even more crucial to the dairy trade from which
it comes. Beef in the supermarket is a cross between a beef bull and a dairy
mother. Female calves born this way can be raised for meat or stay to become
dairy mothers.  But the male calves which look like poor beef prospects have no
other use. So they are taken within days from their mother for the veal trade.

There is little demand for veal in Britain, but a very large dairy industry
which must be kept operating.

In 1990 John Gummer, then agriculture minister, ordered a unilateral end to the
practice of veal crating - putting week old calves in solitary, darkened crates
to produce very pale meat. Animal welfarists praised the move until they
realised that the trade would merely be transferred to France and Holland and
the animals would have to endure a Channel crossing as well.

When the big ferry operators pulled out the animal welfarists again cheered.
Now they know it has just fragmented to be operated by smaller companies -
including air freight operators.

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              16 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          January 18, 1995, Wednesday

Five Palestinians arrested over London bombings

BYLINE: JASON BENNETTO

SECTION: HOME; Page  4

LENGTH: 366 words


Five Palestinians were arrested in London yesterday by police investigating a
bombing campaign against Israeli targets in the capital.

Three men and two women were held under the Prevention of Terrorism Act after
early morning raids at five addresses in north and west London. All five have
been living in England for several years.

The arrests followed an intensive investigation by Scotland Yard's
Anti-Terrorist Branch into two blasts last July in which 20 people were injured.

In the first attack, a car bomb devastated the Israeli Embassy in Kensington,
west London, injuring 14 people.

It later emerged that a woman of Middle-Eastern appearance had parked a stolen
car packed with 30lb of high explosives in front of the building. When
challenged by police guarding the embassy, she said she was visiting friends. As
officers began to run acheck on the car, the device exploded.

Police refused to comment on whether one of the women arrested yesterday, who is
in her fifties and described as a "housewife", was the suspected bomber.

a few hours after the embassy blast, a second car bomb exploded outside Balfour
House in Finchley, north London, the site of a charity, the Joint Israeli
Appeal, injuring six people.

It is understood that no weapons or bomb-making equipment were recovered during
yesterday's arrests, although the investigation is still going on. Police are
understood to have been working in co-operation with inquiries in the United
States, Israel and Argentina.

The five people arrested were born in Jordan and Lebanon, although one has a
dual British passport. Of the three men, who were described as businessmen, two
are in their twenties and one in his forties. The second woman is 29. None has
diplomatic status.

Last night they were being questioned at undisclosed police stations. Under the
Prevention of Terrorism Act they can be held in custody for up to seven days
without being charged.

Last November, security measures in Britain were tightened at synagogues, Jewish
schools and community centres after a warning from Scotland Yard that they still
faced a long-term threat of a Middle Eastern terror campaign.


LOAD-DATE: January 26, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1995 Independent Print Ltd

                              17 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 21, 1995

IRA BOMB PLOTTERS GET 25 AND 20 YEARS;
A Belfast building worker who enjoyed singing ballads in pubs and a
heavy-drinking Scottish turkey farm employee seemed an unlikely combination to
spearhead a sophisticated bombing campaign but, said the judge, they were
'ruthless andremorseless men prepared to wreak havoc in people's lives'

BYLINE: Duncan Campbell And Richard Norton-Taylor

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1827 words


TWO men convicted of planning an IRA mainland bombing campaign were jailed
yesterday for 25 and 20 years at the Old Bailey.  One of the men told the court
that he hoped the peace process would succeed and that his would be one of the
last republican cases to come before a British court.

Robert Fryers, aged 44, from Belfast, a building worker and nightclub bouncer,
was jailed for 25 years and Hugh Jack, aged 37, a farmworker from Sauchie, near
Alloa, Scotland, for 20 years. Both were convicted unanimously.

Mrs Justice Ebsworth told the pair: "You are both shown to be ruthless and
remorseless men - prepared to wreak havoc in people's lives, as well as economic
destruction."

Of the bomb with which Fryers was caught in north London on July 14, 1993, the
judge said: "It was a device which was of truly devastating capacity for causing
death, serious injury and destruction."

Before he was sentenced, Fryers, who did not give evidence, said from the dock:
"I am not guilty of any criminal offence.  When I came to this country I
believed what I was doing was right and still believe that."

"Hopefully, now the peace process has begun in Ireland and that the IRA have
called a complete cessation of military operations to help move the peace
process forward, this will be one of the last republican cases to come before an
English court."

A nightclub bouncer who enjoyed singing Irish ballads in pubs and a heavy
-drinking Scot with a string of offences to his name may seem an unlikely
combination to be spearheading a sophisticated IRA mainland bombing campaign,
but recent cases have shown there are no identikit bombers. IRA recruits have
come from all backgrounds and all parts of the United Kingdom.

Robert Fryers first came to the attention of the police when he arrived on the
mainland from northern Ireland in 1993. Known as a republican hardman in
Belfast, where his 16 stone frame gained him respect on the doors of Belfast's
tougher nightclubs, Fryers soon made contact with other IRA suspects. A former
cement finisher, separated with three children between the ages of 11 and 17, he
was a new face for the security services. His brother Gerald was known to the
police as a Maze prison escaper.

Fryers started making trips to Hugh Jack's flat in a three-storey council block
in Sauchie, initially with a mutual friend, to watch Glasgow Celtic football
matches.

Later he made trips on his own, travelling up on June 27, 1993, to stay until
July 7 with Jack in the small Scottish new town.

Jack was from a large Scottish family, well-known in the Alloa area, and had
been living in his flat for 13 years. He worked at the nearby Gartmanhill turkey
farm where his employers, the Luceys, regarded him as an excellent worker,
always happy to help out, and a good timekeeper. His routine was to return home
to his flat for lunch every day and spend some nights every week with his
girlfriend who lived locally.

He had clocked up 29 offences, mainly for breach of the peace or assault, the
most recent being in 1992. The offences involved minor fights and the smashing
of his girlfriend's window. He was unknown to the security services.

Fryers, too, had previous convictions, also minor, the last being the attempted
use of a false passport in 1990 for which he was fined pounds 150.

The pair almost immediately became the subjects of a surveillance operation
which incorporated MI5, the anti-terrorist branch and Scotland's Central and
Strathclyde police. A camera was trained on Jack's flat, logging the entrances
and exits of the two men.

Police believe the intention was to plant seven bombs in different places in
Britain. The City of London was seen as one of the likeliest targets because of
the prestige nature of an IRA bomb eluding the "ring of steel".

Jack had hired a garage near his flat and a unit at an industrial centre in
Glasgow which he told his girlfriend was for a landscape gardening venture.
Police believe these were for storing bomb-making equipment.

On July 8, Jack drove Fryers to Glasgow station where the latter took an
overnight train to London. He then went to Scratchwood service station where he
was to collect an Escort car. Hidden inside the back were seven 2.5 kilo blocks
of Semtex, seven electrical detonators and seven timing devices.

Fryers waited at a hotel at South Mimms, Hertfordshire, for two nights before
the car finally arrived. He drove it back to the garage in Scotland where Jack
joined him. Fryers was apparently in a jolly mood during his stay at the Post
House Forte hotel, and on one occasion spent much of the night in the bar with a
group of women whom he entertained by singing Irish ballads.

The bomb-making equipment consisted of the Semtex blocks and a two litre milk
bottle filled with petrol. This would have created a spectacular blast.

Fryers set off with the device in a small holdall and drove to near Staples
Corner in north London. He parked and walked to a bus stop near the Oxe and Gate
pub to go to the centre of London, supposedly to plant the bomb. It was there
that he was arrested and overpowered.

When he was grabbed, the police asked him if the bomb was primed and he told
them, correctly, that it was not, say the police. He was barely to speak to them
again. He was found to have explosive traces on his left hand and keys to Jack's
flat were found on him.

The day Fryers was caught "red handed with the bomb", Jack went to work at the
turkey farm. When he returned home at lunchtime, he may well have heard of
Fryers's arrest on the news and knew there was a risk he would be traced to the
flat.

The security services believe he put the remaining bomb-making equipment into a
holdall and drove off to hide it. But the police lost him in the narrow country
roads and the bomb-making equipment was only discovered during a joint army and
police search. Jack's defence was that it must have been planted there.

He was arrested at the turkey farm later that day by armed police.

He told them he thought Fryers was a landscape gardener hiding from a money
lender in London. He told them he couldn't care what happened to Fryers.

Fryers was regarded as the main instigator, with Jack seen as someone who would
probably not have planted a bomb himself.

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              18 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 24, 1995

FLIGHT 103 FINGER ON IRAN

BYLINE: Richard Norton-Taylor And Katerina Von Waldersee In Bonn

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 640 words


FRESH questions about the British and US account of the Lockerbie bombing in
December 1988 were raised yesterday with the disclosure of a US intelligence
document implicating Iran.

A declassified report by the National Security Agency refers to Ali Akbar
Mohtashemi, a former interior minister, paying $ 10 million "to bomb Pan Am
flight 103".

It states that Mohtashemi paid the money "in retaliation for the US shoot-down
of the Iranian airbus (in July 1988 over the Gulf)."

Western intelligence agencies initially pointed the finger at Ahmed Jibril, then
Syrian-based leader of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine-
General Command (PFLP-GC), with financial help from Iran.

However, Britain and the US later said that Libya alone was responsible and
charged two alleged members of Libyan intelligence - Abdel Baset Ali Mohamed
al-Megrahi and al-Amin Khalifa Fhimah.

The NSA report, written during the 1991 Gulf war, states: "Mohtashemi is closely
connected with the Al Abas and Abu Nidal terrorist groups . . . He has recently
paid 10 million dollars in cash and gold to these two organisations to carry out
terrorist activities and was the one who paid the same amount to bomb Pan Am
flight 103 in retaliation for the US shoot-down of the Iranian airbus."

Tam Dalyell, the Labour MP who has maintained a close interest in the affair,
last night tabled Commons questions asking John Major to make an immediate
statement about the released documents.

He said: "I cannot believe that the highest echelons of the British government
did not know of the existence of these documents. How can they continue
sanctions against Libya in the light of this information?"

Germany confirmed yesterday that it had expelled a Palestinian, Abdel Ghadanfar,
who had been jailed on terrorism charges, but denied the move was part of a deal
to free a German engineer sentenced to death by Iran for spying.

The Federal Prosecutor's office said: "It is normal procedure that a foreigner
who has served a considerable part of his sentence can be released if he leaves
the country."

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              19 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           January 24, 1995, Tuesday

Lockerbie case 'flawed'; Doubts emerge over evidence against Libyan suspects.
John Arlidge repor ts

BYLINE: JOHN ARLIDGE

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Page  3

LENGTH: 674 words


The case against the two Libyans accused of the Lockerbie bombing is seriously
flawed, new evidence suggests. Leaked prosecution documents indicate that the
indictments against the men contain a significant error and that vital
eye-witness evidence is weak and confused.  The release of the documents has led
to renewed speculation that Iran and Syria, rather than Libya, ordered and
carried out the terrorist attack which destroyed Pan Am flight 103 in December
1988, killing 270 people.

The new evidence, contained in a BBC Radio File on Four documentary to be
broadcast tonight, centres on the role of one of the suspects, Abdel Bassett Ali
Al-Megrahi. In 1991, he and another alleged Libyan security agent, Lamen Khalifa
Fhimah, were jointly accused of carrying out the bombing. The pair have
consistently denied involvement.

Mr Megrahi was charged after he was identified as the man who bought the clothes
which were packed into the suitcase that contained the airline bomb. The
scorched remains of the clothes, which were found at the crash site in Scotland,
were traced to a shop in Malta, where, investigators say, the bomb began its
journey.

Mr Megrahi was identified by the Maltese shop-owner, Tony Gauci. His evidence is
vital to the prosecution case against the two Libyans because, legal sources
say, it provides the only direct, eye-witness link between the pair and the
suitcase. But the leaked documents, which contain details of police interviews
with Mr Gauci, reveal that his evidence is flawed. His identification of Mr
Megrahi is unreliable and his statements indicate that the Libyan could not have
bought the clothes on the date specified in the charges.

In the interviews, conducted by British detectives, Mr Gauci repeatedly
describes the man who bought the clothes as 6ft tall and around 50 years old. Mr
Megrahi is 5ft 8in tall and was 36 in 1988. Moreover, on several occasions Mr
Gauci names another man, Mohammed Abu Talb, a known Palestinian terrorist
sympathiser, as the buyer.

Mr Gauci also provides strong evidence that it was raining on the afternoon when
the clothes were bought. The US and UK indictments specify that Mr Megrahi
visited the shop on 7 December 1988, two weeks before the bombing. Official
meteorological recordsin Malta show that it did not rain that day.

Legal sources said yesterday that the leaked documents seriously weakened the
case against the Libyans. One solicitor close to the Lockerbie investigation
said: "Gauci's description of Al-Megrahi is totally unconvincing. But he is
quite firm when it comes to the weather, which indicates that the date mentioned
in the indictments is wrong. His evidence is so weak that the prosecution in any
trial would have great difficulty in proving that it was Al-Megrahi who bought
the clothes. A junior defence lawyercould demolish the case against him.

"Since the evidence from the shop forms the basis of the case against
Al-Megrahi, it seems certain that he would be acquitted. If that happened, the
case against Fhimah would most likely collapse because the pair appear jointly
on conspiracy charges. In the absence of any other strong eye-witness evidence -
and there is no suggestion that the authorities have any - the trial could be
over within days."

Relatives of the Lockerbie victims insisted yesterday that the latest
disclosures reinforced the need for an early trial in Britain, America or a
neutral country of the two Libyans, who have so far refused to surrender to
prosecuting authorities.

Dr Jim Swire, spokesman for the UK relatives, said: "Any suggestion that the
case against Libya may have holes in it makes it even more important that these
guys face a jury as soon as possible, so that if it turns out that they did not
in fact carry outthe atrocity, we can then try to find out whether other key
suspects, like Iran and Syria, did."

The Crown Office in Edinburgh insisted yesterday that the prosecution case
against Mr Megrahi and Mr Fhimah remained "as strong as ever".


LOAD-DATE: January 26, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1995 Independent Print Ltd

                              20 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           January 24, 1995, Tuesday

Iran blamed for Lockerbie; Doubt cast on 'official version' of Pan Am bomb
attack. John Arlidge reports

BYLINE: JOHN ARLIDGE

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Page  3

LENGTH: 428 words


Iran, not Libya, paid for the Lockerbie bombing, a leaked US Government document
has revealed. The document is the first official evidence that challenges the
British and American assertion that Libya alone committed the terrorist attack.
The declassified Department of Defense paper, leaked from the US National
Security Agency, says that Ali Akbar Mohtashemi, the hardline Iranian interior
minister in 1988 when Pan Am flight 103 was attacked, paid $ 10m ( pounds 6.5m)
"to bomb flight 103". The operation, the document says, was in retaliation for
the shooting down by the US Navy of an Iranian Airbus in the Gulf in July 1988.

When Britain and the US charged two Libyans with carrying out the Lockerbie
bombing in 1991, Douglas Hurd, the Foreign Secretary, and the then US President,
George Bush, dismissed allegations that Iran was involved as unfounded.

The leaked document will revive long-held suspicions that Libya was not directly
involved and, instead, Iran paid Palestinian terrorists to carry out the attack
which killed 270 people.

News of the leaked document emerged as Lockerbie relatives were celebrating a US
Supreme Court ruling which clears the way for damages awards totalling pounds
500m against Pan Am. America's most senior judges yesterday upheld the finding
of the US Court of Appeal that the airline was guilty of "wilful misconduct" in
failing to detect the bomb.

In a written judgment, the judges refused to consider Pan Am's appeal against a
ruling that its security arrangements at Frankfurt and Heathrow airports were
flawed. They upheld arguments by lawyers for the bereaved families that the
airline had knowingly breached safety regulations in allowing an unaccompanied
suitcase, which contained a bomb, on board the aircraft.

The decision means relatives' claims for compensation can now be heard in the US
courts. Families are seeking awards of up to pounds 7m from the insurers who are
administering Pan Am's affairs. The company went into liquidation four years
ago.

Relatives of the victims yesterday welcomed the court's decision. Dr Jim Swire,
spokesman for British families, said: "This at last marks the end of an
agonising seven-year struggle to prove what we have known all along - that Pan
Am's security was a sham. Our loved ones paid a pounds 3 surcharge on their
tickets to cover the 'special security arrangements' that the airline said it
had introduced to prevent terrorist attacks. We now know that they had not even
complied with basic US federal aviation safety regulations."


LOAD-DATE: January 26, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1995 Independent Print Ltd

                              21 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Daily Mail (London)

                                January 25, 1995

Private Clegg may be free in weeks;
JUSTICE FOR PRIVATE CLEGG

BYLINE: John Deans

SECTION: Pg. 1, 2

LENGTH: 1387 words


THE fight for jailed paratrooper Lee Clegg won a dramatic double boost last
night, paving the way for his expected release by the spring.

Mr Major, who was said by Downing Street to be taking 'a close personal
interest' in the case, signalled that his Ministers were doing all in their
power to free 26-year-old Private Clegg.

And Home Secretary Michael Howard announced that the Government would review the
law under which he was jailed.

The twin moves came in response to an outpouring of public outrage inspired by
the campaign for justice for Private Clegg, led by the Daily Mail.

In the four days since we invited readers to sign a petition for his release,
more than 50,000 people have written or faxed their pledges of support. Last
night the mountain of mail was growing with faxes and letters still pouring in.

The political moves were hailed by MPs as official recognition that Clegg is a
victim of injustice. He is serving a life sentence after being convicted of
murdering a girl passenger in a stolen car on which his patrol fired at a West
Belfast checkpoint, fearing it was part of an IRA terrorist attack. An appeal
was dismissed last week by the House of Lords.

There was speculation at Westminster last night that he could be released on
licence within three months, possibly matched by a 'swop' arrangement involving
the early release of republican prisoners from Ulster jails.

In the Commons, Mr Major promised that Northern Ireland Secretary Sir Patrick
Mayhew would not only examine any new evidence casting doubt on the murder
conviction, but would also undertake 'effectively and with due care' the process
by which Clegg could be released on licence.

The Premier's clear sympathy for a rapid

review of the Clegg case surfaced under questioning by Liberal Democrat leader
Paddy Ashdown, a former Royal Marine officer.

Mr Ashdown attacked Clegg's life sentence as 'shamefully inappropriate'.

Mr Major said it was not for Ministers to comment on the actions of the courts,
but then declared: 'There have been suggestions in recent days that there is
fresh evidence which might cast doubt on Private Clegg's conviction.' If that
were the case, it should be handed over to Sir Patrick, who would consider it
and decide whether it was sufficient to refer to the Court of Appeal.

In addition, following Clegg's unsuccessful previous appeal, the question arose
of what should happen to him, said the Prime Minister.

'As for all life-sentence prisoners, there is a process to be gone through
before a release date can be set. This will include consultations with the trial
judge and with the Lord Chief Justice of Northern Ireland (Sir Brian Hutton) and
will take into account the nature of the offence.

'I know that Sir Patrick will ensure that this process is undertaken both
effectively and with due care.'

Later, a senior Downing Street aide said the Premier wanted the case handled
expeditiously and with dispatch.

Further clear evidence of Government concern about Clegg's conviction came from
Mr Howard. Referring to the worries expressed by the Law Lords in their ruling
last week that the conviction should stand, he told MPs: 'I am reviewing the law
in the light of the concern expressed by the House of Lords.' This foreshadows a
possible shake-up in legislation to ensure that in future soldiers - and police
officers - who find themselves in Clegg's position could be tried on a lesser
manslaughter charge, rather than the mandatory murder charge that applied in his
case.

The Home Secretary's review will cover the law in both mainland Britain and
Northern Ireland, but there was confusion last night about whether it will also
involve an examination of the current 'yellow card' rules under which troops are
advised on the use of firearms.

The dozens of Tory MPs who have campaigned on behalf of Clegg, and signed a
Commons motion in his support, have appealed to Ministers to bring these rules
of engagement within the scope of the law, giving soldiers an ultimate defence
for their actions.

The Clegg case is now on the agenda of several senior Cabinet ministers.  Sir
Patrick Mayhew and Mr Howard will be in the driving seat on the case, while
Defence Secretary Malcolm Rifkind has indicated his sympathy for the private's
plight.

Last night Whitehall could not confirm whether the matter would be on the agenda
when the full Cabinet meets tomorrow, but the possibility was not ruled out.

* Senior Para officers said they would fight 'tooth and nail' to keep Private
Clegg in the Parachute Regiment.

One said: 'Now that his appeal procedure has been exhausted, the wheels to have
him dismissed will start to turn. But we will do our best to resist all attempts
to have him thrown out. We are hoping his dismissal will be kept in abeyance,
considering the weight of public feeling.'

Comment - Page EIGHT

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1995 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              22 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          January 25, 1995, Wednesday

Lockerbie: an unsolved case of murder; The suggestion that Iran, not Libya,
bombed Pan Am 103 adds another twi st to the tale of the Lockerbie disaster.
John Arlidge explains

BYLINE: JOHN ARLIDGE

SECTION: FEATURES; Page  21

LENGTH: 1552 words


The Lockerbie bombing is the biggest unsolved murder in British criminal
history. Some 270 people died at 7.03pm on Wednesday 21 December 1988 when a Pan
Am clipper, Maid of the Seas, was destroyed by a bomb. No one has been convicted
of the terro rist crime.

The investigation into the disaster has spawned as many theories as there were
victims. Some say that Palestinian, Syrian and Libyan terrorists were
responsible, others that it was a secret service plot. The targets of the attack
have been variously described as a South African government delegation
travelling to Washington, US intelligence officers returning from a mission to
rescue Western hostages in Beirut, the American ambassador to Lebanon and drugs
smugglers. More than six years after the first pieces of wreckage were recovered
by search teams in the Scottish Borders, no convincing explanation has been
produced.

Investigators have uncovered a handful of simple facts about the Lockerbie
bombing which are uncontested. A brown Samsonite-type suitcase was loaded on to
Pan Am Flight 103a at Frankfurt airport on 21 December. The suitcase contained
an improvised explosive device concealed in a Toshiba radio cassette recorder.
Around one pound of Semtex high explosive had been used. The Boeing 727 left
Germany and travelled to Heathrow airport where the suitcase was transferred on
to the jumbo jet operating Pan Am Flight 103 to New York. The bomb exploded when
the Boeing 747 reached 31,000 ft. In 100mph head-winds, the aircraft, travelling
at 500ft a second, was torn apart. The wreckage was found over a 200-square-mile
area.

Conspiracy after conspiracy has been laid on top of these simple facts by
prosecution authorities in Britain and America and by investigative journalists.
Two main theories predominate:

The 'Official' version

The charge: Colonel Gaddafi, the Libyan leader, authorised the attack on Flight
103 in retaliation for the US raids on Tripoli and Benghazi in April 1986. Two
Libyan agents planned and executed the operation.

The evidence: A fragment of circuit board allegedly from the bomb's timing
device was found by search teams at the crash site. Detailed forensic analysis
revealed that it had come from a batch of timers made by a Swiss company, Mebo.
.Detectives who interviewed Edwin Bollier, the firm's owner, discovered that the
timer was one of a series that Mebo may have supplied exclusively to Libya.

The timer fragment was found in the scorched remains of clothing which, further
detailed forensic work revealed, had come from a shop in Malta, called Mary's
House. Detectives questioned Tony Gauci, the shop's owner, about the clothes. He
told them that a Libyan had visited the shop in 1988 and purchased, seemingly at
random, a selection of items - a man's Harris tweed jacket, a baby suit, an
umbrella. After two years of questioning, Mr Gauci identified the Libyan as
Abdel Basset Ali Al-Megrahi.

Mr Al-Megrahi worked in Malta for Libyan Arab Airlines. He regularly travelled
through the island's Luqa airport where he worked with another Libyan, Lamen
Khalifa Fhimah, Malta station manager for the Libyan carrier. A Libyan named
Jaika, who defected to the US, told investigators that on 21 December Mr
Al-Megrahi had placed an unaccompanied suitcase on board Air Malta flight KM180
at Luqa. It flew to Frankfurt. Baggage handing records at Frankfurt indicate
that the suitcase was transferred to Pan Am flight 103a.

The Result: On 14 November 1991 at simultaneous press conferences at the Crown
Office in Edinburgh and the US Justice Department in Washington, warrants were
issued for the arrest of Mr Al-Megrahi and Mr Fhimah. The pair were jointly
charged with conspiracy and murder. The indictments alleged that they had used
their knowledge of the international airline business to circumvent security
procedures and place the bomb on Flight 103. They have consistently denied the
charges and even though UN sanctions have been imposed on Libya in an effort to
force Colonel Gaddafi to surrender the suspects for trial, the pair remain at
large.

From the day the warrants were issued, Lockerbie relatives, MPs, the suspects'
lawyers and investigative journalists have questioned the allegations against
Libya. Their investigations have revealed flaws in the judicial case, including
mistakes in the indictments against the two men and weak and confused evidence.
Many now suspect Libya was not directly involved. The attack on Flight 103 was,
they say, simply Iranian revenge for the shooting down in July 1988 of an
Iranian Airbus in the Gulf. The airliner, wth 290 people on board, was destroyed
by the USS Vincennes after navy personnel mistook it for a jet fighter. This
suspicion has given rise to

The alternative theory

The charge: Following the Vincennes incident, Iran ordered the Syrian-backed
terrorist group, the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine - General
Command, to avenge the deaths of its citizens by attacking an American airliner.
Britain and Americaknew that Iran and Syria were behind the atrocity but covered
up the evidence and cobbled together a case against Libya instead, to protect
Western strategic interests in the Middle East following the Iraqi invasion of
Kuwait.

The evidence: In the spring of 1988, Colonel Gaddafi withdrew funding for the
PFLP-GC after its leader, Ahmed Jibril, refused to co-operate with other Middle
East terrorist groups which Libya was funding. Within hours of the Vincennes
attack, Mr Jibril, faced with the loss of his main sponsor, sent a message to
Tehran. The message, which was intercepted by intelligence agencies, offered his
condolences and expressed support for the Iranian government.

On 8 July three separate intelligence agencies spotted Mr Jibril's right-hand
man, Hafez Hussein Dalkamoni, in Tehran. He was seen in the company of Ali Akbar
Mohtashemi, the hardline Iranian interior minister who supervised Iranian
funding of Middle East terrorist groups.

A month later the Mossad, Israel's secret service, warned the West German
authorities that a terrorist group was planning attacks in the Frankfurt area.
In September and October the BKA, Germany's criminal police, mounted a
surveillance operation on a flat in Neuss, Frankfurt, where Mr Dalkamoni had
been seen. On 27 October 1988 operation Autumn Leaves, as it had become known,
ended when the BKA arrested 17 people in Neuss and three other German cities.

Officers were stunned when, after arresting Mr Dalkamoni and Marwan Khreesat, a
known Jordanian bomb maker, they found a primed bomb inside a Toshiba
radio-cassette recorder in the boot of their Ford saloon car. Six months later
three further bombs were found at a flat in Frankfurt.

Despite the discovery of the Toshiba bombs, intense questioning of Dalkamoni and
the other suspects failed to reveal any direct link with the Lockerbie bombing.
To the dismay of Scottish police, a federal judge sitting in Frankfurt freed Mr
Khreesat, saying there was no evidence that he had committed a criminal offence.
Khreesat immediately fled to Jordan. None of the German suspects was charged in
connection with Flight 103.

Despite this setback, Western intelligence agencies continued to suggest that Mr
Jibril, acting on orders from Ali Akbar Mohtashemi had instructed Mr Dalkamoni
and Mr Khreesat to carry out the bombing.

On 2 August 1990, Iraqi forces invaded Kuwait. Suddenly the rumours circulating
in Washington and London about Iranian and PFLP-GC involvement in Lockerbie
stopped. Within days of the invasion, James Baker, then US secretary of state,
flew to Geneva where he met high-ranking Syrian officials. His visit culminated
in a face-to-face meeting with Hafez al-Assad, the Syrian president. It is
unclear what the implications of the ground-breaking meeting were. But many
observers have speculated that because Syrian support and Iranian acquiescence
was vital to the success of the Desert Storm operation to liberate Kuwait, the
US, through its intelligence network, decided to re-focus the Lockerbie
investigation on Libya.

When, in November 1991, President George Bush and Douglas Hurd, the Foreign
Secretary, ordered Libya to hand over Mr Al-Megrahi and Mr Fhimah for trial in
Scotland or the US, both men angrily dismissed suggestions that either Iran or
Syria were involved in the terrorist attack. George Bush described allegations
of Syrian involvement as "a bum rap".

The Result: The Foreign Office last night repeated its insistence that no proof
for this theory has been produced. But in the past two years, fresh evidence has
emerged which lends weight to the claim. In 1993 a former American intelligence
officer, Lester Coleman, alleged that a covert drug smuggling operation from the
Lebanon to the US, via Cyprus, Frankfurt and London, had been penetrated by
terrorists. The operation was, he claims, used by US intelligence to help
identify major drug dealers in the US. The German-based terrorists used their
knowledge of the covert drugs operation to switch an unaccompanied bag
containing the drugs, with an identical bag containing the bomb which destroyed
flight 103. The allegation has never been proven. It remains that last
unexplained mystery of the Lockerbie story.


LOAD-DATE: January 26, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1995 Independent Print Ltd

                              23 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Daily Mail (London)

                                January 26, 1995

CABINET PUTS PRIVATE CLEGG ON AGENDA FOR FREEDOM

BYLINE: John Deans,Sean Rayment

SECTION: Pg. 24

LENGTH: 680 words


THE campaign for Private Lee Clegg will be on the Cabinet agenda today.
Ministers are to discuss the case for his early release, and plans to reform
Britain's laws on military killing.

A total of 120,000 Daily Mail readers have now added their names to a petition
demanding justice for Private Clegg, 26. Thousands of letters have also arrived
as the campaign grows.

It was backed yesterday by former forces' sweetheart Dame Vera Lynn, who sent a
personal message to the paratrooper serving life in Wakefield Prison.  'Don't
give up hope. We are all with you, and we hope to see you released very soon,'
she said.

Congratulating the Mail for the campaign, she said: 'He was doing his duty.
Think what an outcry there would have been if terrorists had been driving that
car, with a bomb in the boot, and been allowed through.

'All the veterans share that view. My son-in-law, who has served in Northern
Ireland, is incensed.'

Private Clegg was among paratroopers who fired at a stolen car approaching a
West Belfast checkpoint, fearing it was part of a terrorist attack. He was
convicted of murdering 18-year-old passenger Karen Reilly, said to have been
killed by a shot fired after the car passed.

Five Law Lords turned down his appeal last week, but expressed concern about the
legal definition of murder and the mandatory life sentence.

Yesterday, dozens more Tories backed a motion calling for 26-year-old Private
Clegg's early release and legal backing for the Army's 'yellow card' rules on
the use of weapons by patrols.

Seven Labour MPs had put their names to another motion urging the Prime Minister
to 'intervene with the appropriate Minister' to seek the soldier's release, and
pioneer reform in the murder laws. The motion was sponsored by Private Clegg's
MP from Bradford South, Gerry Sutcliffe.

Mr Sutcliffe met Ulster Secretary Sir Patrick Mayhew and said: 'Discussions on
release on licence are usually dependent on whether a person represents a threat
to society. Clearly, Clegg is not a danger. I think we are talking about a
matter of weeks before he is released.'

Six Liberal Democrats supported a motion calling on the Ulster Secretary to
'urgently consider releasing Private Clegg'.

The soldier's father Stan answered criticism of the campaign from the parents of
Karen Reilly. He said: 'We feel sympathy for them, but would it have happened if
the car hadn't been stolen or if they had stopped?'

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: (1) LEE CLEGG:FREE 'WITHIN WEEKS' (2) DAME VERA:MESSAGE OF HOPE

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1995 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              24 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Daily Mail (London)

                                January 30, 1995

Minister acts over Chunnel 'open door to bombers'

BYLINE: David Norris

SECTION: Pg. 15

LENGTH: 467 words


AN investigation into Channel Tunnel security was ordered yesterday following
claims that services are wide open to terrorist attack.

Transport Secretary Brian Mawhinney called for urgent reports from the operators
of car and passenger trains.

A Sunday newspaper said test trips by its reporters had shown that it would be
easy to plant a bomb. And yesterday, police sources in Britain told the Mail
that French officers had already expressed extreme concern and met French
ministers to call for tighter measures.

Following the IRA ceasefire France is now regarded as a more likely source of
terrorist attack than the UK. Algerian Islamic fundamentalists have stepped up a
violent campaign against French interests.

The Observer claimed to have exposed serious failures despite assurances by
Ministers that the tunnel was as safe as an international airport. Reporters
made ten trips and said their bags were not checked or X-rayed at London
Waterloo, where passengers join the Eurostar train.

They also claimed to have put a large bag on the luggage rack and disembarked
before the train left. The bag was not spotted during the three-hour journey
from London to Paris, they said.

Low-security locks were allegedly fitted to panels on the passenger trains and
Eurotunnel car shuttles, and drivers reported that an average of only two out of
14 lorries on each shuttle were searched and scanned.

A spokesman for Eurotunnel dismissed the report and said: 'If we had revealed
what our security procedures were it would have shown that this research is
flawed and amateur, and it would have compromised our security.'

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1995 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              25 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            January 30, 1995, Monday

FBI document shows Lockerbie case flaws; The case against two alleged Libyan
bombers is 'crumbling to dust'. Joh n Arlidge reports

BYLINE: John Arlidge

SECTION: HOME; Page  3

LENGTH: 606 words


A secret FBI document has demolished a key part of the case against the two
Libyans accused of the Lockerbie bombing. The internal US Government document
was leaked to the Independent on the eve of a House of Commons debate on claims
that Iran, no t Libya, ordered the terrorist attack.

The five-page official briefing paper, marked "Director FBI/Priority", reveals
that vital prosecution evidence that the airline bomb began its fatal journey in
Malta is flawed. Its release, which follows the disclosure last week that
American intelligence sources blamed Iran, not Libya, for the terrorist attack,
will increase the pressure on investigating authorities to re-open the case
against Tehran.

In the House of Commons on Wednesday, Tam Dalyell, the Labour MP, will call on
the Government to establish an independent commission of inquiry to investigate
Iranian links with the atrocity. He will also urge Douglas Hurd, the Foreign
Secretary, to approve a trial of the Libyan suspects in an international court.

The FBI paper challenges prosecution evidence that the bomb, which destroyed Pan
Am Flight 103 on 21 December 1988 and killed 270 people, was loaded on to the
aircraft in Frankfurt after arriving in Germany on a flight from Malta.

During the Lockerbie investigation, detectives from Britain, the United States
and Germany examined computer records at Frankfurt airport which, they said,
revealed that an unaccompanied suitcase, thought to have contained the bomb,
arrived on 21 December on Air Malta Flight KM 180 before being transferred on to
Flight 103. The evidence led Britain and the US to charge two Libyan Arab
Airlines employees who worked in Malta, Lamen Khalifa Fhimah and Abdel Basset
Ali Al-Megrahi, with putting the suitcase on Flight KM 180.

The Frankfurt airport baggage records are vital to the prosecution case because
they provide the only direct link between Malta and Germany and, therefore,
between the suspects and the unaccompanied bag.

But the FBI briefing paper discloses that there is no documentary evidence that
the suitcase was on Flight KM 180. The only link with the Maltese flight was
that some transfer baggage from KM 180 had been unloaded at the luggage
processing point where the suitcase was first sighted. It says: "There is no
concrete indication that any piece of luggage was unloaded from Air Malta 180,
sent through the luggage routing system at Frankfurt airport, and then loaded on
board Pan Am 103."

The document says the baggage records are "misleading" and that the bomb
suitcase could have come from another flight or was simply a "rogue bag inserted
into the system".

Last week, BBC Radio's File on Four and the Independent revealed that vital
prosecution eye-witness evidence from a Maltese shop-owner, which links one of
the Libyan suspects to the bomb bag, was unreliable.

Lawyers for the pair said yesterday that the latest revelations, coupled with
the American intelligence leak, called into question the prosecution case. One
solicitor said: "The eye-witness statements in Malta and the documentary
evidence from Frankfurt are absolutely crucial to the case against the two
accused. We know that the eye-witness evidence is flawed. We now also know that
the same is true of the documentary evidence. This case is crumbling to dust -
raising fundamental questions as to why it was brought in the first place."

Fhimah, 38, and Al-Megrahi, 42, who deny the charges against them, have refused
to surrender for trial in the UK or the US, but have offered to go to court in
the Netherlands. The Government has rejected the offer.


LOAD-DATE: February 01, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1995 Independent Print Ltd

                              26 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                February 1, 1995

UK TREATS POISONED IRAQI

BYLINE: Ian Black, Diplomatic Editor

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FOREIGN PAGE; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 560 words


BRITAIN condemned the poisoning of a deserter from Iraq's special forces
yesterday as a violation of human rights.

The Foreign Office announced Major Safa al-Battat, aged 30, a member of the
Iraqi National Congress (INC) poisoned in Shaqlawa, northern Iraq, was being
treated in Britain. Officials said the poison had apparently been intended for
the head of the INC, Dr Ahmed al-Chalabi. The victim is now in a Cardiff
hospital recovering from the effects of thallium - a component of rat poison.
Further victims would come to Britain.

"This is yet another graphic example of the brutality of Saddam Hussein's regime
and clear violation of the charter which requires Iraq to cease acts of
terrorism," a Foreign Office spokesman said.

Pressure is building up, especially from France and Russia, for an easing of the
crippling embargo against Iraq's oil exports, though the US and Britain oppose
any change because they hope, without much evidence, that it will bring down
President Saddam.

Diplomats in Washington and London have been arguing that all UN conditions will
have to be strictly met.  Publicising violations of this kind clearly
strengthens the case against easing sanctions.

"We must continue pressure to apply all the Security Council resolutions and
believe there should be no question of relaxing sanctions until that time," the
spokesman said.

Latif Rashid, a vice-president of the INC, welcomed the British move: "We hope
that the rest of the international community will raise this issue too," he said
last night.

The INC, a coalition of Iraqi opposition groups, believes lifting sanctions
would be a crucial victory for President Saddam.

Sanctions have brought terrible suffering to the Iraqi people, but President
Saddam has refused a UN offer which would allow Iraq to sell some oil and buy
food and humanitarian supplies to be distributed by the UN.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              27 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          February 1, 1995, Wednesday

Justice denied over Lockerbie

SECTION: LEADING ARTICLE; Page  18

LENGTH: 518 words


Ever since 270 people were killed in the Lockerbie bombing in December 1988, the
relatives of the dead have had two simple demands: that the truth be told and
that justice be done. Six years after the worst mass murder in British criminal
history, neither demand has been met.

Britain and the United States have charged two Libyans with carrying out the
terrorist attack and, through the UN, they have imposed sanctions on Libya to
force Colonel Gaddafi to hand over the pair for trial. The Libyan leader has
refused. The two suspects, who deny the charges, insist they will not stand
trial in the US or the UK because, they say, a jury would be biased against
them. The result is a stalemate which has lasted for almost two years. In an
effort to break the deadlock and "clear their names", the two Libyans have
recently offered to appear before an international court in a neutral country.
One suggestion is an ad hoc tribunal similar to that set up in the Hague to
examine allegations of war crimes in former Yugoslavia. Legal experts, British
relatives, UN officials and the Libyan foreign ministry have all approved the
plan. But Government ministers have repeated their insistence that the UK or the
US is the only acceptable venue.

In recent weeks, new revelations have thrown the debate over a Lockerbie trial
into a yet sharper light. For the first time, hard evidence has begun to emerge
that the case against the two Libyans is not as strong as investigators have
claimed. At the same time, leaked documents from Washington have blamed Iran,
not Libya, for the terrorist attack.

The latest revelations make it more important than ever that the two Libyans
stand trial. Until that case is examined, it will not be possible to make
progress on any other front. This afternoon Douglas Hurd, the Foreign Secretary,
will take the rare step of replying to a debate initiated by the Labour
backbencher, Tam Dalyell, on Lockerbie. Mr Hurd is said to be "fed up" with the
current bout of conspiracy theorising that Iran and Syria may be behind the
attack. He wants to reassure relatives of the victims that all available
evidence points towards Tripoli. He should do more.

Mr Hurd should admit that sanctions against Libya have failed and that there is
no prospect of a trial of the two Libyan suspects in Britain or the US. In these
circumstances, he should tell the House of Commons that, with reluctance, the
Government has asked the Lord Advocate, Scotland's chief prosecutor, to begin
talks with the British lawyers representing the Libyan pair to find a mutually
acceptable venue for a trial.

If a venue were agreed and the Libyan suspects then refused to appear or Colonel
Gaddafi stepped in at the last minute to stop them leaving Tripoli, the world
would draw its own conclusions. The strategy is not without risk. Negotiating,
albeit at a distance, with a state that has sponsored terrorism is distasteful
and may well prove fruitless. But ministers owe it to the memory of the 270
innocent people who died in the bombing to find a way through the current
impasse.


LOAD-DATE: February 01, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1995 Independent Print Ltd

                              28 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           February 2, 1995, Thursday

Hurd stance on Lockerbie trial 'a betrayal'

BYLINE: JOHN ARLIDGE

SECTION: POLITICS; Page  8

LENGTH: 517 words


Relatives of people who died in the Lockerbie disaster yesterday accused the
Government of betrayal after Douglas Hurd, the Foreign Secretary, ruled out a
trial in an international court of the two Libyans accused of the terrorist
bombing.  Mr Hurd repeated the Government's insistence that the Libyans should
stand trial in Scotland. Ministers would not approve a hearing in a neutral
country because, he said, there was no guarantee that the suspects would agree
to appear.

In the Commons, Mr Hurd dismissed new evidence implicating Iran and
Syrian-backed Palestinian terrorists in the bombing as "rumours" and insisted
that all the available evidence pointed towards Tripoli. He said he could not
discuss recent revelations indicating that the case against the Libyans is
fundamentally flawed. Politicians could not "weigh and ponder evidence" before a
trial.

He said: "During the early stages of the investigation, the possibility that
Palestinian extremist groups might be responsible was extensively investigated
and so were reports of Iranian involvement. No credible evidence has been found
to substantiate either theory." The "most massive criminal investigation ever to
take place in Britain" had led to charges against the two alleged Libyan agents,
Lamen Khalifa Fhimah and Abdel Basset Ali Al-Megrahi, and "the case against them
stands".

Mr Hurd said he had taken the rare step of replying to the adjournment debate
brought by the Labour backbencher, Tam Dalyell, "because of the enormity of the
crime and the suffering which it caused and causes" to the relatives of the 270
people who died when Pan Am Flight 103 was destroyed in December 1988.

His comments were dismissed by the 40 relatives who had travelled to the Commons
to hear the debate. Led by their new legal adviser, Michael Mansfield QC, the
families called for a judicial inquiry similar to the Scott inquiry into the
arms-to-Iraq affair. They also plan to urge the European Commission to make a
full statement on the Lockerbie investigation.

Dr Jim Swire, spokesman for the British relatives, described the Government's
decision to rule out an international court as "a betrayal of the relatives and
an insult to the memory of our lost loved ones". Dr Swire pointed out that
although the Libyan suspects had refused to surrender for trial in Britain or
America, they had offered to appear before a UN tribunal in The Hague - a
proposal supported by the Libyan foreign ministry.

Dr Swire acknowledged Mr Hurd's concerns that the two suspects might refuse to
appear at the last minute, but, he said: "Now is the time to call their bluff
and open talks with their defence lawyers to find a mutually acceptable venue.
It is clear that there is no prospect of a trial in Scotland or the US. The
Libyans have made an offer to break the deadlock. Ministers should take them up
on it.

"We relatives have one simple demand. We want to find out why our children, our
husbands and our wives died. By ruling out a trial in a neutral country, the
Government is blocking the main avenue of progress."


LOAD-DATE: February 02, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1995 Independent Print Ltd

                              29 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           February 2, 1995, Thursday

UK anger over Iraq poisoning

BYLINE: MICHAEL SHERIDAN

SECTION: INTERNATIONAL; Page  13

LENGTH: 178 words


Britain plans to use the poisoning of opposition activists by the Saddam Hussein
regime to strengthen the argument against any relaxation of United Nations
sanctions against Iraq.  A 31-year-old former Iraqi special forces officer is
receiving treatment at a Cardiff hospital for thallium poison. He developed
symptoms after drinking a beverage laced with the chemical in northern Iraq.

At least one other dissident is expected to be flown from the Middle East for
medical attention within the next week. Two other opponents of the Iraqi
dictator are said to have died.

Thallium, an insidious, tasteless and colourless poison, was first used by Iraqi
intelligence in the late Seventies. Victims suspect nothing until the delayed
symptoms appear.

British officials see the poisonings as renewed proof of President Saddam's
ruthless determination to do away with opponents. "We consider this as an act of
terrorism," an official said yesterday. Britain may argue the poisonings are in
breach of UN resolution 687, which regulates Iraqi behaviour.


LOAD-DATE: February 02, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1995 Independent Print Ltd

                              30 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                           February 4, 1995, Saturday

Bruton tells Major to follow lead in freeing terrorists

BYLINE: Nicholas Watt and Philip Webster

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 472 words


THE Irish Prime Minister called on Britain yesterday to release its share of
terrorist prisoners after Dublin had freed five members of the IRA.

John Bruton said: ''I would like to see the British Government looking at its
policy and following suit. It builds confidence when people see that the
abandonment of violence brings rewards for families who are separated from their
loved ones.''

Tory backbenchers and Unionists denounced Mr Bruton's remarks and the Government
made clear that there would be no amnesty for terrorists held in Britain. The
Northern Ireland Office said: ''Those convicted in the courts must serve their
sentence according to the law.''

This was followed by further reassurance to the Unionists last night from John
Major, who declared that he would not be a ''persuader'' for a united Ireland.
The Prime Minister used a speech to the right-wing Conservative Way Forward to
try to calm Unionist fears raised by the disclosure by The Times this week of
parts of the draft framework document on the future of the province.

He promised that the people of Northern Ireland would not be forced out of the
Union. ''They have a constitutional guarantee. For my part I cherish the United
Kingdom and Northern Ireland's part in it. So I take the view that it is not for
the Government to tell the people of Northern Ireland what their future should
be. It is for the people of Northern Ireland to decide.''

At Dublin's Forum for Peace and Reconciliation yesterday, Mr Bruton defended the
decision to release the prisoners. They include Pamela Kane, 30, the only woman
IRA prisoner in the republic, who was convicted of armed robbery and jailed for
ten years in 1990. She was not due to be released until 1997.

Mr Bruton said: ''These are people who have served the substantial bulk of their
sentences and the releases are on a case-by-case basis. Obviously, the fact that
we are now enjoying peace and there is no violence creates conditions in which
these things are possible.''

Peter Robinson, deputy leader of the Democratic Unionist Party, said he was
appalled that Mr Bruton had released IRA terrorists early to rejoin ''their
comrades in arms'' and, even worse, that he had called on Britain to follow his
folly.

In spite of the Government's assertion that it would not follow Mr Bruton's
example, Michael Mates, a former Northern Ireland Security Minister, said he
believed that terrorist prisoners serving life sentences would be freed early if
the ceasefire held. He made clear, however, that they were not political
prisoners and could only be released by the judicial system.

At the Maze yesterday, an IRA bomber was attacked by loyalist inmates. Sean
Kelly, who has just begun a 25-year sentence for the Shankill Road fish-shop
bombing, needed stitches for head injuries.

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1995 Times Newspapers Limited

                              31 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            February 5, 1995, Sunday

Fear lays siege to Freetown

BYLINE: Richard Dowden

SECTION: THE WORLD; Page  18

LENGTH: 641 words


IN 1834 the administrators of the colony of Sierra Leone proposed the building
of a wall 20 miles in length and 30 feet high across the peninsula on which the
capital, Freetown, is situated. They believed that the fever we know as malaria
- "bad air" - was caused by such, and that the wall would keep out the
pestilential miasma which annually pervaded the town.  The wall did not get
built - at least not with earth, but there has always been a cultural and
spiritual wall between Freetown and the rest of Sierra Leone. Freetown is a neat
little English port with a Gothic cathedral and Classical law courts, set on the
peninsula which forms the south side of the stupendous natural harbour. It was
Britain's oldest and proudest colony in Africa. Behind it lies a hinterland
regarded by the citizens of Freetown as full of disease and danger, once known,
sinisterly, as "the interior".

Once again the people of Freetown are looking anxiously towards the interior.
Terror lurks beyond the city. Few dare to travel the road inland. Refugees
arrive daily, with horrific tales of sudden attacks by men in uniform, of
ritualistic killings and mass murder.

The attacks began four years ago in the east, on the Liberian border, and many
assumed they were no more than a spill-over from the Liberian chaos, but now
they have engulfed most of the country. Thousands of people fled west into
Guinea last month whena town just 80 miles from Freetown was attacked.

The terror is worse because in Freetown no one knows who the attackers are or
what they want. The fear of "the interior" has a long history in Freetown. It
was founded in 1787 for black former slaves in America who fought for the
British in the War of Independence. When the British fled, they took their black
allies to Halifax in Nova Scotia. But the far north proved too inhospitable and
most of them came to London, where they became impoverished. A society was
founded to buy land for them in Africa andthey returned to their continent of
origin. Their descendants in Freetown are still known as the Nova Scotians.

But they never really reintegrated in Africa. They kept European names and
customs and for nearly 200 years sent their children to be educated in England
when they could afford it. Freetown still feels separate, and the coastal
creoles still keep aloof from indigenous Africans. They tell tales of the
Leopard Men and devil dancers, cults of killers and cannibals, who once
terrorised parts of Sierra Leone.

That talk is spreading again as refugees' tales reach the capital. Some at least
are true. The Independent on Sunday was given photographs last week of a naked
man having his ears cut off and his throat cut. Another showed a mass grave in
which a pack ofdogs was eating human bodies.

no one knows or understands who is carrying out these atrocities. They may be
rebels of the Revolutionary United Front, a rebel movement whose leader, Foday
Sankoh, has not been heard of for more than two years. They may be government
soldiers who freelance as rebels - sobels as they are known. Or they may be
bandits or deserters, who have uniforms and guns and hunt and kill people as a
way of life. This is no coup or war of liberation or even a "tribal" struggle.
Sierra Leone is being engulfed by havoc.

Valentin Strasser and the young officers who overthrew the government in 1992
thought they could defeat the rebels, clean up corruption and restore pride in
the country. But they made little impact on the problems and were soon sucked
into the disease they claimed to want to cure. Living in luxury in Freetown,
they have neither the authority nor the experience to run such a complex country
or fight a civil war. Now they are reaping the whirlwind. meanwhile Freetown
listens to the stories of the refugees, waits and prays.


LOAD-DATE: February 07, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1995 Independent Print Ltd

                              32 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Standard (London)

                                February 8, 1995

Dublin presses for terror wind-down

BYLINE: Charles Reiss

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 494 words


THE GOVERNMENT was under pressure from Dublin today to wind down its defences
against IRA terrorism - at the same time as a flurry of incidents in Ulster.

A man was shot and critically injured at his front door, a bomb was defused at a
superstore and soldiers escaped injury in a petrol bomb attack in three
apparently unconnected outbreaks last night. At Newry, in Co Down, soldiers
defused a 1lb Semtex bomb left in a hold-all after a telephoned warning.  It was
the first such incident in Northern Ireland since a similar though larger Semtex
bomb was defused last December. That was thought to have been the work of local
IRA mavericks unhappy with the ceasefire and there were immediate fears today
that the Newry bomb may have had a similar cause.

The shooting, left a man critically wounded but police today said there was no
reason to believe there was terrorist involvement.

The news of the incidents came as Ireland's Foreign Secretary Dick Spring
publicly urged Britain to consider whether it needed to keep "legislation that
has proved controversial".

That was taken to be a direct reference to the Prevention of Terrorism Act,
introduced in the mid-Seventies. Mr Spring was speaking in the Dublin Parliament
as MPs there voted to lift Ireland's own state of emergency provisions.

There was no immediate Whitehall reaction today, except to point out that
Britain's Terrorism Act comes to the Commons for its annual renewal next month.

But senior Tory MPs were cool and the Unionists, predictably, were hostile.
Their law and order spokesman, MP David Trimble, said Britain should not
"disarm" while the terrorists still held their weapons. He accused the Irish
government of "throwing caution to the wind".

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1995 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              33 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                February 9, 1995

MINISTERS HOLD LINE ON TERROR ACT

BYLINE: Patrick Wintour And David Sharrock

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1107 words


DOWNING Street last night spurned calls from the Dublin government to shelve its
20-year-old emergency anti-terrorist legislation.

However, ministerial sources hinted the Government could soften aspects of the
Prevention of Terrorism Act when it is debated by MPs, but only so long as the
peace process holds.

One of the most likely changes is dropping the use of exclusion orders and
Michael Howard, the Home Secretary may also lift some of the 68 banning orders
in force.

The two governments are expected to have published the so-called framework
document setting out their vision of future North-South relations by the time
MPs debate the renewal of the PTA, probably on March 9.

Unionist leaders, speaking on the day a 1lb Semtex bomb was found in Newry,
Northern Ireland, warned strongly yesterday against early weakening of the
legislation. The IRA denied planting the bomb outside a DIY store and blamed a
British "dirty tricks campaign" aimed at destabilising the peace process.

David Trimble, the Ulster Unionist MP for Upper Bann, said he would back a
wholesale review of the legislation next year.

"It may come to be necessary to look at restructuring our legislation, but it
would be very foolish for us to disarm these protections for our community now
while the terrorist organisation are still in existence and still heavily
armed".

The Irish foreign minister Dick Spring urged Britain to relax its anti
-terrorist laws after the Irish parliament ended its 20-year-old legal state of
emergency on Tuesday.

He said the decision had been very symbolic and hoped Britain would reciprocate.
However, Downing Street said it would be premature to take action, adding the
counter-terrorist laws were important not just to defeat Ulster paramilitaries,
but also other terrorist groups including in the Middle East.

The two pillars of Britain's anti-terrorist legislation are the Prevention of
Terrorism Act - empowering the police to detain suspects for up to seven days
and to place exclusion orders on individuals thought to have connnections with
proscribed organisations - and the Emergency Provisions Act, enshrining the
non-jury Diplock Courts. The provisions of both acts are subject to annual
review.

At the end of last year, 68 exclusion orders were in existence with 19 new ones
imposed in 1994 and 31 cancelled, including the order on Sinn Fein president
Gerry Adams.

Ministers are obliged to re-enact the EPA next year. Mr Trimble said yesterday
this would be the occasion to review Britain's entire anti-terrorist legislation
by merging the two acts into one.

John Rowe, the lawyer charged by the Government with reviewing the PTA annually
has been a persistent opponent of exclusion orders. At the weekly meeting of the
Parliamentary Labour Party, the shadow home secretary Jack Straw reassured
leftwing MPs that Labour would again not support the renewal unless the
Government acceded to a review and in the meantime ended the practice of
detention for seven days and exclusion orders.

The Liberal Democrat spokesman on Northern Ireland, Lord Holme, said some of the
special powers are clearly in excess of what is required.

Army explosives experts took nearly five hours to make the Newry bomb safe with
three controlled explosions, but no one was hurt.

It is the second bomb to be defused since the start of the IRA ceasefire just
over five months ago.

The SDLP MP for west Belfast, Joe Hendron, said the device was the work of a
maverick republican group. But Sinn Fein's Northern chairman, Mitchel
McLaughlin, said it was planted "conveniently" to distract attention from
deadlock in current peace talks.

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              34 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                February 9, 1995

Government under pressure to repeal terror Act Sinn Fein blames bomb on British
'dirty tricks'

SECTION: Pg. 10

LENGTH: 589 words


By Our Political Staff

REPUBLICANS yesterday blamed a British "dirty tricks" operation for a bomb
planted in Newry, County Down, claiming it was part of an attempt to disrupt the
Northern Ireland peace process.

So-called agents provocateurs unhappy with the political developments were most
likely to be responsible, Sinn Fein said.

The IRA yesterday categorically rejected Unionist claims -- and some security
force suspicions -- that it left the one-pound Semtex device at the front of a
DIY shopping centre in the border town.

Army explosives experts spent nearly five hours making it safe with three
controlled explosions. No-one was hurt.

Yesterday's developments came as the Government faced pressure from Dublin to
repeal the Prevention of Terrorism Act, after the Republic's Parliament voted to
lift Ireland's State of Emergency provisions.

Downing Street said it was "not persuaded" that the powers provided by the Act
-- allowing for the detention of terrorist suspects for up to seven days and the
issuing of exclusion orders from mainland Britain -- were no longer needed.

However, there were reports last night that Home Secretary Michael Howard is
considering plans to drop the use of exclusion orders.

The Home Office said only that the Act was kept under constant review. The
likelihood of changes will become clearer as the Act comes up for renewal in the
Commons next month.

However, Mr James Cran, vice-chairman of the Conservative backbench Northern
Ireland committee, said it was not time to consider a response to the Irish
Government.

He said: "This sort of debate is just a distraction apart form which people like
me would not wish to see amendments along the lines of the Irish Government
simply because both sides of the divide in Northern Ireland have very
considerable caches of armaments. We have got to those decommissioned."

The Newry bomb was the second to be defused since the start of the IRA ceasefire
just over five months ago.

Sinn Fein will meet senior civil servants at Stormont today in another round of
exploratory talks which could edge the party even closer to full negotiations at
ministerial level.

The party's northern chairman Mitchel McLaughlin claimed: "Whoever planted the
device is not involved in the peace process and does not want it to succeed."

However, Democratic Unionist MP Peter Robinson said he was convinced the
Provisionals were behind the Newry device.

He added: "It is part of the threat that they want to remind the Government that
unless they continue with their surrender they are willing to go back to
violence."

At today's meeting at Stormont, Sinn Fein will call for an end to the
exploratory dialogue and a swift move into talks with Government Ministers.

Provided "good progress continues" with the civil servants, it seems the
Government will be ready to meet them once the joint framework document is
published.

This outlines the basis of all-party negotiations on the future of Northern
Ireland and is due out before the end of the month.

Meanwhile, Unionists are preparing to resist any moves towards the establishment
of any cross-border bodies being proposed in the framework document.

A special meeting involving representatives of Mr Ian Paisley's Democratic
Unionist Party and Mr James Molyneaux's Ulster Unionist Party is being held in
Belfast tonight to agree on a joint strategy. However, a new formal pact at this
stage is unlikely, according to sources in Belfast.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1995 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              35 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               February 11, 1995

BOMB 'MASTERMIND' STUDIED IN BRITAIN;
Investigators seek backers of New York outrage

BYLINE: Ian Katz In New York

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 840 words


RAMZI Ahmed Yousef, the alleged mastermind behind the 1993 World Trade Centre
bombing who has been linked to a string of other terrorist plots, studied in
Britain, it emerged yesterday.

While details of his identity and background remain sparse, British diplomats in
New York confirmed that Yousef, aged 27, went to Swansea University where it is
thought he studied engineering.

The university, which is popular with Arab students, had no record of Yousef's
attendance, suggesting he may have used a different name. He is said to have
employed at least six aliases during two years on the run, which ended with his
capture in Pakistan on Tuesday.

With Yousef behind bars in New York, investigators are trying to find out who
ordered the 1993 Manhattan bombing and financed the alleged master terrorist's
expensive globetrotting lifestyle.

Six people died and hundreds were injured in the blast. The man said to have
been the architect of the plot was yesterday said to have boasted to Pakistani
police of staging terrorist attacks, claiming: "Israel and her supporters have
been punished." Investigators believe Yousef was backed by a Middle Eastern
country or group which helped create false identities for him and financed his
reported penchant for first-class air travel.

The prime suspect is Iraq, which had a possible motive in seeking revenge for
American bombing of Baghdad in the Gulf war.  Yousef was travelling on an Iraqi
passport when he stepped off a flight from Pakistan in September 1992, wearing
traditional Afghan clothes.

According to some reports, Yousef had also been linked with an Iraqi-backed
anti-Iranian group based in Pakistan. There have been suggestions, denied by
Yousef's lawyer, that he is co-operating with the FBI and has fingered the
Baghdad regime.

But that theory appears to contradict the confession of one of the World Trade
Centre bombers, who told Egyptian police the New York attack had been planned in
Peshawar, Pakistan, and approved by Iranian intelligence. It could also create
problems for prosecutors who claim that Sheikh Omar Abdel-Rahman, a vocal critic
of Iraq, inspired the bombing.

Yousef's true identity and background are as mysterious as his whereabouts
during the two years in which he managed to elude four American law-enforcement
agencies and half the world's police forces.

A version gaining acceptance is that he was born in Kuwait to Pakistani parents.
However, Yousef told a US human rights group he was born in Iraq and persecuted
in post-war Kuwait.

Neither the US attorney's office nor the FBI would comment on Yousef's
background yesterday. A spokesman for the Iraqi mission to the United Nations
said: "We have no idea about the nationality of this man, but I can confirm that
Iraq has no relations with him."

Yousef was captured in Islamabad and taken back to the US to face trial for his
alleged part in the New York bombing. He has denied all charges.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              36 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               February 13, 1995

Shameful stepping stone to Cold War Dresden was all about giving Stalin food for
thought

BYLINE: John Linklater

SECTION: Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1212 words


John Linklater argues that 50 years after the devastation of Dresden, Britain
should end the long deception and admit that the city's destruction was more a
show of power than a strategic imperative.

DRESDEN must be seen as a demonstration of the destructive capabilities of the
Western Allies in anticipation of the Cold War. Until this political motive is
addressed and understood, the levelling of Dresden 50 years ago today remains an
even more senseless act. Attempts to justify the operation in terms of strategic
necessity, aimed at accelerating victory in the Second World War, are obdurately
naive and a lasting insult.

Historians are at least agreed that there was a conspicuous failure to meet the
ostensible objectives of successive waves of attack by Bomber Command and the US
8th Air Force. Dresden's main bridges remained standing, trains resumed running
within a couple of days and priority was given to clearing streets of moonscape
rubble. The first pictures of the disaster area show how quickly this was
achieved.

Troop concentrations, if they existed at all, were composed of children and
veterans. I met a Dresden survivor last week who told me that at the time of the
bombings his father, aged 60, had been drafted into air defences in another part
of Saxony. The criminal liquidation of thousands of innocent refugees (the
highest element of the death toll) cannot be dignified with any discussion of
strategic objectives. The objective of sowing confusion implies that a city
which had taken in refugees to double its population to more than one million
was not already in a state of considerable disarray. This is patent nonsense.

The Press Association reported within days that Dresden was the start of a new
campaign of "terror bombing" designed to break the morale of the German people,
and it caused tremendous political embarrassment when it escaped the American
censor. It was suppressed in Britain, where questions in the House of Commons
and public criticism made Dresden a delicate issue from the outset.

Suggesting the German civil population needed Dresden to awaken to "terror",
when the British and American armies were at the Rhine and the Soviets at the
Oder, when every industrial city had received five years of sustained pummeling,
is analogous to speculation that the war-scarred populations of Coventry and
Clydebank would have collapsed and surrendered with the subsequent news that
Stratford-upon-Avon had been fire-bombed. Such an ineptitude would have produced
incredulity, indignation and a stiffening of resolve. Dresden had that effect.
Berlin would be fought for street by street.

It also lost the Allies the moral ascendancy in a fight to crush an evil,
offering a permanent excuse for the kind of resentment and national humiliation
that had started the war in the first place. The Neo-Nazi threat to today's
memorial in Dresden is a case in point, and it is four years since the Neo
-Nazis had any kind of profile in Dresden. It is exploiting an opportunity
created by Britain's continuing inability to express regret. The RAF have
boycotted today's ceremonies, refusing to contribute to reconciliation.

Churchill's memorandum of March 28, 1945, when he called for a review of the
policy of bombing German cities, "simply for the sake of increasing terror,
though under other pretexts", is generally presented as a betrayal of Bomber
Command. Its commander-in-chief, Arthur Harris, responded typically the next day
that any psychiatrist could explain sensitivity over Dresen: "It is connected
with German bands and Dresden shepherdesses . . . I do not personally regard the
whole of the remaining cities of Germany as worth the bones of one British
Grenadier." In the face of such an embarrassing display of vindictiveness,
Churchill's missive can be taken as a belated confession, although it still
fails to tell the whole truth.

Dresden was intended to make an impression, that much is clear. It was one of
the deepest strikes made on a European city during the course of the war. The
co-ordination of British and American bombers, in waves of nightime and daytime
strikes from February 13-15, was a rare occasion in the war when co-operation
between Bomber Command and the US Air force actually materialised.

The elaborate decoys and dummy runs planned into the attacks were exhibitionist
and out of all proportion to the level of air defence with which Germany was
capable of resisting in February 1945. Dresden was a virgin target, so the
extent of the devastation from a single operation could be measured all the more
awesomely. As an opportunity to kill a lot of people refugee-saturated Dresden
was an optimum. As a spectacle of conflagration, it had been learned through
experience that old cities ignite most readily.

The question is, for whose education was such a stupefying prodigy of
destruction intended? On the first two days alone, 1084 British and American
planes dropped 3371 tons of bombs and incendiaries to create a firestorm. There
is a kind of mentality that will find such statistics impressive. Stalin had
asked for support on the Eastern Front. Now he got a demonstration, and a
salutary lesson. Dresden was all about giving Stalin food for thought.

It is reported that only a week before, at the Yalta Conference, American and
British chiefs of staff were chagrined by Stalin's apparent ignorance of the
damage done to Germany and Japan by strategic bombing. Hollywood pictures and
combat footage were apparently screened to make a point that Dresden would
graphically reinforce when the Soviet Red Army moved on another 50 miles to take
the city.

More significantly, it was at Yalta that the lines for the impending Cold War
were drawn up as Churchill, Roosevelt and Stalin divided the map of East and
West Europe. Dresden came precisely two days after the conference broke up.
Churchill had initiated plans for the attack in late January.

The "pretext", to repeat Churchill's own word a month later, was to support the
advance of the Soviet Red Army. The hidden political objective was intimidation,
of Stalin more than the defeated German people. If Germany was not effectively
defeated, as the defenders of the Dresden operation claim, then why did the
Yalta Conference concern itself with such issues as minimum subsistence for
German civilians, dismantling of German armaments production, reparations out of
the German people's post-war earnings and the setting up of international courts
for trials of war criminals?

Dresden was a British and American war crime because thousands of innocent lives
and a beautiful city were sacrificed to teach a salutary lesson to the Soviets.
Only the generous would ascribe deterrence value in the coming Cold War, a
demonstration of conventional warfare taken to the extreme. It was part of an
escalation of destruction the human imagination would sanction, a preparatory to
Hiroshima and Nagasaki and their sickening illustration of nuclear capability.

Dresden belongs to a New Europe. The politics that wasted that city are an ugly
anachronism, and it is time that Britain stopped lying about its shameful role
in a 50-year deception, justified by cant and hypocrisy.

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: A mother and her daughter pray for the victims of the Allied bombing of
Dresden during a memorial service in Dresden's Hofkirche Cathedral

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1995 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              37 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Daily Mail (London)

                               February 18, 1995

Don't go soft, warns QC as terror bans are lifted

BYLINE: David Hughes, Political Editor

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 800 words


BANNING orders on ten IRA suspects were lifted yesterday despite a warning that
anti-terror legislation must be maintained regardless of the Ulster ceasefire.

In a chilling assessment of the continuing threat, John Rowe, QC, insisted that
the Government should keep up its guard against IRA and loyalist paramilitaries.

His official review of the Prevention of Terrorism Act came at an embarrassing
moment for Ministers.

The independent report - commissioned annually by the Government - coincided
with the announcement by Northern Ireland Secretary Sir Patrick Mayhew that he
was lifting exclusion orders against ten people in the Republic barring them
from Ulster.

He said in a Commons written reply that there was no longer a need 'on the basis
of security advice' to maintain the orders.

He revealed that a further 56 orders excluding people in Northern Ireland from
the British mainland were being reviewed by Home Secretary Michael Howard.

The latest concessions in the peace process were greeted warmly in Dublin, but
outraged Unionists.

Deputy Irish premier and foreign minister Dick Spring described the move as
'progressive' and 'part of the peace dividend'.

But Dr Ian Paisley, leader of the hard-line Democratic Unionists, branded the
move as 'just another concession to the IRA'.

Mr Rowe's report will intensify the outrage as it makes clear that the
Prevention of Terrorism Act, due for renewal in March, should continue.

Stressing his impartiality and that he is not bound by Government policy, he
says that exclusion orders are effective in combating terrorism.

'I have seen a clear indication that exclusion orders can deter excluded persons
from engaging in terrorist acts in Great Britain,' he says.

Warning that 'there is still activity and risk' despite the ceasefire, he paints
a frightening picture of the continuing high level of violence in Northern
Ireland.

'Since the ceasefire there have been assaults and intimidation, which are
terrorist related; likewise robberies of shops and of the person.'

He adds: 'In addition, there are large quantities of firearms and explosives
still held and available for terrorist use.'

He also points out that the republican terrorist group, the INLA, has not
announced a ceasefire and that there are wider dangers to Britain from the
growing threat of international terrorism.

His conclusion is that the Prevention of Terrorism Act should be renewed
unchanged.

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1995 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              38 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          February 18, 1995, Saturday

Exclusions lifted on alleged IRA terrorists

BYLINE: COLIN BROWN/DAVID McKITTRICK

SECTION: HOME; Page  2

LENGTH: 614 words


Sir Patrick Mayhew, the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland, yesterday
lifted exclusion orders against 10 alleged Irish terrorists in a move that
threatened to deepen Ulster Unionist distrust for the Government.

Michael Howard, the Home Secretary, took a more cautious approach, and is
reviewing 56 exclusion orders under his jurisdiction. Home Office sources denied
there was any split between Mr Howard and the Secretary of State for Northern
Ireland. Officials said the Home Secretary would consider lifting the exclusion
orders carefully "on a case-by-case basis".

That contrasted sharply with the decision by Sir Patrick to lift the 10
exclusion orders under his control, which was seen as a response to the intense
pressure by the Irish Government to show a more conciliatory approach to the IRA
in response to the ceasefire.

Dublin has become increasingly anxious about the failure of the Northern Ireland
Secretary to make more progress in the contacts between Sinn Fein and British
Government officials.

The decision was taken at the Cabinet committee on Northern Ireland, chaired by
John Major. Although Mr Howard and Sir Patrick are members of the committee,
there were suspicions at Westminster that the Home Secretary, a right-winger, is
more reluctant to make gestures in the peace process.

The strategy was strongly endorsed by John Rowe, the QC responsible for
reviewing the Prevention of Terrorism and the Northern Ireland Emergency
Provisions Act. Mr Rowe recommended the Government retain the powers for
exclusion orders and detention for up to seven days without charge.

"I have seen a clear indication that exclusion orders can deter excluded persons
from engaging in terrorist acts in Great Britain. I should say that this was
before the present ceasefires, but the force of the point remains: there is
proof that exclusion orders have disrupted the terrorists' plans," Mr Rowe said
in his review of the Act.

Exclusion orders banning the Sinn Fein leaders Gerry Adams and Martin McGuinness
from mainland Britain have already been lifted, but yesterday the Home Office
was unable to say when the result of the general review is to be made. One
opportunity will come on 22 March, when the Commons is due to renew the Act.

Alex Massey, a Sinn Fein councillor who was himself excluded from Britain for a
time, said his party welcomed what he described as "these small steps towards
ending the variety of repressive measures which govern this state".

But the Democratic Unionist Ian Paisley condemned the move: "The Government are
reacting to threats. It's a sign of the dirty deal that was done, another
instalment of the dirty deal as the framework document no doubt will be."

The Ulster Unionist leader, James Molyneaux, repeated that his party would not
talk to the Government on the basis of the coming framework document, but said
it would talk on the basis of a document which it was itself producing.

Asked in a BBC interview whether he would talk to the Government about the
framework document, Mr Molyneaux responded: "We don't need to because we've read
all about it. Nobody's in any doubt about what's in it and nobody likes what's
in it so that is all over the dam."

Last night, Mr Major moved to reassure the Unionists that the forthcoming
documents on the future of Northern Ireland would not be a nationalist agenda.
In a letter to three Ulster Unionists he wrote: ". . . I fully support the
Union. It is in no sense my aim to see it dismantled. The papers we put forward
will be neither a Unionist agenda nor a nationalist agenda but fair and balanced
proposals as a basis for negotiation."


LOAD-DATE: February 20, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1995 Independent Print Ltd

                              39 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                           February 26, 1995, Sunday

ADAMS IN PLEA FOR 'DREAM PEACE';
SINN FEIN APPEAL TO UNIONISTS OVER PEACE TALKS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 360 words


SINN FEIN chief Gerry Adams yesterday urged Ulster Unionists to join "the quest
for a peaceful future", and told them: "Bring your hopes and dreams, your fears
and your concerns to the conference table".

And vice-president Martin McGuinness urged the British Government to clear the
decks to allow Sinn Fein to join talks, and use its influence to bring Unionists
into negotiations.

"There is nowhere else to go" he said on BBC radio.

Later, at Sinn Fein's annual conference in Dublin, Mr McGuinness said:
"Unionists must come to the table or face isolation.

"We will meet them there as equals, with no triumphalism or bitterness.  There
are no excuses for delay."

Chairman Tom Hartley urged the party to reach out to Northern Ireland's
Protestants.

He said the party was not looking for victory over Unionists.

Top IRA gunman Nessan Quinlivan, 34, who shot his way out of London's Brixton
prison, won't be extradited to stand trial in Britain. Instead, he will be given
early release in April, along with other hardline IRA prisoners from Portlaoise
prison.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 'BE SWIFT': McGuinness

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 1995 MGN Ltd.

                              40 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                           February 26, 1995, Sunday

IRA PRISON ESCAPER NESSAN QUINLIVAN SET FOR EARLY RELEASE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 80 words


Top IRA gunman Nessan Quinlivan, 34, who shot his way out of London's Brixton
prison, won't be extradited to stand trial in Britain. Instead, he will be given
early release in April, along with other hardline IRA prisoners from Portlaoise
prison.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 1995 MGN Ltd.

                              41 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               February 28, 1995

NORTHERN IRELAND: CONSTRUCTING THE DEFENCES OF PEACE IN THE MINDS OF MEN;
Paul McGill reports on how the money diverted from security services will affect
education

BYLINE: Paul Mcgill

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN EDUCATION PAGE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1387 words


SIXTY pupils in Enniskillen with severe learning difficulties may not be
following the complex manoeuvrings over political talks in Northern Ireland very
closely, but they are among the first to benefit from the ceasefires.

A new pounds 2.6 million school to replace their crumbling building at Killadeas
was given the go-ahead this month as part of the so-called peace dividend, the
switch of money from criminal damage and police overtime to industrial, social
and health services.

Only last year the Education Minister, Michael Ancram, froze all capital starts.
Now he has announced a new pounds 63 million programme to restore the decaying
stock of schools and colleges.

Eight new primary and two special schools will be built at a cost of pounds 19m.
Another pounds 15.5m will be spent on six secondary school extensions; two
grammar school projects will cost pounds 17m; and two further education colleges
pounds 8m. Smaller amounts will be spent on libraries, youth projects and sports
facilities.

This is the schools' and colleges' share of the pounds 180 million which the
Secretary of State for Northern Ireland, Sir Patrick Mayhew, is transferring
from security to other programmes over the next three years. When he announced
this in December, he stressed that he was being prudent at this stage, but held
out the possibility of larger bonuses in future. The important proviso was: no
peace, no money.

'I must make it absolutely clear that the resources released from the law and
order budget will have to be restored if terrorist violence were to be renewed.'
The building programme is only a start after years of neglect. Mr Ancram himself
acknowledged that he had 40 urgent school projects to choose from. Nonetheless
it was a well-timed response to pressure to begin tackling the backlog.

Tom Nolan, chief executive of one of the five education and library boards, said
shortly beforehand that eliminating mobile classrooms was his first priority for
peace money. 'There must be huge sums of money spent on security bases. It
should be diverted into getting schools back up to scratch again.' Tom McKee, an
official from the National Association of Schoolmas-ters Union of Women
Teachers, had also written to the Minister arguing that the policy of diverting
money to security had 'a particularly severe effect on capital expenditure,
reflected in the tight restrictions imposed on school construction'.

A recent survey of Northern Ireland's chief executives and senior managers by
Coopers & Lybrand management consultants showed that most were very optimistic
about the impact of the ceasefires on the local economy. But building firms were
more negative than others 'due to the adverse impact on construction and
refurbishment related to the security situation' - which could be crudely
paraphrased as saying there would be less work restoring bombed buildings.

Ministers will give useful help to the construction industry by embarking on an
early round of capital projects and thus solidify business support for the
continuation of peace. More money is in the offing. Sir Patrick is transferring
pounds 50m in the coming year (1995/96), rising by pounds 10m per year to pounds
70m in three years' time. If peace is consolidated, extra money could be shifted
to education.

The building programme is only one of the fruits of peace because recurrent
spending is rising by 4.5 per cent next year, substantially more than in
Britain. Michael Ancram has already announced the appointment of classroom
assistants for every Year-one primary class and the extension throughout
Northern Ireland of the Belfast initiative to help deprived schools to raise
standards.

HOWEVER, this welcome boost will only begin restoring parity with the rest of
the UK in services. Last year the Government itself issued figures showing
spending per primary pupil was pounds 187 less than in England; the gap for
secondary pupils was pounds 52. There are other aspects of the peace process
apart from the diversion of money to services such as education.  Coopers &
Lybrand found that business leaders expect tourism to be the main beneficiary.
They may be right because average hotel-room occupancy in October 1994 was the
highest for that month since records began in 1973.

Inward investment is also expected to benefit substantially, with some 90 per
cent of the respondents expecting it to increase. Direct peace-dividend benefits
were forecast by about two thirds of the sample.

David Allen, general secretary of the Ulster Teachers' Union, agrees that peace
and stability 'should attract the inward investment necessary to eradicate the
scourge of unemployment, which is rampant throughout Northern Ireland.

'In educational terms, teachers can hopefully now look forward to economic
regeneration as a means of motivating more pupils to continue their higher
education, in the confident knowledge that their professional efforts, and those
of their students, will prepare them for a productive working life, and not for
joining the lengthy dole queues, as is the case at present.'

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              42 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                                 March 5, 1995

IRA MEN SET TO WIN £20m;
Brussels backs terror-ban compensation case

BYLINE: Joe Murphy

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 507 words


UP to 500 IRA activists and supporters are set to win a £20 million payout from
British taxpayers.

And they are being backed by Brussels in a legal move to have Britain's
anti-terror legislation since 1974 declared illegal under European laws.

The action, which has infuriated Tory MPs and victims of IRA violence, stems
from two test cases being brought to the European Court of Justice.

Sinn Fein president Gerry Adams is claiming compensation for being repeatedly
barred from mainland Britain under the Prevention of Terrorism Act. He claims
the Act breaches the Maastricht Treaty. Although free to enter since last year's
IRA ceasefire, he is continuing his case to claim compensation and to force
changes in the law.

In another case Dubliner John Gallagher, who was jailed for three years for
unlawful possession of rifles, claims an exclusion order against him infringed
his rights of free movement under the Treaty of Rome.

Lawyers acting for the two men yesterday confirmed that the European Commission
had intervened by supporting their cases.

If they win a historic ruling, expected this summer, both will demand
compensation of up to £100,000 - and will open the floodgates for cash claims by
500 others kept out by the Prevention of Terrorism Act.

Wirral South MP Barry Porter said: 'This will disgust everyone who has lived
under the shadow of IRA terrorism for the past 25 years. The actions of the
Commission are simply disgraceful.  Our vital anti-terrorist legislation is of
no concern to the European Union.'

The revelation comes as MPs prepare to renew the Prevention of Terrorism Act on
Wednesday.

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1995 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              43 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 9, 1995

HOWARD DISMISSES CASE FOR EXCLUSION ORDER DAMAGES;
Home Secretary refuses to consider compensation as 16 more Terror Act orders are
lifted * Mayhew denies Government has shifted stance

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1387 words


THE Home Secretary, Michael Howard, last night said in the Commons that he would
never authorise the payment of damages as a result of the challenge to the
exclusion orders policy by the Sinn Fein president, Gerry Adams, in the European
Court.

Mr Howard was pressed by Tory MPs as he opened the debate on the renewal of
provisions of the Prevention of Terrorism (Temporary Provisions) Act.

Despite Labour's opposition, the Commons backed the continuation of the
provisions for extended detention, exclusion orders, and other anti-terrorist
measures by 314 to 212, a Government majority of 102.  The Ulster Unionists and
the Liberal Democrats voted with the Government.

There are fears that the Adams case could lead to claims by up to 500 other IRA
sympathisers who have been banned from Britain at some time under emergency
laws.

Sir Anthony Grant (Cambridgeshire SW) said it would be "absolutely monstrous if
huge sums of taxpayers' money were extracted by these people after all the
misery and suffering they have caused".

Mr Howard said reports that the European Commission had made representations in
support of Mr Adams' claim were inaccurate.  "There is an exception in the
provisions of the European Treaty for free movement of people for the purposes
of maintaining security and I therefore don't share the views expressed about
the likely outcome of this case."

Terry Dicks (C. Hayes and Harlington) demanded "that irrespective of what any
European court says about Adams . . . this Government will take no notice and
flatly refuse to pay him and his ilk any money at all".

Mr Howard replied, to Tory cheers: "I shall never authorise any payment of
damages as a result of this case."

Mr Adams, who is now free to enter the mainland, is claiming that earlier curbs
excluding him from part of the UK breached European law by preventing free
movement of people within the European Union.  John Gallagher, from Dublin, also
claims an order infringed his rights.

Sixteen orders banning people from entering mainland Britain from Northern
Ireland were lifted last night. Mr Howard said that he had decided to revoke the
orders on security grounds only - and after a full review of the risks involved.
The move leaves 40 exclusion orders still in force, just half the number of a
year ago.

The Home Secretary said the ceasefire had transformed the situation in Northern
Ireland. But the Government was "not prepared to do anything which would expose
the people of our country to unnecessary risk". It would be "wholly
irresponsible to dismantle our defences while the paramilitary organisations
remain intact . . ."

The Shadow Home Secretary, Jack Straw, said Labour opposed the renewal of the
Act because the Government had failed to agree to a comprehensive review of all
anti-terrorist legislation.

Mr Straw said: "In these changed circumstances of a sustained ceasefire, now is
the time to review precisely what anti-terrorist legislation we need. That would
not undermine the fight against terrorism, but strengthen it, by ensuring that
the powers that are needed for this fight are proportionate to the threat and
enjoy the consent and understanding of the public of the United Kingdom."

Tory MPs challenged Sir Patrick Mayhew, the Northern Ireland Secretary, over his
comments on Tuesday on decommissioning terrorist arms and on what has been
described as a "weakening" of the Government's position.

Sir Patrick said: "Of course I never said, and of course it is not the case,
that terrorists are allowed to keep their weapons for some time to come. There
is no case . . . for anybody retaining arms which are illegally held. That is
abundantly clear. There is no change whatsoever in the Government's position."

For the Liberal Democrats, Alan Beith said: "To scrap the anti-terrorist
legislation entirely with immediate effect would be irresponsible and we will
therefore vote to renew it tonight, although we will continue to demand a
general review of the working of the Act."

David Trimble (UUP Upper Bann) backed the continuation of the Act's provisions.
He said: "We aren't out of the woods yet. We still have terrorist organisations
which are armed to the teeth . . ."

Seamus Mallon (SDLP Newry and Armagh), opposing the renewal, said: "The
community in the north of Ireland is crying out for a new beginning. This
refusal shows the Government's lack of appreciation of the fact that six months
of peace and what has gone on within the community has created a radically new
context within which this Act would work in the future."

The shadow Northern Ireland secretary, Mo Mowlam, said Mr Howard had said he did
not want to lower his guard. She told him: "No, you shouldn't - but you could
also raise your sights. Occasionally caution is needed, occasionally courage is
needed too."

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              44 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 March 11, 1995

Anger over Clinton's fund trip for Adams

BYLINE: Benedict Brogan, Political Reporter

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 614 words


NORTHERN Ireland Secretary Sir Patrick Mayhew yesterday made clear the
Government's anger over President Clinton's decision to allow Sinn Fein leader
Gerry Adams to undertake a fund-raising visit to the United States.

As Unionist leaders vowed to boycott a White House St Patrick's Day reception to
which Mr Adams has been invited, Sir Patrick said the American Government had
made "a mistake".

"The Americans have a very genuine interest in doing all they can to help peace
become permanent. They have made a mistake in changing their position with
nothing being delivered in return," he told BBC radio.

Although he stopped short of claiming double standards, he compared the decision
on Sinn Fein with the US request for an international fight against terrorism
following the murder this week of two American diplomats in Pakistan.

Unionists condemned Mr Clinton for an "obcene" decision, which they claim will
give Sinn Fein undeserved publicity. Mr Adams is expected to meet the President
for the first time at the White House reception next Friday.

As the split between Downing Street and the White House worsened yesterday,
Government sources criticised the US for refusing to take British advice not to
give Mr Adams a chance to raise funds for political activities.

A Government source said: "The Americans are not unaware of our views, which
have been put across at a variety of levels."

The decision is taken as a deliberate slight, as it follows, by a matter of
days, Sir Patrick' visit to Washington, during which he told the Clinton
administration the IRA remained active and there was no guarantee that political
funds would not be diverted into terrorist activities.

Instead, the US has chosen to accept at face value a statement issue by Mr Adams
-- dismissed by Downing Street as "ambiguous and convoluted" -- in which he
offered to negotiate on decommissioning weapons.

The split was confirmed by Mrs Jean Kennedy-Smith, the US ambassador to Dublin.
"It is an American decision after all and the President of the United States has
to make that decision to the best of his ability.

"The President felt there was no reason to prohibit him any longer from raising
funds and that his party should be treated as any other party would be. Sinn
Fein can raise funds in Britain so it did not seem really appropriate that the
United States should not let them raise funds there as well."

It became clear last night that Mr Adams would have two meetings with Mr Clinton
in Washington.

Ahead of the White House engagement, on St Patrick's Day, March 17, the Sinn
Fein boss has now been asked to attend a lunch being given the previous day by
US House of Representatives Speaker Newt Gingrich.

Meanwhile, Irish Prime Minister John Bruton called on Mr Adams to use his
influence to persuade the IRA to begin decommissioning its arms. Speaking in
Dublin, he said Mr Adams "clearly has influence over the IRA and should use it.
I don't agree he would be laughed out of court; he should not be".

On the controversy between the US and Britain, Mr Bruton said he did not see a
difficulty. "It has been our view all along that Sinn Fein are permitted to
fund-raise in the United Kingdom, for example, and here. And we could not see
any particular reason why there should be a problem about fund-raising in the
United States."

However, Tory MP Andrew Hunter, chairman of the party's back-bench Northern
Ireland committee, said the Americans had miscalculated. "In the House of
Commons, there is not just a mood of indignation, it is much stronger. It is
anger and outrage that the Americans have allowed this to happen."

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1995 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              45 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                             March 12, 1995, Sunday

BRITAIN PAYS FOR PLACE IN WORLD

BYLINE: Mark Frankland

SECTION: THE OBSERVER NEWS PAGE; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1267 words

HIGHLIGHT: The Foreign Office is spending an unprecedented sum to ensure the sun
never sets on the UK's embassies, reports Mark Frankland


WHILE French Ministers have been quarrelling about lack of funds forcing the
closure of six of France's embassies, the British Foreign Office has embarked on
an unprecedented building programme in three of the world's most powerful
countries.

A competition to build the new British embassy in Berlin has just been won by
the architects Michael Wilford and Partners.

Unlike France, where the presidential campaign has included a wrangle over
budgets and embassy cuts, Britain is spending and spending freely. The Berlin
embassy will cost pounds 15 million - cheap compared with the pounds 50m price
of the new embassy in Moscow, also to be finished by the end of the century.
Already under construction is the pounds 23m consulate-general in Hong Kong,
which will be the only place to fly the Union Jack after China reclaims the
colony in 1997.

The new embassy in Berlin became necessary after the German government decreed
that the capital of united Germany would be re-established there in 1999. The
present Moscow embassy has run out of space: it has unmatched views across the
Moskva river to the Kremlin but the ambassador has to live on the first floor
while diplomats are crammed into offices below.

Although new embassies have been built in Europe since the war - notably Sir
Basil Spence's in Rome and Madrid - most have been housed in old buildings.
Britain's pre-war Berlin embassy began life as the neo-classical palace of a
German railway magnate; London bought it in 1884 when the latter went bust. On
the Wilhelmstrasse, next door to the chic Adlon hotel and the Brandenburg Gate,
it matched the grandeur of Imperial Britain until Allied bombs destroyed it in
the war.

The Moscow embassy was acquired in 1930 when Stalin distributed to foreign
governments the houses of Russian magnates dispossessed by the revolution.
France got a fairy-tale re-creation of Russian medieval architecture, Italy a
mansion that mixes Art Nouveau, Gothic and Baroque. Britain received a
pseudo-classical palace, built in the 1890s for the Ukrainian sugar baron Pavel
Kharitonenko. Its dazzling interiors were designed by the young Fyodor Shekhtel,
who became Russia's greatest master of Art Nouveau. The Moscow and Berlin
buildings belong to an age in which ambassadors were aristocrats whose business
was the dignified projection of British power. The Foreign Office wants the new
Berlin embassy - to be built on the old site - to have a 'welcoming street
facade'.

Michael Wilford, who shared design honours for the much admired Staatsgalerie in
Stuttgart with the late Sir James Stirling, has accordingly included a garden
courtyard that can be seen from the street.  One end of the ambassador's office
overlooks the courtyard, while the other juts out over the street - 'symbolising
the ambassador's crucial role as intermediary between Britain and Germany'.
Modern embassies may wish to be friendly and thoroughly symbolic, but security
precautions driven by fears of terrorist attack make this hard to achieve.

The present British embassy in Bonn is an irreproachably plebeian multi-storey
prefab, but the visitor who negotiates its security barriers feels as though he
has entered a white-collar prison.  The new Moscow embassy has four towers
linked by wooden roofing - the diplomatic equivalent of covered wagons drawn up
against marauding Red Indians.

One tower houses the embassy proper, including consular offices that can process
100,000 visa applications a year (Russians now have to queue in the street). The
other towers provide housing for a third of the embassy staff, a medical centre,
a swimming pool, a tennis court - and, above all, security.

Had Soviet governments got their way, the embassy would have been built years
ago and to very different specifications. After the war Stalin ordered Britain
and America, which had its embassy on the other side of the Kremlin, to move to
new sites.  Washington complied.

With a bravura display of prevarication, the Foreign Office put off the day
until 1990, when Margaret Thatcher charmed Mikhail Gorbachov into letting
Britain keep the Kharitonenko house for its ambassador's residence while it
built the new embassy farther up the Moskva.

The new embassy will not have the old building's smell of old Russian luxury and
Cold War drama. But at least its architect, Richard Burton, has Russian roots:
his grandfather, Vladimir Polyakov, escaped from Russia in 1917 to become
diplomatic correspondent of the Times, earning fame for his opposition to the
paper's appeasement of Hitler.

When future British ambassadors look out of their office window, they will see
the apartment where another famous British diplomat - and even more famous spy -
Donald Maclean, lived out his last disgruntled days.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1995 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              46 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Daily Mail (London)

                                 March 13, 1995

Jail's £75,000 soccer pitch;
Exclusive

BYLINE: David Williams

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 854 words


AN all-weather football pitch for some of Britain's most brutal and notorious
criminals has been given the go-ahead, it emerged yesterday.

The £75,000 Astroturf pitch at Parkhurst will be full size, with landscaped
flowerbeds behind each goal.

Work began in January and was immediately stopped after three dangerous
prisoners escaped from the maximum security jail on the Isle of Wight. But it is
to begin again in the spring.

The news comes three weeks after Director of Prisons Derek Lewis stopped a
£47,000 golf course being built at Swaleside prison on the Isle of Sheppey,
Kent.

The pitch is part of a £2million refurbishment at Parkhurst. Builder Phil
Alexander, 44, said: 'We were a bit surprised to be involved in this kind of
thing inside a prison like Parkhurst.

'You wonder how many Astroturf football pitches there are for the people of the
Isle of Wight who have done nothing wrong.'

Last night the pitch was condemned as 'an extraordinary luxury' by a Tory MP.

Sir Gerard Vaughan added: 'Amounts like that should be spent on improving
security, not on artificial pitches which should only be for schools or other
places of special need.'

Fellow Tory Sir Rhodes Boyson said: 'Since there was a breakout of dangerous
prisoners only weeks ago, I think the money would be much better spent on
security than on games for inmates.'

Prison officials point out that most jails have football pitches, although they
admit that few are Astroturf.

The escapes in January led to the departure of governor John Marriott and to
allegations of a 'lax regime' inside one of the country's toughest jails.  An
estimated £512,000 of taxpayers' money was earmarked for builders involved in
work at Parkhurst for literally doing nothing.

Contractors were paid up to £16,000 a day because they were deemed a possible
security risk during the investigations into the escapes.

But Mr Alexander says that the money has still not filtered through to the small
sub-contractors and he is now being forced into voluntary insolvency.  Prisoners
at Parkhurst include mass murderers, IRA bombers and Arab terrorists.

Gilbert MacNamee, an electronics graduate from Crossmaglen, was sentenced in
1987 to 25 years as a bomb maker linked to the Harrods and Hyde Park outrages.

Peter Sherry was found guilty, with Brighton bomber Patrick Magee, of conspiracy
to cause 16 explosions aimed at holidaymakers in London and 12 seaside resorts
in the summer of 1987. They are both serving 25 years.

London gangland boss Eddie Richardson is there, as is Valerio Viccei, the
mastermind behind the world's biggest robbery, the £40million Knightsbridge safe
deposit raid in 1987.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1995 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              47 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                             March 17, 1995, Friday

HUNT FOR IRA'S BOMBERS GOES ON

BYLINE:  Pat Clarke, PA News

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 519 words


The hunt for men behind unsolved IRA acts of terrorism on mainland Britain
continues in spite of last year's ceasefire.  Joint undercover operations by MI5
and the police have led to successive convictions of several key terrorists over
the past two years.  But no-one has been brought to book yet for two major bomb
attacks in the City of London at the Baltic Exchange and Bishopsgate in 1992 and
1993 in which four died.  Nor for the deaths of 11 bandsmen at the Royal Marines
School of Music in Deal, Kent on September 22, I989.  The file is also still
open on the Warrington litter bin bombs - in which two boys were killed.  So too
is that on the car bomb murder of Conservative MP for Eastbourne, Sussex - Ian
Gow - in July I990.  Those behind mortar bomb attacks on Downing Street and
Heathrow Airport are still at large.  And police still hope to bring back IRA
suspects Nessan Quinlivan and Pearse McAuley to stand trial in England. Both
escaped from Brixton prison in July 1991 where they were held accused of
attempting to murder former Whitbread chairman, Sir Charles Tidbury.  The last
terrorist attacks on the mainland - thought to be masterminded by the IRA - were
on south coast resorts just before the ceasefire. They were at Bognor and
Brighton in August last year. No-one has been arrested.  But the last of the
current IRA trials - which ended at the Old Bailey today - has brought one
hidden peace process bonus for the British taxpayer. For the scores of high
security trials held at Britain's premier court since the outset of the 25 years
of troubles has cost millions in special protection measures.  The court
building itself was damaged by an IRA car bomb attack in 1973. As IRA operations
escalated in the 1980s a £1 million bullet-proof entrance was installed with a
vetting procedure manned by a City of London police unit.  Each time IRA
terrorists went on trial - or had appeals heard - at the Old Bailey, armed
police were brought in to ring the courtroom. At the height of the troubles,
police helicopters and motorcycle outriders escorted prison vans to and from
court. Roads were closed and police marksmen positioned on rooftops.  Search and
vetting procedures are took up valuable court time estimated to run at £60 a
minute.  Almost all trials were held in the secure Court Two. Among those who
have appeared in its dock was Brighton bomber Patrick Magee who took part in the
attack on the Grand hotel during the 1984 Conservative party conference.  More
recently two of the IRA's senior ranking members were jailed for 25 years each
in separate trials. English-born Feilim O'Hadhmaill had spearheaded a major bomb
plot in the UK. Robert Fryers was caught red-handed as he arrived in London to
trigger a bombing campaign.  In both, joint undercover operations by MI5 and the
police successfully cut short their activities.  Their arrests have been
heralded as an example of the "close and friendly" relationship which had
developed between the security services since MI5 took over intelligence
gathering responsibilties about IRA activities on the mainland.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1995 The Press Association Limited

                              48 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            March 21, 1995, Tuesday

London's Tube remains a 'soft target'; TERRORIST THREAT

BYLINE: CHRISTIAN WOLMAR Transport Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Page  2

LENGTH: 430 words


B

It is impossible to protect a mass transit system, such as the London
Underground or Britain's other metros and suburban train networks, against an
attack like yesterday's poisoning in Tokyo.

Even given all the precautions against the IRA, such as the removal of rubbish
bins at stations and well-rehearsed procedures to deal with "suspect" packages,
London Transport has always admitted it is a "soft target" for terrorists. As a
spokesman said yesterday: "You cannot stop people using the Tube as this would
run counter to what our business is all about." Nor, he said, could LT stop
people taking packages on to the Tube: "That would mean you couldn't serve
places like King's Cross rail station or Heathrow."

Trying to search all 2.5 million people using the London Tube system every day
would also be unrealistic, as anyone who has taken an aircraft will realise. The
consequent delays at, say, Victoria Station at 8am would force people to find
alternative means of travel. And, as LT said: "What would they look for?"

During the 25 years of Irish terrorism, LT became very adept at combating the
threat with the minimum disruption of services. Nevertheless, each year there
were around 1,500 incidents which resulted in the closure of a station or part
of a line, mostly caused by forgetful passengers leaving bags and packages lying
about. Christmas and the summer tourist season were peak times for such
closures, which the IRA exploited by issuing threats that were usually not
backed up by any action.

LT has contingency plans and procedures for coping with the kind of attack
launched in Tokyo yesterday. Even busy Oxford Circus in central London can be
evacuated in four minutes and ventilation systems are available to disperse any
gas. The spokesman said: "We are used to evacuating stations for a variety of
reasons and we do this efficiently."

LT has been particularly sensitive to any possible problem on the Underground
since the King's Cross station fire of November 1987 when 30 people died. The
slightest sign of smoke leads to station evacuations and investigation by fire
officers.

But privately LT accepts that, had it wanted to, the IRA could have left a bomb
on a Tube train, with the potential to kill hundreds of people if it exploded in
a tunnel. The main reason the IRA refrained from such action is that it knew
that it would be counterproductive. The subsequent outrage could have led to
legislation even more stringent than the Prevention of Terrorism Act, passed
after the 1974 Birmingham pub bomb attacks.


LOAD-DATE: March 22, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1995 Independent Print Ltd

                              49 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 March 23, 1995

BYLINE: Ian Bell

SECTION: Pg. 19

LENGTH: 792 words


THERE are many sound reasons why Britain should forget its once-special
relationship with the United States. The Turks, those aspiring Europeans, have
just provided 35,000 of them cleverly disguised as tourists in battle tanks and
despatched, with America's casual benison, to northern Iraq.

Counterterrorism, so called, is fast becoming ethnic cleansing. The Turks are
"safeguarding civilians" with air-strikes against what is still, without irony,
described as a United Nations protection zone. Meanwhile Britain adopts a "low
-key" approach for no more noble reason than that the US wishes it so: that's
how very special our relationship is.

This plot has unfolded in familiar style. A novice Prime Minister with a
shambolic economy and a troublesome minority on her hands has called the White
House to seek permission for a little punitive freelance work.

Bubba Clinton has given Tansu Ciller the nod, presumably because the US owes
Turkey a few favours, and asks only discretion in return.

The EU has complained, of course, and achieved precisely nothing. Ours is the
greater strategic interest and ours will be the problem if the Kurdistan
Workers' Party resumes its terrorist attacks against European cities. None of
that matters to Clinton. America is putting America first and the real nature of
the Nato alliance is laid bare.

Turkey likes to affect astonishment that it was not invited to join the EU long
ago. Little matters such as its treatment of dissidents, opposition MPs as well
as Kurds among them, and worries over the boisterous style of its security
forces when entertaining prisoners, are treated as quibbles. Turkey has stood by
Nato; we should be more understanding of its ancient traditions.

Funnily enough, EU foreign ministers will be in Ankara today to discuss how
Turkey's impeccable human rights record might be improved further. Europe has
offered a carrot by agreeing to a customs union; the next step would be an
application for full membership.

PLAINLY, Ciller, who has been talking vaguely of democratic reforms, believed
she had made herself clear: it is her regime or the fundamentalists. Which would
the West prefer? Ciller has described this week's adventure as the biggest
military operation ever undertaken by her country. Certainly it surpasses the
1974 invasion of Cyprus, for which permission was never sought nor justification
offered, but a piece of near-forgotten history better illustrates why she is
wrong, and why the Turkish mind-set remains antique and dangerous.

In 1915 Turkey had another ethnic problem, this time with its Armenians. In the
midst of the Great War, and with the Allies having declared war aims threatening
to their tottering empire, the Turks decided to resolve that difficulty by the
simple expedient of murdering in cold blood every Armenian they could lay their
hands on.

The slaughter is generally held to be the worst act of pre-meditated genocide
before the Nazis but that is not, for our purposes, the point. To this day
Turkey refuses to make any acknowledgement of what took place. No-one is still
assigning responsibility; no-one is blaming Ciller or any contemporary
politician. But the refusal to confront the truth is absolute, an irritable
expression of a warped national pride that admits to no error, past or present.
Any state capable of such wilful amnesia hasn't mastered page one of democracy
for beginners.

For all that Turkey is, or should be, Europe's problem, not America's, yet
Britain remains incapable of deciding where its loyalties and interests lie. Do
we adhere, puppy-like, to an old fellowship when the US couldn't care less? Do
we side with a power whose newly-dominant, deeply parochial, and pig-ignorant
Republicans have made self-interest the criterion for foreign policy? Do we
continue to pretend that Nato and the UN are something more than client agencies
of the Pentagon?

Or do we just admit to being Europeans? In this, only one fact is pertinent: the
GDP of the Union is now greater than that of either the US or Japan.  Europe's
power is a reality yet to be acknowledged, least of all by European heads of
government, but very soon now the tiffs over Gatt, Hollywood movies, Eastern
Europe, visas for Sinn Fein, or Turkish aggression will become open economic
rivalry. America already knows it.

Britain cannot forever look both ways, irrespective of the brawling among
Conservative patriots who interpret sovereignty as perpetual deference to
America. All the evidence suggests that not only is the special relationship
over but that it is, in our circumstances, the last thing we need. Or should we
just go on presuming the Government is packed with CIA agents of influence?

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1995 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              50 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             March 26, 1995, Sunday

Exocets fly in la guerre politique

BYLINE: By Tony Allen-Mills, Paris

SECTION: Overseas news

LENGTH: 955 words


THE French presidential election campaign moved unexpectedly to Cyprus yesterday
as the strange case of the missing Exocet missiles threatened fresh explosions
for Charles Pasqua, the previously bomb-proof interior minister whose popularity
and influence may still prove decisive when voters go to the polls next month.

Allegations last week that France used Cyprus as a cover for clandestine missile
sales to Iran have sparked off a furious exchange of denials, accusations and
insults.

Not for the first time this year the CIA with a little help from MI6 has been
singled out for blame in another election scandal that has washed up at Pasqua's
door.

The political furore has been fanned by the bitter rivalry between Pasqua, whose
election support for Edouard Balladur has recently been wavering as the prime
minister has slipped in the polls, and Alain Juppe, the equally ambitious
foreign minister who supports Jacques Chirac's revitalised campaign.

Both Juppe and Pasqua dream of becoming prime minister, and as their rivalry has
deepened, so the layers of secrecy that traditionally cloak the most sensitive
areas of French diplomacy have suddenly sprung gushing leaks.

First Le Monde, tipped off by Pasqua's aides, broke the story that France was
expelling five CIA spies. Last week it was the turn of the magazine L'Express to
be fed by sources suspected to be not far from Juppe details of an unusual
shipment to Cyprus of six Exocet missiles.

According to L'Express, the missiles were promptly forwarded to Iran.  Pasqua,
whose taste for independent diplomatic initiatives has repeatedly outraged
Juppe, was said to have arranged the sale to placate Tehran in advance of the
recent trial in Paris of three Iranians accused of murdering Shahpur Bakhtiar,
the exiled Iranian opposition leader.

It scarcely helped Balladur's image that only the day before the fuss erupted,
he had pledged eternal support for Salman Rushdie, the writer sentenced to death
by Tehran. Within hours of the magazine's publication, the furious prime
minister had flatly denied the story and Pasqua had filed a suit for defamation.
However, the government's official version merely added to the many questions
now dogging the Balladur campaign.

Since when has Cyprus, home to thousands of British troops and under United
Nations supervision, needed Exocets to defend itself? Why was this notorious
haunt of Middle Eastern arms merchants buying a total of 24 sea-to-sea missiles
when it has no navy? And why did the French government have to charter an
Algerian Hercules transporter to deliver the missiles to Cyprus?

The Pasqua-inspired riposte pulled no punches it was all an Anglo-Saxon
conspiracy to smear France at precisely the moment that Gulf states such as Abu
Dhabi and the United Arab Emirates (UAE) were finalising huge defence contracts
for helicopters and patrol boats.

According to one hypothesis cited by the Parisian daily France-Soir, the Cyprus
outpost of GCHQ, the Cheltenham-based British intelligence monitors, had noted
the arrival of the Exocets and concocted a plot with the CIA to leak false
allegations that the missiles had been destined for Iran.

In this way, the paper argued, France's reputation with the Gulf emirates who
most fear aggression by Iran would be fatally soiled, and Britain and America
would share the defence contract spoils.

If this was really the motive, it failed. The UAE last week signed a Pounds 1.5
billion contract with France to supply helicopters armed with Exocets.

Perhaps the most startling aspect of the fuss was the underlying acceptance in
both media and political circles that an illicit arms deal with Iran was all in
a day's work for Pasqua.

The curious involvement in the Cyprus deal of an Algerian aircraft on the
supposed grounds that all large French military transports were busy in Bosnia
seemed to add further credence to suspicion in Paris that the interior minister
has embarked on a dangerous double mission to defuse the threat of terrorist
attacks in the event of an Islamic takeover in Algeria.

Behind the bluster and brimstone that have characterised his well-publicised
crackdowns on Muslim fundamentalism lies increasing evidence of a secret and
high-risk network of French contacts with militant Islam.

The first sign that Pasqua was engaged in private negotiations with the
ayatollahs came in December 1993, when France suddenly released two jailed
Iranians whose extradition had been sought by Switzerland in connection with the
murder of another opposition leader.

No explanation was ever given for the expulsions, which outraged the Swiss and
inevitably provoked speculation that Pasqua had concluded some kind of deal with
Iran over fundamentalist rebels in Algeria.

Last August, the arrest in Khartoum of Carlos the Jackal and his precipitate
expulsion to Paris hinted at further behind-the-scenes manoeuvres to promote
Pasqua's objective of ensuring there would never be a return to the terrorist
assaults that ravaged several French cities in the 1970s and 1980s.

The main problem with what has been dubbed in Paris as Pasqua's ''diplomatie
occulte'' is that he conducted it independently of the foreign ministry,
repeatedly treading on Juppe's toes.

The unusual bitterness of this fratricidal election campaign in which both
leading candidates are Gaullists has turned discreet ministerial rivalry into a
brutally public affray.

It remains to be seen whether Pasqua will ditch Balladur in favour of
rapprochement with Chirac and many analysts reckon the wily interior minister is
determined to end up on the winning side. Juppe will not be in the queue to
greet him with open arms.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1995 Times Newspapers Limited

                              51 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 31, 1995

SCHOOLS LOSE SECURITY APPEAL

BYLINE: Alan Travis

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 294 words


THE Home Office has rejected a request for funds for closed circuit television
cameras for 85 Jewish schools and kindergartens following last summer's
terrorist bomb attacks on Jewish targets in London.

The application was one of 300 received from local authorities, community groups
and schools for a share in a special pounds 5 million Home Office fund to
develop CCTV schemes around Britain.

Jewish community leaders had been encouraged by the Home Secretary to apply in
the aftermath of the car bomb attack last July on the Israeli embassy in
Kensington, and on the offices of the Joint Israel Appeal in Finchley, north
London.

Scotland Yard has warned that the Jewish community in London faces a longterm
threat from Islamic fundamentalists.

Most of the 100 successful applications were for CCTV schemes covering town
centres, shopping centres, car parks and business parks.

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              52 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 April 1, 1995

UN asked to referee over Lockerbie bomb dispute

BYLINE: Craig Watson

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 496 words


ARAB and Libyan lawyers have called for a special session of the United Nations'
general assembly and an international investigating committee to resolve the
legal dispute surrounding the Lockerbie bombing.

The plea was included in the so-called Hague Declaration on the Lockerbie case,
which was drawn up after a conference on international law in the Dutch capital
last week.

The Arab Lawyers' Union, the Arab Jurists' Union, the Libyan Bar Association and
the General Syndicate of Libyan Attorneys all backed the declaration.

Britain and the United States issued warrant arrests in November 1991 for two
Libyans suspected of planting the bomb that killed all 259 people aboard the New
York-bound PanAm flight 103 and 11 Lockerbie residents in 1988.

At last week's conference, Mr Alistair Duff, the Scottish solicitor representing
the two accused, renewed calls for a trial to be held in a neutral country
before a Scottish judge.

Referring to Mr Duff's appeal, the declaration said: "The two suspected Libyan
nationals have a basic human right under international law to a fair trial
before an impartial tribunal with full transparency and publicity of the
proceedings. They have already compromised their legal rights by agreeing to the
above mentioned proceedings."

It later added: "We call on the member states of the United Nations organisation
to convene a special session of the general assembly in order to consider the
Lockerbie case in all its aspects and to encourage a peaceful resolution of this
serious international dispute in accordance with the requirements of
international law."

The declaration strongly condemned all acts of terrorism but said Libyan law did
not permit the suspects to be extradited to Britain or the US. It added that UN
sanctions against Libya should be lifted immediately.

Mr Duff, who spoke at the conference, said the trial of Abdel Baset Ali Mohmed
Al Megrahi and Al Amin Khalifa Fhima could be held in The Hague before a panel
of judges headed by a Scottish judge.

He said: "I call on the Crown Office, the UK Government and the United States to
respond positively to this initiative, which comes not only from Libyan lawyers
and the defence team, but from a broad international coalition of lawyers and
jurists."

A spokesman for the Crown Office in Edinburgh said it was wrong for the Libyan
Government to "dictate" where the case should be tried.

Dr Jim Swire, a spokesman for UK Families -- Flight 103, supported the idea of
holding the trial in a neutral country. But Dr Swire, who was invited to the
conference in The Hague, cast doubt on Mr Duff's suggestion that it should
include a panel of non-Scottish judges.

He said: "We want a fair trial and a Scottish court is the entity we would go
for. That means a Scottish court as it exists in Scotland, with one Scottish
judge."

He added that proposals for a trial in a neutral country should now be examined
in detail.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1995 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              53 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                             April 2, 1995, Sunday

PENDENNIS: ANNE TO FLY FLAG AT HONKERS FAREWELL

SECTION: THE OBSERVER LEADER PAGE; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1520 words


A DIFFICULT diplomatic problem that has been hanging heavy over the Foreign
Office seems to have been solved. It concerns the handing over of Hong Kong.

The question that has been furrowing the brows of the mandarins in King Charles
Street is the scale of the ceremony they are laying on for the final lowering of
the Union Jack on 30 June 1997. The Chinese are already manufacturing fireworks
for the party they are planning for 1 July, but how should Britain officially
mark the end of 156 years of colonial rule? And which figurehead, beside Chris
Patten, should attend?

It is obviously inappropriate for the Queen to be there. The controversy over
the resumption of Chinese rule and local fears about what lies ahead clearly
exclude inviting her or Prince Charles. So Princess Anne has drawn the short
straw again. The Princess Royal is deemed to be suitably senior, a thoroughly
respectable royal, and has that nice naval husband to symbolise the links
between the British services and Honkers.

In camera

BBC FOOTAGE of the Transport Secretary, Brian Mawhinney, to be shown today on
its South East news programme Around Westminster, illustrates more clearly than
most the journalistic cliche about refusing to confirm or deny. He had been
asked about another undesirable job, that of Conservative Party chairman.
Offered the chalice, would he drink? Rather than answering he walked towards the
camera - and passed it. I am told the impact is ambiguous.

THE ever-brilliant 'Yes Minister' scripts give us a text for this week: 'There
is always a danger that Ministers will be ambushed and tortured - not by
terrorists, but by the BBC.'

Take Tarzan

THE CABINET, during the Heath years, once practised how to handle a major
terrorist attack (what John Major would call an 'important incident'). An
exercise was run by a senior army officer, name of Colonel Michael Mates, in
which a packed civilian aircraft was hijacked by terrorists at Stansted, Essex.
Everyone had to pretend it was for real.

The terrorists offered to release the women and children in exchange for a
Minister.  The Cabinet's reaction was unanimous: it offered the gang the
Minister for Aerospace. He was then a relatively unknown character, but had
obviously already made his mark. Name of Michael Heseltine.

JAMES SEYMORE, Jr, disgruntled editor of 'Entertainment Weekly', has a letter in
the 'New Yorker' about a profile of John Travolta written by one Martin Amis for
an earlier edition. 'Some of us at "Entertainment Weekly" wondered: is there an
echo in here?' writes Seymore.

There was apparently a barrage of quotes lifted from the weekly's cover story
last October, 'The Man In The Plastic Bubble' by Jeff Gordinier. Seymore adds:
'Gordinier admires Amis's work; evidently the feeling is mutual. Still, it would
have been nice if the "New Yorker" had given credit where credit was due.'

Tush! Mr Amis. It wasn't for the money, surely?

Daily bread

THE extraordinary attack by Brian Hitchen, editor of the Sunday Express, on his
predecessor, Eve Pollard, in the journalism trade mag UK Press Gazette,
apparently had a purpose.

Hitchen said in an interview that he needed to turn the paper back into a
newspaper 'because it had become a daft magazine .  . .  It had no authority, no
cutting edge, no opinion on anything. It had gone terribly downmarket in that
they were giving away sticks of chewing gum and a mince pie.' Ms Pollard had 'a
rotten product . . . it was all glitterati and rich, white trash . . .' And much
more besides.

Could it be that Hitchen hoped by this to provoke the resignation of the editor
of the Daily Express, Sir Nicholas Lloyd, alias Mr Pollard, and thus move into
his chair? Lord Stevens and the management have remained curiously impartial.
Sir Nicholas has so far merely required a personal apology. The world waits.  Ms
P is, incidentally, still looking for a job.  There was a try-out for a column
on the Evening Standard in London, but it ended up on what old hands call the
spike.

TONY BLAIR referred in passing at the 'She' magazine conference on What Do Women
Want? to Labour's Clause Four.  One response he particularly liked came from a
woman who was not much worried about his efforts to rewrite the clause.  'If it
had been really important,' she told Blair, 'it would have been Clause One,
wouldn't it?'

Novel market

A NOVEL concept in personal marketing is being employed by Sir Edward du Cann
for his forthcoming autobiography. The former Tory MP and chairman of Lonrho has
called his book Two Lives, and we are told it 'reflects with equal candour upon
his own triumphs and disappointments'.

Some may doubt this. Du Cann was famed when chairman of the 1922 Committee for
having such silky charm that if asked for the time, he would reply: 'What time
would you like it to be, dear boy?'

The author has supplied his publishers with the names and addresses of
prospective buyers among his acquaintance, who have all received personal
letters inviting them to send off their order while stocks last. They are also
given the opportunity to have their copy personally signed before it is
dispatched, free of postage and packing. When they've coughed up their pounds
17.95, that is.

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1995 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              54 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             April 9, 1995, Sunday

Forsyth set to back British Alcatraz plan

BYLINE: Nick Cohen

SECTION: NEWS; Page  2

LENGTH: 561 words


THE Government is planning to build a British Alcatraz - a single jail for the
most dangerous prisoners in the country.

Sir John Learmount, the ex-army general appointed by the Home Office to
investigate prison security after a string of embarrassing escapes, will
recommend that all the maximum security prisoners in Britain should be housed in
one jail when his report is published next month.

Michael Forsyth, the Prisons Minister, indicated yesterday that he would support
the controversial proposal. He said that Derek Lewis, the Director General of
the Prison Service, was already looking at how a "super prison" could work.

"I have not received his advice yet," he said. "But we cannot be complacent
about the way the prisons are working at the moment." Home Office sources said
the jail would be new and added that they may consider whether to have armed
guards.

At present, disruptive and serious criminals are "dispersed" in special secure
units around the prison system.

Prison reformers yesterday attacked ministers for again looking to America for
ideas on how to fight crime, saying it was "bizarre" to follow a country which
had 1.4m in jail (five times as many per thousand of population as England and
Wales) and electrocuted, poisoned and hanged murderers but still had a murder
rate 10 times higher than Britain's.

But Sir John, who visited the United States while he was compiling his report,
will quote research showing how American- style "super prisons" cut
re-offending.

The jail will not only house terrorists and major-league criminals, but
difficult offenders ordinary prisons cannot handle. Last month it was revealed
that Charlie McGhee, who was serving life for armed robbery, died of a heart
attack after he had been passed round 21 prisons in about 30 months.

In the latest issue of its in-house journal, the Prison Service has prepared the
ground for the policy U-turn by quoting the example of Marion prison in
Illinois. The jail operates a "lock-down" system of virtually complete sensory
deprivation. Inmates spend 23 hours a day alone in their cells and only emerge
in handcuffs and chains.

A study of 56 released prisoners, which Sir John will quote in his report, found
that half committed further offences. Nearly all of these convictions were for
drug abuse. Only two committed offences against the person. The results match
earlier findings from studies of released inmates from Alcatraz, which was
closed in 1963.

Last week many Home Office officials were saying privately that a super prison
would be vulnerable to mass breakouts or terrorist attacks. They warned that
staff confronted with having to control a large population of very dangerous
inmates would either appease them or institute a brutal regime which would
breach British and European prison rules.

But after the attempted escape of IRA men from Whitemoor prison and revelations
of the easy life enjoyed by inmates in the Cambridgeshire jail, ministers are in
no mood to listen to doubters.

Nick Flynn, deputy director of the Prison Reform Trust, said that the plan
showed that the Home Office had no ideas on crime except to copy America.

Harry Fletcher, from the probation officers' union NAPO, added that "we cannot
get a grip on law and order simply by building bigger and bigger prisons".


LOAD-DATE: April 10, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1995 Independent Print Ltd

                              55 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             April 9, 1995, Sunday

Paramilitary buried with cuckoo song; Wales/ nationalist dies

BYLINE: Tony Heath

SECTION: BRITAIN IN FOCUS; Page  9

LENGTH: 621 words


THE LEADER of the Free Wales Army, which 30 years ago began an unsuccessful
paramilitary campaign for independence in the principality, was laid to rest in
military style in a remote mid-Wales grave last week, as 400 people looked on.

Julian Cayo Evans led a band of nationalists angry at what they perceived to be
the exploitation by England, who trained with firearms in isolated valleys, held
bomb-making classes, paraded in uniform through towns in the Welsh-speaking
areas and burned the Union Jack at rallies. Their high-profile activities in the
run-up to the Caernarvon investiture of the Prince of Wales in 1969 led to a
large-scale Special Branch operation codenamed "Operation Cricket", as a result
of which Evans and several others were arrested. On the eve of the investiture
he was sentenced to 15 months in prison on public order offences.

However, the FWA claimed it never fired a shot in anger, and it was another
extremist organisation, the Movement for the Defence of Wales, which carried out
bomb attacks on pipelines carrying water from Welsh reservoirs over the border.
Its campaign to disrupt the investiture was foiled on its eve when two members
of the movement blew themselves up in Abergele as they were preparing a bomb for
the route of the royal train.

The FWA subsequently went into decline, but on Tuesday of last week it seemed to
be holding something similar to a regimental reunion when an "honour guard" in
paramilitary uniforms - dark glasses, black berets, trousers and ties and
immaculate white shirts - escorted Cayo Evans's coffin to St Sulien's, a
weather-beaten church on a Carmarthenshire hillside.

As the coffin was carried from Evans's farm, Glandennis House near Lampeter,
scores of old comrades gave the FWA's traditional clenched fist salute.  Many in
the crowd wore homemade "medals" hung from colourful ribbons struck to
commemorate their campaign, while others carried wreaths made in the shape of
the Snowdon eagle, the FWA's insignia.

In the church the Reverend Timothy Morgan led prayers and hymns mainly in Welsh.

Evans, known throughout Wales just as Cayo, was a great Welshman, Denis
Cosslett, a one-time FWA officer declared as he waited beside the open grave. Mr
Cosslett wore a British warm an Army overcoat and a black beret. He said: "Cayo
was a true patriot."

As the coffin was carried to the grave Mr Cosslett snapped out the order:
"Attention!" The "honour guard" clicked into position and saluted. Welsh flags
fluttered in the breeze. A Welsh red dragon flag was removed from the coffin and
folded carefully.

An accordion, an instrument on which Cayo performed enthusiastically, was
produced to play one of his favourite tunes, Cuckoo, Cuckoo, Let's Dance to the
Break of Day.

Pedr Lewis, who a few years ago unsuccessfully challenged for the leadership of
Plaid Cymru, commented: "Wales has lost one of its finest sons."

The ceremony, attended by adherents from all over Wales was observed at a
discreet distance by police.

Mr Evans, who died aged 57 on 29 March, was the son of a former High Sheriff of
Cardiganshire and educated at Millfield, one of the Britain's most exclusive
public schools.

He served in Malaya during the communist insurrection in the 1950s as a British
Army private in the South Wales Borderers before returning to Wales to become a
successful breeder of horses. He was instrumental in forming the FWA in the
1960s. At the invitation of Sinn Fin, he led a a contingent to Dublin in 1966 to
take part in a parade marking the 50th anniversary of the Easter Rising.
graveside, the Cuckoo, Cuckoo, Let's Dance to the Break of Day was played on an
accordion Photograph by KEITH MORRIS


LOAD-DATE: April 10, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1995 Independent Print Ltd

                              56 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                            April 11, 1995, Tuesday

ULSTER UNIONIST'S 'WHITE FLAG' JIBE AT GOVERNMENT

BYLINE:  Ian Graham, PA News

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 328 words


The Government was accused last night of raising the white flag of surrender to
the IRA to prevent further terrorist attacks in mainland Britain.  MP Peter
Robinson, deputy leader of the Democratic Unionist Party, said the Government
had not sought victory in the war against the IRA but sued for peace and offered
concessions in exchange for a conditional ceasefire.  "The Government has
adopted this course to avoid IRA activity in its living room. Murder and
destruction in its Ulster backyard was tolerable but not if it spilled over to
the City of London.  "The Framework Document is the British Government's white
flag raised to inform the IRA of John Major's plan to capitulate," he said.
Talk of consent was simply a "thin rhetorical veneer" which sought to gloss over
the Government's "ignominious and shameful behaviour".  He predicted the
document would be forced down Unionist throats and Mr Major would not allow it
to be voted down.  Mr Robinson, speaking in Ballymena, Co Antrim, added: "I
predict that, like every other promise he ever made to the people of Northern
Ireland, the Prime Minister will break his undertaking not to implement the
Framework Document without the consent of the Northern Ireland parties, the
Ulster people and the United Kingdom Parliament.  "The Framework deal was made
to buy off the IRA." He claimed that knowing there was no foundation of support
for the framework, the Government was already seeking to circumvent democratic
opposition by developing, under direct rule, the harmonisation and integration
between Ulster and the Irish Republic espoused in the Anglo-Irish plan. Mr
Robinson said that answers to Parliamentary Questions he had recently asked
showed that every Northern Ireland Department "is tied-up with its Dublin
counterpart in a multiplicity of arrangements".  He called on the Ulster
Unionist Party to join in action to fight what he called the Government's
"united Ireland programme".

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1995 The Press Association Limited

                              57 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           April 19, 1995, Wednesday

Lockerbie widow wins record pounds 12m damages

BYLINE: JOHN ARLIDGE

SECTION: HOME; Page  3

LENGTH: 468 words


BY JOHN ARLIDGE

Scotland Correspondent

A 37-year-old woman has won pounds 12m compensation for the death of her husband
in the Lockerbie bombing, the highest ever airline disaster payout.

Faith Pescatore, whose husband, Michael, 33, died in the terrorist attack, won
the record sum in the United States after Pan Am was found guilty of "wilful
misconduct" in failing to detect the bomb that destroyed Flight 103 in December
1988.

Mrs Pescatore broke down in tears after the court in New York State on Monday
awarded her pounds 6m for loss of income, pounds 3m for "loss of companionship,
love and affection" and pounds 3m in interest. Her lawyer, Aaron Broder, said
that she was delighted. "As far as monetary damages can accomplish anything, I
think it showed what this young man's human worth was."

The federal court heard that Mr Pescatore, a vice-president of British Petroleum
Chemicals of America in Cleveland, Ohio, was "destined to become a company
star".

The ruling was welcomed by relatives of the 270 people who died in the atrocity.
Compensation claims for 20 British families, lodged in Florida, are due to be
heard later this year. In a ruling in 1992, three US families received damages
totalling nearly pounds 13m.

Not all awards will be as large as that in the Pescatore case, since each
assessment will be based on the victim's earnings potential. But they are likely
total in excess of pounds 500m, which will be met by Pan Am's insurers.

Dr Jim Swire, spokesman for British relatives, said: "This bodes very well for
families on this side of the Atlantic . . . It marks the end of an agonising
six-year struggle to win compensation . . . Money cannot make good the loss of
life or help us find out who was behind the bombing, but it will help ease
families' suffering."

The award, against Pan Am and Alert Management Systems, the airline's security
firm, is the first since a landmark ruling in the US Supreme Court in January
which ruled that Pan Am had knowingly breached safety regulations in allowing an
unaccompanied suitcase on board. There had been repeated warnings that the
baggage system was open to abuse.

A bomb was smuggled on board the Boeing 747 flight from Frankfurt to New York,
via Heathrow. Prosecution authorities in Britain and the US have charged two
Libyans with the attack.

The pair, who insist that they are innocent, have refused to surrender for trial
in Britain or the US but they have offered to appear before a panel of judges in
a neutral country.

Allan Stewart, the former minister, who travelled to Tripoli last week to meet
Colonel Gaddafi, said yesterday that the Libyan leader had approved a trial in a
Scottish court sitting abroad. However, last night lawyers for the two men
rejected the offer.


LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1995 Independent Print Ltd

                              58 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 21, 1995

MPS SEE LESSON FOR AMERICANS;
BRITAIN/Tories have been quick to use the tragedy against Sinn Fein, writes
Stephen Bates

BYLINE: Stephen Bates

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FOREIGN PAGE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 907 words


TORY MPs, still resentful at the US administration's red-carpet welcome for
Gerry Adams, the Sinn Fein president, in Washington last month, responded to the
Oklahoma bomb outrage by claiming that it had taught the Americans a lesson.

One wrote to Admiral William Crowe, the US ambassador in London - who shared
Britain's reservations over Mr Adams' visit - and another tabled a Commons
motion pointing out that President Clinton had given credibility to terrorism.

The Government, however, offered immediate sympathies and intelligence
assistance to the US administration in the wake of the Oklahoma outrage, and
last night appeared to have taken swift action in returning a suspect.

Earlier in the Commons, the Prime Minister had cryptically suggested that MPs
would see what action had been taken, "as events will show".

Downing Street sources repeatedly refused to elaborate on what assistance the
Government had been able to give.

In the Commons, John Major condemned what he said was a hideous act of barbarism
and said he had spoken to Mr Clinton to offer any help Britain could provide.

"I have expressed our profound sympathy to him, to the country, the bereaved and
the injured. I have told the president we are ready to help in any way we can,"
Mr Major told MPs at question time.

The Prime Minister was at pains to demonstrate Britain's sympathy for the
victims of the bomb explosion, and refrained from making any allusion to the
Adams visit. Both Tony Blair, the Labour leader, and Paddy Ashdown, leader of
the Liberal Democrats, joined in condemning the outrage.

One of the Tory backbenchers most critical of the Adams invitation, David
Wilshire, MP for Spelthorne, who is a member of the Tory backbench Northern
Ireland committee, immediately wrote to Admiral Crowe condemning the "evil
killers" who planted the bomb outside a federal building in Oklahoma City.

He said: "I want to applaud the president's swift and clear denunciation of this
wanton and evil act of terrorism."

But he added: "I would be fascinated to learn how he is able to differentiate
between this bomb and these terrorists and the foreign-funded and equipped IRA
killers who bomb London and maim innocent people in the United Kingdom.

"I would suggest that one consequence of your tragedy ought to be the rethinking
of your government's feting of apologists for terrorism in Northern Ireland."

Nicholas Winterton, MP for Macclesfield, tabled a Commons motion expressing
"sorrow, horror and anger" at the attack and unequivocally backing Mr Clinton's
condemnation of it.

But it added regret "that in recent months President Clinton has given
credibility to terrorists and their apologists in Sinn Fein, who have been
responsible for the deaths of so many innocent men, women and children in
Northern Ireland."

A Foreign Office spokesman said: "We are in touch with the Americans and we will
see if there is anything we can usefully contribute."

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              59 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             April 21, 1995, Friday

MPs draw a moral over Sinn Fein; TERROR IN OKLAHOMA POLITICAL REACTION

BYLINE: COLIN BROWN Chief Political Correspondent

SECTION: FOREIGN; Page  3

LENGTH: 277 words


John Major yesterday sent a message to President Bill Clinton expressing horror
and deep sympathy over the bomb outrage in Oklahoma.

British ministers privately said the attack highlighted the need for closer
co-operation in combating terrorism between the intelligence services in the
United States and Britain.

Some ministers believe the terrorist attack in the heart of the United States
could help to change American political attitudes to Britain's long fight
against terrorism.

"They may think twice now about rolling out the red carpet to someone like Gerry
Adams," said one ministerial source at Westminster.

Tory MPs reinforced that view by calling on Mr Clinton now to justify his show
of support for the Sinn Fein leader. While the Tories expressed deep sympathy
with the victims of the bombing, they warned the US administration of the
dangers of pandering to "apologists" for terrorism.

David Wilshire, the MP for Spelthorne, demanded a rethink of the American
approach to terrorism in a letter to the US ambassador in London, Admiral
William Crowe, in which Mr Wilshire condemned the "evil killers" who planted the
bomb outside a federal building in Oklahoma City.

Nicholas Winterton, MP for Macclesfield, tabled a Commons motion expressing
"sorrow, horror and anger" at the attack and unequivocally backing President
Clinton's condemnation of it.

But the motion also said that it regretted "that in recent months President
Clinton has given credibility to terrorists and their apologists in Sinn Fein,
who have been responsible for the deaths of so many innocent men, women and
children in Northern Ireland".


LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1995 Independent Print Ltd

                              60 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             April 21, 1995, Friday

Oklahoma: man questioned; Passenger held at Heathrow as death toll from bombing
continues to rise

BYLINE: Phil Reeves in Oklahoma City, Rupert Cornwell in Washington and Donald
Macintyre in London

SECTION: TITLE; Page  1

LENGTH: 686 words


Global investigations pointed squarely yesterday to a Middle Eastern origin for
the devastating car-bomb attack in Oklahoma City on Wednesday, now feared to
have killed up to 100 people.

As rescuers searched last night for survivors in the pulverised remains of the
nine-storey Federal office building, an Arab-American arrested at Heathrow,
London, was returned to the US for questioning by federal officers investigating
the attack.

Italian police announced that the man's luggage, intercepted in Rome, contained
material useful for making bombs, including: electrical tape, silicone, a
hammer, tweezers and a photo album with pictures of missiles and weapons.

The suspect - named by the Italians as Ahbram Abdallah Ammad, a US citizen of
Jordanian origin, was detained when he arrived at Heathrow from Chicago
yesterday morning, and questioned by the British immigration authorities.  He
was described by a senior US official as "a witness" to the attack

Three men of Middle Eastern extraction were also held in the US yesterday on
immigration charges but were said last night to be under questioning in
connection with the bombing. According to CNN television, two men were picked up
in Dallas, in the neighbouring state of Texas, and a third in Oklahoma City, on
Wednesday evening.

President Bill Clinton spoke to John Major last night and thanked him for
Britain's help. He said that the "question of global terrorism had to be
discussed as a matter of urgency" at the next G7 summit.

Earlier a grim-faced President Clinton beseeched Americans no to to "jump to
conclusions" and seek revenge against the country's Arab-American community. But
he left open the possibility of retaliatory action by the US itself - along the
lines of the 1986 bombing of Libya - if any foreign government was proved to
have been involved. Mr Clinton said the Oklahoma car-bomb - the worst terrorist
incident in US history - was "an attack on the US, our way of life and
everything we believe in".

As the shock of the tragedy sank in, Oklahoma's mood turned from sorrow to
anger. The state's governor, Frank Keating, told reporters that he stopping a
firefighter to thank him for all he was doing. The firefighter replied: "You
find out whoever did this. All I've found in here are a baby's finger and an
American flag."

Hope was fading last night for an unknown number of people buried beneath the
rubble of the Alfred Murrah building.The official death toll stood at 36,
including 12 children, but officials were certain the figure would rise. At
least 100 people are believed to be unaccounted for. More than 400 people were
treated in hospital for injuries.

As rescuers continued to pick their way painstakingly through the debris,
structural engineers were drafted in to pinpoint pockets in the rubble in which
survivors could still be sheltering.

But, according to Oklahoma's fire chief, Gary Marrs, it could take as much as
six days to find all the bodies beneath the mound of glass, concrete and twisted
metal. No one had been found alive since a 15-year-old girl was brought out at
10.15pm on Wednesday.

According to several reports from the scene, which was sealed off from the
media, rescuers have ceased hearing any sounds of life. No one is sure how many
people were in the building, which held more than a dozen US federal branch
offices, including the Secret Service. Authorities estimated that there could
have been 800 people, but said that some 700 had telephoned to say they were
safe. But dozens of families were still waiting for news of relatives listed as
missing.

Hamas, Hizbollah and other fundamental Islamic organisations disclaimed any
responsibility for the attack but informed sources in the Middle East said the
bombing bore all the hallmarks of an act of Middle Eastern terrorism. US Justice
Department sources said investigators are focusing on Middle Eastern or extreme
Islamic groups and hinted that a breakthrough could come quickly. "We are
pursuing a number of good solid leads," Carl Stern, the Justice Department
spokesman said.


LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1995 Independent Print Ltd

                              61 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 April 24, 1995

IRA terror teams placed in Britain

BYLINE: Ian Bruce, Defence Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 618 words


EXCLUSIVE

THE IRA has placed six "active service units" in Britain with orders to resume a
full-scale bombing campaign on the mainland if the peace process in Ulster
breaks down, according to security sources.

Indications of a new build-up on the mainland were first detected more than a
year ago, based mainly on information from RUC counter-terrorist section
informants.

However, intelligence officers now have information that at least two other
units have slipped into the country since the IRA declared its ceasefire last
August.

The units, which usually consist of four weapons-trained terrorists including a
bomb-maker, are believed to be well-supplied with bomb-making materials and
weapons.

There are also indications that hardline sections of the IRA in South Armagh and
East Tyrone are unhappy with the cessation of terrorist action, and hostile to
further peace negotiations by Mr Gerry Adams, the Sinn Fein president.

Mr Adams is believed to have won approval for the ceasefire from the IRA's Army
Council, a seven-member body which rules the military wing, by only one vote at
a meeting in Dublin last summer.

Another meeting of the council is to take place soon, with no guarantees Mr
Adams can continue to placate the militants. There are even fears he himself
could become a target for an internal assassination team.

Intelligence sources say the IRA has more than one ton of Semtex, the plastic
explosive supplied during the 1980s by Libya. They also have about 1600 assault
rifles and machine-guns, rocket-launchers, and home-made mortars.

One source said: "There are caches of weapons and explosives already on the
mainland. The ASUs themselves are scattered throughout the country, working
normally and living unobtrusive lives. That makes them almost impossible to
identify.

"Most are also first-timers, with no track record of terrorist activity, and no
immediately obvious connection to the IRA."

The potential for a new mainland bombing campaign was one of the reasons why 25
of Ulster's leading counter-terrorist specialists were en route for a secret
conference at Machrihanish last June when the helicopter carrying them crashed
into a hillside on the Mull of Kintyre, killing all aboard.

Among the dead were the chief of the RUC's special branch and nine of his senior
officers, six SAS and Army intelligence experts, six civilians, a mixture of
senior civil servants, and MI5 operatives.

The team, known as Ulster's Tactical Coordination Group, was ostensibly arriving
to deliver a briefing on projected IRA deployment to the mainland. But sources
now say there was a hidden agenda. The RUC's vastly experienced anti -terrorist
team was fighting its own internal war against MI5 interference.

A source explained: "Senior RUC officers were deeply concerned about attempts by
MI5 to recruit their informants. They felt that the handling of those informants
was careless and dangerous to the individuals concerned. More importantly, it
threatened the recruitment of future informants.

"The mainland conference scheduled for last June was to have been in the nature
of a showdown between the RUC and MI5 for primacy in undercover operations
within Northern Ireland. That decision would have been taken at the highest
level of Government."

* Hopes of agreement on the IRA's surrender of weapons were dealt a fresh blow
last night by Mr Adams.

He said "no evidence" had been seen or heard to support the prediction 24 hours
earlier by Tory back bencher, Mr Peter Temple-Morris, who said Ministers would
talk with Sinn Fein "within the next two weeks".

Mr Adams also hinted at street protests by republicans.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1995 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              62 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 26, 1995

HEALTH: THE TERROR WITHIN;
Panic attacks and phobias devastate the lives of many people. But with patience
and resolve they can be conquered

BYLINE: John Illman

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGE; Pg. T4

LENGTH: 1174 words


ISOBEL WILLIAMS never thought twice about climbing aboard a train until she was
21 years old - when she developed an "Inter-City phobia." Two thirds of her way
from Liverpool to London, she was overwhelmed by panic. She became dizzy. Her
heart started to pound in response to the noise and speed of the train.

The guard inadvertently increased her fear by announcing proudly that they were
travelling well over 100 miles per hour. She tried to take her mind off things
by talking to someone, but she was unable to concentrate.

Fortunately, the train made an unscheduled stop at Milton Keynes and her panic
subsidided. But the experience was to have a profound effect on her life. Three
years later she is still baffled by the experience which occurred as she was
returning home from university at the end of term, feeling run-down after the
flu.

Isobel is one of three million people in Britain with a "situational phobia",
commonly understood as agoraphobia, according to Alice Neville, author of the
book Who's Afraid, and co-ordinator of Pax, named after the Latin word for
peace, an information service for those who suffer from panic attacks and
phobias.

Isobel was severely affected. She had been due to make a return journey to
Liverpool, but she says: "I started out for Euston from my parents' home in
Kent, but I didn't get any further than Victoria. The information desk said the
only way to get to Liverpool by train was on Inter-City, and that was that."

Isobel returned home, afraid of travelling fast and of travelling for long
periods between stops at the stations. "I went to the doctor who wasn't that
surprised and gave me a sick note, saying that these things happen. I was
surprised they were so understanding. I'd expected them to say: 'Pull yourself
together.'

"My mum took me back to Liverpool a few days later in the car. I was then able
to make short train journeys from Liverpool to Wigan, or Liverpool to Chester,
but I haven't been on a train for a year now. I've never been on an aeroplane,
but I had a gap year between school and university and spent three months in
France. I was quite happy travelling.

"Now I won't leave England which is frightening. I feel trapped. I have a German
boyfriend, but I've never been to Germany to meet his parents. I know I'm
missing out, especially when I read about exotic holidays and hear about
friends' travel experiences."

Isobel also feels threatened by crowds and queues, but says: "I don't panic a
lot now because I avoid situations that will lead to it". A psychology and
sociology graduate, she is working as a classroom assistant in a suburban
primary school. She has asked herself if she could take up a job in central
London, but she is not optimistic.

Alice Neville had a similar experience to Isobel in the 1950s, also at the age
of 21. She wanted to work in the suburbs to avoid travel on trains and buses.
She recalls: "It sounds ridiculous, but waiting at a bus-stop was hellish
thing."

But she was determined to keep her "very good" job at the Foreign Office where
she had lots of friends. Every morning she was physically sick with fright at
the prospect of the journey into central London. Like Isobel, she was afflicted
after a bout of flu.

She says: "It's now known that agoraphobia can be triggered by an inner ear
dysfunction caused by a virus such as flu. It's amazing the number of people who
write to me describing experiences like this."

Alice says she is totally cured, but while preparing her book, she completed a
questionnaire in which she said her last attack had occurred 35 years ago. The
psychiatrist wrote at the bottom of the form: "In remission." Concerned that her
phobia was still buried within her subconscious, she visited parts of
Westminster she had avoided for more than three decades - and found, to her
relief, that "the ghost" really had been exorcised.

For a free introductory booklet about panic attacks, phobias and other anxiety
disorders, send two 25p stamps to Pax, 4 Manorbrook, Blackheath, London SE3 9AW

The BBC2 mental health series, The Enemy Within, examines panic attacks on
Friday, at 9.40pm. The programme features the actress Imogen Stubbs who tells
how she overcame her problem with the help of a homoeopathic doctor and a
physiotherapist

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              63 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 26, 1995

LETTER BOMB SENT TO WALDEGRAVE

BYLINE: John Mullin And Erlend Clouston

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 640 words


ANIMAL rights campaigners are thought to be responsible for a letter bomb sent
to the family farm of William Waldegrave, the Minister of Agriculture, in
Somerset, where veal calves are reared before export to the Continent.

Anti-terrorist detectives were called in after it emerged that throughout
Britain four devices had been sent - including one to the Westminster office of
Tom King, the former defence secretary who is a keen supporter of hunting. No
one was injured.

Mr Waldegrave said: "It is ironic that the Government, which is leading the way
to higher welfare standards in Europe, should be subject to this sort of thing.
This won't have the slightest effect on policy because in a free society there
are always going to be a few eccentrics who do daft things like this, and
ministers in all countries just have to get used to it."

There was no immediate claim of responsibility, but detectives believe the
attacks were the work of extremist animal rights campaigners.

An unnamed postman at Radstock sorting office, near Bath, intercepted the
package intended for Mr Waldegrave, having picked it out from around 60 similar
items being delivered to the area around the farm. The A4 envelope, which had a
London postmark, is being examined at the forensic science laboratory in
Chepstow, Gwent.

Mr Waldegrave's wife, Caroline, director of the Pru Leith School of Cookery in
London, provoked the fury of protesters when she wrote about the merits of Dutch
veal, which involves the controversial use of crates to restrict the young
animals' movement.

Both Mr Waldegrave and his wife have received hate mail. Two letters, booby
-trapped with razor blades, were sent to their London home three months ago.
However, Mr Waldegrave has said he has no personal involvement in the running of
his farm, which is managed by the Labour peer Lord Carter.

While the devices sent to Mr Waldegrave and Mr King were dismantled, army bomb
disposal teams carried out controlled explosions on suspicious packages
delivered to the Alaska Fur Company store in Glasgow, which has been targeted
before, and Ethicon, an Edinburgh medical company.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              64 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 1, 1995

BEYOND THE PLANET OF THE APES;
Peter Singer, the noted animal-rights thinker, arrives in England today to
promote his latest ideas including the protected territory of Gorillastan. He
tells Martin Walker why reason, not violence, is the way forward

BYLINE: Martin Walker

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGE; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 2067 words


IT IS not easy for a consumerist and media-saturated society to recognise the
extent to which ideas, rather than marketing, have power. Peter Singer is living
proof that they do. The gentle philosopher is still bemused by the way his
thoughtful thesis has become an international, altruistic, revolution for which
people he has never met are ready to fight and even to die.

His seminal book Animal Rights was to the campaign for the ethical treatment of
animals what Simone de Beauvoir's The Second Sex was to the women's movement.
Even now in Britain, Singer is best known from this 20-year-old work as the
philosopher of animal rights. But his influence is far wider. In Germany he is
known as the philosopher of euthanasia, the professor who argues that the value
of human life is its potential for joy, knowledge, awareness and sentience. Once
the potential is gone, he concludes, the life itself is over.

In his native Australia, he is known as a Green politician, taking a surprising
29 per cent of the vote in one of Melbourne's safest conservative seats. Now he
is weighing a full-time political career, with Australia's
proportional-representation laws giving him the chance of a Senate seat.

Singer is a reasonable man who has no time for animal-rights militants who use
violence - such as those suspected last week of posting letter bombs to William
Waldegrave and Tom King. That would simply offend the public whose support is
essential for any political or social change by consent.

"Animal rights are not absolute," he says. "I can conceive of a scientific
experiment, important in tackling Aids, which could only be carried out on
monkeys. I wouldn't like it. I would want to know if there were aware and
informed human volunteers, as there are now terminal Aids patients volunteering
for new drugs. But I could accept such an experiment on terrified, and obviously
unwilling, creatures if the prospects of success were reasonable."

Singer is even more reasonable when he starts to grapple with the new ethical
challenges being hatched in the genetic labs.  He is aware of the research under
way to clone animal organs and muscle, and then develop them either as brainless
but ambulatory beasts or in test tubes. As an industrial process, this promises
the production of beef steaks or chicken breasts direct from the molecular
level. There would be no need for an intervening, sentient and live animal which
could suffer. "In that context I could envisage eating such a beefsteak, yes. A
being which is not conscious in any way would certainly change the ethical
argument."

What if the genetic scientist were to produce brainless but ambulatory humans,
as so many flesh banks for eventual organ transplants into real humans who need
them? "I would have qualms, but they would only be qualms, feelings of
repugnance. I'm not sure I could defend an ethical objection to it. The key
factor is sentience, whether other beings suffer. And we know that they suffer,
yet continue to inflict deliberate pain."

SINGER is plainly uncomfortable with the rigorous logic that impels this
conclusion but is prepared to live with it. It is, in a curious way, the 1990s
price to be paid for the 1960s insistence on a philosophy that would be
"relevant" to the real world.

His latest venture, the Great Ape Project, aims at international legal action to
establish a bill of rights, and eventually "Gorillastan", something like a
United Nations trust territory dedicated to the exclusive use of our fellow
primates - sovereignty for our simian siblings. "We know enough about the great
apes as self-aware and thinking beings, enough about the richness of their
social and emotional lives, that we cannot honestly deny them some of the rights
we claim as human animals," Singer says. "At the least, they are entitled to
life, liberty and protection from torture."

Last week he was in Chicago, where he discussed with sympathetic lawyers how to
mount the first legal claim in the American courts, or whether to try something
under the UN charter or even in the world court. "I'm disappointed: they say a
lot more work is needed to prepare the ground," he shrugs, grimly. This means
agitation, building public sentiment - the long slow attrition of campaign
politics.

"There are 3,500 chimpanzees in laboratories in the United States alone. The US
Air Force just got rid of some, born and bred in the labs for the space
programme, and we are worried they are going to a place where they might be used
to test toxic chemicals."

He will be talking in Oxford today about the Great Ape Project. Tomorrow, under
the auspices of the Demos think-tank in London, he will be lecturing on the
theme of his latest book, How Are we To Live?

"I am trying to look at some traditional philosophical questions in a modern,
and ecological, context," he says. "What do we know of happiness and the
fulfilled life, and what is the relationship between ethics and self-interest,
and what is ultimate value - in a time of consumerist lifestyles and pressure on
non -renewable resources?"

He wears organic materials, linen and cotton and wool. His shoes are canvas and
rubber. He eats neither meat nor fish, will eat free-range eggs but tries to
avoid dairy products. He and his family have a cat named Max, although he's not
a cat person, and insists on the term animal companion rather than pet. Back in
Australia, where he is professor of philosophy at Monash University, the family
recently had a solemn interment ceremony for a pet white rat called Brunswick.

Not a religious service, Singer notes, because he does not believe in the soul,
neither for animals nor humans. In fact, that is not a distinction he quite
accepts. He courteously repeats the term "non -human animals" until the point is
taken.

ALL THIS began 25 years ago, with a spaghetti lunch at Balliol College, Oxford,
whose main wall still bore a 1968 graffito taken from Karl Marx - "Philosophers
have only interpreted the world - the point is to change it". Peter Singer, then
an omnivore who was particularly fond of fat salami, and another would-be
philosopher went to lunch after a seminar. Seeing the spaghetti sauce, Singer's
companion, a Canadian named Richard Cashan, asked if it contained meat. It did.
He refused it, and lunch became a debate over vegetarianism as ethics. The
debate became an obsession. Five years later, Singer published Animal Rights.

But that was only part of his determination to make philosophy relevant. Singer
came to Oxford from an Australia still reeling from its own debates and demos
over the Vietnam war. Australia had re -introduced conscription to fight it;
Singer was one of the student activists against it. "A lot of us were working at
that time on the question of equality, the foundations of what equality really
meant. This was immediately after the civil-rights movement in the US. The
women's movement was a gathering force. To consider animals in ethical terms, as
victims of another powerful group of sentient beings, was to realise that the
concepts of racism and sexism might apply. And that suggested the concept of
species-ism."

But the essence of Peter Singer is that, like Marx (on whose philosophy he wrote
a book in the Past Masters series), he is publicist and politician as well as
philosopher. Relevance is no longer restricted to the ivory tower and
think-tank, nor even to the cause of animal rights. It expands into Green
politics, and further into his extraordinary vision of a protected homeland for
the great apes.

The marvel, if ever it comes off, would not just be Gorillastan but Singer as
the first philosopher to watch the emergence of a concept, indeed a sovereignty,
which hitherto had existed only in his imagination.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              65 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                  May 2, 1995

INLA denies ceasefire report with added violence warning

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 426 words


THE republican INLA terrorist organisation denied yesterday that it had called a
permanent ceasefire.

It said it was unconvinced the current peace process was a viable alternative to
violence for achieving its aims.

In a statement issued through the Irish Republican Socialist Publicity Bureau,
the organisation claimed remarks made in a Dublin court last week did not mean
it had called a ceasefire.

A "suspension of military operations" was a "tactical cessation" designed to
allow dialogue between its political spokesmen and government intermediaries and
other republicans. This remained under review.

"At present we are unconvinced about the current peace process as a viable
alternative for achieving our socialist republican aims. However, we remain to
be convinced," the statement said.

"We support a just and lasting peace. Ideally that would be of a non-violent
approach to achieving the basic republican aim of a British withdrawal from
Ireland. Unfortunately, in our view there is presently no programme that
constitutes such an alternative."

The INLA said the past few months had shown the "obvious disdain" Britain showed
to republicans adopting a non-violent approach.

Meanwhile, an IRA man jailed for 25 years in January for plotting bomb attacks
in England has been transferred to a Northern Ireland prison, it was confirmed
yesterday.

Robert Fryers, 44, from west Belfast, was sentenced at the Old Bailey with Hugh
Jack, 37, from Sauchie, Clackmannanshire for planning the terror campaign.

The Northern Ireland Office said Fryers had been transferred in the last few
days, the 11th IRA man to be moved to an Ulster jail to make visiting easier for
their families.

More than two dozen IRA men in English jails are still waiting for a transfer to
Northern Ireland prisons.

Fryers's wife Maura said the family were delighted her husband was back on home
soil but added: "We feel bad about the rest of the prisoners. If this can happen
for Rab then it can happen for the rest of them."

She said the family would now be applying for her husband to be given parole to
visit his mother in hospital.

After being sentenced at the Old Bailey, Fryers made a short statement from the
dock, telling the court: "I am not guilty of a criminal offence. When I came to
this country I believed what I was doing was right and still believe that."

However, he said that he hoped the peace process would work and that his would
be one of the last republican cases to come before a British court.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1995 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              66 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             May 4, 1995, Thursday

VE Day visitor runs risk of peace protest in his ear; Inside Parliament

BYLINE: Stephen Goodwin

SECTION: POLITICS; Page  7

LENGTH: 834 words


The Croatian president Franjo Tudjman could be taken to one side and a sharp
warning whispered in his ear if, as planned, he takes his place at the VE Day
ceremony in London.

Douglas Hurd, the Foreign Secretary, told MPs the invitation to President
Tudjman was being kept "under review", but in an emergency statement on the
Balkans flare-up he indicated the visit might be used for some diplomatic
arm-twisting.

"It may be a useful opportunity to ram home to him the views of the Government
and this House about the risks which he is taking and the dangers he is
incurring for his people as well as for his neighbours," Mr Hurd said.

Responding to an emergency question by Robin Cook, Labour's foreign affairs
spokesman, he noted that Croatia wanted closer relations with the European
Union. "We support this. But the way in which it goes ahead must depend on the
Croatian attitude to the peace process - and the Croatian attitude to the peace
process . . . has taken a downward spin during the last few days." Raising
President Tudjman's visit, Mr Cook asked if ministers thought it appropriate
"that the celebration of peace in Europe should be attended by the government
that has just broken the peace". If they did, the opportunity should be taken to
impress upon the president that there should be no more assaults on UN-protected
areas.

Mr Cook said it has been a condition of discussions on Croatia's bid for EU
association status that UN troops should remain in place in protected areas.
"Does not its invasion of one of those protected areas - the Sector West pocket
of the Krajina Serbs - make a mockery of that undertaking?"

He condemned the retaliatory Serb rocket attack on Zagreb as "not a courageous
act of war, but a cowardly act of terrorism".

Mr Hurd met growing Tory rumblings about a withdrawal of British troops with
repeated references to John Major's warning that a return to all- out war would
make the position of UN forces untenable.

"Those concerned with ordering the fighting should not take the presence of our
troops or the UN troops for granted." But he stressed there was still a "ragged
peace" in Bosnia and no fighting in the area where British troops are deployed.

The most extreme position was put by Nicholas Budgen, Conservative MP for
Wolverhampton SW, who told the House: "All this grand but ineffectual lecturing
gives the impression that we are responsible for these horrible events.

"Is it not now time that the Government recognise that there never was a British
national interest in this battle in the Balkans and that the British people are
not prepared to risk their treasure or their troops in this Balkans fight, and
that the sooner we disengage the better?"

Mr Hurd replied: "I have made it clear over the years that not only are we not
responsible, either as Britain or as a part of the EU, for this tragedy, but nor
can we solve it from outside.

"Mr Budgen belongs, and has always belonged, to the school of 'Let them fight it
out', which is opposed to the school of 'Something must be done'.  I have had, I
must say, over the years a bit of impatience with both bodies of opinion.

"In my view, there are certain things which we cannot do and should not pretend
to do, and one of them is impose peace, a just peace or an unjust peace, on a
particular part of the Balkans.

"But there are things we can do, where we can actually save lives and give aid
and food, which is what we are doing. We have carried over 20 per cent, the
British, of the entire UNHCR airlift to Sarajevo; our lorries, ODA lorries,
constitute 25 per cent of the convoy effort; our engineers have provided shelter
for 20,000 refugees, 350 projects, gas, water and electricity; our engineers
have built the bridge connecting east and west Mostar after that devastation.
They couldn't have done it without the presence of troops to help them. To say
that we should not, as Britain, do things which we can do must also, I think, be
wrong."

A Tory backbencher, David Amess, focused on another wrong with a Bill to
prohibit Government funding of any body that supports enforced abortion,
sterilisation or family planning.

China was the Basildon MP's target. His Bill will not become law but would, he
said, send a clear message to Beijing that British support could no longer be
used as an argument for the abuse of fundamental human rights.  "The Chinese
government have trampled parents' rights into the ground and imposed birth
control on women who simply don't want it," he said.  "Desperate women about to
give birth to an illegal child have sought help in a hospital only to have the
child killed immediately after birth by drowning or an injection."

Mr Amess suggested the UN Population Fund had supported China's policy.  But
later an Overseas Development Administration spokesman said the British-
assisted UN fund and the International Planned Parenthood Federation both
opposed all coercive policies.


LOAD-DATE: May 04, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1995 Independent Print Ltd

                              67 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                  May 6, 1995

Butcher boy who called the shots in IRA

BYLINE: Russell Edmunds

SECTION: Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1558 words


TELEVISION'S Cook Report described him as "Britain's number one terrorist". It
is generally accepted that he commanded the Irish Republican Army in his native
Londonderry, masterminding terrorist violence in the 1970s, including a ruthless
campaign of bombings and assassinations.

Even at the age of 22 he was flown secretly from Ulster, along with a young
Gerry Adams and other imprisoned IRA leaders, to negotiate with the then British
Secretary of State, William Whitelaw. That was in 1972, and now history is about
to repeat itself for Martin McGuinness. Aside from Adams, he is the other key
Irish Republican figure in the current Ulster peace negotiations. The talks in
1972 were unreported then but next Wednesday in Belfast, McGuinness will be in
the full glare of international publicity when he leads a Sinn Fein delegation
into a historic meeting with another British Minister, Michael Ancram.

If the two shake hands, it is likely to be behind the closed doors of a
committee room in the Stormont parliament buildings. Neither the Government nor
Northern Ireland seems quite ready yet to accept a public display of
handshaking. That is all the more so after this week's violent debacle in
McGuinness's home city, when Sinn Fein protesters clashed embarrassingly with
the RUC during the Prime Minister's visit.

Few disbelieve that the man with whom Michael Ancram will speak next week bears
the full confidence of the IRA and carries with him a knowledge of that
organisation's structure and history over the past 25 years, that, perhaps, no
other person has managed to achieve.

So who is this spokesman, still in his forties, unstriking in physique, manner
and voice, whom the IRA have trusted to speak for them, not only now but when he
was barely beyond his teenager years.

Martin McGuinness was born in 1950 but he grew up in the dismal atmosphere of
deprivation that pervaded the old walled city of Londonerry, before its Catholic
districts exploded into street violence in the summer of 1967. Like so many
other young Catholics, McGuinness was a child of that early violence, when the
daily and nightly ritual of life took the form of stone-throwing, petrol
-bombing, and barricade-building in the smokey streets of the Bogside.

His mother came from nearby County Donegal, his father was a foreman in a
foundry. He is the second child in their family of six boys and a girl. He and
his brothers attended the local Christian Brothers school, which gave them a
traditional Irish Catholic education and introduced them to Gaelic culture and
games. When they left school, it was for jobs in bricklaying and carpentry, and
in his case as an assistant in a butcher's shop.

On October 5, 1968, Martin McGuinness, Londonderry, and Ulster passed their
first milestone of violence. The clash that day between Catholic civil rights
marchers and the RUC sparked off a political revolution and would carry Ulster
to the brink of outright civil war, spawning a terrorism that neither Britain
nor Northern Ireland had ever experienced.

He was not among the marchers that day, narrowly escaping the batons and water
cannons of the police. Yet it was an experience that provoked many Ulster
Catholics towards militancy. Martin McGuinness, working in Doherty's, the
butchers on Strand Road, was already on a road that led to the IRA, to prison,
and to death and destruction.

As Northern Ireland disintegrated into civil strife, he left his job and joined
the ranks of the "Ra", thus committing himself to a young life of regular street
battles in and around the district they called "Free Derry", where the RUC,
rejected and excluded, had been replaced by civilian vigilantes from whom would
spring the volunteers of the new IRA, the Provisionals. Though only 20,
McGuinness was already making his mark in the Bogside. He was suspected of being
a ringleader and soon to be the IRA's commander in the city, just as Gerry Adams
was achieving similar notoriety in West Belfast.

The Provos had emerged out of the old "Official" IRA, a body which swiftly lost
face with young recruits such as McGuinness and Adams. They, like many other
militants, wanted a more pro-active campaign to destroy the Unionist dominance
of Ulster and to persuade Britain to leave the province.

The emergence of the new Provos soon led to the bloodiest days of the entire 25
-year Troubles that followed. In 1972, nearly 500 civilians and security forces
were killed, after the British Government introduced internment without trial in
August 1971. That was the year in which Martin McGuinness claims to have
witnessed his first dead victim of the violence -- a youth shot by troops.

His organisational skills were swiftly recognised within the Provos as the
commander of the IRA's Derry Brigade, at a time when the business heart of the
city was virtually destroyed in a wave of bombings. Even then his influence was
such that along with Adams, he formed part of an IRA team flown secretly to
London on an RAF flight for abortive negotiations with the British. More than 20
years on, he takes the stage again, the basic IRA demands of 1972 -- the
withdrawal of British interests and the right of the Irish people to "self
-determine" their future -- unchanged.

In the years that followed, McGuinness's militant stature grew alongside that of
Adams. Security sources believe he was commanding officer of what the IRA calls
its Northern Command, director of operations, and chief of staff from 1978 to
1982. In that period, Lord Mountbatten was murdered, a bomb at Warrenpoint, on
the same day killed 19 soldiers, and there were savage bombing attacks on
targets in London.

McGuinness denies IRA involvement, though he also knows that to admit to any
link would leave him open to arrest and imprisonment. He has been convicted
twice in the Irish Republic, but never in Northern Ireland. In 1973 he was
arrested in County Donegal, near a car carrying 250lbs of explosive and 5000
rounds of ammunition, and sent to jail for six months. He admitted to the court:
"I am a member of the Derry Brigade of Oglaigh na hEireann (the IRA) and am
very, very proud of it."

A year later, he was in jail again in the Republic, convicted of IRA membership.
He did spend some months in prison in Ulster on a similar charge which was
eventualy dropped. Whatever the truth of his involvement, there is no doubt that
McGuinness has been a dominant influence among Irish republicans for nearly 25
years now. His credentials are unquestioned even by hard-liners in border
counties who remain suspicious of the Belfast-based Gerry Adams.

Many observers believe that the IRA insisted on McGuinness leading the Sinn Fein
delegation into talks with, first, British officials, and now, a Minister of the
Crown. He was also trusted to conduct top-secret soundings with British
officials in the early 1990s, approaches which helped prepare the ground for the
IRA's decision to call a ceasefire last August.

Since the IRA hunger strikes of 1981, when 10 men starved to death in the Maze
Prison, Sinn Fein has emerged as a political force in parallel with the IRA's
campaign. Adams and McGuinness are credited with this redirection. Their aim
lately has been to create a broad-based, pan-nationalist base in Ireland,
encompassing the support of the Irish Government and of Irish-American interests
across the Atlantic. They are now seeking to achieve by political pressure what
the IRA's long terror campaign failed to do with guns and bombs.

"The old order must fall -- a new day must dawn," McGuinness told the Sinn Fein
annual conference in February. "The tide of history is flowing with us to
journey's end.

"Our opponents stand in awe of our tenacity, ingenuity, and commitment. The
British Government knows it has not defeated us."

The single-minded and ruthless determination of Martin McGuinness is self
-evident. He has devoted virtually all of his adult years to driving the British
out of Ireland by force and by word. The means do not appear to matter provided
the end is achievable.

From youthful IRA volunteer to chief political negotiator, Martin McGuinness has
dedicated his life to "the cause". Many people may abhor him, but there is no
doubting the personal sacrifices of such an existence.

He exudes little sense of warmth and rarely departs from the set Sinn Fein
script. His steely discipline runs through his private life, too. He neither
drinks nor smokes and away from the current political limelight, lives a fairly
frugal Catholic lifestyle; his home a modest terraced house in the Bogside,
where he and his wife Bernie have reared a family of five.

"He is a good father, a good husband, a strong churchgoer. I believe him to be
honest and upright in his personal conduct," the former Catholic Bishop of
Derry, Dr Edward Daly (an outspoken opponent of IRA violence), said of
McGuinness in a recent interview. But he added: "No other living person is a
greater threat to the British state."

As McGuinness leads his small delegation up the steep steps of Stormont next
week, he has the future of the Northern Ireland peace process weighing on his
slight shoulders. How permanent is the IRA ceasefire? Upon the word of the
former butcher's boy from Derry, may rest the final answer.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1995 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              68 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                  May 8, 1995

Millions of good reasons to celebrate

BYLINE: Stewart Lamont

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1707 words


THERE are millions of reasons for celebrating the 50th anniversary of the end of
the most bloody war in human history. In recent days, many of them stared at us
with glazed eyes in emaciated skulls from the pit of hell in Belsen, the
haunting images on film that were considered too terrible and too dangerous to
show to Britons 50 years ago lest it precipitate public demands for retribution
against Germany. The Americans didn't want that. They needed a new, compliant
Western Germany as an ally against the communist bloc which had arrived on the
doorstep of Europe.

Britain remembered the backlash of the Versailles Treaty of 1919 which had
imposed retribution on Germany and how it had been used by Hitler as a
recruiting sergeant, and complied. Alfred Hitchcock's documentary film of the
concentration camps was not shown.

Fifty years on, we may not want to see it, to be reminded of what unspeakable
things human beings can do to one another, but it stands as irrefutable evidence
that we were right to have fought the Third Reich, and we are right to rejoice
in having destroyed it.

There were millions enough in those hell pits, but if Hitler had not been
stopped -- how many more would have perished in the planned thousand-year Reich?
It would not have stopped at the mentally defective, the gipsies, the communists
or the Jews. The roundup would have gone on and on, weeding, selecting, and
pruning -- rearing a master race of psychopaths and thugs -- an experiment in
altering the course of human history which it would have taken more than war to
reverse.

It would have taken genocide -- and which of us could have advanced an argument
for that, given that this was the evil we were supposed to be fighting? We have
many things to be grateful about on VE-Day, and that is one of the less obvious
ones. We look with the benefit of hindsight at the history of what did happen
rather than what might have happened, but let us spend a little time
contemplating how near we were to defeat.

Take Dunkirk. We turned a retreat into a public relations victory, but if the
Germans had not hung back, the backbone of the British Army would have been
captured and broken early in the war. Then there was the Battle of Britain --
the triumph of the few. Military historians have argued that had the Luftwaffe
taken out strategic targets in the summer of 1940 instead of waging their brand
of terror bombing they would have been able to launch Sealion, Hitler's invasion
plan for Britain, with virtual certainty of success.

That would have made us an occupied country. Stiff upper-lipped, terrified, and
reluctant to make a fuss, we would have decided it was more sensible to co
-operate. We would have soon developed our own brand of quisling or Vichy-style
accommodation. There are always plenty of people who can be bought, seduced or
frightened into collaboration with even the most repulsive occupation force, and
the Germans, who respected Britain, would have shown their most appealing
profile.

Let us not forget either that strange and unattractive element in our society
then and now who cling to fascist symbols and attitudes. Today's BNP skinheads
were yesterday's Mosleyites, all strutting and saluting -- ripe for the role of
collaborators. Those tempted to take to the hills with a rifle would soon have
been isolated.

Resistance would have met with reprisals, atrocities such as were perpetrated by
the SS in other occupied parts of Europe. And of course we would have stood
alone . . . there was no-one else. No second front in the East, because Stalin
and Hitler had signed the pact of steel which was to remain in place until 1941.

Across the Atlantic, Roosevelt could barely persuade Congress to lease us a few
battleships, never mind commit the US to fighting a war in Europe at that time.
Isolationism was running high, and even after Pearl Harbor the American
inclination was to fight the Pacific war and leave Europe to its own devices.
(In this regard it should be noted that the US came into the war officially only
after Hitler declared war on it, in solidarity with Japan, after Pearl Harbor.
Had he not been so hot-headed and instead sought to keep a neutral relationship
with the US, history might have been very different.)

In hindsight, if Britain had been invaded in 1940-41, the US would not have
interfered. Hitler's crusade against communist Russia, when it came, might even
have won him praise in a country that within a decade was to produce Senator
McCarthy.

The picture I have painted is gloomy but it is all too credible. The fact that
it did not happen is surely worthy of reflection, if not celebration. Let us be
glad that Hitler was as mad as he was bad, and made so many mistakes. Let us be
glad that he was so fanatical that he fought to the death and annihilation of
the Reich he created.

A pact with Hitler or his deputies would not have been a truce, it would have
been a Faustian pact with the devil. How would Europe have fared with a peace
negotiated by Hess? How long before the cancer made a second appearance? In a
more recent time, we have seen the mistake of waging war and creating a false
peace in the Gulf War. Saddam Hussein comes from the same stable of history as
Adolf Hitler and because the allies stopped short of Baghdad, he lives to enjoy
his power. Thankfully we did not stop short of Berlin and make the same mistake.
Nazism was a cancer that had to be destroyed. There were no half measures or it
would have grown again and destroyed the soul of Europe.

For that reason, among many others, I rejoice at what happened in 1945. I am
glad that Germany was partitioned then and I am glad that it is reunited now.
The cure was necessary and it appears to have worked rather well.

To take that view is not to glorify war. Nobody but a madman welcomes war,
especially since the twentieth century saw the extension of conflict to
civilians and the development of weapons of mass destruction. War is the last
option.

To paraphrase the words of the marriage service, it is not to be entered lightly
or inadvisedly. The Second World War was not entered lightly -- if there be
complaint it might be that it could have been averted if Hitler had been
challenged in 1936 when he took the Rhineland with a battalion, a lot of
bravado, and nothing to back it up. Instead, the policy of appeasement allowed
him the time he needed.

The end of any war is a cause for relief, but the end of war in which the forces
of liberty vanquish the forces of oppression is a reason for rejoicing.  The
victory of 1945 was also the milestone of profound change in our own society.
Just as 1918 speeded up irreversible changes in British society, 1945 confirmed
them. The desperate need to throw off the old class-ridden structure and system
of patronage resulted in the Labour landslide at the General Election which
followed the war.

It gave a much needed impetus to social change which alas was squandered in the
fifties by reactionary trade unions, complemented by disastrous periods of Tory
complacency under a burnt-out Churchill and Eden.

To recognise that a corner was turned in 1945, we only have to look at the list
of rights and freedoms enjoyed by ordinary people today which were denied to
their predecessors. One personal example -- my father at first turned down a
commission in the Royal Navy during the war despite many pre-war years in the
RNVR as a petty officer because he would have been unable to afford the hefty
mess bills in the wardroom which were not a problem to the officer with "private
means".

Later in the war, when he was a sub-lieutenant, he received a letter from a peer
of the realm who was friendly with his parents, tenants on his estate. He was
subjected to a long interrogation by security people who took a great deal of
convincing that there was not something deeply suspicious about a village laddie
being friendly with a lord.

Let us be thankful that we no longer have such a social structure. As a member
of the "baby-boom" generation, I know only too well the freedoms and advantages
which I have enjoyed which were denied to my parents' generation, regardless of
how willing or talented they might have been. Those privileges came courtesy of
victory in Europe.

One final personal note. I am married to a Russian girl born in 1957. Her family
will celebrate VE-Day next week (on the 9th because Moscow was already at 2am by
the time the ceasfire sounded at midnight on the 8th in Berlin). Yet we fail to
acknowledge the crucial part the Eastern Front played in the defeat of Hitler.
The Russian people suffered far more than we did at the hands of the Nazis.
Perhaps because of the evil shadow of Stalin, we tend to downplay their part in
the cleansing of Europe. Their total of war dead vastly exceeds ours.  Their
country was occupied and raped as ours was not. They did not enjoy the freedom
they deserved until recently, and the least we can do is include them in the
party. The Russians certainly know how to enjoy a party.

As a nation, the Scots are easily distracted from enjoying themselves. we seem
to prefer a good moan, the role of victim rather than victor. We are summed up
by the story of the minister looking at pall-bearers who had just lowered a
coffin into the cold January soil and asked, "Do you tak a dram, gentleman?" The
vigorous nods were repaid with the words "Then let that yin doon there be a
lesson tae ye!" Does that not sum up much of our attitude to past travails? We
have buried the corpse of Hitler and we should be celebrating, not castigating
those who do.

In the church of which I am minister (Kinning Park Kirk) we held a special
service yesterday to celebrate Victory in Europe. The Rev Professor Murdo Ewen
Macdonald, paratrooper and PoW, preached, and Jimmy Logan opened a street party
right after church.

No doubt there will be those who think this a desecration of the Sabbath. To
them I would like to quote the Aberdonian motto, "They will say. What do they
say? Let them say." Because if it hadn't been for Victory in Europe, they
probably wouldn't enjoy the freedom to say it.

Picture: WAYNE WILSON

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Flag-waving Connor Russell celebrates the freedom to celebrate at the
Kinning Park Church street party in Glasgow yesterday.

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1995 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              69 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 27, 1995

SIEGE MENTALITY LEGACY FOR ULSTER PROTESTANTS;
David Sharrock on an important presence at the Washington talks

BYLINE: David Sharrock

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1014 words


JOHN Dunlop is not one of the names which leaped out at President Clinton's
investment conference for Northern Ireland this week, but his presence in
Washington is arguably as important as the symbolic handshake between the
British government and Sinn Fein.

Mr Dunlop was there to represent the Presbyterian Church, the largest Protestant
denomination in Ireland, North and South - whose members feel they have borne
the brunt of the IRA's campaign. Without their assent a political settlement
cannot be reached.

Mr Dunlop has just published A Precarious Belonging, a critical analysis of his
community which argues that the siege mentality of the Protestant majority
amounts to a slow death.

Dr Dunlop, a former Presbyterian moderator, met Gerry Adams and other
republicans secretly long before the IRA ceasefire.  Last month he met him again
in a television studio and asked him, if the people of Ireland voted,
concurrently and separately, North and South, to maintain the partition of the
island would Sinn Fein accept this? Yes, Mr Adams replied.

The churches in Northern Ireland still wield enormous influence in their
communities, so it is all the more striking that while the political leaders of
unionism denounce the Framework Documents as a one-way road to Dublin and a
united Ireland, Dr Dunlop's view is somewhat different.

"Those documents are not about a united Ireland, they're about new sets of
relationships inside Ireland, new sets of relationships north-south and also
east-west between Ireland and Britain."

The political commitment from the British government is solid enough, but the
ideological commitment isn't, which is unsettling for unionists. The necessary
confidence building measures surrounding the Framework Documents still have to
be put in place, because the two governments are trying to sell it to a
community which hasn't made the same journey of understanding."

Dr Dunlop believes that when the Troubles began Catholics in Northern Ireland
found that their story was the one which the international community chose to
hear. "Unionists never recovered from that.  The Protestant story is one of
insecurity since 1921. It was not the defence of privilege so much as the
defence of freedom which lay behind resistance to Home Rule."

As his book explains, the establishment of the border may have provided a
bulwark against a southern Irish society dominated by the Roman Catholic Church,
but it did not banish the insecurity.

"This is where the two stories intersect and run beside each other. Protestants
considered they had struggled against the odds to create a Northern Ireland
which had some elements of achievement. But come 1968 and suddenly all this is
discounted.  Discrimination, Stormont rule, all of this is rubbished and the
unionists carry all the blame."

The ensuing years of violence, which he prays is over for good, only served to
divide the two communities further. "The IRA violence was based on a
fundamentally flawed analysis of the problem. They decided to fight the Brits,
but republican ideology does not allow them to acknowledge that the problem is
their dissenting neighbour."

Dr Dunlop believes insecurity can translate itself into defensive non-co
-operative politics. "We're simply locked into a siege mentality of
defensiveness which doesn't serve us well."

A Precarious Belonging: Presbyterians and the Conflict in Ireland, is published
by Blackstaff Press, price pounds 7.99.

Martin Kettle, page 23

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              70 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 30, 1995

LEADING ARTICLE: THE FUMBLING OF FELIPISMO;
Have the Socialists scored their final own goal?

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGE; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 760 words


THE TRAUMA of Spain's local elections for the ruling party is only slightly
lessened because Prime Minister Felipe Gonzalez set his sights so low. The
Socialist vote held up after all at just above the 30 per cent to which it had
fallen in last year's European elections. But the real comparison should be with
the last regional and municipal elections four years ago which show the
Socialists some eight percentage points down. Only a dramatic improvement in the
Socialist vote could have dispelled the widespread feeling that Mr Gonzalez has
been too long in power and that his government has lost its way in a fog of
sleaze and discontent. The victory of the People's Party - ten points up from
1991 though by a smaller margin than forecast in comparison to last year's
results - will swell the chorus of voices (led from the front by its leader Jose
Maria Aznar ) predicting a PP victory in the general elections, perhaps next
year or even sooner. What counts is the control of provincial capitals where Mr
Aznar's success has created a new form of forced co-habitation with Madrid.

Has Spain then turned to the right? The result should be seen more as a moral
failure for the Socialists rather than a political triumph for the Centre-right.
Spain, like Britain, may demonstrate the rule that standards of government can
only go downwards over long periods in office. But the distinctive feature of
the muck-raking in Madrid is that it comes so close to the Prime Minister's
office. Mr Gonzalez though personally clean has been unable to shake off the
impression that he turned a blind eye to financial malpractice and condoned the
use of "dirty war" tactics against Basque separatists.  Though still politically
youthful, Mr Gonzalez seems to have lost his ability to tackle his party's
mid-life crisis.

Whatever the Spanish electorate is voting in favour of, it is not rejecting
socialism for the simple reason that the Socialist Party has itself moved far
from that direction. In the early years Mr Gonzalez was widely applauded outside
as well as within Spain for negotiating entry into the EU and opening up the
economy.  The economic boom which resulted did much to create the get-rich-quick
mentality for which the Socialists are now being reproached. When it was hit by
Europe-wide recession, Spain then had no defences against rising unemployment
which forms another plank of the popular case. The achievements of Mr Gonzalez -
from regional devolution to the spread of nursery schooling - are usually left
out of the accounting.

Mr Aznar is the fortunate beneficiary of a sense of disillusion which the
Socialists have signally failed to counter, plus perhaps the unexpected bonus of
having been targeted in an unsuccessful terrorist attack. He benefits too from a
youthful constituency which no longer associates today's right with yesterday's
fascism. His policies are coloured with nationalistic rhetoric and a
conservative approach to the economy but he can afford to be vague. Unless or
until the Socialists can sort themselves out, he remains the victor in waiting
by default.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              71 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                  May 31, 1995

Major warns Serb leaders on hostages as soldiers fly out. Tories at war over
Bosnia troops

BYLINE: Stuart Trotter, Political Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 963 words


THE Prime Minister is on a collision course with a group of senior Tories who
want the British soldiers out of Bosnia.

In a crisis news conference at Downing Street yesterday, Mr Major made clear he
wants to strengthen the UN presence, not withdraw it.

He will now face strong pressure from a section of Conservative MPs in today's
emergency Commons debate to withdraw British troops from the UN peacekeeping
mission as soon as practicable.

One warned him: "It is no good trying to get our hostages out and then leaving
other British troops in an equally vulnerable position."

The next few days and weeks could be critical for his own standing as well as
for the future of former Yugoslavia, where Mr Major said he could foresee a
wider, even bloodier Balkan war if the UN were forced out.

He declared that he planned to do "everything in my power" to free unharmed the
British troops now being held hostage by the Serbs.

He has sent a direct message to Bosnian Serb President Radovan Karadzic and his
military commander General Ratko Mladic, warning them he would hold them
"personally responsible" for the men's safety. Mr Major refused to expand on
what that implied though an attempt by Britain to have them tried as war
criminals if the hostages come to harm seems an option.

He was supported by Nato Foreign Ministers who issued a damning statement
following a meeting in Holland, condemning the "outrageous behaviour" of the
Bosnian Serbs in shelling safe areas and killing and seizing peacekeepers.

They demanded the unconditional release of the UN observers held hostage,
including 33 Britons. And they warned: "We hold the Bosnian Serb leaders fully
accountable for their safe return."

Mr Major called the hostage taking "an outrage" and warned the Bosnian Serbs
that if they persisted they would face international isolation and "permanent
pariah status".

Last night the first of 6500 troops arrived in Bosnia. A 36-man reconnaissance
unit of the 19 Field Regiment, the Highland Gunners, reached the British UN base
at Gornji Vakuf.

Meanwhile intense diplomatic efforts were directed at persuading other countries
to follow Britain's lead in building up the UN contingent to more of a fighting
force than monitoring one. The initial response is not thought to be
encouraging.

The Opposition will offer its support in today's debate. In a speech yesterday
Mr Tony Blair said the international community should not allow peacekeepers to
be "chased out" by terrorists. It was, he said, one of the first big tests of
post Cold War international solidarity "and we must not fail it."

Speaking in Bonn, he said the Bosnian Serbs must be made to understand the
"international outrage" at this act of terrorism.

He echoed Mr Major by warning that if the hostages were harmed, "we will hold
the Bosnian Serb leaders personally responsible. The use of hostages as human
shields is a breach of the Geneva Conventions and there must be no sanctuary for
those who commit such a crime against international law."

Mr Blair said he fully supported the actions of the Government in sending more
troops to Bosnia to protect forces already there.

One dissident voice within the Labour ranks today could be Mr Tam Dalyell. He is
determined to voice his concerns in the Commons about open-ended military
involvement in Bosnia even if that means going against his party leadership.

However, Mr Major faces even stronger opposition from within his own party
ranks. Senior Tories were making clear their view that the time had come to end
the embattled UN presence.

Sir George Gardiner, MP for Reigate and vice-chairman of the party's foreign
affairs committee, said he strongly supported the sending of reinforcements for
the British forces "as a prelude to securing their safe withdrawal".

He added: "No British interest is served by committing our forces as active
participants in their civil war and they should be brought home a soon as is
safely possible."

Mrs Teresa Gorman, MP for Billericay, said: "It is no good trying to get our
hostages out and then leaving other British troops in an equally vulnerable
position. The role of the Government is to protect British interests and there
are no interests for us in this situation."

Mr Warren Hawkesley, MP for Halesowen and Stourbridge, said: "We have got to be
prepared if the worst happens to withdraw and we are very close to the worst
happening." Mr Harry Greenway, Ealing North MP, said: "Our role is largely
exhausted."

This is not the Prime Minister's view. Clearly worried about the consequences of
the UN opting out he told his news conference: "The prevention of a full scale
Balkan war is very much a strategic interest for those of us in the West."

Sir Nicholas Bonsor, Tory chairman of the all-party Commons defence committee,
said he shared the Prime Minister's view.

He suggested that UN troops be consolidated in one area so they were not left in
vulnerable positions after which the position should be reviewed "to see if we
can usefully stay".

However, even Mr Major admitted that if the combatants in Bosnia "abused the
neutrality, impartiality and humanitarian purposes of the United Nations then we
and other contributors may find ourselves in the position where there is no
viable choice but to bring the protection forces home".

That would leave the people in the region facing a future "ruled even more by
violence and insecurity than they have faced in the last couple of years".

All the political parties are well aware that there appears to be a strong
public opinion in Britain for withdrawal which could grow if the relief force
takes casualties as it seeks to join up with the units in Bosnia.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Lance-corporal Susan Taylor, from Greenock, and Private Tracey Farr, of
Abertillery, Wales, both of the 30 Signals Regiment, prepare to fly out to
Bosnia. Picture: BARRY BATCHELOR/PA

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1995 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              72 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Standard (London)

                                 June 16, 1995

Ulster MP is new thorn in Major's side

BYLINE: David Shaw

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 507 words


MAVERICK Belfast QC Robert McCartney today gave up a £200,000-a-year salary to
become the £33,000 MP for North Down - and the new thorn in John Major's side.

Labour is out to court the hardline Independent UK Unionist who will be denied
the Labour Party whip but is expected to be welcomed to Westminster with an
'informal arrangement' that will see his vote go to Tony Blair's party on
virtually every issue.

Vauxhall's Ulster-born Labour MP Kate Hoey will even act as one of those
introducing him at his swearing-in next week.

Mr McCartney has vowed to fight Mr Major's 'sell-out' over Ulster and campaign
for 'full integration' of the province with the rest of the UK.

His election spells trouble ahead for the Prime Minister on Northern Ireland
policy, capping a bad week and further reducing his fragile hold on the Commons.

It also puts a question mark over the future of Ulster Unionist leader James
Molyneaux, whose own candidate was beaten into second place.

While Mr McCartney, 59, insists he is not against peace, he says that when he
arrives at Westminster he will dig in against the Government's strategy for
constitutional change.

He today attacked the Government's negotiations with paramilitary front men,
saying the peace process was aimed purely at keeping terrorist violence out of
mainland Britain.

A man with impeccable Protestant credentials, having been brought up in the
fiercely Protestant Shankill, Mr McCartney's constituency was previously
represented by Sir James Kilfedder. Mr McCartney seized a 2,892 majority over
Ulster Unionist Alan McFarland and consigned Tory Stuart Sexton to a lost
deposit with a derisory 583 votes.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1995 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              73 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 June 16, 1995

Sri Lanka alert

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 56 words


COLOMBO: Britain has toughened its warning to tourists travelling to war-torn
Sri Lanka, deleting a line that says there is no indication of threats to
British nationals. The move follows last week's car bomb blast outside Colombo
airport and a warning to foreign tourists by a Tamil militant group that it will
strike again soon.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1995 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              74 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 June 29, 1995

Heroine's return for IRA terrorist after six years on 'European tour' of jails.
Barracks bomber is convicted and freed

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 817 words


IRA bomber Donna Maguire arrived back in Dublin to a heroine's welcome from
friends and supporters last night. She had earlier been freed by a German court
-- just hours after being jailed for nine years for her part in an attack on a
British Army base.

The court, at Celle, near Hanover, set Maguire free because she had already
served about two-thirds of the sentence in prisons while being held on remand,
said spokesman Harmut Wick.

The moves came just hours after 28-year-old Maguire was found guilty of taking
part in the bombing of the Quebec barracks at Osnabruck, in 1989.

Maguire was convicted of attempted murder, explosives offences, and spying on
British military installations in Germany.

Last night, when she arrived in Dublin from Frankfurt with her father Malachy,
around 50 supporters had gathered at the airport arrivals area to greet her.
They carried a large banner with the words "Failte Abhaile Donna" -- "Welcome
Home Donna".

She appeared shortly after 9pm but refused to speak to waiting reporters on her
way to a secret reunion with her family.

The former convent girl from Newry, County Down, had spent almost six years on a
"European tour" of jails in Ireland, Belgium, Holland, and Germany. During the
trial at Celle, she became the longest serving remand prisoner in German legal
history.

Mr Wick said the court sentenced Maguire to nine years on three charges, the
attempted murder of British soldiers, planting explosives, and spying on British
military installations with intent to sabotage.

"The judge lifted the arrest warrant on her because she has nearly served two
-thirds of her sentence in remand prisons already," he said.

Outside the court, defence lawyer Barbara Klawitter said Maguire was determined
to fight for a full acquittal of the charges, which she denies.

Ulster Unionist Party security spokesman Ken Maginnis yesterday welcomed the
conviction.

It was expected that she would be freed if found guilty because of the time she
had already spent in custody, said the MP for Fermanagh and South Tyrone.

Sinn Fein, however, condemned the sentence and insisted that the verdict was of
a "purely political nature".

The party's spokesman on prison issues, Councillor Pat McGeown, said informed
legal opinion made it clear that after two trials in Germany "not a single shred
of evidence has been presented to back charges against Donna Maguire".

German police had called Maguire, who helped to mastermind one of the IRA's most
concerted campaigns outside Northern Ireland, the most feared woman in Europe.

Early in 1989, she slipped into Europe as a key member of the IRA's "Continental
Unit", operating from The Hague and Hanover.

In the following 18 months, seven people were killed and several injured in a
series of bombings and shootings in Germany and Holland.

With her arrest, and that of three other suspects in June 1990, IRA activity on
mainland Europe ceased.

In the first big joint operation by European anti-terrorist squads, police
forces in Holland, Belgium, Britain, and Germany began compiling a detailed
dossier on Maguire before she walked free from a Dublin court in February 1990.

She had been arrested as she left a ferry from Cherbourg with a Belfast IRA man.
In his suitcase were 10 mercury-tilt switches -- used to make car bombs -- and a
quantity of sodium chlorate.

Traces of the explosive chemical, along with lists of weaponry and colour
reconnaissance photographs of British bases in Germany, were found in her
rucksack.

West Germany applied for Maguire's extradition in connection with a failed bomb
attempt at Quebec barracks at Osnabruck in June 1989, and the car-bomb murder of
British soldier Corporal Steven Smith at Hanover, in July 1989.

When cleared on the explosive charge, she was not re-arrested and almost
immediately headed back to the Continent to rejoin her unit.

It was the first of three acquittals of IRA-related charges in three countries
-- Germany, Holland, and the Irish Republic -- before yesterday's conviction for
the Osnabruck bombing.

On June 16, 1990, four months after her release from prison in Dublin, Maguire
was arrested again after police heard shots in a forest in Belgium.

She was in possession of a false US passport in the name of Pamela Shaul, and
charged with membership of a criminal organisation and illegal possession of
arms.

The case never came to trial.

Extradited to Holland, she was tried and acquitted in 1991, of the murder in
Roermond, a year earlier, of two Australian tourists mistaken by the IRA for
British servicemen.

Switched to Germany, a Dusseldorf court acquitted her last June of charges of
bombing a British Army base near Hanover in May 1990, and of involvement in the
murder of Major Michael Dillon-Lee in Dortmund, the following month.

0

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: The scene of destruction following the 1989 bombing of the Quebec
British Army base in Osnabruck, Germany.  Donna Maguire: convent girl to most
feared woman in Europe.

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1995 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              75 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                  July 4, 1995

Threat to Ulster peace talks as Clegg release sparks riots. Ablaze with anger

BYLINE: Russell Edmunds, James Mckillop

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1492 words


Belfast

VIOLENCE returned to Ulster streets yesterday with riots and burning vehicles as
Sinn Fein and the IRA reacted angrily to the early release of paratrooper Lee
Clegg.

Private Clegg had served four years of a life sentence for the murder of a
teenage joyrider in 1990.

There were fears in both the North and Dublin that the move could damage the
fragile peace process. There have not been such street disturbances in Northern
Ireland since long before the IRA called its ceasefire last August 1.

More than 100 cars, vans, and buses were hijacked and burned in riots allegedly
orchestrated by Sinn Fein in Republican areas of West and North Belfast.

There were reports of two guns being used in the Falls area to flag down
commercial vehicles. One driver was taken to hospital having been kicked and
punched after attempts to force an unidentified liquid down his throat.

A van carrying bread and milk was stopped on the Falls Road and when the petrol
tank exploded it careered forward into a petrol station. Bystanders tried to
pull it clear with ropes which kept melting before a fire engine arrived.

In a day that shook the province, police in flak jackets and riot helmets
confronted a 1000-strong march and prevented it leaving west Belfast en route to
Belfast City Hall.

There were bomb alerts at police and Army headquarters in Lisburn, County
Antrim, in Lisburn town centre, and outside the Woodburn RUC station in Belfast.

Army bomb disposal experts carried out controlled explosions but there were no
reports of bombs having been found.

Petrol bomb attacks on police in Belfast continued into the night. In the
Crumlin Road a crowd of around 100 blocked the street demanding the release of
Republican prisoners.

A cache of 100 petrol bombs was seized by the police in the Ardoyne and put on
display at an RUC station, where Assistant Chief Constable Bill Stewart rejected
Sinn Fein claims it had not been directing the violence.

Mr Stewart insisted: "This was a carefully planned and well orchestrated
campaign."

There were similar scenes of riots in Londonderry with vehicles hijacked and
roads blocked by protesters during hours of violence.

The street violence spread beyond Belfast and Londonderry late last night.

In the border town of Newry, a car was set alight, the site of a former security
base torched, and a council meeting disrupted by 60 protesters. In Coalisland
and Strabane vehicles were hijacked and burned, and in Armagh 40 people were
reported to be involved in disturbances.

Although the release had been expected for some time, there was surprise the
Government chose to make the announcement during the tense period leading up to
Orange Walks on July 12 and on the first day of school holidays.

Nationalist politicians believe the move was timed to boost Mr Major's campaign
for re-election against the right-wing Mr John Redwood. This was firmly rejected
by the Northern Ireland office.

Private Clegg, 26, who hopes to resume his military career, expressed delight as
he was reunited with his family.

His release was last night being celebrated by those who had campaigned on his
behalf in London but was causing grave concern for politicians in Dublin who
fear Britain is adopting a one-sided stance.

The events could have a very serious affect on the Irish peace process, Mr Dick
Spring, the Republic's Foreign Minister, declared.

Irish Premier John Bruton said he now expected the British authorities to adopt
the same approach in all other similar cases. In the UK, Government spokesmen
were insisting the case of Private Clegg was unique.

The Prime Minister said he regretted the violence but pledged that the search
for peace would go on. "The people of Northern Ireland, who I have come to know
much better in the last two years, want this matter to be brought to a
satisfactory conclusion," he said on Channel 4 News.

"They don't wish to return to violence. A few people may have returned to the
streets tonight. I regret that but I don't think we should over-react to it.

"We can soon solve this problem. What has happened to Private Clegg was the end
of a judicial process. That judicial process has ended but the process of
looking for a permanent peace in Northern Ireland goes on.

"A lot is happening -- talks with the parties, talks with the Irish Government,
consideration of how we can take the matter further. We will not let it drop."

Feelings were already running high as police stepped in on Sunday to block the
fifth Orange march this year from proceeding along the main Ormeau road on the
edge of a Roman Catholic area.

In the loyalist Sandy Row area, where gangs of youths are guarding hundreds of
wooden pallets ready for bonfires on the July 11, kerbstones have been painted
red, white, and blue and graffiti under the signature of the illegal Ulster
Freedom Fighters warns "Taigs (catholics) Beware."

As news of the release, and ensuing rioting spread, it was revealed that chief
probation officer, Ms Breidge Gadd, had resigned from the 12-member life
sentence review board which considered the Clegg case. She said the early review
was a major deviation from normal practice and she had no option but to tender
her resignation.

The SDLP MP for West Belfast, Dr Joe Hendron, directly accused Sinn Fein of
inciting the violence. A GP on the Falls Road, he said he saw well known
Republican activists organising young children and teenagers to cause the
maximum disruption.

Mr Martin McGuinness, the Sinn Fein vice-president, said he could not justify
violence but people had a right to protest.

He said Private Clegg's release was "disgraceful and despicable". Speaking on
Channel 4 News he said the British Government had "thrown everything back in our
faces, everything that has been achieved".

He said: "We have shown our commitment to peace and the question isn't what I
can do, the question is, what is the British Government going to do.

"What we have seen over the past 10 months is a British Government which hasn't
taken this peace process seriously, which has thrown the peace process back into
our faces tonight."

Belfast Sinn Fein Councillor Pat McGeown emphasised that the party was still
committed to the peace process but the blame for the rioting was squarely on the
British Government.

Mr John Hume, the SDLP leader, said the release decision was "very, very
strange" in the present climate. The case had gone through the court system but
the decision of nine judges, including the House of Lords, had been overthrown.

Mr Malcolm Moss, a junior Minister at the Northern Ireland Office, said the
release had little bearing on the peace process. It should be seen as a one-off
case, viewed on its own merits.

However, Mr Sean Reilly, father of the murdered teenager Karen Reilly, said his
family had been "devastated" by the decision.

"We thought it was inevitable but it still comes as a hell of a shock. We feel
completely squashed, run over, disappointed, and confused," he said. His wife
was admitted last week to hospital with a brain virus, which he believed was
aggravated by mental pressure.

While the Catholic community has been outraged by Private Clegg's release,
Unionists are sympathetic to the paratrooper. Mr David Trimble MP, a former
university lecturer, and the Ulster Unionist's law and order spokesman, felt he
should have been freed earlier.

"The courts here were unhappy that the law required a life sentence when his
case cannot be compared with a terrorist murder. I would have expected a four to
six-year sentence for an action by a person who did not intend to kill -- and
the four years Clegg served is the equivalent of a six-year sentence," he said.

The soldier, meanwhile, was looking forward to continuing his career in the
Army.

After the reunion with his family, he appeared before a large crowd of waiting
media outside the infantry training centre at Catterick garrison.

Looking fit and relaxed, he stood smartly to attention as he faced the cameras
on a grassed area at the camp but he did not answer any questions shouted at
him.

In a written statement, he said: "I am delighted to be out of prison at last. I
am very happy to have returned to duty this morning. I would like to thank all
those people who have supported me.

"I will be here for a few days and then I am going off on leave. I will then
return to Catterick for some refresher training after which I hope to resume a
full military career."

He will undergo a series of medical tests, both physical and mental, and will be
offered counselling if it is required after his prison ordeal.

Private Clegg's former colleague, Simon Cooper, said none of the men in the
patrol would change anything they did that night. He said on PM on BBC Radio 4:
"We were just looking after our own lives."

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Back to the violent future: a woman flees as hijacked vehicles burn on
the Falls Road in Belfast. Cars, lorries, and buses were set alight throughout
Republican areas. Picture: MARTIN McCULLOUGH/PAPrivate Lee Clegg: freed after
serving four years

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1995 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              76 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 July 17, 1995

Transfer of terrorists to Ireland demanded.  Two IRA men in prison 'dirty
protest'

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 528 words


TWO IRA prisoners have started a "dirty protest" at Whitemoor Prison, scene of
an armed breakout by members of the terrorist group last year, it was confirmed
yesterday.

The pair have spread excrement on cell walls and are wearing only blankets, said
the Prison Service.

"The two have been removed from the main area into a segregation unit to keep
them apart from other prisoners," said a spokeswoman.

It is understood the two are Feilim O'Hadhmaill, 36, a former lecturer at the
University of Central Lancashire, Preston, who was jailed for 25 years last
November for conspiracy to cause explosions, and Patrick Kelly, 42, jailed for
25 years in 1993 for conspiracy to cause an explosion and the attempted murder
of a police officer.

The Sunday Times said they had issued several demands, including the release of
all terrorists who have served more than 20 years, and the immediate transfer of
inmates to jails in Ireland.

They also object to a new regime which requires them to carry out cleaning work.
The Prison Service said only one prisoner had complained about conditions.

There are fears the campaign could spread to other mainland jails holding Irish
terrorists and escalate into hunger strikes. The last prolonged "dirty protest"
in Northern Ireland culminated in the death of 10 republican hunger strikers in
1981.

Meanwhile, it was reported that four IRA terrorists captured in 1975 after the
Balcombe Street siege and later jailed for a string of killings and bombings,
could be repatriated to an Irish prison.

They could go free six months later, according to a newspaper article.

Martin O'Connell, Hugh Doherty, Edward Butler and Harry Duggan unleashed a reign
of terror on mainland Britain.

Their victims included TV personality Ross McWhirter, shot dead on his own
doorstep.

They were jailed in 1977 with a recommendation that they serve at least 30 years
on 25 charges of murders and bombings.

But the Mail on Sunday claims the Government is set to authorise their transfer
from British prisons to a jail in the Irish Republic under a "secret deal with
Dublin".

The newspaper says that the move is a "goodwill gesture by the Government
towards the Ulster peace process" and could be made in September to coincide
with the first anniversary of the IRA ceasefire.

It adds that the prisoners, now all in their late 40s, could be released within
six months by the Irish Justice Department if the ceasefire is maintained.

Other victims of the gang included cancer specialist Professor Gordon Hamilton
-Fairley, who was killed by a car bomb, and bomb disposal expert Roger Goad,
blown up by a device which exploded in a shop doorway.

The four were also responsible for bombings at the home of former Prime Minister
Sir Edward Heath and at some of London's most fashionable hotels and
restaurants.

They were captured after a six-day siege during which they held Post Office
supervisor John Matthews and his wife Sheila hostage at the couple's flat in
Balcombe Street, Marylebone.

A spokeswoman for the Prison Service said: "There is no repatriation agreement
with Dublin."

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1995 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              77 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             July 23, 1995, Sunday

Ireland's quiet shores prove ideal for drug barons; Dublin plans tough new laws
to curb armed gangs grow

BYLINE: Alan Murdoch Ireland Correspondent

SECTION: BRITAIN; Page  8

LENGTH: 851 words


TOURISTS now flocking to the scenic tranquillity of Ireland's southern and
western coastlines are not alone in appreciating their sparsely populated
remoteness. Drug dealers find these shores ideal for landing huge illegal drugs
consignments.

Shipments seized in the past three years in these areas, along with similar
quantities in Dublin, suggest that Ireland has again become a major entrepot for
moving loads of cannabis into Britain. Up to IRpounds 20m- worth (pounds 19m) of
illicit drugs have been seized in some raids. The ease of access for traffickers
arises from the lack of a national coastguard system policing Ireland's 2,000
miles of shoreline.

Alarm over the spread of drugs in Irish cities and the growing number of murders
committed by heavily armed rival dealers last week pushed the issue to the top
of the Dublin government's agenda. Rising addiction, drugs sales to increasingly
young teenagers and the open sale of Ecstasy alarm parents in communities used
to minimal crime rates by British standards.

On Tuesday, in the quiet fishing village of Balbriggan, north of Dublin,
hundreds squeezed into a local hall to vent their concern. They heard complaints
that phoning gardai to alert them to evening drugs deliveries led to a single
garda on duty saying he could drive by but not tackle the pushers alone.

About IRpounds 53m-worth of illegal drugs, well in excess of current domestic
Irish consumption, have been seized since 1993. Concern is being increased by
reports of new, more lethal brands of Ecstasy on the market.

Also on Tuesday, party leaders and the Attorney General in the ruling coalition
met garda, customs and tax chiefs to discuss new ways to control millionaire
dealers and stem a problem widely accepted as out of control.  The use of
Capone-style tax prosecutions against dealers who are converting profits into
substantial property investments is a real possibility. (This in itself will be
a precedent: Irish tax authorities say no one has been jailed for tax evasion
since the state was established in 1922.)

On Wednesday, the cabinet considered a 60-page anti-drugs package, including
plans to bring in the toughest emergency legislation since the IRA car- bomb
assassination of the British ambassador to Ireland, Christopher Ewart- Biggs, in
1976.

Controversial measures it approved included seven-day detention and allowing
senior garda officers to sign search warrants without having to obtain
permission from a judge.

However, gardai themselves (in a stinging editorial in their monthly magazine)
suggested that Justice Minister Nora Owen was attempting to win political kudos
with hard-line talk while glossing over the critical deficiency: a small and
under-resourced garda drug squad.

In the event, the cabinet meeting heard that drugs units would now be enlarged
and brought under a national command.

Internationally, the Irish problem has propelled the Taoiseach, John Bruton,
into successfully urging EU leaders including John Major, Jacques Chirac and
Helmut Kohl to accelerate moves towards a unified European assault on drugs
trafficking, starting with more integrated intelligence sharing through the new
Europol Drugs Unit. Combating the drugs threat is to be one of the main
priorities of next year's Irish EU Presidency.  Ireland wants EU funding for a
Europe-wide coastguard network.

The technological sophistication of the traffickers was underlined when cannabis
worth IRpounds 12.6m in sealed waterproof packaging was raised from one sea-bed
dump off the quiet tourist haven of Kinsale in Co Cork in late 1993. Irish
Customs believe satellite navigation equipment was used in locating and
recovering the packages.

In other major finds, Moroccan cannabis worth pounds IR3.6m, concealed in a
container cargo of cooking oil imported from Spain, was found in a Limerick
warehouse in May this year; in March, a two-tonne container-load of cannabis
worth IRpounds 20m, shipped from Kenya via Antwerp, was seized in Dublin; and in
February IRpounds 3m-worth of cocaine was seized off Co Clare.

Competition for control of domestic Ecstasy sales has precipitated killings in
Dublin, Cork and Belfast. In the most recent, Michael Crinnion, a violent member
of a Cork gang, was shot outside a city bar. Afterwards, journalists were
threatened and newsagents warned against selling the Cork Examiner newspaper
which had campaigned against drug dealers. At Crinnion's funeral, gang members
left the cortege to attack a TV crew. A cameraman, thrown off the roof of a
building where he was filming, was seriously injured.

Fears that the police have been losing the battle against drugs gangs now known
to possess arsenals of automatic weapons grew when shots were fired into the
home of a senior garda officer investigating drug trafficking.

Inadequate garda resources in a city where arms are plentiful could lead to a
wider violence. Earlier this month, a South Dublin self-proclaimed anti-drugs
vigilante group claimed responsibility for shooting up the home of an alleged
dealer.


LOAD-DATE: July 25, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1995 Independent Print Ltd

                              78 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 July 27, 1995

FRANCE OFFERS 1M FRANC REWARD FOR BOMBER'S CAPTURE;
A manhunt is under way, with Algerian fundamentalists the presumed culprits of
the terror attack on Paris's underground

BYLINE: Paul Webster And Alex Duval Smith In Paris

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1014 words


FRANCE offered a reward of 1 million francs ( pounds 130,000) yesterday for
information leading to the capture of the perpetrators of the bomb attack in the
Paris underground railway on Tuesday which killed seven people.

The interior minister, Jean-Louis Debre, told French television he did not rule
out the possibility that the bomber was among the dead, since not all the
victims of the evening rush-hour blast in Saint -Michel station had been
identified.

Cabinet ministers were holding an emergency meeting overnight on strengthening
anti-terrorist measures after the deaths of three more people made the terrorist
attack the worst since Armenian extremists killed seven people in a bombing at
Orly airport 12 years ago.

A manhunt was under way in France and neighbouring states, with Algerian
extremists as the presumed culprits, though no claim of responsibility has yet
been received.

Some underground railway lines were closed by bomb scares yesterday evening,
affecting thousands of residents and tourists.  More than 80 people were hurt in
Tuesday's bombing, which occurred as a commuter train drew into the station near
Notre Dame cathedral at 5.30pm. Eleven are still in critical condition.

The international manhunt coincided with a huge police operation in which 1,800
extra men were being drafted into the capital to protect transport links and
shopping centres. Identity checks were already under way in buses and
underground trains, and the operators of the Eurotunnel rail link between France
and Britain said they were increasing security.

About 80 illegal immigrants were arrested in Paris, where police were patrolling
the poorer suburbs, searching cars and checking identity documents.

To the traders in boulevard Barbes in the heart of Paris's north African
community, it was a familiar experience. "The riot police are regular as
clockwork," said Nasser, a French-born Moroccan, aged 20, outside the jeans shop
where he works. "As soon as there's a whisper of trouble anywhere in France,
they descend on the 18th district."

In the busy boulevard, two police motorcyclists had just stopped a black Mini.
Further up the bus lane, five riot police were pulling over a clapped-out
Peugeot. Every 20 or so yards, the walkie-talkies of plain-clothes policemen
blared at high volume. At each junction stood a white riot police bus.

The shoppers who stopped to watch the show of strength were all white. Nasser,
for whom twice or thrice weekly identity controls have become routine, said:
"You just get used to being checked when others aren't."

In France, no one asks questions about identity checks. "After all," said
Nasser's workmate, Milou, "we're not at home here. I'm born in France and I have
French nationality, but this is not my home. We run their shops and pay their
taxes. But we also have homes in north Africa."

Around the corner in Rue Myrha, the "men in blue", or riot police, were less
conspicuous. It was at a mosque here that the vice-president of Algeria's
Islamic Salvation Front was shot dead a fortnight ago.

Mohammed, who works in a shop selling stereos and electrical goods, saw a
secondary reason for this week's police reinforcements. "In the few hours that
followed the explosion, they rounded up 80 illegal immigrants who are to be
expelled from France. It's a great opportunity for this government to get rid of
foreigners," he said.

Terror hunt focuses on Algerians, page 11

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              79 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 July 29, 1995

INSIDE STORY: BODY OF EVIDENCE;
More than six years on from the Lockerbie disaster, no one appears any wiser
about how and why the bombing happened. The authorities always claimed there was
no warning of an attack on a Pan-Am flight. New information proves that this is
untrue

BYLINE: Paul Foot & John Ashton

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN WEEKEND PAGE; Pg. T22

LENGTH: 11960 words


WHO planted the bomb which blew Pan Am 103 out of the sky over Scotland, killing
all 259 people on board? Six-and-a-half years after the Lockerbie disaster, none
of the bereaved families or friends of the dead knows the answer. A bewildering
array of different suspects has been paraded before them. Even the identity of
the airport where the bomb was planted is unclear.

From their governments on both sides of the Atlantic the families have had to
put up with paralysis, duplicity and, finally, silence. The current suspects,
they are told, are two Libyan airline officials who put the bomb on a flight
from Malta. The officials vehemently deny the charge. They refuse to go to court
in Britain or the US. Until they stand trial in either of those countries, say
the governments and the United Nations, no questions about the disaster will be
answered. The whole issue is gridlocked. All further inquiry is officially
discouraged.

'The official version,' says Dr Jim Swire, whose daughter died at Lockerbie, 'is
no longer credible.' This article follows the Lockerbie story from the point of
view of the bemused British relatives and friends of the victims. Drawing on
hitherto unpublished documents, it casts doubt on the central thesis of the
official version - that the Lockerbie bomb first went on a plane at Malta. It
provides new information, until now classified, that western intelligence knew
perfectly well that a Pan Am airliner was in danger from terrorists. It exposes
a co-ordinated campaign by the authorities on both sides of the Atlantic to
smear and intimidate investigators who question the official version - and their
witnesses and sources. And it calls for more investigation and more disclosure
on both sides of the Atlantic.

THE FATAL NIGHT

The Strange Case Of Dr Fieldhouse Weird and inexplicable happenings haunted the
Lockerbie disaster on the very night the plane went down - December 21, 1988. Dr
David Fieldhouse, an experienced police surgeon from Bradford, Yorkshire, heard
about it on News At Ten. He went straight to the telephone and phoned the police
station at Lockerbie. If he could be of any use, he said, he could be at
Lockerbie in less than an hour-and-a-half.

The Lockerbie police eagerly accepted his offer, and a few minutes later he was
on the motorway to Scotland. He got there before midnight, reported to the
police station, and was eventually sent out with a police officer to find bodies
and certify them dead. All through the long, cold night the doctor and his
companion slogged through the fields round Tundergarth church.  Not stopping for
sleep or food, he worked all through the following day as well. When he reported
to the police station that evening, he had certified 59 bodies dead and labelled
them accordingly. In the following weeks he gave up large chunks of his spare
time travelling to Lockerbie and helping the police properly to identify the
bodies and where they had been found.

For this selfless effort Dr Fieldhouse received, and expected to receive, no
recognition. What was his reward? Nearly two years later, without any warning,
he was unjustifiably tarnished by a police officer in official sworn evidence to
the fatal accident inquiry into the Lockerbie disaster.

The officer was Sergeant David Johnston of the Strathclyde police. His evidence
was 'led' by Lord Fraser of Carmyllie, the Scottish Lord Advocate. Fraser is a
career politician in the ruling Conservative Party, who had served briefly in
the House of Commons as a Tory MP for Aberdeen. Sgt Johnston started his
evidence about Dr Fieldhouse as follows: 'On the evening of the disaster,' he
said, 'and in the early hours of the following day, Dr Fieldhouse went out and
examined a number of victims on his own, pronouncing life extinct, and attached
on them his own form of identification. This was not known to us until some
considerable time later.' In fact, Dr Fieldhouse was accompanied throughout by
police officers, three of whom he has named. He kept in close touch with the
police throughout. The sergeant was completely wrong, but Lord Fraser did not
correct him. On the contrary, the Lord Advocate continued with a series of
questions which rubbed salt in the doctor's wounds. After asking about the
discovery of the body of US businessman Tom Ammerman, Fraser went on: Q. Would
this be another example of Dr or Mr Fieldhouse carrying out a search on his own?
A. It would, my Lord.

Q. And marking the body of a person who is dead without notifying the police?
A. That is correct.

It was not correct at all. Mr Ammerman's body had been found by Dr Fieldhouse
and an accompanying police officer. It was marked in the presence of and with
the agreement of the police officer.

When Dr Fieldhouse appeared at the inquiry some weeks later - on January 22,
1991 - he quietly disposed of all the allegations which had been tossed about so
freely in public. He was puzzled to hear that there were 58 bodies identified in
the area he'd worked in - he had identified and tagged 59. He was amazed that
all except two of his labels had all been thrown away and replaced with others.

Sheriff Mowat, who was in charge of the inquiry, concluded: 'I would record my
thanks to Dr Fieldhouse and my apologies for the undeserved criticism of his
activities.' Nearly two years later, in December 1993, Dr Fieldhouse gave an
interview for a film about Lockerbie. A few days after the interview, Fieldhouse
was summoned to a meeting with two senior West Yorkshire police officers at
Wakefield and sacked as police surgeon. He was given three month's notice - but
no credible explanation.

FARMER WILSON'S SUITCASE

The treatment of Dr Fieldhouse is not the only story from the tragic windswept
night round Lockerbie which still puzzles relatives of the dead. What is the
truth, they wonder, about Farmer Jim Wilson, of Tundergarth Mains Farm near
Lockerbie, whose fields were littered with the debris of bodies and baggage
after the crash? He told one of the relatives who visited him soon after the
disaster that he had been puzzled by the police response to a suitcase he had
found in one his fields.

The case, he said, was full of cellophane packets of a white powder, which he
thought were drugs. He told the police about it, but they did not react. He had
to ring them a second time before they came to take it away. Farmer Wilson, who
now understandably refuses to answer questions on the subject, gave evidence at
the fatal accident inquiry. To his surprise, he was not asked about the suitcase
or the drugs he assumed were in it. The authorities on both sides of the
Atlantic continued to insist that no drugs, save a small quantity of cannabis,
were found on Pan Am 103.

Some of the relatives carried out further inquiries. They discovered that the
name Farmer Wilson had seen on the suitcase did not correspond with any of the
names on the Pan Am 103 passenger list.

THE INVASION OF INVESTIGATORS

A senior official at Carlisle airport was astonished at the numbers of officials
who arrived by plane from London that night and the following day. At least two
coach-loads of people arrived before midnight on a Boeing 727. Around 20 of them
were Pan Am employees, but there were many other Americans with no obvious
affiliation.  Another 727 arrived in the early afternoon of December 22, this
time bringing people from the US. In it were yet more men in plain clothes.
Among their baggage was a single coffin. When they realised that they were being
filmed by a cameraman from the local Border TV, they became agitated and
demanded that he stop.

Since permission had been granted by the local police, the airport official
allowed the cameraman to continue and the pictures were broadcast that night. No
explanation has been given about the coffin.

THE STRANGE OFFER TO DAVID JOHNSTON

David Johnston, a young reporter from Radio Forth in Edinburgh, with excellent
contacts with the Scottish police, was one of the first journalists on the scene
of the disaster. In a news bulletin on February 2, 1989, he reported a claim
that the bomb had been planted on a crack team of US intelligence agents who
were travelling on flight 103 on their way back from Beirut.

Within an hour of the programme being broadcast Johnston was visited in his
office by senior Edinburgh police who demanded to know the source of the story.
When he refused to disclose it, he was threatened with prosecution and,
simultaneously, made a bizarre offer: to reveal his source to the Prime Minister
in Downing Street. He turned that down as well.

THE STRANGE CASE OF THE RED TARPAULIN

On the night of the disaster, and for weeks afterwards, teams of rescue
volunteers searched the area. One volunteer was Ron Smith of Castle Douglas in
Galloway. Earlier this year he revealed that fellow rescue workers had come
across a large object under a red tarpaulin. As they approached it, they were
warned off by gunmen in the doorway of a hovering helicopter. One of these
volunteers has spoken to us. He confirms that the incident took place just north
of the road from Lockerbie to Langholm Road, at Map reference 294 818. Farmer
Innes Graham was also warned by Americans to stay away from a small wooded area
on top of the hill to the west of his family's farm near Waterbeck, a few miles
east of Lockerbie. These strange experiences on that first night worried many of
the bereaved relatives. Their worries soon turned into anger.

HOW MUCH DID THE AUTHORITIES KNOW BEFOREHAND?

Was Botha Warned? Almost at once, there was a strong suspicion that the
authorities knew the airliner was in danger, and passe d the information on to
selected passengers. The most dramatic example of this which was published in
the German paper Die Zeit, on the first anniversary of the disaster. The paper
suggested that the South African Foreign Secretary, Pik Botha, and his retinue
intended to fly on 103 but had been warned off. Botha eventually flew on the
earlier flight, Pan Am 101, which, unlike flight 103, had special security
checks at Heathrow.

Botha and the South African foreign office have denied that he was warned off
103, and no one in South Africa or Britain has been able finally to confirm or
refute the Die Zeit story. But there were two other crucial pieces of evidence -
one of them never before published - that Pan Am 103 was known to be in danger
before it took off.

THE HELSINKI WARNING

On December 5 1988, 16 days before the disaster, a man rang the American Embassy
in Helsinki, Finland, with a message that within the next two weeks a Finnish
woman would carry a bomb aboard a Pan Am aircraft flying from Frankfurt to the
US. The caller spoke with a Middle Eastern accent and said that the people
behind the bomb attempt had links to the notorious terrorist Abu Nidal. The
Embassy sent a classified cable to the state department, which was copied to the
American consulate in Frankfurt and other embassies. The US President's
Commission's report on aviation security and terrorism, which reported in May
1990, reckoned that 'thousands of US government employees saw the Helsinki
threat'.

Among the lucky ones were the Americans who worked in the US Embassy in Moscow.
On December 13, a week and a day before Pan Am 103 went down, an 'administrative
notice to all employees' was posted on the board of the Embassy, warning of the
threat.

At least one civilian in Moscow changed his flight as a result of the posted
warning, and another employee changed the booking she had made for a US
journalist. Not a single Russian embassy worker took flight Pan Am 103 from
Frankfurt on December 21, a standard and popular route home for Christmas.

The US President's Commission on Lockerbie reported that by December 10 the
Finnish Police had concluded that the warning was 'not a credible one'.
Similarly, the British Department of Transport told Pan Am in December that the
British intelligence community had concluded that the threat was 'not real'.

Yet the notice went up on the board in Moscow three days after the conclusion of
the Finnish police that the notice was not credible. Moreover, the US Federal
Aviation Authority did not give an 'all clear' to the aviation authorities.
Neither did Pan Am dismiss the warning. Their officials started special
screening of Finnish women passengers.

The news of the Helsinki warning broke soon after the disaster and engulfed many
relatives in rage and despair. The British Secretary of State for Transport,
Paul Channon, reluctantly disclosed that there had been only 16 bomb warnings
about aircraft relevant to Britain in 1988, none of them as specific as the one
in Helsinki.

Channon and his successors insisted that the Helsinki warning was 'a hoax'.
Martin and Rita Cadman were dubious. Their beloved son Bill, 32, a brilliant
sound designer, was on the fatal plane. Three -and-half years after the
disaster, in July 1992, they read in the Independent that a man called Stephen
Docherty had been sent to prison for four years for making a hoax call to police
about a bomb at Victoria station. Martin Cadman wrote at once to the Finnish
embassy in London asking who had been prosecuted for the hoax call about the Pan
Am airliner and what punishment they received. The answer came back on November
17, 1992. 'The identity of the caller cannot be disclosed, as sufficient
evidence has not been assembled to convict the chief suspect, a foreigner who
obtained Finnish citizenship.' Martin and Rita Cadman were vindicated. If the
hoaxer could not be identified, who could say for sure that the call was a hoax?
They fired off a letter to the Earl of Caithness, junior Minister for Transport,
asking for a further inquiry into the Helsinki warning. Caithness replied that
he had 'nothing to add, and had not got the authority to release the name of the
hoax caller'.

When the Cadmans pointed out that no hoaxer had yet been identified, they
received a couple of testy letters from the director and coordinator of
transport security at the Department of Transport, Mr Harry Ditmas. 'This
warning was a hoax,' echoed by Mr Ditmas, without proof or explanation. The
Cadmans' irritation at the duplicity of the authorities increased when the
'Helsinki hoaxer' had been named two years before they were told he could not be
identified. He was a Palestinian resident in Finland called Samra Mahayoun.

THE STATE DEPARTMENT WARNING

Today we can reveal another warning, issued by an intelligence source to the US
State Department's Office of Diplomatic Security. This warning was issued three
days before the phone call in Helsinki. It has recently been released - but not
yet published - under the Freedom of Information Act. The name of the informant
is blacked out, and the message reads: 'Team of Palestinians not assoc with
Palestinian Liberation Organisation (PLO) intends to atk US tgts in Europe. Time
frame is present. Tgts specified are Pan Am airlines and US mil bases.' This is
the clearest proof that the US government had direct intelligence information
threatening Pan Am. The comment attached to it read as follows: 'We cannot
refute or confirm this'.

OPERATION AUTUMN LEAVES

Astonishingly, five weeks before this warning was received, a 'team of
Palestinians not associated with the PLO' had been arrested in Germany in
possession of a bomb in a Toshiba cassette recorder strikingly similar to the
bomb which destroyed Pan Am 103 over Lockerbie.

In the months before the bombing the German police had mounted an anti
-terrorist operation under the code-name Autumn Leaves.  The operation had led
to the arrest of a gang associated with a splinter group of the Palestinian
movement, the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine - General Command
(PFLP-GC). The leader of this splinter was Ahmed Jibril, who enjoyed the
confidence and protection of the government of Syria and its dictator Hafez al
-Assad. Jibril had masterminded several terrorist attacks in recent years, and
had, so the intelligence agents reported, taken on an assignment to revenge the
shooting down the previous summer of an Iranian airbus by a US warship.

All 290 people on the airbus had been killed. Outrage in Iran was intense and
there were widespread demands for revenge.  Tehran radio declared that the
incident would be avenged 'in blood-spattered skies'. Moreover, the intelligence
reports revealed, the leader of Jibril's terrorist gang, Hafez Dalkamoni, had
been arrested outside a flat in Neuss, Germany, not two hours drive from
Frankfurt, from whose airport Pan Am 103's feeder flight had originated. A bomb
with a barometric pressure switch, packed inside a Toshiba radio cassette
recorder, was found in his car.

Investigators were in no doubt that the bomb was specifically designed to blow
up aircraft. Pieces of a similar model of recorder had been found in the
wreckage at Lockerbie. The conclusion seemed inescapable. Pan Am 103 had been
blown up by a Palestinian gang, protected by Syria and paid for by Iran. The
German police knew the name of the bomb-maker they had arrested - Marwan
Khreesat. Mysteriously, Khreesat was released soon after he had been arrested
with Dalkamoni. The official reason was that there was not enough evidence
against him. In April 1989, further police raids in Neuss produced two more
bombs designed by Khreesat specifically to blow up aircraft. By then no one was
in any doubt that Khreesat had made the bomb which found its way on to Pan Am
103A before it left Frankfurt for Heathrow.

LUNCH AT THE GARRICK

One man utterly confident of this conclusion was Paul Channon, British Secretary
of State for Transport. On March 16 1989, less than three months after
Lockerbie, Channon lunched in London's exclusive Garrick Club with five of
Britain's top journalists.

Channon beamed at the journalists over the excellent food and wine. The
'brilliant detective work of the smallest police force in the country' -
Dumfries and Galloway - had, he revealed, uncovered the guilty bombers. Arrests,
Channon told his wide-eyed hosts, were imminent. Such conversations, especially
at the Garrick Club, are 'on lobby terms': that is, not for attribution.

But the size of the scoop they had been offered was too much for at least one of
the journalists. Next morning's papers carried the sensational news that a
cabinet minister had revealed that the Lockerbie killers had been identified and
would soon be arrested.

OPERATION 'LOW-KEY'

Almost at the exact moment as Channon was exciting the journalists over that
Garrick lunch, George Bush, the US President, telephoned the British Prime
Minister, Margaret Thatcher. Lockerbie was the subject of their conversation. No
doubt Bush too had heard of the success of the Scottish police. His advice to
Mrs Thatcher however was to 'low-key' any excitement over Lockerbie.

The news of this telephone conversation was reported on January 11 1989 in the
Washington Post by Jack Anderson and Dale Van Atta. The conversation was denied
by both the White House and 10 Downing Street, but Anderson and Van Atta stuck
to their story. Whatever was said that March morning, the subject of Lockerbie
suddenly slipped from the ecstatic high sung by Channon to a very low key
indeed.

The bereaved families, who had assumed after all the publicity for the Garrick
lunch that the suspects for the bombing would soon be brought to trial, noticed
to their horror that the whole affair seemed to slip suddenly from the public
gaze. They stepped up their demand for a proper inquiry. In September 1989, six
months after the Garrick lunch, the newly-formed UK Families Flight 103 met Paul
Channon's successor as Transport Secretary, Cecil Parkinson. Parkinson promised
the families a full judicial inquiry. To his horror, the Cabinet, and especially
Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, Parkinson's close friend and ally, slapped him
down. He came whimpering back to the relatives to tell them he had failed.

'Low key' were the words allegedly used by President Bush in that denied
telephone conversation with Thatcher in March. In September, the relatives came
to know what 'low key' meant - the refusal of a proper investigation and its
replacement by an impotent fatal accident inquiry with no subpoena powers which
refused to investigate how the bomb got on the plane for fear of interfering
with the police inquiries.

Years later, in 1994, Parkinson took part in a television programme about
another disaster - the sinking of the pleasure craft Marchioness on the Thames.
He confirmed that Thatcher had blocked the Lockerbie inquiry. 'I was discussing
with the Lockerbie relatives,' Parkinson explained, 'whether we couldn't have
some form of public inquiry which would have meant, because the security
services were involved, inevitably a certain amount of suspicion - and I
wondered whether I could get a High Court judge to look into the security
aspects privately and report to me.  If I could get the relatives to agree with
that, if I got that done, that would satisfy them. Because when you get into the
Lockerbie business - how did we find out certain information, how did we know
this, how did we know that? - you would have had to recall not only our own
intelligence sources but information we were receiving from overseas. Therefore,
that had to be a closed area. . .' This came as close as it could to identifying
the real block to a proper inquiry: 'our own intelligence sources'. It was not
clear to the relatives then, or now, why the intelligence services on either
side of the Atlantic should oppose an inquiry. A month after the Parkinson
fiasco, one remarkable answer emerged.

THE LEBANESE CONNECTION

On November 2, 1989, the news leaked of a report on the Lockerbie bombing by
Interfor, a New York corporate investigative company hired by Pan Am and its
insurers. The report suggested that the Dalkamoni gang had got the bomb on the
airliner at Frankfurt by exploiting a security loophole. In their desperate bid
to free American hostages in Beirut, American intelligence agents had, reported
Interfor, struck a deal with Syrian narco -terrorists.

In exchange for information about the hostages, the agents agreed to facilitate
a route for drugs from the Lebanon into the United States. The luggage with the
drugs was protected by American intelligence. Normal security restrictions on
baggage at the relevant airports was removed and the drugs allowed to sail
through. The terrorist gang, with the help of allies at Frankfurt airport, had
exploited this security loophole by exchanging a bag with a bomb for one with
drugs. The report named a young passenger on the doomed plane, a Lebanese
American called Khaled Jafaar as the 'mule' whose bag of drugs was switched.
Jafaar's name had already been mentioned in dramatic circumstances.  On New
Year's Eve 1988, 10 days after the Lockerbie disaster, the Daily Express devoted
its front page to exposing Jafaar as, 'THE BOMB CARRIER'. The Express named its
sources as 'the FBI and Scotland Yard'.

Even more fantastically, the Interfor report surmised that Major Charles McKee,
the head of the US Intelligence team on the plane, was shocked by the deal
struck with the narco-terrorists, and was returning on Pan Am 103 to blow the
whistle on his colleagues. The inference was obvious, and the report made it
plain. Pan Am 103 was sacrificed by the intelligence community in part at least
to get rid of the whistleblower.

The Interfor report was greeted with widespread scepticism. Commentators pointed
out that Pan Am was being sued by the families for negligence, and stood to duck
all responsibility for the disaster if the blame could be shifted to a bizarre
intelligence plot. Scepticism about the Interfor report was compounded by new
speculation about Lockerbie which switched attention from Beirut and Frankfurt
to the tiny Mediterranean island of Malta.

THE MALTESE CONNECTION

As the first anniversary of the crash grew closer, a long series of articles in
the Sunday Times, which relied heavily on leaks from the Scottish police,
reported that the 'net was closing' on the Lockerbie suspects. These articles -
by David Leppard - stated as irrefutable fact that the bombing had been carried
out by the PFLP-GC under orders from Ahmed Jibril. The gang was led by
Dalkamoni, the bomb was made by Marwan Khreesat.

Leppard's articles added a new twist. The bomb, they reported, had first been
put on a plane not in London, where Pan Am 103 had taken off, nor in Frankfurt,
where its 'feeder', Pan Am 103A, had started, but in Malta. The Maltese
connection had been detected, the articles argued, because some clothes made in
Malta had been found in the suitcase in which, police believed, the bomb had
been planted.

The finger of suspicion was pointed directly at another alleged member of the
Dalkamoni gang: Abu Talb, a 35-year-old Palestinian who was in prison in Sweden
awaiting trial for terrorist offences there. Talb, reported the Sunday Times on
December 17, 1989, had visited Malta and had been identified by a Maltese
boutique owner as the man who bought the clothes in the bomb suitcase, including
a Babygro. 'The trail to Talb was so strong,' wrote reporter David Leppard, that
Scottish police had gone to Sweden to interview him. He was, the paper reported,
due any moment to be extradited to stand trial for the Lockerbie bombing. The
bomb, these articles insisted, had been put on a flight from Malta to Frankfurt
for transfer there to Pan Am 103A which linked with Pan Am 103 at Heathrow. Thus
the theory had the bomb surviving two airport switches - at Frankfurt and at
Heathrow - before exploding over Lockerbie.

For this remarkable theory the Sunday Times (and their informants, the Scottish
police) relied on two documents which had not been made available to them until
several months after the bombing. These were a computerised list of all the
transactions in Frankfurt airport's automated baggage system which related to
Pan Am 103, and a hand-written worksheet from one of the several stations where
baggage came into the system.

A bag which ended up on Pan Am 103 could be traced to a station where one of the
baggage handlers had, in a hurried scrawl, identified it as coming from an Air
Malta flight. Yet there were no passengers on the Air Malta flight transferring
to Pan Am 103A. It followed, the newspaper argued, that an unaccompanied bag
from Malta carried the bomb which blew up Pan Am 103!  Together with the Babygro
from the boutique, these documents proved the Maltese connection - and the
Maltese connection proved the guilt of Dalkamoni and Talb.

Almost all the information which led to these exciting scenarios came through
the intelligence agencies. Journalists on their own in such inquiries have very
little hope of discovering any information.  They go cap in hand to intelligence
sources and sift what they are given. In 1989, and most of 1990, the
intelligence-based charges against the Jibril gang fitted snugly with American
and British foreign policy in the Middle East. Both countries had broken off
relations with Syria because of that country's known and persistent support for
international terrorism. The long war between Iraq and Iran had ended in the
summer of 1988, with the governments of both countries ranged firmly on the side
of Iraq. The old hostility to Iran - which dated back to the 1979 revolution
there and the seizure of US hostages - lingered on. Though the whole Lockerbie
issue had been declared 'low key', both governments were quite 'comfortable'
with what seemed at the time the obvious central truth about Lockerbie: that the
Jibril gang and the regimes in Syria and Iran were responsible.

This official version was staged again in November 1990 in a long documentary
programme by Granada Television to mark the second anniversary of the bombing.
Special attention was given to the Maltese connection. A sinister looking Arab
was seen to check in his bag at Malta airport and then to slide surreptitiously
away to watch the plane take off with the bag in it.

The beauty of 'intelligence journalism' is that it can hardly ever be tested.
Granada Television, however, was unlucky.  Immediately after the programme, Air
Malta sued Granada for libel. A long, powerful and hitherto unpublished document
from their lawyers, top city solicitors Norton Rose, demonstrated that there
were 39 passengers and 55 pieces of baggage on the Air Malta flight; that all
the bags had been checked in by the passengers which flew; that there were no
bags on the flight interlined for Pan Am 103 or 103A. So the scenario outlined
in the film was, the document insists, quite impossible.

The Norton Rose document proceeds in specific and irrefutable detail to
challenge the entire theory that a bomb was put on the flight at Malta. The
lawyers carefully investigated the documents - the print-out and the work-sheets
from Frankfurt Airport - which had persuaded the Sunday Times and the Scottish
police that the bomb bag had come from Malta. They concluded, first, that these
documents were not designed to identify the flight from which baggage had come;
second, that their accuracy depended on the dubious memory of harassed baggage
handlers, and third, that even if they were accurate, they did not preclude the
possibility that the suspect bomb-bag had been planted in the complex of
Frankfurt airport.

This comprehensive demolition job on the Maltese connection was never heard in
open court. Shortly before the case was due to come on early in 1993, Granada,
which prides itself on openly defending libel actions, threw in the towel, and
paid pounds 15,005 into court. Air Malta accepted the money, and, in a statement
allowed by the judge, insisted that they had cleared their name. The statement
was studiously ignored by the entire British media.

By that time, the whole political situation in the Middle East had been turned
upside down. In August 1990, Saddam Hussein invaded Kuwait, threatened to
control 8 per cent of US oil supplies and to topple the sheikdoms of the Gulf
and Saudi Arabia on which Western stability in the Middle East depended. 'A new
world order' was called for, with different alliances. If there was to be a
western war with Iraq, Iran had to be seduced into neutrality. More importantly,
the Assad dictatorship in Syria had to be courted. If Iran was neutralised and
Syria lined up against her old enemy Saddam, Iraq could be defeated without too
much upset in the Arab world.

In November 1990, Britain restored diplomatic relations with Syria. Ahmed
Jibril, whom everyone assumed was responsible for Lockerbie, was still living
there. The same dictator, Assad, was still in charge, presiding over the same
terrorism, the same torture in his prisons and the same denial of human rights
to dissenters. But now he was an ally of the West. In January and February 1991
Syrian troops joined the western allies in an assault on occupied Kuwait.
Saddam's forces were instantly repulsed. Cheap oil flowed freely again to the
US, whose government was eternally grateful to its new allies. Opponents of the
dictator Assad were still being locked up and tortured, but President Bush (like
President Clinton after him) and Prime Minister John Major covered him with
bouquets.

THE LIBYAN CONNECTION

As the political allegiances in the region changed, so, at first imperceptibly
but with gathering speed, did the official investigations into the Lockerbie
disaster. The centre of operations was effectively shifted from the quaint
police headquarters in the Scottish Borders to the more sumptuous surroundings
of Langley, the base of the CIA. The man in day-to-day charge of the Lockerbie
investigation there was Vincent Cannistraro. Cannistraro had worked with Oliver
North in President Reagan's National Security Council. He had been a leading
figure in the movement to support the Contras in Nicaragua and UNITA in Angola.
He had specialised in the US vendetta against Libya. He had helped mastermind a
secret programme to destabilise the Libyan regime which culminated in the
bombing of Libya in 1986 - an act of international piracy which, for the first
time in the history of Muammar Gadaffi's turbulent and dictatorial rule, united
the entire Libyan people behind him.

Cannistraro retired from the CIA in September 1990 but by then had helped lay
the foundations for a completely new approach to the Lockerbie investigation.
This time the chief culprit country was not Iran or Syria - but Libya.

On November 14, 1991, in a blaze of publicity, the American and British
governments announced that two Libyan airline officials - Abdel Basset Ali
Al-Megrahi and Lamen Khalifa Fhimah - were charged with planting the bomb which
brought down Pan Am 103. The official story had completely changed. Gone was any
reference to Jibril, Dalkamoni, Talb, Khreesat, Syria, Iran or Palestine.
President Bush went out of his way to exculpate Syria which, he announced in a
characteristically elegant phrase, had taken 'a bum rap' on Lockerbie.

Simultaneously, like an obedient sheep dog, British Foreign Secretary Douglas
Hurd barked in the British House of Commons that Libyans alone were suspected.
Other countries, he said, were not implicated. By amazing coincidence, the only
culprits could now be found in the only Arab country besides Iraq to which the
US and Britain were openly hostile. Pam Dix, secretary of the UK Families Flight
103, whose brother Peter died at Lockerbie, still remembers her sense of shock
on hearing of the indictment against the Libyans. 'In all the three years since
the disaster,' she said, 'none of us ever had an inkling that Libyans were
responsible. One question I asked myself at once was: why did the American
authorities not wait until their suspects left Libya for a country from which
they could be extradited? Why did they rush out the announcement when they knew
their suspects would not be released for trial?' To assist confused relatives
and anyone else who had followed the story, the US State Department issued a
special notice. The 'dominant hypothesis of the early stages of the Pan Am 103
investigation', it conceded, had 'focused' on Iran and Jibril. 'Over time
however fresh evidence undermined the initial theory linking the PFLP-GC to the
bomb.' Four reasons were given: 1. The radio with the bomb found in Dalkamoni's
car 'differed markedly' from the radio bomb in the plane.

2. The Maltese clothes in the suitcase indicated the bomb went on at Malta.

3. The bomb in the plane had been set off by a 'sophisticated electronic timer'
while the PFLP-GC bomb discovered in Germany had 'relatively crude timers'.
Furthermore, such sophisticated timers had been delivered from Switzerland to
Libya.

4. There was no evidence of an altimeter switch in the Pan Am bomb.

None of this was persuasive. Marwan Khreesat made many bombs in many different
radios. The 'marked difference' between the radio in Dalkamoni's car and the one
in the plane was that the first had one speaker, the other had two. Both were
Toshibas.  The clothes from the boutique had been used to confirm official
suspicion of the PFLP-GC/Jibril gang. The rather subtle distinction between the
timers and the switches hardly seemed enough evidence to justify such a dramatic
change in the course of the inquiry.

THE CASE OF THE UBIQUITOUS CIRCUIT BOARD

The central plank of the indictment was the alleged correlation between the
timers - alleged to have been sold to Libyans - and the tiny fragment of circuit
board found near Lockerbie. The timers, the indictment revealed, had been made
by a firm in Switzerland. Their circuit boards matched a tiny fragment retrieved
from the Lockerbie searches.

This coincidence between the circuit board and the timers has been plagued with
questions from the moment it was first mooted. For instance, who found the
circuit board and when? It depends what you read. In 1992, American journalist
Mark Perry published a book called Eclipse - The Last Days Of The CIA. This
declares that the fragment was found by an unnamed Scottish worker in a field
outside Lockerbie 'on a misty morning in early April'.

British journalist Diarmuid Jeffreys, on the other hand, in his book The Bureau
- Inside Today's FBI, says that the fragment was found 'sometime in 1990' in a
'piece of charred shirt' by the FBI's forensic expert Thomas Thurman. Another
recent book on the FBI, by Ronald Kessler, quotes the assistant director of the
FBI forensic laboratory saying that the British found the fragment a whole year
before Thurman got it. And who identified the fragment as part of the timer?
Jeffreys and Kessler give the credit to Thomas Thurman, Perry to a 'veteran CIA
analyst' and David Leppard of the Sunday Times to a British military forensic
scientist (and hero of the investigation which wrongly jailed the Maguire Seven)
Dr Thomas Hayes. The four authors each have different dates for the establishing
of the link. They offer a choice between June, August, October and November
1990. It is not hard to imagine the enthusiasm with which a top barrister would
expose the history of this crucial 'evidence' linking the bombing to Libya.

And just how firm was the Libyan connection to the timers? To start with, the US
State department claimed that all timers from the Swiss firm had been delivered
to Libya. This theory was weakened in December 1993 when the BBC radio programme
File On Four proved that the Swiss firm had provided the same model of timers to
the East German secret police, the Stasi.

The bulk of the indictment asserted without proof that Libyan intelligence had
planned the bomb attack, and carried it out through two of its agents. These
assertions relied on the say-so of an intelligence team led by a man who once
worked closely with Oliver North.

THE HIDDEN AGENDA

None of the active British relatives is convinced by the indictment. In the four
years since the indictment was announced, the case against the Libyans has got
weaker. The British families continue to be puzzled about the sudden and
unexpected change in the Lockerbie suspects. It seems obvious to them that the
Dalkamoni gang was responsible for the bombing. So why was the gang not pursued,
and why was such a crude official blanket cast over the whole Lockerbie affair?
Increasingly, the families hark back to the ghastly theories expounded in the
Interfor report. Is there, they wonder, a hidden agenda to Lockerbie, a story
within a story, which is the real reason for the 'low-key' approach of
officialdom on both sides of the Atlantic? These suspicions were further aroused
by the publication in September 1993 - in Britain alone - of Trail Of The
Octopus by Donald Goddard, the story of former Defence Intelligence Agency agent
Lester Coleman. Like the Interfor report, Coleman concludes there is a
connection between the drugs run from Lebanon through Cyprus, where he was
based, and Frankfurt airport which contributed to the Lockerbie disaster.
Coleman's detractors accuse him of fleeing his country to avoid charges of
falsely procuring a passport. New information published in the Scotsman in March
this year, however, suggests that the passport charges were trumped up. The FBI
claimed that Coleman had asked for a copy of a birth certificate of a dead
person, Thomas Leavy, with which to forge a false passport. The relevant
authority at New London, Connecticut, however, insists that no person of that
name was born at the time claimed by the FBI.

The entire case was invented. But why would a charge of passport fraud be
invented unless to intimidate Coleman, and why would the authorities want to do
that? Four days before his book was published, Coleman was indicted on another
charge: perjury. The first count alleges that he falsely claimed to speak Arabic
- which he speaks fluently.

Lester Coleman is not the only sceptic about the official version of the
Lockerbie story who has suffered at the hands of the authorities. Juval Aviv,
the president of Interfor, who carried out the inquiry for Pan Am and arrived at
such extraordinary conclusions, has recently been charged with mail fraud. John
Brennan, the President of the insurers for the now defunct Pan Am, has been
charged with fraud.

Like Lester Coleman, Aviv insists that charges against him have been trumped up.
All three investigations were started by the same assistant US attorney in the
Eastern District of New York Court - yet neither Brennan nor Aviv have their
businesses located in that district, and none of their alleged offences was
committed there. All these instances of alleged state harassment came within a
few weeks of a 90-minute Channel 4 programme on Lockerbie entitled The Maltese
Double Cross.  Produced by the American film-maker Allan Francovich, it was
broadcast on May 11. It featured an interview with a relative of a passenger on
the fatal flight called Khalid Jafaar. The relative stated that the boy had been
duped by terrorists into taking the bomb on the plane in a bag he believed was
carrying drugs.  Francovich's film was dogged by continuous official obstruction
and resistance.

When it finally got on the air, the Scottish Crown Office and the US Embassy
took the unusual step of issuing a strongly-worded press release vigorously
attacking the programme and the people who appeared in it. For years the same
Crown Office had insisted that it was not the job of government to comment on
media speculation about Lockerbie.

THE 'SUB JUDICE' STALEMATE

In the aftermath of The Maltese Double Cross, the stalemate returns. As soon as
the indictments were revealed, the British and American governments insisted
that the two Libyan suspects should be brought to trial in Scotland or the US.
The Libyan government refused to release them. Feeble economic sanctions, not
including an oil embargo, were imposed on Libya by the UN in a supposed bid to
force the suspects out. Predictably, they have not worked. The Libyan government
has, however, agreed to release the men to stand trial in a neutral country,
such as the Hague in Holland or Switzerland.

Jim Swire, whose daughter Flora died in Pan Am 103 and who has campaigned ever
since to find out what happened, asks: 'What is wrong with a trial in a neutral
country? Why shouldn't both sides be treated fairly in Holland or Switzerland?
There is talk all the time of the need for international courts - to try Bosnian
war criminals for example. We want these men to stand trial. I've written again
and again to British and American governments to ask why the Libyans can't be
tried in a neutral country, but haven't had a satisfactory reply. In fact the US
government hasn't replied at all.' There are many precedents in English law for
shifting the place of a trial to avoid local prejudice against the accused. Why
can't the same argument prevail at international level? One crucial effect of
the stalemate caused by the Libyan indictments has been the deflection of all
independent investigation into the Lockerbie disaster. 'We have the suspects,'
is the official answer to all inquiries. 'The case is sub judice. No comment.'
Many British relatives suspect that this official silence suits both
governments. Their suspicions have been confirmed by two recent incidents.

THE SNUBBING OF ALLAN STEWART

No one served the conservative government more faithfully than Allan Stewart MP.
He became a junior Minister in the Scottish Office in 1981, and he was still
there in 1995. He resigned his post after an incident on a contested motorway
site, in which he allegedly brandished an axe-handle against the protestors. Out
of office, he decided to respond to Muslim constituents who were worried about
government sanctions against Libya. He went to Libya and secured the agreement
of the Gadaffi government to release the two suspects for trial before a
Scottish judge and jury and according to Scottish legal procedures in a neutral
country. At last was hope of a compromise, a break in the deadlock. The Libyan
government's concessions were substantial. What possible objection could there
now be against holding the trial in a neutral country? Back in the House of
Commons, Stewart proposed an amendment to the Scottish Criminal Justice Bill
then going through the Scottish Grand Committee.  His amendment permitted cases
to be heard by a Scottish judge and jury outside Scotland. It was voted down by
the Labour and Tory members of the Committee - only one backbencher, Tam
Dalyell, Labour MP for Linlithgow, who for years has challenged the official
version of the Lockerbie story, supported him.

THE US AUTHORITIES THROW IN THE TOWEL

Many families now suspect that the British and American authorities would be
delighted if the Libyan suspects are never released, and there is never a trial.
On June 8 a front page article in the Guardian quoted anonymous US officials
saying that President Clinton had effectively given up on efforts to bring the
two Libyans to trial.

Perhaps the most infuriating effect of the sub judice stalemate is the official
silence. In the United States, attempts to get information about Lockerbie under
the Freedom of Information Act have been constantly thwarted on grounds of
national security. Only two important documents have been released, both after a
delay of four years. In the prevailing silence, the relatives feel they are
pawns being pushed around on the chess board of international power politics.
The questions go on forever. Why did the police so recklessly tarnish Dr
Fieldhouse? Why did Farmer Wilson's suitcase vanish? Why was there such a prompt
official denunciation of the Helsinki warning as a hoax? Why was nothing done to
respond to the clear warning issued to the American government about the
terrorist danger to Pan Am? Why was the Jibril story, so convincing at the time,
brusquely junked? What is there left of the Maltese connection? Why have the
British and US governments refused a proper inquiry, and why will the Libyans
not be brought to trial on neutral territory? Why, if its hands are clean on the
matter, is the US government holding back information about the bombing of a
civilian airliner? Ask all these questions together and it is difficult to avoid
the conclusion that someone in authority knows the answers, but won't disclose
them. On February 16 1990, a group of British relatives, including Martin
Cadman, went to the American Embassy in London for a meeting with the seven
members of the President's Commission on Aviation Security and Terrorism.

'After we'd had our say,'says Cadman, 'the meeting broke up, and we moved
towards the door. As we got there, I found myself talking to two members of the
Commission - I think they were Senators. One of them said: 'Your government and
our government knows what happened at Lockerbie. But they are not going to tell
you'.' It is hard to imagine a more serious charge, nor one which more requires
the most urgent and relentless probing.

John Ashton was the chief researcher on Channel 4 documentary The Maltese Double
Cross.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              80 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                             July 30, 1995, Sunday

101 CRIMINALLY CRYPTIC CRIME QUESTIONS;
WELCOME TO OUR HOUSE OF HORRORS CRIME AND PUNISHMENT QUIZ, IN WHICH YOU CAN TEST
YOUR KNOWLEDGE OF VILLAINS THROUGHOUT THE AGES. WITH MURRAY DAVIES AS YOUR
GUIDE, HERE ARE COLD-BLOODED CANNIBAL KILLERS, LIKE JEFFREY DAHMER (ABOVE),
BUNGLING BURGLARS AND THEIR VICTIMS. HERE ALSO ARE BIZARRE LAWS AND STRANGER
PUNISHMENTS. SEE HOW WELL YOU DO IN OUR AMUSING AND AMAZING QUIZ...;
101 CRIME QUESTIONS

BYLINE: Murray Davies

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 19, 2, 21, 22

LENGTH: 22774 words


Three armed robbers left empty-handed when they tried to rob a Billericay,
Essex, post office in 1971. Why?

a. It had been closed for 12 years.

b. It was early closing day.

c. The owner's poodle scared them off.

How did Moors murderers Ian Brady and Myra Hindley meet?

a. They worked together in an office.

b. They met at a dance.

c. They met at their local church.

When police called at the California home of mass murderer Edmund Kemper in
April 1973, what did they find on the mantelpiece?

a. His father's foot.

b. His mother's head.

c. His sister's hand.

Giovanni Vigliotto is believed to be the world's greatest bigamist.  How many
women did he marry?

a. 54.

b. 84.

c. 104.

What do 'Dark Annie' Chapman, Polly Nichols and 'Long Liz' Stride have in
common?

a.They were Victorian poisoners.

b. They were victims of Jack the Ripper.

c. They were all hanged for child murder.

The longest prison sentence ever delivered is:

a. 999 years in New York for mass murder.

b. 2,500 years in Sri Lanka for terrorist bombings.

c. 141,078 years in Thailand for fraud and deception.

US murderer George Appel went to the electric chair in 1952. What were his dying
words?

a. "This will give me the pip."

b. " Well, folks, you'll soon see a baked Appel."

c. "You knew I was rotten to the core."

In 1972, a man stole a barge on the Thames. Why was he caught so quickly?

a. He bumped into other boats.

b. He was the only man on the river because there was a dock strike.

c. He hit Tower Bridge.

The most common method of killing women in Britain is:

a. Strangulation.

b. Hitting.

c. Striking with a blunt instrument.

How many people did the last British hangman Albert Pierrepoint execute?

a. Fewer than 200.

b. Between 200 and 400.

c. More than 400.

11. American ganger Al Capone was known as :

a. Pretty Boy.

b. Scarface.

c. Baby face.

12. How long did murderer John Watson Laurie stay in prison to set a British
record for the longest sentence served?

a. 30 years and six months.

b. 35 years and one month.

c. 40 years and 11 months.

13. Mary, a circus elephant, killed her trainer in Kingsport, Tennessee in 1913.
Was she:

a. Shot with an elephant gun.

b. Hung from a 100 ton crane.

c. Drowned with weights in the river.

14. In which European country are women at greatest risk of being sexually
assaulted?

a. England and Wales.

b. Spain.

c. Germany.

15. How many people did Michael Ryan kill in one afternoon in Hungerford?

a. 22.

b. 16.

c. 12.

16. Thugs were originally:

a. Stranglers from India.

b. A New York gang.

c. Irish hooligans.

17. William Burke and William Hare earned a living by:

a. Snatching newly buried corpses from their graves.

b. Holding up stagecoaches.

c. Robbing postmen.

18. In May 1990, a robber snatched a brief case in the City of London.  It
contained bonds worth: a. pounds 2. 92 million.

b. pounds 29.2 million.

c. pounds 292 million.

19. Mary Ann Cotton was a rare woman serial killer. How did she despatch her
estimated fourteen victims?

a. Strangling.

b. Arson.

c. Poison.

20. How many people did police interview during the hunt for The Yorkshire
Ripper Peter Sutcliffe, ?

a. 150,000.

b. 250,000.

c. 50,000.

21. Australia bushranger Ned Kelly, who wore metal armour, was cornered by
police in 1880 in Glenrowan Hotel. How did he die?

a. Shot as he tried to reach the horses to escape.

b. He bled to death as he shot it out with police.

c. He was hanged.

22. What did Graham Young do when he was released after a nine year sentence for
poisoning his stepmother?

a. Poison his workmates.

b. Become a missionary.

c. Become a chemist.

23. How many crimes you could be hanged for in 1810?

a. 20

b. 124.

c. 222.

24. Jane Toppan is the world's worst woman poisoner killing between 30 and 100
in America before she was caught in 1902. What was her job?

a. Nurse.

b. Pharmacist.

c. Cook.

25. How long was John Smith left hanging at Tyburn Tree in 1705 before his
reprieve arrived and he was cut down - to live.

a. Five minutes.

b. Ten minutes.

c. Fifteen minutes.

26. Robert Nixon battered five people to death. Why was he known as "The Brick
Moron"?

a. Because he was built like an outhouse.

b. Because he left his fingerprints on the bricks he used to kill.

c. Because he was red faced and stupid.

27. German cannibal Franz Haarmann, beheaded in 1925, confessed to murdering 40
boys. What did he do with their bodies?

a. Sold their flesh from a stall as horsemeat.

b. Salted and preserved it.

c. Served it as stew.

28. How long after his death was Archbishop Thomas a Becket tried and convicted
of treason?

a. Six months.

b. Five years.

c. 300 years.

29. Who did Reggie Kray kill?

a. George Cornell.

b. Jack McVitie.

c. Ginger Frazier.

30. In 1864 Franz Muller committed the first ever what?

a. Murder on a train.

b. Murder on a steam ship.

c. Murder in a lift.

31. Seven men were gunned down in the St Valentine's Day Massacre in 1929.  Five
were hoodlums, one a garage mechanic. What was the other's occupation?

a. Policeman.

b. Pinkerton agent.

c. Dentist.

32. James Hanratty was hanged in 1961 for a murder known by a road number.  Is
it?

a. A6.

b. A 45.

b. A 1

33. What was unusual about Harry Leo Crawford who murdered his wife Ann in
Sydney, Australia in 1919?

a. He was really a woman called Eugene Falleni.

b. He was deaf and dumb.

c. He was her brother.

34. Minnie Dean was hanged in New Zealand in 1895 for murdering children in her
care. She is exceptional because:

a. She was the first woman to be executed in New Zealand.

b. She was the last woman to be executed in New Zealand.

c. She was the only woman to be executed in New Zealand.

35. Why was former world heavyweight boxing champion Muhammed Ali was sent to
prison in 1967?

a. Possession of drugs.

b. He shot and wounded his manager.

c. He refused to be drafted into the US army.

36. The Zodiac Killer, who murdered an estimated 37 in America in the 1970s was
never caught. How did he get his name?

a. He only killed people who had the star sign Aquarius.

b. He always left a note with a cross over a circle - the sign of the zodiac .

c. He only killed at the time of the month when the star sign changed.

37. What was against the law in England between 1642 and 1652?

a. Christmas.

b. Giving presents.

c. Going to the theatre.

38. How did Esther Griggs kill her baby in London in 1859.

a. She drowned it in a wash tub.

b. She threw it out of the window in a dream believing the house was on fire.

c. She dreamed she was fighting a cat and strangled him in her sleep.

39. George Joseph Smith was known as "The Brides in the Bath murderer." How many
brides did he murder?

a. Five.

b. Seven.

c. Three.

40. How many other wives did he bigamously marry and then swindle out of their
savings?

a. Ten.

b. Six.

c. Two.

41. In 1994, six robbers tried to burn through the side of a security van in
Crawley, West Sussex with blow torches. Why did they not get a penny?

a. They could not get through.

b. The torches kept going out in the wind.

c. They set alight to the notes inside.

42. Followers of Charles Manson responsible for killing pregnant actress Sharon
Tate and at least six others were known as:

a. The Family.

b. The Kindred.

c. The Relations.

43. How many wives is Southport Dr Robert George Clements believed to have
murdered between 1920 and 1947?  a. Two.

b. Four.

c. Six.

44. What happened to him?

a. He was hanged.

b. He was declared insane.

c. He committed suicide.

45. Why were the police called when a Nigerian labourer tried to cash his pounds
9 - 4s -0 pay cheque in London in1967?

a. Because he changed it to pounds 94.

b. Because he changed it to pounds 19 - 4s- 0.

c. Because he changed it to pounds 697,000,009 - 4s -0.

46. In 1924, Pep, a black Labrador was sent to prison in Pennsylvania for six
years. Why?

a. He bit a postman.

b. He bit a policeman.

c. He killed a cat.

47. What was Lester Piggott stripped of when he was sent to prison for tax
evasion?

a. His riding licence.

b. His OBE.

c. His membership of the Jockey Club.

48. How did Soul legend Marvin Gaye die?

a. Shot by his son.

b. Shot by his father.

c. Stabbed by his lover.

49. The Duke of Clarence, surgeon Sir William Gull and barrister Montague John
Druitt were all:

a. Blackmailed for homosexual behaviour.

b. Obsessed with watching executions.

c. Suspected of being Jack the Ripper.

50. You break the law if you drink what in a South Carolina bar?

a. Water.

b. Tea.

c. Gin.

51. What play was Abraham Lincoln watching when he was assassinated?

a. The Gettysburgh Address.

b. The Bull Run Story.

c. Our American Cousin.

52. How many British Prime Ministers have been assassinated?

a. None.

b. One.

c. Two.

53. How was Russian revolutionary exile Leon Trotsky murdered.

a. With a tooth pick.

b. With an ice pick.

c. With a pick axe.

54. Dr Herman 'Hi' Tarnower was shot dead by his lover Jean Harris is 1980.
What is he best known for?

a. Inventing the Cambridge diet.

b. Inventing the Beverley Hills diet.

c. Inventing the Scarsdale Diet.

55. How did Public Enemy No.1 John Dillinger met his end in 1934?

a. Shot in the back as he played cards.

b. Gunned down by G men as he left a cinema.

c. Mowed down by a rival gang as he sat in a barber's chair.

56. Henry Vicars burgled well over a thousand homes in and around London in the
1930s. What was his nick name?

a. Flannelfoot.

b. Cats eyes.

c. Spider.

57. Frank, John, Simeon and William Reno committed the first what in Indiana in
1866?

a. Bank robbery.

b. Restaurant robbery.

c. Train robbery.

58. Picture forger Tom Keating faked works in the style of how many artists?

a. 20.

b. 70.

c. 120.

59. How did John Graham kill his mother - and at least 44 others in America in
1955?

a. Blew up her airline flight with a bomb in her suitcase

b. Tampered with the brakes on her Greyhound bus.

c. Put dynamite in the cinema where she was watching a film.

60. Why?

a. He was going to be disinherited

b. He had taken out an insurance policy for $ 37,000 on her life.

c. He believed she was spying on him.

61. In which European country are you most likely to have your pocket picked?
a. Spain.

b. France.

c. Germany.

62. Morocco's chief police commissioner Mohammed Muatpha Tabet was sentenced to
death Why?

a. He was found guilty of conspiring against the state.

b. He was found guilty of1,500 sex crimes.

c. He was found guilty of seducing the President's daughter.

63. A year after the end of the Second World War, William H. Johnson, a semi
literate miner from Kentucky, made at least $ 15,000 by writing to people all
over the US claiming to be whom?

a. Jesus Christ.

b. Stalin.

c. Hitler.

64. What was his plan?

a. To take over the United States.

b. To declare war on The Soviet Union.

c. To declare the Second Coming.

65. In 1830 PC Long was the first...?

a. Policeman to be murdered.

b. Policeman to convicted of taking a bribe.

c. Policeman to arrest a Peer.

66. In England in the 16th century, husbands were banned from doing what after
10pm?

a. Beating their wives.

b. Making love to their wives.

c. Leaving their wives alone.

67. Mass murderer Dennis Nilsen was caught because:

a. He was seen strangling his last victim.

b. His victims' remains were found in his garden.

c. His victims rotting remains made the drains stink.

68. When was the last public execution?

a. May 1868.

b. August 1899.

c. December 1912.

69. The Cave of Roses was a Swedish 17th century method of execution.  How did
the condemned die?

a. Blocked in the cave to starve to death.

b. The cave was full of poisonous snakes.

c. Impaled on stakes in the cave.

70. Convicted murderer John Lee was called "The man they could not hang." What
happened when the hangman tried to execute him in Exeter Gaol in 1885.

a. The rope broke three times.

b. He recovered half an hour later.

c. The trap door refused to open three times.

71. Michael Lupo who murdered four gay men in 1986 was known as:

a. The Fox.

b. The Wolf Man.

c. The Snake.

72. Child murderer Albert Fish short circuited the electric chair when he was
executed in America in 1936. Why?

a. He had inserted small needles under his skin to hurt himself.

b. He had a full set of metal teeth.

c. He had a large metal plate in his head.

73. If you weigh 10 stones, how far, in the hangman's calculations, did you have
to drop to break your neck?

a. 8 ft.

b. 9ft 4 inches.

c. 10 ft.

74. Which American state has executed most prisoners?

a. New York.

b. Texas.

c. Georgia.

75. When was the Treadmill abolished in British prisons?

a. 1880.

b. 1898.

c. 1934.

76. How did cooked meat manufacturer Adolph Luetgert dispose of the body of his
wife in 1897?

a. Put her in sausages.

b. Boiled her into jelly.

c. Chopped her into corned beef.

77. A bank robber in Portland, Oregon fled empty handed after he handed over a
note to a cashier saying: " Put all the money in a paper bag." Why?

a. The cashier could not read.

b. The cashier took the note to the manager.

c. The cashier wrote back: " I don't have a paper bag".

78. In 1923 in Illinois, negro James Montgomery was sent to prison for life for
rape on the evidence of the 62 year old mentally ill 'victim'.  What evidence
did the prosecution suppress?

a. Montgomery had a solid police alibi.

b. The 'victim' was still a virgin.

c. Blood groups made it impossible for Montgomery to have committed the offence.

79. How long did Montgomery serve before he was acquitted on retrial.

a. 3 years.

b. 15 years.

c. 26 years.

80. In Indiana, you cannot travel on a bus within four hours of consuming what?

a. Beer.

b. Garlic.

c. Pickled onions.

81. What did the Italian kidnappers of John Paul Getty 111 sent to his family to
convince them they were serious?

a. His little finger.

b. His ear.

c. His big toe.

82. Cannibal killer Nikolai Dzhumagaliev, believed to have killed and eaten 100
women, was known as:

a. Bluebeard.

b. The Kazakh Killer.

c. Metal mouth.

83. In 1474 in Switzerland, a hen was tried and burned at the stake for doing
what?

a. Pecking a burger.

b. Laying an egg with no yolk.

c. Messing on a church step.

84. Who was " Sweet Fanny Adams" - a phrase which now means little or nothing.

a. A 7 year old girl battered and hacked to tiny pieces in Hampshire in 1867.

b. A Victorian poisoner who laced tea cakes with arsenic.

c. A middle aged woman who murdered five husbands in the 1870s and 80s.

85. Lorena cut off the penis of her husband John while he slept. Their surname
has given a new word to the language. Is it:

a. Rabbitt.

b. Bibbett.

c. Bobbitt.

86. Edwin Albert Bush was the first murderer in Britain to be caught as a result
of what new innovation in 1961?

a. Identikit.

b. Pyschological profiling.

c. DNA.

87. What did police find when they opened cannibal killer Jeffrey Dahmer's
fridge?

a. Two severed heads.

b. Human ribs.

c. A pot full of male genitalia.

88. The man who tried to shoplift from British Home Stores in Barnsley in 1979
did not stand a chance. Why?

a. Because the store had installed closed circuit TV.

b. Because there was a store detectives' convention going on.

c. Because goods were secretly electronically tagged.

89. In which European country are you most likely to have your car vandalised?

a. England.

b. Germany.

c. Spain.

90. It was once a crime for single women in France to own...?

a. More than one dress.

b. Anything which could be used as make up.

c. Silk underwear.

91. How many attempted assassinations did former French President Charles de
Gaulle survive?

a. 11.

b. 21.

c. 31.

92. Which is Britain's largest prison?

a. Wormwood Scrubs.

b. Liverpool.

c. Brixton.

93. Stranglers singer Hugh Cornwell was imprisoned for seven days in 1980. Why.

a. Inciting a riot.

b. Possession of drugs.

c. Carrying a gun.

94. How soon after shooting her lover was Ruth Ellis executed?

a. Three years.

b. Thirteen months later.

c. Thirteen weeks later.

95. David Berkowitz who terrorised New York in 1976 and 77 was better known as:

a. The Bronx Batterer.

b. The Manhattan man eater.

c. Son of Sam.

96. What is the minimum age for the death penalty in South Dakota?

a. Ten.

b. Twelve.

c. Fourteen.

97. Who was the last man hanged in Britain for murdering a policeman.

a. Alfred Thomas Reynolds.

b. Gunther Fritz Podola.

c. James Roland Robertson.

98. How many women did Jack the Ripper definitely murder in 1888?

a. Five.

b. Seven.

c. Ten.

99. Who wrote the forged Hitler diaries?

a. Journalist Gerd Heidemann.

b. Historian Lord Dacre.

c. Nightclub owner Konrad Kujau.

100. What do George Blake, William Vassall and Geoffrey Prime have in common?

a. They spied for Russia.

b. They were murdered by Russian agents.

c. They were British agents spying on Russia.

101. Kenneth Erskine killed seven elderly men and women in three months in 1986.
Was he known as:

a. The Hanwell hangman.

b. The Kennington killer.

c. The Stockwell strangler.

Answers: 1. a. 2 a. 3. b. 4. c. 5. b. 6. c. 7. b. 8 b. 9 a. 10 c. 11 b. 12.c.
13. b. 14. c. 15. b. 16. a. 17. a. 18. c. 19. a. 20. b. 21 c. 22 a. 23 c. 24 a.
25 c. 26 b. 27 a. 28 c. 29 b. 30 a. 31. c. 32 a. 33 a. 34 a,b,c. 35. c. 36 b.

37 a. 38 b. 39 c. 40 b. 41 c. 42 a. 43 b. 44 c. 45 c. 46 c. 47 b. 48 b. 49 c.
50 a. 51 c. 52 b. 53 b. 54 c. 55 b. 56 a. 57 c. 58 c. 59 a. 60.  b. 61 a. 62 b.
63 c. 64 a. 65 a. 66 a. 67 c. 68 a. 69 b. 70 c. 71 b. 72 a. 73 b. 74 c. 75 b. 76
a. 77 c. 78 b.  79 c. 80 b. 81 b. 82 c. 83 b. 84 a.

85 c. 86 a. 87 a. 88 b. 89 b. 90 a. 91 c. 92 b. 93 a. 94 c. 95 c. 96 a. 97 b.
98 a. 99 c. 100 a. 101 c.

How did you do?

80 plus: How do you know all this. If you're not a policeman you should be
worrying. It's not healthy.

60-80. You obviously take a keen interest in all things criminal. Don't be led
astray.

40-60: You found it elementary, my dear Watson.

20-40: Hopeless, Holmes.

Less than 20: You really are clueless.

The Book of Criminal Records by Mitchell Symons is published in paperback by
Headline Book Publioshing Ltd. Price pounds 6.99 and is available from all good
book shops. pounds 6.99.

Copyright 1994 Mitchell Symons.

(Spare question How old was Mary Bell in 1968 when he killed her three and four
year old victims?

b. Fifteen.

c. Thirteen.)

American gangster Al Capone was known as :

a. Pretty Boy.

b. Scarface.

c. Baby Face.

How long did murderer John Watson Laurie stay in prison to set a British record
for the longest sentence served?

a. 30 years and six months.

b. 35 years and one month.

c. 40 years and 11 months.

Mary, a circus elephant, killed her trainer in Kingsport, Tennessee in 1913.
Was she:

a. Shot with an elephant gun.

b. Hung from a 100-ton crane.

c. Drowned with weights in the river.

In which European country are women at greatest risk of being sexually
assaulted?

a. England and Wales.

b. Spain.

c. Germany.

How many people did Michael Ryan kill in one afternoon in Hungerford?

a. 22.

b. 16.

c. 12.

Thugs were originally:

a. Stranglers from India.

b. A New York gang.

c. Irish hooligans.

William Burke and William Hare earned a living by:

a. Snatching newly-buried corpses from their graves.

b. Holding up stagecoaches.

c. Robbing postmen.

In May 1990, a robber snatched a briefcase in the City of London. It contained
bonds worth: a. pounds 2.92 million.

b. pounds 29.2 million.

c. pounds 292 million.

Mary Ann Cotton was a rare woman serial killer. How did she despatch her
estimated 14 victims?

a. Strangling.

b. Arson.

c. Poison.

How many people did police interview during the hunt for The Yorkshire Ripper,
Peter Sutcliffe?

a. 150,000.

b. 250,000.

c. 50,000.

Australian bush ranger Ned Kelly, who wore metal armour, was cornered by police
in 1880 in Glenrowan Hotel. How did he die?

a. Shot as he tried to reach the horses to escape.

b. He bled to death as he shot it out with police.

c. He was hanged.

What did Graham Young do when he was released after a nine- year sentence for
poisoning his stepmother?

a. Poison his workmates.

b. Become a missionary.

c. Become a social worker.

How many crimes carried the maximum sentence of hanging in 1810?

a. 20

b. 124.

c. 222.

Jane Toppan is the world's worst woman poisoner, killing between 30 and 100 in
America before she was caught in 1902. What was her job?

a. Nurse.

b. Pharmacist.

c. Cook.

How long was John Smith left hanging at Tyburn Tree in 1705 before his reprieve
arrived and he was cut down - alive!

a. Five minutes.

b. Ten minutes.

c. Fifteen minutes.

Robert Nixon battered five people to death. Why was he known as "The Brick
Moron"?

a. Because he was built like an outhouse.

b. Because he left his finger- prints on the bricks he used to kill victims.

c. Because he was red faced and stupid.

German cannibal Franz Haarmann, beheaded in 1925, confessed to murdering 40
boys. What did he do with their bodies?

a. Sold their flesh from a stall as horsemeat.

b. Salted and preserved it.

c. Served it as stew.

How long after his death was Archbishop Thomas-a-Becket tried and convicted of
treason?

a. Six months.

b. Five years.

c. 300 years.

Who did Reggie Kray kill?

a. George Cornell.

b. Jack McVitie.

c. Ginger Frazier.

In 1864 Franz Muller committed the first ever what?

a. Murder on a train.

b. Murder on a steam ship.

c. Murder in a lift.

Seven men were gunned down in the St Valentine's Day Massacre in 1929.  Five
were hoodlums, one a garage mechanic. What was the other's occupation?

a. Policeman.

b. Pinkerton agent.

c. Dentist.

James Hanratty was hanged in 1961 for a murder known by a road number.  Is it?

a. A6.

b. A45.

b. A1.

What was unusual about Harry Leo Crawford who murdered his wife Ann in Sydney,
Australia, in 1919?

a. He was really a woman called Eugene Falleni.

b. He was deaf and dumb.

c. He was her brother.

Minnie Dean was hanged in New Zealand in 1895 for murdering children in her
care. She is exceptional because:

a. She was the first woman to be executed in New Zealand.

b. She was the last woman to be executed in New Zealand.

c. She was the only woman to be executed in New Zealand.

Why was former world heavyweight boxing champion Muhammad Ali sent to prison in
1967?

a. Possession of drugs.

b. He shot and wounded his manager.

c. He refused to be drafted into the US army.

The Zodiac Killer, who murdered an estimated 37 in America in the 1970s, was
never caught. How did he get his name?

a. He only killed people who had the star sign Aquarius.

b. He always left a note with a cross over a circle - the sign of the zodiac.

c. He only killed at the time of the month when the star sign changed.

What was against the law in England between 1642 and 1652?

a. Christmas.

b. Giving presents.

c. Going to the theatre.

How did Esther Griggs kill her baby in London in 1859?

a. She drowned him in a wash tub.

b. She threw him out of the window in a dream believing the house was on fire.

c. She dreamed she was fighting a cat and strangled him in her sleep.

George Joseph Smith was known as "The Brides In The Bath Murderer." How many
brides did he murder?

a. Five.

b. Seven.

c. Three.

How many other wives did Smith bigamously marry and then swindle out of their
savings?

a. Ten.

b. Six.

c. Two.

In 1994, six robbers tried to burn through the side of a security van in
Crawley, West Sussex, with blow torches. Why did they not get a penny?

a. They could not get through.

b. The torches kept going out in the wind.

c. They set light to the notes inside.

Followers of Charles Manson, responsible for killing pregnant actress Sharon
Tate and at least six others, were known as:

a. The Family.

b. The Kindred.

c. The Relations.

How many wives is Southport doctor Robert George Clements believed to have
murdered between 1920 and 1947?  a. Two.

b. Four.

c. Six.

What happened to Clements?

a. He was hanged.

b. He was declared insane.

c. He committed suicide.

Why were the police called when a Nigerian labourer tried to cash his pounds 9
4s 0d pay cheque in London in 1967?

a. Because he changed it to pounds 94.

b. Because he changed it to pounds 19 4s 0d.

c. Because he changed it to pounds 697,000,009 4s 0d.

In 1924, Pep, a black labrador was sent to prison in Pennsylvania for six years.
Why?

a. He bit a postman.

b. He bit a policeman.

c. He killed a cat.

What was Lester Piggott stripped of when he was sent to prison for tax evasion?

a. His riding licence.

b. His OBE.

c. His membership of the Jockey Club.

How did soul legend Marvin Gaye die?

a. Shot by his son.

b. Shot by his father.

c. Stabbed by his lover.

The Duke of Clarence, surgeon Sir William Gull and barrister Montague John
Druitt were all:

a. Blackmailed for homosexual behaviour.

b.Obsessed with watching executions.

c. Suspected of being Jack the Ripper.

You break the law if you drink what in a South Carolina bar?

a. Water.

b. Tea.

c. Gin.

What play was Abraham Lincoln watching when he was assassinated?

a. The Gettysburgh Address.

b. The Bull Run Story.

c. Our American Cousin.

How many British Prime Ministers have been assassinated?

a. None.

b. One.

c. Two.

How was Russian revolutionary exile Leon Trotsky murdered?

a. With a tooth pick.

b. With an ice pick.

c. With a pick axe.

Dr Herman 'Hi' Tarnower was shot dead by his lover Jean Harris in 1980. What is
he best known for?

a. Inventing the Cambridge diet.

b. Inventing the Beverly Hills diet.

c. Inventing the Scarsdale Diet.

How did Public Enemy No. 1 John Dillinger meet his end in 1934?

a. Shot in the back as he played cards.

b. Gunned down by G-men as he left a cinema.

c. Mowed down by a rival gang as he sat in a barber's chair.

Henry Vicars burgled well over a thousand homes in and around London in the
1930s. What was his nick name?

a. Flannelfoot.

b. Cats eyes.

c. Spider.

Frank, John, Simeon and William Reno committed the first what in Indiana in
1866?

a. Bank robbery.

b. Restaurant robbery.

c. Train robbery.

Picture forger Tom Keating faked works in the style of how many artists?

a. 20.

b. 70.

c. 120.

How did John Graham kill his mother - and at least 44 others - in America in
1955?

a. Blew up her airline flight with a bomb in her suitcase

b. Tampered with the brakes on her Greyhound bus.

c. Put dynamite in the cinema where she was watching a film.

Why did Graham do it?

a. He was going to be disinherited.

b. He had taken out an insurance policy for 37,000 dollars on her life.

c. He believed she was spying on him.

In which European country are you most likely to have your pocket picked?  a.
Spain.

b. France.

c. Germany.

Morocco's chief police commissioner Mohammed Muatpha Tabet was sentenced to
death. Why?

a.He was found guilty of conspiring against the state.

b. He was found guilty of 1,500 sex crimes.

c. He was found guilty of seducing the President's daughter.

A year after the end of the Second World War, William H. Johnson, a semi
-literate miner from Kentucky, made at least 15,000 dollars by writing to people
all over the US claiming to be whom?

a. Jesus Christ.

b. Stalin.

c. Hitler.

What was Johnson's plan?

a. To take over the United States.

b. To declare war on the Soviet Union.

c. To declare the Second Coming.

In 1830, PC Long was the first...?

a. Policeman to be murdered.

b. Policeman to convicted of taking a bribe.

c. Policeman to arrest a peer.

In England in the 16th Century, husbands were banned from doing what after 10pm?

a. Beating their wives.

b. Making love to their wives.

c. Leaving their wives alone.

Mass murderer Dennis Nilsen was caught because:

a. He was seen strangling his last victim.

b. His victims' remains were found in his garden.

c. His victims rotting remains made the drains stink.

When was the last public execution in Britain?

a. May 1868.

b. August 1899.

c. December 1912.

The Cave of Roses was a Swedish 17th-Century method of execution. How did the
condemned die?

a. Blocked in the cave to starve to death.

b. The cave was full of poisonous snakes.

c. Impaled on stakes in the cave.

Convicted murderer John Lee was called "The man they could not hang." What
happened when the hangman tried to execute him in Exeter Gaol in 1885.

a. The rope broke three times.

b. He recovered half an hour later.

c. The trap door refused to open three times.

Michael Lupo, who murdered four gay men in 1986, was known as:

a. The Fox.

b. The Wolf Man.

c. The Snake.

Child murderer Albert Fish short-circuited the electric chair when he was
executed in America in 1936. Why?

a. He had inserted small needles under his skin to hurt himself.

b. He had a full set of metal teeth.

c. He had a large metal plate in his head.

If you weigh 10 stones, how far, in the hangman's calculations, did you have to
drop to break your neck?

a. 8ft.

b. 9ft 4ins.

c. 10 ft.

Which American state has executed most prisoners?

a. New York.

b. Texas.

c. Georgia.

When was the Treadmill abolished in British prisons?

a. 1880.

b. 1898.

c. 1934.

How did cooked-meat manufacturer Adolph Luetgert dispose of his wife's body in
1897?

a. Put her in sausages.

b. Boiled her into jelly.

c. Chopped her into corned beef.

A bank robber in Portland, Oregon, who handed over a note to a cashier saying:
"Put all the money in a paper bag," fled empty-handed. Why?

a. The cashier could not read.

b. The cashier took the note to the manager.

c. The cashier wrote back: "I don't have a paper bag."

In 1923, in Illinois, negro James Montgomery was sent to prison for life for
rape on the evidence of the 62-year-old mentally ill 'victim.' What evidence did
the prosecution suppress?

a. Montgomery had a solid police alibi.

b. The 'victim' was still a virgin.

c. Blood groups showed it was impossible for Montgomery to have committed the
offence.

How long did Montgomery serve before he was acquitted on retrial?

a. 3 years.

b. 15 years.

c. 26 years.

In Indiana, you cannot travel on a bus within four hours of consuming what?

a. Beer.

b. Garlic.

c. Pickled onions.

What did the Italian kidnappers of John Paul Getty III send his family to
convince them that they were serious?

a. His little finger.

b. His ear.

c. His big toe.

Cannibal killer Nikolai Dzhumagaliev, believed to have killed and eaten 100
women, was known as:

a. Bluebeard.

b. The Kazakh Killer.

c. Metal Mouth.

In 1474, in Switzerland, a hen was tried and burned at the stake for doing what?

a. Pecking a burger.

b. Laying an egg with no yolk.

c. Messing on a church step.

Who was "Sweet Fanny Adams" - a phrase which now means little or nothing?

a. A seven-year-old girl battered and hacked into tiny pieces in Hampshire in
1867.

b. A Victorian poisoner who laced tea cakes with arsenic.

c. A middle-aged woman who murdered five husbands in the 1870s and 80s.

Lorena cut off the penis of her husband John while he slept. Their surname has
given a new word to the language. Is it:

a. Rabbitt.

b. Bibbett.

c. Bobbitt.

Edwin Albert Bush was the first murderer in Britain to be caught as a result of
what innovation in 1961?

a. Identikit.

b. Psychological profiling.

c. DNA.

What did police find when they opened cannibal killer Jeffrey Dahmer's fridge?

a. Two severed heads.

b. Human ribs.

c. A pot full of male genitalia.

The man who tried to shoplift from British Home Stores in Barnsley in 1979 did
not stand a chance. Why?

a. Because the store had installed closed-circuit TV.

b. Because there was a store detectives' convention going on.

c. Because goods were secretly electronically tagged.

In which European country are you most likely to have your car vandalised?

a. England.

b. Germany.

c. Spain.

It was once a crime for single women in France to own...  a. More than one
dress.

b. Anything which could be used as make-up.

c. Silk underwear.

How many attempted assassinations did former French President Charles de Gaulle
survive?

a. 11.

b. 21.

c. 31.

Which is Britain's largest prison?

a. Wormwood Scrubs.

b. Liverpool.

c. Brixton.

Stranglers singer Hugh Cornwell was imprisoned for seven days in 1980.  Why?

a. Inciting a riot.

b. Possession of drugs.

c. Carrying a gun.

How soon after shooting her lover was Ruth Ellis executed?

a. Three years.

b. Thirteen months.

c. Thirteen weeks.

David Berkowitz, who terrorised New York in 1976, was better known as:

a. The Bronx Batterer.

b. The Manhattan man-eater.

c. Son of Sam.

What is the minimum age for the death penalty in South Dakota?

a. Ten.

b. Twelve.

c. Fourteen.

Who was the last man hanged in Britain for murdering a policeman?

a. Alfred Thomas Reynolds.

b. Gunther Fritz Podola.

c. James Roland Robertson.

How many women did Jack the Ripper definitely murder in 1888?

a. Five.

b. Seven.

c. Ten.

Who wrote the forged Hitler diaries?

a. Journalist Gerd Heidemann.

b. Historian Lord Dacre.

c. Nightclub-owner Konrad Kujau.

What do George Blake, William Vassall and Geoffrey Prime have in common?

a. They spied for Russia.

b. They were murdered by Russian agents.

c. They were British agents spying on Russia.

Kenneth Erskine killed seven elderly men and women in three months in 1986.  Was
he known as:

a. The Hanwell Hangman.

b. The Kennington Killer.

c. The Stockwell Strangler.

1 a. 2 a. 3 b. 4 c. 5 b. 6 c. 7 b. 8 b.

9 a. 10 c. 11 b. 12 c. 13 b. 14 c. 15 b. 16 a. 17 a. 18 c. 19 c. 20 b. 21 c.  22
a. 23 c. 24 a. 25 c. 26 b. 27 a. 28 c. 29 b. 30 a. 31 c. 32 a. 33 a. 34 a,b,c.
35 c. 36 b. 37 a. 38 b. 39 c. 40 b. 41 c. 42 a. 43 b. 44 c. 45 c. 46 c.  47 b.
48 b. 49 c. 50 a. 51 c. 52 b. 53 b. 54 c. 55 b. 56 a. 57 c. 58 c. 59 a. 60 b. 61
a. 62 b. 63 c. 64 a. 65 a. 66 a. 67 c. 68 a. 69 b. 70 c. 71 b. 72 a. 73 b. 74 c.
75 b. 76 a. 77 c. 78 b. 79 c. 80 b. 81 b. 82 c. 83 b. 84 a. 85 c. 86 a. 87 a. 88
b. 89 b. 90 a. 91 c. 92 b. 93 a. 94 c. 95 c. 96 a. 97 b. 98 a. 99 c. 100 a. 101
c.

How well did you do?

80 plus: How do you know all this? If you're not a policeman you should be
worrying. It's not healthy!

60-80: You obviously take a keen interest in all things criminal. Don't be led
astray.

40-60: You found it elementary, my dear Watson.

20-40: Hopeless, Holmes!

Less than 20: You really are clueless.

The Book of Criminal Records by Mitchell Symons is published in paperback by
Headline Book Publishing Ltd, price pounds 6.99, and is available from all good
book shops. Copyright 1994 Mitchell Symons.

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: RAMPAGE: Michael Ryan (15) DEADLY DUO: The Kray twins (29) SINISTER:;
Charles Manson (42) MASS KILLER: Dennis Nilsen (67); UNKIND CUT: Angry
Lorena(85)

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 1995 MGN Ltd.

                              81 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 August 5, 1995

MILITANTS IN THE LINE-UP FOR CONFERENCE SEASON;
Kathy Evans profiles the leaders competing for allegiance and money of British
Islam

BYLINE: Kathy Evans

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 894 words


ALMOST all of the world's Islamic movements are represented in Britain, all
competing for the attention - and the money - of British Muslims.

They include the pan-Arab movement, the Muslim Brotherhood, Asia's Jamaat Islami
groups, the orthodox Salafis from the Arabian Gulf, Hamas from Palestine, FIS
from Algeria. The list grows each day, Arab embassies complain.

Some of their leaders are speaking at London's forthcoming Islamic conference
season. They include:

Ghulam Azzam: Leader of Bangladesh's largest Islamic militant party, Jamaat
Islami, he supported unity with Pakistan in the 1971 war of independence,
against the creation of Bangladesh as a separate state. His group is alleged to
have spearheaded assassinations of thousands of Bangladeshis, including the the
country's intellectual elite. He spent the next 10 years in exile, returning in
the mid-1980s. His party allied itself to the Bangladesh Nationalist Party of
the prime minister, Khaleda Zia, but broke its alliance in 1993 when the
government refused to support a law on blasphemy.

Jaafer al Hawari: Representative in Britain of Algeria's Islamic Salvation
Front, FIS. He was expelled from France to Burkino Fasso last September for
suspected terrorist activity.

Dr Hassan Turabi: Leader of Sudan's National Islamic Front and said to be the
real power behind the military junta of General Omar Bashir. Educated in London
and the Sorbonne, Dr Turabi is regarded by many as the ideological leader of
modern Islamic militancy. Washington regards him as a mentor to a number of
terrorist groups which have found haven in Sudan.

Dr Kamel Halbawi: Representative in Britain of the radical pan-Arab Muslim
Brotherhood. A graduate of the American University of Cairo, Dr Halbawi worked
in Pakistan at the Centre of International Policy Studies, an Islamic research
organisation run by the country's largest Islamic militant group, the Jamaat
Islami. He left Pakistan after the crackdown on Arab mujahedin who fought in the
Afghan war.

Professor Kurshid Ahmed: Head of the Islamic Foundation in Leicester. In
Pakistan, he is a leader of the Jamaat Islami, which espoused jihad as an
obligation on all Muslims.

Imam Siraj Wahaj: A well known establishment Muslim figure in the US known for
his charasmatic speaking style. Currently a prayer leader and imam at a mosque
in Brooklyn, New York. A former member of the Nation of Islam, he fell out with
the group's leader, Louis Farrakhan, whom he now believes cannot be considered
as a Muslim. He is much admired in his neighbourhood for his work among the
young, and for ridding the district of drug pushers.

Omar Bakhri: Leader of Hizb ut Tahrir in Britain, he was born in Damascus into a
large, prosperous activist family of 28 brothers and sisters. His elder brother,
Mohammed Ali, died under torture in Syrian jails for his involvement in the
Syrian branch of Hizb ut Tahrir. The party seeks to renew the Islamic caliphate,
but its ideas are little known. Two years ago, the group was accused of being
behind a plot to kill King Hussein. In 1985, Bakhri sought political asylum in
Britain and has since built up Hizb ut Tahrir to be the most influential radical
group among young British Muslims.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              82 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            August 14, 1995, Monday

Fears for Britons after rebels behead hostage

BYLINE: TIM MCGIRK

SECTION: NEWS; Page  1

LENGTH: 397 words


Kashmiri rebels in the Indian Himalayas yesterday beheaded a Norwegian hostage
and vowed "within the next two days" to execute four others - two Britons, a
German, and an American - unless India meets their demands to release 15 jailed
rebel commanders.

The headless body of Hans Ostro, 27, was found yesterday by women collecting
firewood about 30 miles from where the Westerners were abducted by the Al-Faran
militant group more than a month ago. The rebels had carved Al- Faran on the
dead hostage's belly, with a note which said: "If the Indian government doesn't
accept our demands for the release of 15 prisoners immediately, the fate of the
other four hostages will be the same."

So far, India has said it would only consider releasing five of the 15 jailed
commanders. Privately, Indian officials admit that chances of finding and
rescuing the hostages within the next two days are slim. For more than a month,
the rebels and their captives have managed to dodge search parties in the
mountain ranges and forests of Pahalgam, south Kashmir.

A week ago, the captors released photographs showing two hostages, Keith Mangan,
33, an electrician from Tooting, south London, and Donald Hutchings, an
American, swathed in bloody bandages. The rebels said they had been injured in a
gun battle between Al-Faran and Indian troops. Indian authorities denied the
clash occurred and said the hostages might have been shot by rebels while trying
to escape.

The Norwegian foreign ministry in Oslo described Mr Ostro's murder as "a
meaningless act of terror" and said it would be punished. The Foreign Office
expressed sadness and said Britain was redoubling its efforts with the Indian
and other authorities to try to bring about an early release of the remaining
hostages. India and Pakistan also condemned the killing, as did several Kashmiri
Muslim rebel groups.

Mr Mangan's wife, Julie, along with Catherine Moseley - girlfriend of the other
British hostage Paul Wells, 23, a Nottingham student - and companions of the US
and German captives yesterday published advertisements in Kashmiri newspapers
urging Al- Faran to free the hostages. "These are innocent tourists . . . Please
let them go," the appeal said.

Militants' vow, page 8

Rebels' victim: Hans Ostro (left), who was found dead, and Keith Mangan in a
photograph taken by the kidnappers


LOAD-DATE: August 14, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1995 Independent Print Ltd

                              83 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                August 21, 1995

IRA PEACE BRINGS ANTI-TERROR CUT;
Met squad switches focus to millenarian cults and animal rights groups

BYLINE: Duncan Campbell Crime Correspondent

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1227 words


SCOTLAND Yard's Anti-Terrorist Branch has been cut in size by 20 per cent as a
result of the IRA ceasefire, according to police and security sources. Details
have emerged on the eve of the first anniversary of the ceasefire, and are
likely to be seen as a pointer towards a permanent cessation of hostilities.

In an indication of shifting priorities, officers from the branch are now
examining the possibility of "millenarian" terrorism by apocalyptic groups, such
as those involved in the recent atrocities in Oklahoma City and Tokyo.
Anti-terrorist officers have also recently been seconded to investigations into
credit card offences and murder.

The three main strands of potential terrorism now being explored are:
international, including Middle Eastern, Kurdish/Turkish and Serbian/
Croatian/Bosnian; national, mainly connected with animal rights; and
millenarian.

As the "peace dividend" from the IRA ceasefire becomes clearer, the 50
detectives amongst the anti-terrorist branch's remaining 100 officers have
recently assisted in the investigations into a major credit card fraud and the
murder earlier this year in Southall, west London, of Tarsem Singh Purewal, the
editor of a pro-Khalistan newspaper.

There is no intention of winding up the branch: "just because your house isn't
burgled for two years you don't cancel the insurance," said a source.

Imminent arrests of suspects for IRA attacks for which no one has been convicted
are unlikely. Officers say they believe they know the identity of terrorists who
carried out around 80 per cent of the unsolved attacks, but the suspects are
either in jail or out of reach of the authorities.

Officers are sensitive to the current political climate and would not make
arrests without the specific evidence necessary to bring a successful
prosecution. "We don't operate in a vacuum," said a source.  "But there has been
no political pressure to back off."

The most notable of the unsolved attacks are the Warrington, City of London and
Deal barracks bombings, the murder of Ian Gow MP, and the mortar attack on
Downing Street. Only on the Warrington bombing is there is no indication of who
was responsible, a source said.

British authorities will seek the extradition of Pearse Macauley and Nessan
Quinlivan, the two alleged IRA suspects who escaped from Brixton prison in July
1991. Warrants for the arrests of both men have already been lodged and the
Irish authorities have been informed that the two men are wanted in Britain.

What happens when the two men are released will be seen as a test of the
strength of the peace talks and of where the two governments stand on such a
sensitive issue.

Quinlivan and Macauley were facing charges of conspiracy to murder and
conspiracy to cause explosions when they escaped.  Recaptured in Ireland, in
1993 they were jailed for four years and seven years respectively on firearms
charges.

The Irish authorities could release the men without warning if they wish to
avoid a potentially fraught extradition proceeding. Lawyers for the two men
would argue that they would be unable to obtain a fair trial in a British court.

According to the sources, the IRA ceasefire is seen as likely to hold. But it is
expected that London will continue to be a place where different international
battles are fought. The recent explosions in Paris have been watched with
interest.

Another effect of the peace dividend has been to release members of MI5 from
many of their IRA duties. Rolling discussions with the police about MI5 becoming
more involved in international organised crime are continuing.

Talks have been taking place between the security services, the Association of
Chief Police Officers, and the National Criminal Intelligence Service with a
view to incorporating MI5 officers into police work. There is no intention to
give them an executive role and they would not become involved in arrests.

Senior British police officers, while not favouring early release of IRA
members, accept that such moves are likely and would not raise any objections
unless those released included major figures capable of reactivating the
campaign.

Anti-terror targets, page 4

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              84 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                August 21, 1995

TERRORISM FIGHT CHANGES TACK;
Police investigations move from the IRA to 'apocalyptic' groups, reports Duncan
Campbell

BYLINE: Duncan Campbell

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1494 words


AS THE threat from the IRA recedes, the potential of "millenarian" terrorism in
Britain is being examined by the anti-terrorist branch at Scotland Yard,
according to senior security and police sources. Investigations are focusing on
the possibility of "apocalyptic" groups in Britain, such as those responsible
for atrocities in Oklahoma and Japan.

Potential terrorism is now seen in three strands: international, which is mainly
Middle Eastern but also possibly Kurdish/Turkish, and activities related to
former Yugoslavia; national, which is mainly connected with animal rights; and
"millenarian".

The last group would incorporate the kind of terrorism perpetrated in Oklahoma
City in April, which killed 170 people, and in Japan in March, when 12 people
died in a sarin nerve gas attack on the Tokyo subway, allegedly carried out by
members of the Aum Shinrikyo sect. There is no evidence of British links with
the groups but officers believe "copycat" activity is always a possibility.

The sarin gas which was used in the Tokyo underground attacks is relatively easy
to make but difficult to contain. Details of bomb-making methods also appear on
Internet.

For these reasons, the anti-terrorist branch was asked to investigate the
possibility of such groups operating in Britain.

Officers point to the large involvement of British citizens in the Branch
Davidian cult, more than 80 of whose members died in the siege in Waco, Texas,
in April 1993.

It is felt, however, that because Britain does not have a gun culture like the
United States, and because it is more difficult for such groups to organise
secretly, there are no immediate risks.

As the anniversary of the IRA ceasefire approaches, there are already
indications of what direction the pursuit of terrorism in Britain is likely to
take, and how the battle against the IRA has been finally resolved. Below is a
summary of the likely effects:

The anti-terrorist branch: Currently 100 officers, of whom 20 are bomb -disposal
specialists and 50 detectives. There has been a reduction by 20 per cent over
the last 18 months. Further reductions are anticipated if the ceasefire holds.

Unsolved IRA attacks: Officers believe that in about 80 per cent of unsolved
attacks there is intelligence which suggests who the perpetrators are.

They have examined the roles of about 20 to 25 suspects and concluded that about
15 people responsible are either already in prison for other terrorist offences
or beyond the jurisdiction of the British courts, mainly in the Irish republic.

The key attacks for which no-one has been tried are: the 1989 bombing of the
Royal Marines bandsmen in Deal, Kent in which 11 died; the 1990 murder of the
Conservative MP Ian Gow; the 1991 mortar attack on Downing Street; the 1992
bombing of the Baltic Exchange in which three died; the 1993 Bishopsgate bomb in
which one died; and the 1993 Warrington explosion in which two boys died.

IRA suspects: The police would not now automatically arrest someone with IRA
"traces" who arrived from Ireland. "He might be coming to support Arsenal or go
to the races at Cheltenham or because his wife might be going to the shops,"
said a source.

The role of MI5: Rolling talks continue between MI5, the Association of Chief
Police Officers, and the National Criminal Intelligence Service. MI5 is seeking
to be involved in the fight against organised crime.

The release of IRA prisoners: Senior officers are opposed in general to early
release of prisoners because of the effort put into catching them, but they
accept that realistically there will be such releases. Officers accept that if a
bomb-maker was released and the hostilities had ceased, there would be little
risk of him making bombs any more.

The Prevention of Terrorism Act: There will be pressure from police to maintain
the provisions of the act which allow them to detain suspects for up to five
days. There is acceptance that the exclusion provisions, whereby people can be
sent back to Northern Ireland from the mainland, may go and the police are
unlikely to oppose this as they can see the illogicality of arguing that the
United Kingdom is one country and then stopping people from moving freely around
it.

IRA stockpiles: It is thought the main weapons and explosives dumps are in the
Irish republic. It is felt that apart from caches of "two dustbins full of
Semtex and two rifles", there are unlikely to be any major stockpiles on the
mainland.

Other groups: The animal rights movement is seen as the most active domestically
but a very different proposition from the tightly-structured IRA: "You don't
have an organisation of 12 people sitting round a table in South Armagh. They
are a motley crew," said a source.

While quite a number of police officers might sympathise with the aims of the
movement - "a lot of police officers are vegetarians" - they believe that those
engaged in violence, such as bomb attacks on people connected with animal
experimentation or the meat industry, are small in number, probably about 40.

Far-right neo-fascist groups, such as Combat 18, are not regarded as posing big
threats.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              85 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                August 26, 1995

Plot was allegedly masterminded from Dublin by Adam Busby, exiled head of the
SNLA .  Tartan terrorists jailed for bomb threats

BYLINE: Graeme Smith

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1333 words


TWO tartan terrorists were jailed at the High Court in Stirling yesterday for
their part in a conspiracy to drive English people out of Scotland with a
campaign of threats and hoax letter bombs.

The plot was allegedly masterminded from Dublin by Adam Busby, the exiled head
of the Scottish National Liberation Army.

Terence Webber -- already serving a sentence of eight years in England for an
offence of rape -- was jailed for a further three years.

A jury of nine men and six women took just over an hour to find him guilty of
conspiracy to further the aims of the Scottish National Liberation Army and the
extreme nationalist group Flame and intending to coerce the Government into
granting independence for Scotland.

They convicted him of plotting to issue threats to kill, endanger life and cause
serious damage to property, and to dispatch hoax explosive devices, all between
January 1 and September 9, 1994.

They cleared him of actual participation in the hoax bombing of Aberdeen Sheriff
Court last September. They found, however, that he had handled two walkie talkie
radios and a battery charger used in the court bomb hoax.

The verdict was unanimous. The judge, Lord McCluskey, ordered his sentence to
start on his release from his current sentence -- against which Webber is
appealing.

Kevin Paton, a former van driver, was jailed for 18 months after admitting
mailing hoax letter bombs and letters warning the English-born Labour MP for
Clydebank Tony Worthington to leave Scotland in 30 days or die. Paton, 27, of
Charles Gardens, Inverurie, had admitted trying to further the aims of Flame
during April 1994, but denied involvement with the SNLA.

Lord McCluskey told Paton that there was no way he could have been certain that
the hoax letter bombs contained marzipan and not plastic explosive. The court
was told that bombs were mailed to Paton by the SNLA chief in Dublin Adam Busby.

Paton, the judge said, had taken a "huge risk" by posting the devices which
could have been real bombs. Paton who had been on bail until the sentence
working as a site foreman in Aberdeen, Edinburgh, and Lerwick, looked shocked as
the implications of the sentence sank in.

Webber, who was led away in handcuffs, told reporters cockily: "Make sure you
spell my name right."

It was by chance that Webber's criminal activities led to his involvement in
tartan terrorism and it was also by sheer chance that his criminal activities
led to his arrest and imprisonment.

Webber, a relatively articulate criminal, was inspired to fight to "free
Scotland from the shackles of Westminster" when he shared a prison cell with
convicted terrorist Andrew McIntosh.

He was caught when, just seven hours after a hoax bomb had been placed outside
Aberdeen Sheriff Court, police raided his flat in the city's Union Grove looking
for stolen jewellery and an officer spotted materials similar to those which had
been used in the construction of the device.

The court was told that Webber and Darren Brown, who had been in the Aberdeen
flat with him, were taken to Grampian Police headquarters in Queen Street where
a picture began to emerge of how the hoax bomb had been planted.

Webber claimed that it was Brown who, wearing gloves, had constructed the device
out of toilet roll centres taped together, wiring, a Brillo pad, chrome piping
from a shower, a gas cannister, a dimmer switch, and other bits and pieces in
the first floor flat in Union Grove, Aberdeen, which they had rented only a few
days earlier.

He allegedly said that it was Brown who planted the device outside the Sheriff
Court in Union Street and he then used a walkie talkie, stolen from industrial
premises at Whitecairns outside Aberdeen some weeks before to radio to Webber.

The court heard that Webber then telephoned the Samaritans and newspapers to
alert them of the device and it was he who had made the telephone calls, because
Brown has such a pronounced stutter. Brown, who was released on bail,
subsequently disappeared and his whereabouts are unknown.

Webber's former cellmate, McIntosh was jailed for 12 years in December 1993,
after being found guilty of conspiring to further the aims of the Scottish
National Liberation Army by criminal means by attempting to coerce the
Government to set up a separate government in Scotland.

He had sent three letter bombs and placed hoax bombs at the headquarters of four
Aberdeen-based oil companies and had posted hoax letter bombs in Glasgow and
Dundee.

Immediately after McIntosh's conviction, Adam Busby, the SNLA chief in Dublin,
sent out a communique pledging to escalate the armed struggle. He suggested that
the arms found in McIntosh's house were only a small part of the cache in the
North-east and there was plentiful ammunition. He also claimed that there was a
whole unit of the SNLA in the North-east and they were actively recruiting.

It was Busby who was said to have sent Kevin Paton the hoax letter bombs and
threatening letters, which he then forwarded.

As well as the letter sent to the Labour MP Tony Worthington , hoax letter bombs
were also sent to people who had condemned the anti-English activities of
Scottish Watch and Settler Watch.

On the fourth day of the trial at Stirling, Paton changed his plea to guilty of
conspiring with another man, who had earlier been said to be Busby, to further
the cause of the group called Flame.

He also admitted posting hoax letter bombs with the intention of driving the
English out of Scotland and to intimidate those who spoke out against extreme
anti-English views, and to coerce advertisers not to advertise properties for
sale south of the Border.

His plea of not guilty to any involvement with the SNLA was accepted.

Busby, who lives in Dublin, would like the public to believe that the SNLA is a
well organised and thriving paramilitary group.

It seems more likely that Busby is skilful in persuading one of two
impressionable extremists to carry out sporadic campaigns which gain a great
deal of the publicity on which he thrives, and it is entirely possible that
Busby himself is the entire core of the SNLA.

His occasional foot soldiers, however, are not as good at retaining their
liberty as they are at carrying out their disruptive activities. Busby bragged
even after McIntosh was jailed that he would not have to wait for long for
attempts to free him.

Freelance journalist Andrew Scott is the co-author of the book Britain's Secret
War, which analysed the tartan terrorism of the 1980s and he has maintained an
interest in the subject. He said it was important to differentiate between the
SNLA and Flame, the anti-English group to which Paton was allied.

He said that the SNLA first came to prominence in 1980 but by 1986 appeared to
have disappeared. In 1993 McIntosh's trial thrust the SNLA back into the
limelight and then early in 1994, David Dinsmore, of Falkirk, was sentenced to
240 hours' community service for sending a letter bomb to the Earl of Mansfield
at Scone Palace in May 1983.

Dinsmore fled to Ireland in 1983 with Busby and they both spent eight months in
Mountjoy Prison, Dublin, before being released after extradition attempts
failed. Dinsmore then remained on the run in Europe and South America until he
finally handed himself in to a bemused British Consulate in Rio de Janeiro.

The Consulate asked him to give them a fortnight to sort out what would happen
and he was then returned to Scotland.

"With the exception of McIntosh's offences the majority of the previous action
has been in Central Scotland and especially West Central Scotland," said Mr
Scott.

"Flame, however, has definitely a North-east Scotland orientation and arose
directly from Settler Watch and perhaps also Scotland Watch which were also
orientated in the North-east. I think Flame is probably the organisation which
has been directly involved in the Stirling trial."

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Terence Webber: convicted of plotting to issue threats to kill.  Kevin
Paton: admitting sending threatening letters to the Labour MP Tony Worthington.
Pictures: DAVID MOIR

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1995 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              86 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                                August 27, 1995

FURY AS MIRREN STARS IN IRA MOVIE;
 BOBBY SANDS' FAMILY ACCUSES HOLLYWOOD OF EXPLOITATION

BYLINE: Paul Nathanson

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 960 words


ACTRESS Helen Mirren is to play her most controversial screen role in a
Hollywood movie about a jailed IRA hunger striker's mother.

The politically explosive project, called A Mother's Son, stars Mirren as a
housewife called Kathleen who discovers that her son is in the IRA and then
grapples with her own conscience as he begins a fatal hunger strike.

The film claims to be a fictionalised account of the 1980 'dirty protest' at the
Maze prison in Northern Ireland, in which convicted terrorist Bobby Sands, 27, a
'martyr' to the Republican cause who had been elected MP for Fermanagh, died
after a 66-day fast.

But, as production is about to begin in Dublin next month, both sides of the
divide in Ulster have accused the producers and writers - one of whom is a
former Republican terrorist - of sensationalising the story.

The movie comes at a crucial time in the Ulster peace negotiations amid bitter
rows over plans by Britain to increase remission rates for jailed terrorists.

The film-makers insist that Mirren's movie will 'redress' British media coverage
of the hunger strikers. One of the producers, Arthur Lappin, said: 'We are not
seeking to condone or forgive IRA violence at all, but to understand the
Nationalist position, as we feel the Tories and Unionists at the time had an
astonishing amount of air time.'

w%96Mirren, currently back on Sunday night television in repeats of Prime
Suspect, is not unused to controv-ersy. While filming The Madness Of King
George, she claimed: 'I am a republican and would like to see the Monarchy got
rid of.'

A Mother's Son has been

co-written and directed by Terry George, a former member of the Irish Republican
Socialist Party, whose para-military wing the INLA murdered Tory MP Airey Neave.
George was jailed for six years in 1975 for possessing arms.  The film is from
the same stable which made the Oscar-nominated In The Name Of The Father, the
equally controversial account of the Guildford Four.  George was a
co-scriptwriter on that film, which starred avowed Irish patriot Daniel
Day-Lewis in a brutal portrayal of British police tactics against the Irish
community.

At the time, the director, Jim Sheridan, who is a co-producer of Mirren's new
film, was accused of making IRA propaganda.

There is now increasing concern that Mirren's movie - backed by Castle Rock, the
Hollywood production company which made When Harry Met Sally - will be a gift to
Sinn Fein and the Provisional IRA.

Despite the producers' insistence that it is not a eulogy to Bobby Sands and his
family, there is little doubt that the Republican movement will present Mirren's
fictional role as a dramatic, and largely sympathetic, portrayal.

Ironically, one of the most severe attacks on Mirren's new production comes from
the family of Bobby Sands himself.

Following suggestions that they had helped the film-makers, and even that some
of the cast had spent time with them in Belfast, Sands' sister Marcella said:
'Our family are not involved in an advisory capacity, nor do we in any way
support any films currently under production.'

She went on to claim that the film was 'a naked attempt' to exploit for
financial gain what she describes as 'a painful time'.

Strict secrecy surrounds who will play Mirren's son. According to rumours in
Dublin, Hollywood heart-throb Brad Pitt was in line for the role, although the
producers have denied this. Other front-runners are believed to include
Day-Lewis and Stephen Rea, star of The Crying Game.

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: CONTROVERSIAL: Mirren plays a terrorist's mother RUMOURS: Brad Pitt,
left was tipped to play Sands, above, whose funeral became an IRA ceremony

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1995 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              87 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                            August 27, 1995, Sunday

DUBLIN PULLS OUT OF SUMMIT

BYLINE: Mary Holland, Dublin Eamonn Mallie, Dean Nelson And Andy Mcsmith

SECTION: THE OBSERVER NEWS PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1867 words

HIGHLIGHT: Fear of fresh IRA violence as rift across Irish Sea widens


A SUMMIT meeting between John Major and the Irish Prime Minister, John Bruton,
is being postponed only days before the first anniversary of the historic IRA
ceasefire.

The Irish called for the delay amid a growing gulf between the two governments
and mounting fears of a return to violence.  British officials were still hoping
yesterday that the meeting, planned for 6 September, would take place. But the
Irish Foreign Minister, Dick Spring, said that his government wanted it
postponed, at least until the end of September.

This would allow officials time to bridge the widening gap between London and
Dublin, which is concerned that Britain is endangering the peace process because
of:

Its slowness in responding to the initial IRA ceasefire.

Its rigid attitude to the handing over of terrorist weapons as a precondition
for all-party political talks.

The lateness of its decision to speed the release of terrorist prisoners.

Its failure to introduce 'confidence-building measures' that would help the Sinn
Fein leadership persuade IRA hardliners that the ceasefire is worth it.

Lack of movement by Britain to find a way out of the impasse over the
decommissioning of IRA weapons has added to speculation on both sides of the
border that Britain is 'spoiling for a fight with republicans'.

Senior IRA figures made it chillingly clear to The Observer last week that they
have left themselves the option of going back to war. They refused to subtract
from or add to their ceasefire statement of a year ago. But they emphasised that
it has always been made clear that the hand-over of weapons would never be a
precondition of political talks.

Yesterday, Sinn Fein president Gerry Adams rejected as inadequate the package
put forward on Friday by the Northern Ireland Secretary, Sir Patrick Mayhew, to
kickstart the peace process.  Speaking in Dublin, Mr Adams said: 'It is a
disgrace that one year into an IRA cessation no one on this island has any idea
when all-party talks might begin.'

The fragility of the ceasefire is further highlighted by the fact that the
police are prepared for a return to violence in the province.

The Royal Ulster Constabulary's Special Branch has intensified its campaign to
recruit informers to spy on the IRA, The Observer has established.

British intelligence-gathering agencies in the province believe the peace
process is 'on a knife edge' and that the need for accurate intelligence on
paramilitary thinking is greater than ever.

Commenting on the need for informers, a senior intelligence source told The
Observer: 'There is no way we would let up because of the ceasefire.'

Two separate groups of civil servants who have been meeting over the summer have
failed to make significant progress on either of the main problems now dividing
the two governments - the decommissioning of IRA arms and the movement towards
all-party political talks.

An Irish government source told The Observer: 'At the moment there is still a
wide gulf between us. A meeting at the highest level which simply confirmed this
disagreement could be extremely detrimental.  It is more important for us to get
it right than to get it early.'

A meeting of the 'liaison committee', composed of officials from the Northern
Ireland Office and the Foreign Office on the British side and from the
Department of Foreign Affairs and the Taoiseach's office in Dublin, planned for
last Wednesday, was cancelled at Britain's request on Tuesday. One purpose of
the meeting was for the British team to brief their Irish colleagues on Sir
Patrick's speech on Friday in which he announced increased remission for
terrorist prisoners. The Irish government gave a cautious welcome to the speech,
but political sources in Dublin are making no secret of their deep
disappointment at its content and tone.  Dublin had hoped that Sir Patrick would
signal a willingness to move on three key issues: decommissioning, political
talks and what are described as 'confidence -building' measures.

Instead, he reiterated the Government's position that Sinn Fein cannot become
involved in all-party talks until the IRA makes a substantial gesture in handing
over some weapons.

The changes on the early release of paramilitary prisoners was described in
Dublin as 'too little, too late'. One official said it would have been more
significant if the concessions had been announced in July, when they were agreed
in Cabinet, helping to defuse anger at the early release of Private Lee Clegg.

In part, the gulf between the two sides has to do with London's concern to
reassure unionists that it is not making too many concessions.  But there is
also a deep difference of opinion on how to handle the key issues.

Take decommissioning: all the major political parties in the Irish parliament
emerged from violent revolutionary groups and none has ever handed over its
weapons. For Irish politicans, the test of the IRA's commitment is that the guns
have remained almost entirely silent. Dublin accepts that decommissioning is
essential but argues that it should be dealt with in the context of all-party
talks. London replies that the unionists will not take part unless there has
been some significant movement.

Sinn Fein said yesterday it would not rule out agreeing to an international
commission to oversee decommissioning.

Sinn Fein chairman Mitchel McLaughlin said: 'My understanding is that both
governments are having considerable difficulty in framing these proposals. But
when they do, let them present them and we will give a definitive response.' But
he warned that Sinn Fein would not take part if the commission became a
back-door route to the IRA's handing over weapons before the start of talks.

A poll today shows broad support from Protestant and Catholic communities in
Northern Ireland for the parallel approach of the British and Irish governments
towards arms decommissioning and the start of all-party talks.

The survey, for Dublin's Sunday Tribune, in Northern Ireland's 26 district
council areas, showed 64 per cent backing for the idea of weapons
decommissioning taking place at the same time as all-party talks.  Most
Protestants questioned, 57 per cent, said the Unionist parties should have
discussions with Dublin.

Fifty-one per cent thought the terrorist ceasefire was permanent and 62 per cent
said they believed Northern Ireland would still be part of the UK in 2020.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1995 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              88 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            August 27, 1995, Sunday

Russia helps Iran's bio-warfare

BYLINE: James Adams, Washington

SECTION: Overseas news

LENGTH: 750 words


HELPED by Russia, Iran has surged ahead with the development of lethal
biological weapons and now has the military capability that could tilt the
balance of power in the Middle East, according to western intelligence
officials.

The weapons Iran is close to perfecting, according to the sources, are new
strains of plague and other diseases that could have the same devastating effect
as a theatre nuclear weapon. This development is particularly alarming given
Tehran's involvement with terrorist attacks abroad.

Iran has been working on secret biological weapons for more than 10 years.  But
the success of the programme attributed to the involvement of Russian advisers
in the past two years has only just been realised.

''Iran has targeted the Russians very well,'' said one intelligence source.
''They have gone straight for the best people in the Russian biological weapons
programme.''

Despite intensive investigations, western experts are not sure if the Russian
involvement has the covert support of Moscow, or if it is a freelance effort by
rogue elements in the Russian military, or even powerful Russian organised crime
groups. ''What is clear is that the Russian help has given Iran a quantum leap
forward,'' said the source. ''They have saved years of experiments and have been
able to go straight from basic research to production, and the development of an
effective delivery system.''

Over the past few years Iran has forged an increasingly close military
relationship with Russia. A number of arms deals have been signed for the
delivery of missiles, tanks and jet fighters. Russia has also agreed to help
finish a nuclear reactor programme for Iran begun by the Germans in the 1970s.

Western experts suspect this close relationship has helped Iran to gather the
technology for advancing the biological programme.

Iran's biological programme has been the target of a key intelligence-gathering
operation by the American Central Intelligence Agency and Britain's MI6. In 1989
the two agencies detected Iranian agents trying to buy, from Canada and the
Netherlands, two new strains of fungus for producing deadly toxins.

The Imam Reza Medical Centre at Mashhad University of Medical Sciences and the
Iranian Research Organisation for Science and Technology have provided the cover
for the purchases. But the programme is controlled by the Islamic Revolutionary
Guard Corps and the germs are manufactured at Damghan, west of Tehran, and at
another facility in Tehran.

''Iran has conducted extensive research on more lethal agents such as anthrax,
foot and mouth disease and on biotoxins,'' said a draft report on Iran's
political and military capability that was completed last week by the Center for
Strategic and International Studies (CSIS), a Washington think tank.

Iran has bought specialised equipment from Switzerland, Germany, Italy and
Spain, which allowed the exports in the belief that they were destined for
Iran's pharmaceutical and food industries. In reality the goods are diverted to
the biological programme.

In this way equipment intended to facilitate the storage of dried food was put
into service for storing biological weapons. Iran bought equipment for making
pills that can also be used to make containers for storing the biological
weapons.

''The Iranians will move to a level of lethality that will be the equivalent of
a theatre nuclear weapon within a couple of years,'' said Tony Cordesman, the
co-director of CSIS's Middle East programme.

A recent study by the Pentagon's Office of Technology Assessment spelled out
just how vulnerable modern cities are to attack by biological weapons, which can
be delivered by warhead, used in an aerosol spray or dispersed through
air-conditioning systems.

Iran began to develop its biological programme after the war with Iraq, in which
it suffered heavy losses when Saddam Hussein resorted to chemical and biological
weapons. ''They are poor man's atomic bombs and can easily be produced,'' the
Iranian president, Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, has said.  ''We should at least
consider them for our defence.''

For the past five years, the American and British governments have been trying
in vain to force President Boris Yeltsin to shut down Russia's biological
weapons programme.

Having failed in Russia, America is looking for ways to force Tehran to cease
production. But such is Iran's isolation from the West that Washington has
little leverage there.

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1995 Times Newspapers Limited

                              89 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           August 31, 1995, Thursday

Voices of Ulster in search of peace; Opinions: are you optimistic about the
future?

SECTION: COMMENT; Page  15

LENGTH: 892 words


Seamus Heaney, poet

The ceasefire created new conditions. There was the sheer surprise that people
experienced when they allowed themselves to believe that change for the better
was possible. This minimal hope represented an immense psychic, if not
political, shift and put new spirit into all that has happened since. Even if
the ideological stalemate between the parties was not affected, a deep inertia
had been broken.

But this was merely a prelude, not an achievement. Everybody in Ireland, north
and south, like it or not, knew in their bones that some historic change was
possible. So it is to be hoped that the British government, despite its perilous
sluggishness, can still find ways to match these expectations.

I am not optimistic, but I am still minimally hopeful. I hope the British
government has the sense to realise - as we do here - that it must act as a
matter of urgency to make sure the momentum is not lost.

Colin Parry, whose son Tim died in an IRA bomb at Warrington in 1993

The speed of the ceasefires caught us by surprise and delighted us. Despite the
less serious violence still going on, God willing, peace will hold.  But there
seems to be a lot of posturing now. I wish that the Government was a bit more
flexible but I think it is tied by the Unionists' dogged line on
decommissioning. I can't understand why Sinn Fein cannot make the all-important
gesture of beginning to hand over arms. Everyone recognises they have changed
their position, but the ball is in their court. It would not be seen as the
surrender they think it would. It would be a mature action.

David Ervine, Progressive Unionist Party

I am delighted to be luxuriating in a sense of peace. Essentially I am
optimistic. But a summer of Republican "angry voices and marching feet" has not
inspired the Unionist community with confidence. Sinn Fein has not behaved well.

Do they want to push people towards Paisley and the old tribalism? A year is a
short time compared to 25 years of violence and hundreds of years of bitterness,
and Unionists must feel more confident before all- party talks. I come from a
paramilitary background and I understand the need to keep the hard men on board,
but ordinary Unionists don't. I think bilateral talks are the way forward at the
moment. Why won't the IRA say their weapons won't be used as a first strike?

Billy Power, one of the Birmingham Six

The calling of the ceasefire by the IRA was brilliant, as is the fact it has
held for a year. But the British government is not moving quickly enough,
particularly on the early release of prisoners.

The years I spent with IRA prisoners in British jails deeply affected me. I saw
how badly they were treated. I know how cruel it is not to transfer them to
prisons nearer their families. Now we have a permanent ceasefire, it is
scandalous that republican prisoners are still held after serving 20 years. Sir
Patrick Mayhew's announcement about sentence cuts was far too little.

Sinead O'Connor, musician

Now that we have heard the first Christian bells, which are the sound of
non-violence, we are being allowed to talk. And we are safe to talk about how it
came to be that we got so messed up. We are free to remember our history and to
learn from it.

I see an Ireland which is whole again, which can find its own identity from
among the ashes of its childhood days, because it need no longer be afraid to
look at the ghosts of the past. I feel Ireland will return to its old ways and
laws and be an example for peace throughout the world and an example for bravery
in speaking out. I see that Rome and England are leaving and the curse is over.

Mitchel McLaughlin, national chairperson of Sinn Fein

Twelve months ago, the IRA made a courageous contribution to the evolving peace
process. But we still do not have peace; we do not even have peace talks. Nobody
can say when, or even if, they will commence. Initial optimism has been
undermined by the British government, which keeps the peace process on a
drip-feed of minimalist gestures. It is telling us that the old agenda remains
intact - the psychology of war demands victory and surrender.  Its policies have
created this conflict and encourage Unionist intransigence.  Britain must move
immediately with the Dublin government to all-party talks. Peace in Ireland is
only possible through negotiation and agreement.  For all of us, the negotiating
table is the only place to go.

Frank Caddy, chief executive of Belfast Chamber of Trade and Commerce.

In the past 12 months, Belfast has become normal. Money has been lost from our
economy because the security forces have been cut, but there has been an upsurge
in tourism and in the numbers venturing in from the suburbs to shop. I think the
ceasefire will hold, but to be honest the establishment has not been pro-active
enough in cementing this peace after a ceasefire. Both sides have to move
towards the middle and both have to feel they have won. That takes a skilled
negotiator. We lack a person of vision with no baggage. Sir Patrick Mayhew is a
great guy but he has not got the fervour needed. Bilateral talks would be
useless unless they were a step towards round-table talks. Opportunities have
been lost in the past because we did not involve the main protagonists in talks.


LOAD-DATE: August 31, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1995 Independent Print Ltd

                              90 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           August 31, 1995, Thursday

Economy scarred by Troubles begins to show dividends; A year of peace: Tourism
is early beneficiary as growing confidence puts Ulster on the brink of expansion

BYLINE: DAVID MCKITTRICK Ireland Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Page  6

LENGTH: 656 words


DAVID MCKITTRICK

Ireland Correspondent

A year after the IRA and loyalist ceasefires, the Northern Ireland economy seems
on the brink of a period of expansion as the benefits of peace feed through the
system.

Apart from tourism, no huge financial peace dividend has appeared in the past 12
months. There are clear indicators, however, of growing interest among potential
investors and of increased business confidence.

One example of this is the arrival of the British supermarket giants Sainsbury
and Tesco, both of which are now moving in to open stores in the wake of the
ceasefires.

The Government and local analysts hope that they will be joined by large
manufacturing concerns which in the past were frightened off by the violence.
It is also hoped that local entrepreneurs, released from the worry of having
their businesses blown up, will turn their minds to expansion.  But the economy
is only gradually being affected by the peace.

The central question lies in how to transform an economy deeply scarred by the
Troubles into one that can compete successfully with the rest of Europe and
other regions of the United Kingdom. It currently survives on huge subsidies
from Britain and a bloated public sector, but even so it has particularly high
unemployment and a number of blackspots where jobs are pretty much a rarity.

On the credit side, the experts say the economy has performed surprisingly well
even against the background of the troubles. Battle-hardened firms which
weathered so much will, they say, now come into their own.

A number of areas of potential growth are opening up. Most immediately, tourists
have already been flocking in, with holiday visitors up by more than 50 per
cent. This summer French, German and American accents could be heard at the
Giant's Causeway. Some of this influx is due to post- troubles curiosity, but
the scenic attractions augur well for the future of the tourist trade. One
short-term problem will be to build enough hotels to replace the dozens
destroyed in bomb blasts.

The prospects for more inward investment are immeasurably brighter.  In the
United States, in particular, the Clinton administration is making determined
efforts to coax businesses to invest in Northern Ireland.  Visits by potential
investors are up by nearly 40 per cent.

The thousands of visitors from the Republic, who never dared venture north until
now, are a strong indicator of the potential for increased cross-border activity
and business and commercial organisations are placing great emphasis on the
increased opportunities.

However, thoughtful observers make the point that more will be needed if Ulster
is to reach its full potential. The ceasefires have brought peace, but genuine
stability will not be achieved until they are underpinned by a political
settlement.

Doug Riley, head of British Telecom in Northern Ireland and chairman of the
local Confederation of British Industry, said: "I am strongly of the view that
if there is no political movement we will not achieve the success that we
deserve on the economic front. People will hold back until we have in place the
frameworks and structures which all can recognise, respect and work with."

But such sentiments have proved controversial. The fact that business figures
have been urging political dialogue and movement towards a settlement, and
encouraging cross-border activity, has drawn angry reaction from loyalist
politicians.

The Democratic Unionist MP Peter Robinson, for example, attacked commercial
figures as "a band of business bloodsuckers, moneyed muck-worms and government
lickspittles".

There is still much uncertainty: the ceasefires might not last and if they do
jobs in the security sector will be lost. But most of those concerned seem to be
operating on the assumption that peace is probably here to stay and that the
economy's prospects are bright.


LOAD-DATE: August 31, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1995 Independent Print Ltd

                              91 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           September 1, 1995, Friday

McGuinness voices 'deep suspicion'

BYLINE: JOJO MOYES

SECTION: A YEAR OF PEACE; Page  2

LENGTH: 445 words


JOJO MOYES

The leading Sinn Fein negotiator Martin McGuinness said yesterday he was "deeply
suspicious" of plans to set up an independent commission to oversee the
decommissioning of weapons, but did not completely rule it out.

Although clearly hostile to the idea - which would pave the way for Sinn Fein to
be drawn into all-party talks - the fact that he did not reject it out of hand
appears to leave a ray of hope that the stalled peace process can be restarted.

Speaking on a visit to Westminster, Mr McGuinness said: "If the establishment of
an international commission is an attempt to achieve the surrender of the IRA by
the back door, then Sinn Fein will have no part of it and the policy will be
doomed to failure."

The Government's demand that weapons must be handed in before the start of
all-party talks was "unacceptable", and he publicly ruled out the handing over
of a single gun as a face-saving gesture to break the stalemate, saying that it
would be regarded as a "surrender".

"There is no way over, under or around this issue," he said. "The British
government must abandon its efforts to get an IRA surrender and demonstrate
wisdom and courage in moving the peace process beyond this stagnant stage."

Mr McGuinness was in London to attend a rally last night, at which he, Tony Benn
and Judith Ward - who was freed on appeal after serving 18 years for an IRA
bombing - were to urge the Prime Minister to hold all-party talks and to release
all political prisoners.

Although he repeatedly described Sinn Fein as being "fully committed" to the
peace process, Mr McGuinness said optimism for a lasting peace and political
settlement was waning. "Irish history has always shown that if there is a
failure to address or resolve these issues, then the potential for further
conflict will be there."

He blamed the deadlock on the Government and he called on Mr Major to "lead by
example" to get the political parties to the negotiating table.

"There was a time when we were all told that the IRA was the problem.  If only
it would stop, the British government would move speedily to address the causes
of conflict through an inclusive political process," he said.

"One year later and it is clear that the problem is not the IRA. The obstacles
to peace talks come from the British government."

Martin McGuinness told the rally in Trafalgar Square last night: "The British
government . . . have been exposed for what they are: political cowards who are
running scared. . ."

Mr Benn added: "Can anyone doubt there is no military answer by Britain to what
is not an Irish problem but a British problem?"


LOAD-DATE: September 01, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1995 Independent Print Ltd

                              92 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           September 1, 1995, Friday

Suspects beyond the law's reach

BYLINE: JASON BENNETTO Crime Correspondent

SECTION: A YEAR OF PEACE; Page  2

LENGTH: 361 words


JASON BENNETTO

Crime Correspondent

Many IRA bombings and murders in Britain remain unsolved. And despite police
evidence about the identity of many of the terrorists involved, few, if any, are
likely to face trial.

This is the conclusion of security and police sources who believe that, in about
80 per cent of the unsolved cases, there is intelligence that suggests who the
perpetrators are. However, most of the suspects are either already in prison for
terrorist offences or out of reach of the British courts.

Key IRA atrocities that have gone unpunished include the 1989 bombing of the
Royal Marine bandsmen's barracks at Deal, Kent, in which 11 servicemen died; the
murder of the Tory MP Ian Gow in 1990; the 1991 mortar attack on Downing Street;
the 1992 bombing of the Baltic Exchange in the City of London, in which three
people died; the 1993 Bishopsgate bombing in the City of London, in which one
man died and more than 40 were injured; and the 1993 Warrington bomb which
killed two boys.

Investigations have concluded that about 15 suspects are either in jail or
beyond the authorities' reach. The Warrington murders are thought to be the only
attack in which there is still no clue as to the killers' identity.

The police have not had enough evidence to charge anyone yet, and because of the
sensitivity of the subject they are unlikely to begin proceedings unless they
have a watertight case.

While police sources stress there has been no pressure for them to cease
investigations into the unsolved attacks, they acknowledge that it is no longer
such a high priority.

A test of the British government's willingness to continue to chase suspected
IRA terrorists will come with the release from an Irish jail of two alleged IRA
suspects.

The Government will seek the extradition of Pearse Macauley and Nessan
Quinlivan, who escaped from Brixton prison in 1991.

They were facing charges of conspiracy to murder and conspiracy to cause
explosions when they fled to the Irish Republic, where they were later jailed on
firearms charges. Warrants for their arrest have been lodged with the Irish
authorities.


LOAD-DATE: September 01, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1995 Independent Print Ltd

                              93 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 2, 1995

THREE SIDES TO EVERY STORY;
When the bomb's go off, it's often sparked by the infernal triangle of
government, terrorists and activists gone soft, Martin Woollacott argues.

BYLINE: Martin Woollacott

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGE; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1787 words


WE LIVE in the Age of the Bomb in more ways than one. Having just marked the
50th anniversary of the nuclear attack on Japan, the world now watches Nato's
conventional bombers hitting Serbian guns. While remembering the one and
watching the other, almost everybody, however safe they may believe themselves
to be, runs some risk of death or injury from another kind of bomb, the kind
planted on train, plane, or bus by terrorists.

The record of bombs and other armed actions in the last two months suggests a
resurgence of terrorism. In those few weeks, there have been bombs in Jerusalem,
Paris, Tiflis, Algiers, Colombo; bomb threats in New York, backpackers captured
and one killed in Kashmir, and a plot to shoot the King of Spain. All this
followed the terrible events in Tokyo and Oklahoma. In Britain and Ireland, the
anniversary of the IRA ceasefire has been dominated by the issue of
demilitarisation, which at bottom amounts to the question of whether the bombs
could go off again in these islands. Some of the near misses, such as the bomb
set to destroy the Lyon-Paris express last week, could have had consequences
even more horrendous than those already seen.

With the new wave of bombings and the Kashmiri kidnappings, we wearily renew
acquaintance with the terrorist drama - the refusals to negotiate under duress;
the intermediaries who do nevertheless negotiate; the attacks claimed by
hitherto unknown groups; the special assault units, with their balaclavas and
flak jackets, that every respectable government now maintains; the agony of
relatives; the awful point at which tourism and terrorism intersect, whether at
the Arc de Triomphe or on the slopes of the Himalayas.

Are we ever going to be able to put this devil back in the box? A year ago, when
Carlos the Jackal was arrested, many saw him as a has-been whose obsolescence
was a welcome sign that the great days of international terrorism were over. It
had lost its glamour, its ideology, its reputation for success, and much of its
connection with national liberation. The conflict between East and West, it was
argued, had fuelled regional struggles and turned terrorism into a menace it
would not otherwise have become. That conflict over, proxy war through puffed-up
subsidised terrorist groups would dwindle. On the other hand, genuinely strong
political movements that had used terrorist action would come to terms with the
governments they opposed.  Ceasefires and peace deals in South Africa,
Palestine, and Ireland, to name only the most important, seemed to sustain that
argument.

But what is more obvious now is that terrorism is not and never has been one
thing. All that the label means, in the end, is violence used by agents who are
not recognised states. While in theory it is possible to imagine violence
outside of the state's monopoly being used in a rule-bound and "civilised" way,
in practice it is rare. That is because the rules, whatever else they do, favour
governments, and other users of violence are almost bound to break them. Now,
some new actors challenge the state's monopoly of violence - cultists,
millenarians, and nativists, sometimes very small groups or even individuals.

Still, the bulk of terrorist violence continues to fall into the older
categories, in that it is related to the idea of national liberation, or to
national liberation redefined in religious terms.  And there continues to be a
pattern, which does reflect the relatively optimistic post-Carlos argument. Now,
terrorism often occurs within a triangle formed by terrorist group, government,
and a previously violent liberation movement in negotiations or, at least,
preferring to pursue its objectives by other means.

Whether it is the Basque Nationalist Party repudiating Eta, the Kashmir Freedom
Conference repudiating Al Faran, or the PLO cracking down on Hamas, a similar
pattern is evident. In Algeria, the potential triangle between government, the
Islamic Salvation Front, and the Armed Islamic Group is obvious, even though the
first two have not yet reached agreement.

Has the older kind of terrorism mutated into a civil war between those who are
ready to do deals and those who want to sabotage everything by continuing to
attack the once common enemy? It is an old model, except that previously the
civil war, as in Ireland, tended to come after the liberation rather than before
it. The other interpretation is that the aim of the extremists is not sabotage,
but inclusion.

That view has certainly been advanced in Israel, where some radicals have argued
that the joint effort with the PLO to suppress Hamas is counter-productive and
that eventually Israel will have to negotiate with them. The games that are
played in these circumstances are ruthless ones. Governments may aim to co-opt
and ultimately emasculate an old enemy, while that enemy only co-operates with
government so that it can secure a political monopoly in its own constituency,
suppressing all its rivals, after settlement.

There is, therefore, a greater desperation about most terrorist action now. It
is either very forlorn or very excluded, more forlorn or excluded than in the
past. This is the point at which the danger resembles that in dealing with
deranged or cultish terrorists, because such a situation does not make for
rationality.  The distinction between the relatively rational attitude of the
leaders of a serious liberation movement, however violent its methods, and the
unreachable irrationality of losers seeing themselves squeezed out, is an
important one.

Look at the case of the foiled assassin of King Juan Carlos, who has spent 20
years pursuing the monarch; or that of the Afghans and Pakistanis thought to be
prominent in Al Faran, hiding behind rain clouds in Kashmir, refugees from the
big war in Afghanistan who seem to have little popular support in Kashmir. It
would be comic if it were not so frightening.

Any understanding of terrorism that pictures governments as completely
legitimate and rational and terrorists as completely illegitimate and irrational
must be flawed. Governors and terrorists are both involved in the pathology of
societies that have broken down to the point where politics has been wholly or
partly replaced by violent action.

The cartoonists' bomb with its fizzing fuse is a reminder that terrorism is not
a new phenomenon. What is new is the potency of the weapons and especially of
the bombs. The weapons have a magnifying effect, it seems, so that smaller and
more marginal groups - and even your Unabomber - can make their impact,
publicise demands, and create dramas. But where they have serious popular
support, it is becoming accepted that there must be negotiations, and often a
transition to peaceful politics before a settlement, as in Northern Ireland.
Those agreements in turn can form the basis for the proper approach, a mixture
of the political, military, and therapeutic, to the violence of the forlorn and
excluded, which can be as much a threat to yesterday's terrorists as to
everybody else. That is, anyway, the best hope.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              94 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           September 4, 1995, Monday

Letter: Working out the processes of peace in Northern Ireland

BYLINE: Mr Sandy Campbell

SECTION: COMMENT; Page  14

LENGTH: 245 words


From Mr Sandy Campbell

Sir: The time has come to show some respect to the IRA and the UVF/UFF.  These
are the soldiers who have stuck their necks out for peace. It is they who risked
their lives fighting for their communities, protecting them from hostile forces
and avenging their grievances. I never could accept the double-think of calling
the PLO "guerrilla fighters" and Republican and Loyalist volunteers
"terrorists". Show me a war anywhere without terror, bomb blasts and civilian
casualties.

It is a year on. We should be able to face the truth now that we in Britain and
Ireland collectively, and Northern Ireland particularly, are coming out of a
war. Like any war it was not fought lightly. Churchill spoke of the "sincerity
of their nationalists and Unionists quarrel". Men and women from both
communities gave their lives for their beliefs, because they sincerely believed
they had no alternative than to stand and fight.

Magnificent effort is being made to build understanding on the streets where it
matters, where mourning relatives still live and where any future mourning would
take place. If they can make the effort, why can't the rest of us? The least the
Government forces could do is start treating their former enemy, who laid down
their arms on trust, with the respect of talking to them, openly and with other
parties present, without any more provocative preconditions.

Yours sincerely,

Sandy Campbell

Sheffield


LOAD-DATE: September 05, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1995 Independent Print Ltd

                              95 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 5, 1995

STOP THE HOUR OF THE GUN BEFORE IT STARTS

BYLINE: Jon Snow

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGE; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1240 words


A FEW nights ago the landlord of my local pub was shot dead 300 feet from my
home. Six months ago our postman was shot at, thrown on to the pavement, and
robbed at gunpoint. He's still not resumed his round and almost certainly never
will. What's happening? A north London neighbourhood boasting an Indian
take-away, a Law Lord, a plumber, an acclaimed biographer, council housing and
affluent housing - robbed of its postman and its publican by gunfire.

The community is shocked but not surprised. Yet even in the US - homicide
capital of the western world, with a murder rate 20 times ours - this would be
shocking. In Britain, the surprise lies not in the unimaginable loss to these
victims' loved ones, nor in such violent incidents so near one's own family
life, but in the guns.  The man charged in the pub shooting is local and 27. No
alien act of terrorism is suspected. How do ordinary people come to have guns?

Suddenly, and acutely locally, what Britain's police chiefs are saying is flesh
and blood on our street. Criminals, the disturbed, the insane, and even some
locals, have guns. Our gunless society is gunning up. I think of my children,
and I think of moving. Why not to the country, where guns are supposedly only
for sport? And I find myself asking why any private citizens have weapons of
such absolute destruction.

President Clinton is applauded for moving against the gun lobby. But he has only
subtracted one or two categories of automatic weapons of mass destruction from
the permitted arsenal in the US.  Britain needs to act long before we reach the
point of wondering whether an AK47 can justifiably be deployed to shoot stags.

Whereas the American debate about guns centres on the claimed constitutional
right to bear them, that in Britain narrows to the question of whether police
officers should carry them to combat criminals who illegally bear them. For too
long we have argued about arming the police rather than debate the complete
removal of weapons from the community. The unarmed policeman is the essence of
our gunless society - the totem around which we continue to rally.

When my landlord was shot, it wasn't the punishment of the killer that sprang to
mind. It was the presence of the gun, and worries about how many more there
might be in local circulation. Our present message to the would-be gun-user is:
"If you use it, we'll jail you hard." Labour and Tories vie to sound tougher.
Yet it is the police who have made the most effective call for action.

It is now getting on for two months since chief constables wrote to the Home
Secretary recommending a nationwide gun amnesty.  Their figures suggest a
million firearms in circulation. In the single year 1993-94, they say, the use
of guns in violent and murderous attacks rose by 25 per cent; in burglaries,
firearms use went up by 29 per cent; the number used in street robberies rose by
a fifth.

The day has dawned when we have to talk earnestly not only about punishment but
about serious new gun control. Not only an immediate and effective amnesty, but
one followed by a severe tightening of licensing and the removal of guns from
shops, from sport and above all from circulation. Possession and dealing in
guns, importing them, improving them, must all be tackled. A police raid that
recovers guns must trigger both maximum sentence and maximum social inquiry.

What is happening to our communities that has enabled the disenchanted to
contemplate armed assault? What do we know or understand of our underworld - and
do we care? Our publican wasn't in public life, but if the killer had stepped
300 feet my way and shot me through the head, would my death have triggered a
public inquiry? I doubt it, even though tuning in at seven o'clock would have
found a different face. The publican didn't even make the seven o'clock news.
This was no run-in with the Krays; this victim was no Jack the Hat. He was just
trying to put limits on his clientele in a local pub.

My fear is that this was not just bad fortune, but a structural element of Sir
Paul Condon's awful statistics. We should know even more than the Metropolitan
Commissioner and others tell us. We need to know more about both the legal and
illegal weapons in circulation, where they have come from, and how they are
maintained in communities by people crazed enough to use them for real. In
short, we need a public inquiry into guns and gun control, and comprehensive
action taken on its findings.

Guns have been available and used in American society for generations. Mad
people and bad people have had generous access for as long. They could have come
here just as long ago, but it has taken until the nineties for Chicago to come
to Kentish Town.  We should know for certain why.

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              96 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               September 5, 1995

McCartney joins forces with Oasis singer for aid album

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 305 words


BLUR, Oasis, Paul McCartney and most of the biggest names in British pop came
together for Bosnia yesterday.

Bands spent all of yesterday in studios across the country recording a track for
the Help! album in aid of children whose lives have been destroyed by the war in
Bosnia.

McCartney stepped in at the last minute to join Paul Weller and Oasis' Noel
Gallagher on a new version of the Beatles' song Come Together.

Weller, one of the original artists involved in the project, said: "He just
decided to come down on the spur of the moment. It's brilliant working with him,
because I am a big Beatles fan."

Supermodel Kate Moss and her boyfriend Johnny Depp were also at the Abbey Road
studios to watch the recording session.

Other bands pledging their help with simultaneous recordings at studios around
Britain were Suede, the Stereo MC's, Portishead, the Boo Radleys, Radiohead,
Massive Attack, the Levellers, Terrorvision, Manic Street Preachers, the
Charlatans and the Chemical Brothers.

Artists and production companies are pulling out all the stops to get the album
recorded, pressed, distributed and in the shops for sale by Saturday.

Initial pressings will be 300,000 copies and it is hoped Saturday's sales alone
will take the record to the top of the album charts by Monday.

It is hoped to give the album its premiere on Sarajevo radio by flying a copy
into the war-torn besieged city this week.

McCartney said he had already done some work for the War Child charity which
stands to benefit from the album. He added: "It will just prove to the people of
Bosnia that we care."

He said that even though someone had just told him it was 33 years to the day
since the Beatles recorded Love Me Do, he had no problems working with younger
musicians like Weller and Gallagher.

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1995 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              97 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                          September 6, 1995, Wednesday

FRANCE MAY SIDE WITH BRITAIN OVER BORDER CONTROLS

BYLINE:  Trevor Mason, PA News

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 260 words


Tory MPs today hailed a French threat to withdraw from an agreement on open
frontiers as vindication of Britain's opposition to the policy.  President
Jacques Chirac said on Tuesday that his country may pull out of the Schengen
agreement abolishing border controls, after terrorist attacks in Paris. He said
the fact that people could move easily across frontiers in Europe facilitated
the movement of terrorists.  Britain has not signed the agreement and fiercely
opposes EU plans to open up frontiers.  UK ministers see the agreement as a
direct attack on British sovereignty and fear it would interfere with controls
on the movement of would-be terrorists and illegal immigrants.  Leading Tory
Euro-sceptic Richard Shepherd, MP for Aldridge Brownhills, said of President
Chirac's comments: "This reinforces the Government's proper concerns and fears
about border controls.  "I wholly understand why he would take a step like this,
particularly in the light of the current wave of bombings." Sir George Gardiner,
vice chairman of the Tory backbench foreign affairs committee, said: "President
Chirac's words bear out all the anxieties that the British Government has
expressed.  "It is a total justification of our position. At least we need not
fear any further pressure from France for us to drop our border controls." Seven
EU states - France, Germany, Spain, Portugal, the Netherlands, Luxembourg and
Belgium - are currently committed to abolition of border controls between them.
French withdrawal could bring the whole process to a halt.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1995 The Press Association Limited

                              98 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               September 7, 1995

Tories hail move on border controls

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 266 words


TORY MPs yesterday hailed a French threat to withdraw from an agreement on open
frontiers as vindication of Britain's opposition to the policy.

President Jacques Chirac said on Tuesday that his country may pull out of the
Schengen agreement abolishing border controls, after terrorist attacks in Paris.

He said the fact that people could move easily across frontiers in Europe
facilitated the movement of terrorists.

Britain has not signed the agreement and fiercely opposes EU plans to open up
frontiers.

UK Ministers see the agreement as a direct attack on British sovereignty and
fear it would interfere with controls on the movement of would-be terrorists and
illegal immigrants.

Leading Tory Euro-sceptic Richard Shepherd, MP for Aldridge Brownhills, said of
President Chirac's comments: "This reinforces the Government's proper concerns
and fears about border controls.

"I wholly understand why he would take a step like this, particularly in the
light of the current wave of bombings.''

Sir George Gardiner, vice chairman of the Tory backbench foreign affairs
committee, said: "President Chirac's words bear out all the anxieties that the
British Government has expressed.

"It is a total justification of our position. At least we need not fear any
further pressure from France for us to drop our border controls."

Seven EU states -- France, Germany, Spain, Portugal, the Netherlands, Luxembourg
and Belgium -- are currently committed to abolition of border controls between
them. French withdrawal could bring the whole process to a halt.--PA.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1995 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              99 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Standard (London)

                               September 11, 1995

London bid to restart Ulster talks

BYLINE: David Shaw

SECTION: Pg. 24

LENGTH: 560 words


BRITISH and Irish government officials were set to meet in London tonight in an
attempt to find a way through the impasse over Ulster.

As they studied the shifting political sands, Sinn Fein's Gerry Adams and
maverick Unionist the Reverend Ian Paisley were separately jetting off for
America, where they will each conduct a propaganda blitz following the
postponement of last week's Anglo-Irish summit over arms decommissioning.

Tonight's meeting could be crucial in putting the summit between John Major and
his Irish counterpart, John Bruton, back on the rails - although the two men are
expected to talk anyway at the end of next week at the Euro summit in Majorca.

Dr Paisley is to meet senior Senators and other politicians and Mr Adams is
preparing for talks with the Clinton administration - including national
security adviser Tony Lake - amid reports that a threat to resume IRA violence
was used to scupper the Anglo-Irish summit last week and head off an
international commission to oversee disarmament.

With the peace process again stalled, Mr Adams is out to win President Clinton's
backing for pressure to be put on Mr Major to cave in over his insistence that a
start must first be made in dismantling terror arsenals.  London and Dublin are
both assessing the fresh problems likely to face them after the election of
hard-liner David Trimble as leader of the Ulster Unionist Party, whose shock
victory set alarm bells ringing when he announced that decommissioning of IRA
weapons may not be enough to give Sinn Fein entry to all-party talks and
suggested a merger with the Reverend Paisley's Democratic Unionists.

Cool relations between the two parties since publication of the Downing Street
Declaration in 1993 have been played upon by the Government. The prospect of
them presenting a united hard-line front, with 12 MPs in the Commons, is the
last thing the Prime Minister wants to see.

Sectarian clashes last night saw several civilians and police injured - and an
officer's handgun stolen - in the Co Antrim village of Dunloy.  Orangemen
accompanied by a band were marching home after an annual church parade when they
were attacked by a crowd of gaelic games players and supporters.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1995 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              100 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          September 12, 1995, Tuesday

Long live France, and down with Greenpeace!; The French covered the protests
over nuclear testing in the South Pacific with a blend of patriotism and
paranoia, says Stephen Jessel

BYLINE: STEPHEN JESSEL

SECTION: MEDIA; Page  17

LENGTH: 1030 words


When news that France had exploded a nuclear device in the south Pacific arrived
in Paris shortly before midnight on Tuesday (via Reuters, which scooped the home
news agency AFP by a couple of minutes) staff at the left-wing daily,
Liberation, had enough time to change the front page of most editions. A
composite portrait of President Jacques Chirac and the melted face of a Nagasaki
survivor stared out at the paper's readers.  It was a devastating cover, but
while Liberation was not alone in regretting the test, it was, none the less,
fairly isolated in its outright condemnation.

Sections of the French media, including much of the national press, reacted with
an unlovely blend of petulant bravado, paranoia and self-pity to the storm of
international protest that broke across the world, from Finland to Chile and
from New Zealand to Belarus. The silence of the British government, by contrast,
was widely noted and praised. The protests over the test and the rioting in
Tahiti that followed were, to read some comment, nothing more than a squalid
conspiracy engineered principally by Greenpeace with the backing of Pacific Rim
states.

The Nantes-based Presse-Ocean set the tone. "Who finances Greenpeace and its
flotilla and takes care of its crews' board and lodging? Ecologist movements,
say those involved . . . Would it not be more honest for the generous
benefactors to drop the mask of hypocrisy and identify themselves? With, in the
front row, Australia, New Zealand and, probably, Japan as well . . . The
hostility of the Australians can be explained less by their nuclear fears than
by the presence of the French flag on the atolls of the South Pacific."

But the tone of the regional press, a much more important source of news and
comment in France than in Britain, was generally more reflective.  Editorials
wondered whether the motive for the resumption of testing was not more political
than military, reflecting Chirac's wish to assert his Gaullist credentials, and
debated the role of nuclear weapons in a post- Cold War world.

Greenpeace must be flattered by the degree of consensus in large sections of the
French press over the extent of its influence. France Soir, which, although it
is a broadsheet, is as near to a tabloid in its style and presentation as the
French press gets, informed its readership in a front- page headline that the
world-wide protests were orchestrated by the organisation.

In the circumstances, Greenpeace's admission that it had produced erroneous
figures in its campaign against the dumping in the Atlantic of the Brent Spar
oil platform was too good a weapon to ignore. The London office of at least one
respected French news organisation, normally credited with a certain
objectivity, had little hesitation in reporting that the admission of the
mistake disqualified Greenpeace as a serious contributor to the debate over the
testing.

Loyalist newspapers such as Le Figaro praised Chirac, the test, and the
resolution of the French government, sometimes running articles that took the
form of straightforward transcriptions of government statements larded with
sycophantic comment. One even praised the openness of the French government in
announcing that the test had taken place, as if needles had not been bouncing on
seismographs all over the Pacific region.

Le Figaro did acknowledge protest within France after the test; but a rally
which attracted several thousand people, including many senior figures on the
left, was reported on page 33 with about the same prominence as a story
(characteristically several days old) about a 12-year-old who had stolen from
his parents and treated himself to a luxury holiday at Disneyland, Paris.

The level of protest in France was relatively muted, even though an opinion poll
suggested that 59 per cent of the population opposed the resumption of testing.
Partly because the country relies so heavily on nuclear-generated power, and
partly because successive governments have assured the French people that the
grandeur they so crave depends on ownership of nuclear weapons, France, unlike
Germany or Britain, has never had a strong anti- nuclear movement. Politicians
on the left are uneasily aware that they had nothing much to say in the 11 years
of Mitterrand's presidency preceding the 1992 moratorium, during which scores of
tests took place.

The military authorities had learnt from the public relations catastrophe that
surrounded their earlier violent seizing of a Greenpeace vessel and TV stations
were supplied with carefully vetted pictures from Sirpa, the defence ministry's
sophisticated public relations arm, though many crews were on hand to record
their own pictures of the rioting in Tahiti.

Predictably, some local politicians blamed the presence of foreign reporters and
crews for the violence in Tahiti, in an echo of Chirac's recent suggestion that
if the media paid less attention to the current wave of terrorist attacks in
France things might improve, which itself recalled Margaret Thatcher's famous
dictum on "the oxygen of publicity" afforded to the IRA by media coverage.

Indeed, the French government displayed an unusual sensitivity to foreign media
criticism, putting up the foreign minister, Herve de Charette, at a news
conference to read a statement on the harmlessness of the tests in English for
the benefit of foreign radio and TV stations. It is hard to imagine what terms
De Gaulle would have used about a French minister seeking to justify the policy
of la France to the Anglo-Saxons in their own language.

The nuclear test last week at Mururoa was codenamed Thetis after a sea nymph,
wooed by two Greek gods, who lost interest when she was told that her son would
be more powerful than his father. The son, eventually fathered by a mortal, was
Achilles, whom Thetis dipped in the river Styx (the boundary of the underworld)
to make him immortal, neglecting to submerge the heel by which she held him.
Achilles' heel was his downfall; he was wounded there by an arrow from Paris
(son of Priam, king of Troy, not the capital of France) and died. There's a
moral there somewhere.


LOAD-DATE: September 12, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1995 Independent Print Ltd

                              101 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                         September 20, 1995, Wednesday

Every day I ask myself, 'Why am I here?'; Karamjit Singh Chahal has spent the
past five years in prison. What's his crime? If only he knew.

BYLINE: Jonathan Ford reports

SECTION: LIFE; Page  4,

LENGTH: 1554 words


Amid the drab surroundings of the visitors' meeting room at Bedford prison,
inmate HD2167 presents an exotic spectacle. He stands to greet visitors, a
massively bearded and turbaned figure wearing traditional kurtha pyjamas - long
flapping white shirt and baggy trousers. As he bows and shakes hands in polite
salutation, it is hard not to feel that he looks seriously out of place.

Karamjit Singh Chahal has been looking out of place for some time now.  Five
years and one month to be precise. "Every day I ask myself, 'Why am I here?' "
he says as he sits down at the bare table.

Chahal appears to have good reason to feel confused. He has been incarcerated in
Bedford since his arrest in August 1990, pending deportation to India for
reasons of national security. Yet during that time, he has not been charged with
any offence, or told what crimes he is supposed to have committed, merely that
there are serious allegations against him concerning unspecified terrorist
offences. His right to remain in Britain, where he has been a resident for more
than 20 years, has been taken away with a stroke of the Home Secretary's pen.

"If there are allegations against me," he says, "all I ask is to be brought
before a court so that I can answer them. If I have done anything wrong, I will
happily leave the country." The Government, however, argues that Chahal is such
a threat to public security that trying him in Britain would endanger
"intelligence sources which require protection".  It wants to expel Chahal to
India, a country where, says Amnesty International, his "physical safety would
be seriously jeopardised".

Chahal is a devout Sikh who supports the cause of Khalistan - a separate
homeland for Sikhs in the Punjab. In the past decade, more than 20,000 have died
in a civil war between Khalistani guerrillas and Indian security forces, during
which time, says Amnesty, "thousands of known and suspected supporters of
separatist demands have been detained under special legislation suspending legal
safeguards. Scores of them have been tortured to death in police custody or have
simply 'disappeared'." Chahal claims to have been detained and tortured during a
visit to India in 1984 - an allegation denied by the Indian authorities, but one
that the British Government does not dispute.

In July 1993, Chahal took his case to the European Commission on Human Rights.
It issued a report this month condemning the British Government's treatment of
him. His case will be heard by the European Court, probably next year. This
inspires in Chahal relief but also regret. "I do not understand why this could
not be settled here," he says.

Chahal was born in 1948 into a farming family near Amritsar, where he grew up
chafing at the slowness of life in a provincial town and longing for adventure.
"I had a sister who was living in London at the time," he recalls. "I was a
young man who wanted to see the world, so I thought, 'Why not go?' " He arrived
in Britain in 1971 on a visitor's visa and enjoyed himself so much that he
decided to stay on illegally, taking various manual jobs.

In 1974, the new Labour government brought in an amnesty for illegal immigrants.
Chahal owned up and was granted "indefinite leave to remain" (ILR) in the UK, a
status of residency which, he now perceives, is at the root of his problems. For
ILR does not offer the recipient citizenship, it simply offers a foreign citizen
the right to live and work here. It can be cancelled at any time by the Home
Secretary, who can have the holder summarily deported.

Having legalised his residency, Chahal settled down to a regular existence,
working at the Ford car plant in Dagenham. In 1975, he visited India to get
married, and returned with his bride, Darshan Kaur Chahal, who was also granted
ILR. They had two children - a daughter, Kiranpreet, now 18, and a son,
Bikaramjit, 17 - who are British citizens because they were born here.

Thus the Chahal story would have continued to this present day, had it not been
for the recession of the early Eighties. Chahal was made redundant at the end of
1983 and, having received a large pay-off from Ford, decided to return to live
in India. "I wanted my children to grow up among their family," he says. A
preliminary visit was planned at the end of 1983 because Chahal wanted to attend
his brother-in-law's wedding, despite evidence that political trouble was
brewing in the Punjab.

He arrived in Amritsar in 1984, at a time of considerable turmoil. A Sikh
religious revival was sweeping the Punjab, inspired by the fiery rhetoric of a
charismatic preacher, Sant Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale, who was to die that
summer when the Indian army stormed the holiest shrine of Sikhdom, the Golden
Temple in Amritsar.

Bhindranwale's message was that Sikhs should rediscover their religion and
struggle to free the Punjab from domination by Delhi. The hitherto secular
Chahal attended several public meetings addressed by Bhindranwale and, by his
own account, underwent a spiritual reawakening.

By this time, the Indian government had become alarmed by events in the Punjab
and decided to crack down on Bhindranwale and his supporters. Among those
arrested in a police round-up of Sikhs in Amritsar in March 1984 was Chahal, who
was taken in for "questioning" - an experience which, he says, left him
permanently deaf in one ear and with scars all over his body.

He was eventually released and returned to Britain, where he set himself up as a
preacher to Britain's Sikh community. "I wanted to spread Bhindranwale's message
that Sikhs should return to the pure forms of their religion," Chahal says. The
message he preached in Sikh temples around Britain undoubtedly had a political,
as well as a religious, content. "I supported the idea of Khalistan - of
independence for Sikhs," Chahal says. He admits this freely, and that he became
a member of the International Sikh Youth Federation, which campaigns for
Khalistan among British Sikhs. However, he denies what the Government alleges:
that he became involved in masterminding and financing terrorism in India.

In October 1985, Chahal was detained under the Prevention of Terrorism Act (PTA)
on suspicion of attempting to assassinate the Indian prime minister, Rajiv
Gandhi, who was visiting Britain. He was released and no charges were brought.
The next year, he was arrested and charged with public order offences at a Sikh
temple in Kent, after a fight broke out.  The case was dismissed when Chahal
established that he was not at the temple when the fight took place. A similar
charge was brought against him in 1987, relating to a disturbance at a temple in
east London: he was convicted of assault and causing an affray and served nine
months in prison. However, the Court of Appeal quashed the conviction when it
discovered that the evidence on which it had been based was untrue.

In 1989, Chahal's application for citizenship was rejected, despite 15 years
residence, another indication that he was regarded as undesirable.  But none of
these "signals" prepared Chahal for being taken to prison the following August.

Stripped of his flimsy right to remain in Britain and knowing that he was to be
deported to India, Chahal applied for asylum on the grounds that he would be
exposed to the risk of torture if sent there. His application was dismissed by
the Home Secretary, who claimed publicly that Chahal had "a violent involvement
in Sikh terrorism".

Normally, an applicant so refused would be entitled to appeal to an independent
tribunal. But because Chahal's case involved unspecified national security
considerations, this procedure was denied him. Subsequent appeals for asylum
have been similarly dismissed, as have any applications for bail, though in
appealing Chahal has managed to delay his deportation.

Having exhausted all possible remedies in the UK, Chahal took his case to the
European Commission of Human Rights. Free from the constraints of the UK
judicial system, the Commission started asking the Government's lawyers some
searching questions about what the security issues actually were. This elicited
a list of what the Commission described as "untested allegations about Chahal's
terrorist activities".

Anne Widdecombe, the Home Office minister, says: "Mr Chahal has been told
clearly that his deportation has been ordered because of his involvement in
terrorism, both in the UK and abroad." But why, if he has committed terrorist
acts in the UK threatening British citizens, is he not being tried for such
offences in a UK court? And why, if there is evidence connecting him with
terrorist attacks in India, has the Indian government not tried to extradite
Chahal?

The Home Office shows no sign of wanting to answer such questions. Meanwhile,
Chahal wastes his life in jail. As he prepares to go back to his cell, I explain
to him what the Home Office has told me: that he is free to leave the country at
any time so long as he can find a third country which will accept him. This, he
recognises, is going to be difficult for a man who has been publicly branded a
terrorist. Chahal gives a resigned smile.  Yet in that smile there is also fear,
for he then says: "All I know is that if I am sent back to India they will kill
me."


LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1995 Independent Print Ltd

                              102 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Standard (London)

                               September 27, 1995

DEATH ON THE ROCK:FURY AS BRITAIN IS CONDEMNED;
FURY OVER THE VERDICT

BYLINE: Charles Reiss

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1240 words


A SHOCKED and furious John Major today tore into the European Court of Justice -
after the court officially condemned the 'Death on the Rock' killing of three
IRA terrorists in Gibraltar.

By the narrowest possible margin of 10 to nine votes, the court ruled that the
shootings, by the SAS in 1988, were unnecessary and in breach of international
conventions.

The court refused to order compensation but ordered the Government to pay costs
to the families of the three victims, Daniel McCann, Sean Savage, and Mairead
Farrell.

The court absolved the Government and the security forces of any shoot-to-kill
policy; but it ruled that the shooting had breached Article 2 of the European
Convention on Human Rights, protecting the right to life and liberty and
limiting the use of deadly force by the security forces.

The verdict triggered an immediate torrent of protest, from the Prime Minister
down. Downing Street said the judgment 'defied common sense'. A spokesman said
the ruling, overturning a whole series of verdicts in favour of Britain by lower
courts, was 'incomprehensible'.

And one source demanded: 'What were the soldiers supposed to do? Wait and see
whether 30 bandsmen were blown up and killed before deciding whether these
people were terrorists or not?'

Tory MPs joined the outcry, with some calling on the Government to defy the
costs order. But Labour said that Britain must abide by the ruling. And the IRA,
Gerry Adams of Sinn Fein and the Labour Left were jubilant.

The three terrorists - acknowledged by the IRA to have been on 'active service'
at the time of their deaths - were tracked down after an undercover operation on
the border between Gibraltar and Spain. The three, revealed by intelligence
reports to be planning a car bomb attack, were challenged as they walked towards
the border.

The SAS unit opened fire, it was said afterwards, after Farrell and McCann had
made threatening movements. After the killings - eight bullets in Farrell, five
in McCann and 16 in Savage - police and soldiers found the trio had been
unarmed. A suspect car they were using was found to be clear of bombs. But
another car, hired by Farrell under a false name and found across the border in
Marbella, was stuffed with Semtex.

Today's ruling, the most dramatic rebuff in modern times for the Government at
the hands of an international court, brought consternation and shock in
Whitehall.

It overturned an earlier ruling by the lower-tier European Convention which
found that the soldiers had acted legitimately.

At the Foreign Office, officials called an immediate crisis meeting - hampered
by the fact that all five Foreign Office ministers are abroad.

Foreign Secretary Malcolm Rifkind, in New York to address the United Nations,
was plunged into a political and diplomatic dilemma. The Government had never
defied adverse court rulings in the past, although it has sidestepped some.

Legal opinion was divided over whether today's ruling was binding, though most
said that the Government would be obliged to pay the costs of £38,700.

One Tory MP, Barry Porter, among the many protesters, declared: 'I would hope
that the Government would say that it will not, under any circumstances, pay
compensation to the relatives of people who were potential murderers.' Other MPs
attacked the court ruling as 'a terrorists' charter' and Whitehall sources
suggested that the court itself had produced a political split.  They pointed
out that the court president, a judge from Norway, had voted with the minority
in Britain's favour, along with judges from Germany, Sweden, Finland and the UK.

The majority against included Italy, Greece, Spain, Portugal, and a number of
smaller countries including Luxembourg, Lithuania and Estonia.

The Dublin government said cautiously that it would study the ruling, but there
was no restraint elsewhere. Sinn Fein's Gerry Adams hailed the verdict as a
'landmark judgment'.

And Mairead Farrell's brother, Niall, declared: 'Justice has at last been done.
It is now clear to everyone that the British Government has blood on its hands.'
Downing Street stressed that the court had not awarded compensation to the
families but only part of their legal costs, and that the judgment had gone
against Britain on only a single point.

Nonetheless the row will increase the pressure, which has been simmering for
some time among Tory MPs, for Mr Major to pledge in the next election manifesto
at the latest, that a Conservative Government would pull out of the Human Rights
Court. That court is entirely separate from the European Union, which has its
own court of justice.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1995 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              103 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Standard (London)

                               September 27, 1995

DEATH ON THE ROCK:FURY AS BRITAIN IS CONDEMNED

BYLINE: Charles Reiss

SECTION: Pg. 1, 2

LENGTH: 1240 words


THE GOVERNMENT delivered a furious threat today to defy the European Court of
Human Rights - after the court officially condemned the 'Death on the Rock'
killing of three IRA terrorists in Gibraltar.

By the narrowest possible margin of 10 votes to nine, the court ruled that the
shootings by the SAS in 1988 were unnecessary and in breach of international
conventions.

The court refused to order compensation but ordered the Government to pay costs
to the families of the three victims, Daniel McCann, Sean Savage and Mairead
Farrell.

The verdict triggered an immediate torrent of protest, from the Prime Minister
down. Downing Street said the judgment 'defied common sense'. A spokesman said
the ruling, overturning a whole series of verdicts in favour of Britain by lower
courts, was 'incomprehensible'.

Deputy Prime Minister Michael Heseltine said the "ludicrous" verdict would give
succour to terrorism. And, asked whether the Government would abide by the order
to pay £38,700 costs to the families, he said that would be a question for
ministers to decide.

The news was flashed before dawn to New York where Foreign Secretary Malcolm
Rifkind is visiting the UN. Mr Rifkind said the verdict was 'outrageous". At the
Foreign Office, officials called an immediate crisis meeting - hampered by the
fact that all five Foreign Office ministers are abroad.  The court, which sits
in Strasbourg, absolved the Government and the security forces of any
shoot-to-kill policy, but it ruled that the shooting had breached Article 2 of
the European Convention on Human Rights, protecting the right to life and
liberty and limiting the use of deadly force by the security forces.

The verdict, which took ministers and MPs by surprise, deeply angered Mr Major.
'What were the soldiers supposed to do? Wait and see whether 30 bandsmen were
blown up and killed before deciding whether these people were terrorists or
not?' demanded one No 10 source.

Tory MPs joined the outcry, with some calling on the Government to defy the
costs order. But Labour said that Britain must abide by the ruling. The IRA,
Gerry Adams of Sinn Fein and the Labour Left were jubilant.

The three terrorists - acknowledged by the IRA to have been on 'active service'
at the time of their deaths - were tracked

down after an undercover operation on the border between Gibraltar and Spain.
The three, revealed by intelligence reports to be planning a car bomb attack,
were challenged as they walked towards the border.

The SAS unit opened fire, it was said afterwards, after Farrell and McCann had
made threatening movements. After the killings - eight bullets in Farrell, five
in McCann and 16 in Savage - police and soldiers found the trio had been
unarmed. A suspect car they were using was found to be clear of bombs. But
another car, hired by Farrell under a false name and found across the border in
Marbella, was stuffed with Semtex.

Today's ruling, the most dramatic rebuff in modern times for the Government at
the hands of an international court, overturned an earlier ruling by the
lower-tier European Convention and a separate inquest, both of which found the
soldiers had acted legitimately.

Whitehall sources suggested that the court itself had produced a political
split. They pointed out that the court's president, a judge from Norway, had
voted with the minority in Britain's favour, along with judges from Germany,
Sweden, Finland and the UK.

The majority against included Italy, Greece, Spain, Portugal and a number of
smaller countries including Luxembourg, Lithuania and Estonia.

The ruling brought new friction between the London and Dublin governments as
they tried to keep the Northern Ireland peace effort on track. The Dublin
government said cautiously that it accepted the verdict and that lessons should
be learned about the conduct of future anti-terrorist operations.

But when that was put to Mr Heseltine, he retorted: 'We shall do absolutely
nothing at all. We will pursue our right to fight terrorism, to protect innocent
people wherever we have jurisdiction. We will not be swayed or deterred in any
way by this ludicrous decision of the court.'

And Mairead Farrell's brother, Niall, declared: 'Justice has at last been done.
It is now clear to everyone that the British Government has blood on its hands.'

Downing Street stressed the Court had not awarded compensation to the families
but only part of their legal costs and that the judgment had gone against
Britain on only a single point.

But the row will increase the pressure for Mr Major to pledge, in the next
election manifesto at the latest, that a Conservative Government would pull out
of the Human Rights Court.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: (1)TERRORIST Mairead Farrell:Shot dead after she made threatening
movements(2)TERRORIST Sean Savage:Acknowledged by the IRA tohave been on 'active
service'(3)TERRORIST Daniel McCann:The car the three hired was packed with high
explosive

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1995 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              104 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Standard (London)

                               September 27, 1995

We must fight this ruling say shocked MPs

BYLINE: David Shaw

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 747 words


BRITAIN was urged to defy the European Court of Human Rights as MPs reacted with
surprise and incredulity to today's landmark ruling on the Death on the Rock
killings.

Tory MP Barry Porter, a committed Unionist supporter and IRA critic, said: "It
is almost beyond belief when it is known that these were three admitted
terrorists who had embarked on what was an admitted terrorist mission. What were
the soldiers supposed to do: Frisk them first?

"While it is the convention that British law has followed such decisions in
these circumstances I would hope that the Government would say that it will not,
under any circumstances, pay up to the relatives of people who were potential
murderers.".

But Niall Farrell, victim Mairead Farrell's brother, called it "a major
decision" which was significant for the peace process. He said: "It is now clear
to everyone that the British Government has blood on its hands."

The lawyer acting for the families of the three dead said they were disappointed
not to get damages. Barra McGrory said this afternoon: "We find this difficult
to reconcile with the finding of unlawful killing by the court. However, we
undertook this case not for money but in a quest for justice." Democratic
Unionist MP the Rev William McCrea said: "The Court of Human Rights has never
shown much interest in the 25 years of slaughter of innocent people of the
Province who had no weapons, no connection with terrorist activity at all. They
would be far better to concern themselves with the innocent."

Ulster Unionist security spokesman Ken Maginnis accused the court of writing a
"terrorists' charter". He said: "I hope the Government will fight to the last
ditch against any obligation imposed on it to pay."

Sir Ivan Lawrence, chairman of the Commons Home Affairs Committee, declared:
"Calls will grow stronger to remove ourselves from the jurisdiction of
foreigners who do not understand our belief in the rule of law." As the Irish
government said it accepted the judgment and that "proper lessons" would have to
be drawn for "guidance in such anti-terrorist operations",

Left-wing Labour MP Tony Benn said the ruling "throws a whole new light on the
Irish peace process because it puts the British Government in the dock"Sinn Fein
said it was only the tip of the iceberg in relation to Britain's "long, dirty
war in Ireland".

Party president Gerry Adams called for a full, independent judicial
investigation into "disputed killings" by British forces.

Democratic Unionist Party leader Rev Ian Paisley said Britain should "thumb her
nose" at the verdict. "When a country transfers its sovereignty to Europe then
it can expect tainted justice in keeping with the European outlook," he said.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1995 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              105 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                         September 27, 1995, Wednesday

GOVERNMENT ANGER AS EURO-COURT CONDEMNS GIBRALTAR KILLINGS

BYLINE:  Gavin Cordon, Sarah Womack, Amanda Brown, Geoff Meade and Chris Parkin,
PA

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 1928 words


News The Government tonight defiantly declared it would ignore a European court
ruling condemning the killing of three IRA terrorists by the SAS on Gibraltar
seven years ago.  The surprise finding by the European Court of Human Rights in
Strasbourg that the shootings had been unjustified was greeted with a mixture of
anger and disbelief in Government circles.  Downing Street said the judgment in
the so-called Death on the Rock case "defied common sense" while Deputy Prime
Minister Michael Heseltine called it "incomprehensible".  "If we were faced with
similar circumstances as those in Gibraltar, I have not the slightest doubt that
the same decisions would be taken again," he told BBC1's One O'Clock News.
Asked if the Government would ignore the ruling altogether, he replied: "Yes".
Angry Tory MPs meanwhile called on the Government to consider withdrawing
recognition from the court while unionists condemned the ruling as a
"terrorists' charter".  In Dublin there was a muted reaction from the Irish
Government which said only that it accepted the verdict. Elsewhere though,
nationalists were claiming a landmark victory over the British.  The families of
the three terrorists said Britain had been shown to have "blood on its hands"
and called for a full judicial inquiry.  The Court found by the narrowest of
margins - 10 to nine - that Britain had breached the Human Rights Convention
over the deaths in 1988 of Daniel McCann, Mairead Farrell and Sean Savage.  The
three were shot dead at close range by undercover SAS soldiers who believed they
were about to detonate a massive car bomb close to a British army barracks. They
were subsequently found to be unarmed and a suspect car they were using
contained no device. However, a second car, hired by Farrell under a false name,
found across the border in Spain did contain a Semtex bomb.  The court said
there was no justification for the use of such force against the three and found
the Government guilty of breaching an Article of the Human Rights Convention
which guarantees the "right to life".  It ordered Britain to foot the bill for
the families' £38,700 legal costs but stopped short of ordering the Government
to pay compensation for the deaths as the three had been engaged in terrorist
activities.  While the court found that there had been "insufficient care" taken
in the control and use of lethal force, it accepted there had been no
premeditated plan to kill the three.  It also cleared the individual SAS
soldiers of any breach of the convention.  The court's ruling came as a
particular surprise as last year the Commission on Human Rights, which advises
the Strasbourg judges, decided by 11 votes to six that the shootings could be
considered legitimate.  Downing Street said: "There was a very thorough
investigation in 1988 and an interim ruling by the European Court's own
commission which found that the British action to have been lawful.  "So it is
incomprehensible that the court can have come to a different view, albeit by the
narrowest of margins." Mr Heseltine angrily insisted that there would be no
review of security procedures in the light of the judgment which he said would
offer "succour" to terrorists.  "We will pursue our right to fight terrorism, to
protect innocent people wherever we have jurisdiction. We will not be swayed or
deterred in any way by this ludicrous decision of the court," he told BBC Radio
4's the World at One programme.  He said ministers would now have to consider
whether to pay the families' legal costs and he did not rule out withdrawing
Britain's recognition from the court.  Sinn Fein president Gerry Adams however
sought to step up the pressure on the Government, calling for a full,
independent and international judicial investigation into all "disputed
killings" by British forces.  Barra McGrory, solicitor for the families of the
three IRA members said a "tremendous verdict" had been achieved.  "It is
something of enormous significance to have a Government found guilty of the
taking of the right to life unnecessarily," he said.  Niall Farrell, brother of
Mairead Farrell, added: "It is now clear to the world that the British
government has blood on its hands." But Ulster Unionist security spokesman Ken
Maginnis said the judgment was an "absolute mockery".  He told PA News: "In many
ways it is an example of judges sitting detached in Strasbourg writing a
terrorists' charter." Party leader David Trimble said the decision would "strike
dismay into all police forces in Europe".  Defeated Tory leadership challenger
John Redwood led the calls from Conservative backbenches for the government to
review its recognition of the Court of Human Rights and the Human Rights
Convention.  "I think we should look at the convention as a matter of urgency
because many people in this country will not like this judgment," he said.
Former Chancellor Norman Lamont also strongly condemned the ruling.  "Even by
the surreal standards of this court, this is a shocking judgment," he told PA
News. "What about the human rights of the victims of terrorism, past and future?
"This judgment must bring nearer the day when Britain withdraws from the court,
and enacts the European Convention on Human Rights into domestic law. Then we
can have common sense judgments from our own courts." However, Labour's shadow
home secretary Jack Straw insisted that it was "incumbent" on the Government as
a signatory to the Convention to accept the Court's ruling.  That prompted an
angry row, with Mr Heseltine accusing Labour of supporting a verdict which sent
a "triumphant signal" to terrorists.  Labour hit back, attacking the Deputy
Prime Minister for stooping to "gutter politics" and trying to wreck the
bi-partisan approach to the Northern Ireland peace process.

Mr Heseltine was later asked about Mr Straw's legal challenge over his comments.
He told Channel 4 News: "It is not a disgraceful slur. He said we should accept
the findings of the court in spirit and in letter.  "If that isn't part of a
process that has seen a whole range of people sympathetic to the terrorists,
coming out with statements, encouraging full inquiries, I don't know what is."

Northern Ireland Secretary Sir Patrick Mayhew, visiting New Zealand, said in a
radio interview: "It's a bit ironic, isn't it, that we have Sinn Fein bringing
proceedings in a court of human rights. What human rights do the IRA give
anyone?" "They don't accord anyone a trial, let alone a right of appeal."

Northern Ireland Secretary Sir Patrick Mayhew, visiting New Zealand, said in a
radio interview: "It's a bit ironic, isn't it, that we have Sinn Fein bringing
proceedings in a court of human rights. What human rights do the IRA give
anyone?  "They don't accord anyone a trial, let alone a right of appeal."

Carmen Proetta told BBC Radio 4's World at One programme that she was subjected
to a campaign of vilification after giving evidence that the IRA team was shot
while trying to surrender.  "It does vindicate me in every way because this is
what I always maintained, that they were wrongly killed," she said.  "There was
no need to use force. They could have been picked up and taken to prison."

The jury verdict of lawful killing triggered the start of a determined legal
battle by relatives of the victims to have the Government condemned.  Their
first approach to the High Court of Justice in Northern Ireland was blocked by
the then Foreign Secretary, who issued certificates excluding proceedings
against the Crown.  Lawyers for the families then turned to Strasbourg, where
the Commission on Human Rights backed the Government but nevertheless forwarded
the case to the superior European Court of Human Rights to make the final
ruling.

In the vast majority of cases the Human Rights Court upholds the advisory
opinion of the Commission, but the victims' relatives had always maintained that
the 11-6 Commission view left a big enough question mark over the case for them
to win their battle.  Rulings by the Human Rights Court, made up of a number of
judges equal to the number of countries who have ratified the Human Rights
Convention, are binding on Governments and there is no right of appeal.  The
shootings launched a controversy as soon as it was discovered that the three
victims had been unarmed and that they were not on the point of exploding a car
bomb. There were harsh criticisms of the SAS in the television documentary Death
on the Rock, one month after the killings.

The judges dismissed a claim from the victims' families, saying payment would
not be appropriate "having regard to the fact that the three terrorist suspects
who were killed had been intending to plant a bomb in Gibraltar".  But the court
awarded £38,700 in costs and expenses.  Today's judgment also dismissed claims
that there was a premeditated plan to kill the suspects: "It did not find it
established that there was an execution plot at the highest level of command in
the Ministry of Defence or in the Government, or that soldiers A, B, C and D had
been so encouraged or instructed by superior officers who had briefed them prior
to the operation, or indeed that they had decided on their own initiative to
kill the suspects irrespective of any justification for the use of lethal force
and in disobedience to the arrest instructions they had received.  "Nor was
there evidence that there was an implicit encouragement by the authorities or
hints and innuendoes to execute the three suspects." The UK authorities had
received information that presented a "fundamental" dilemma, said the court. On
the one hand they had to protect the lives of the people of Gibraltar, including
their own military personnel, and on the other they had to use minimum lethal
force against the suspects under both domestic and international law.  The
authorities knew they were confronting an active service unit of the IRA,
including convicted bombers and a known explosives expert, went on the judges.
"The IRA, judged by its actions in the past, had demonstrated a disregard for
human life, including that of its own members." The authorities had had prior
warning of the impending terrorist action and had "ample" opportunity to plan
their reaction, foil the attack and arrest the suspects. But, the judgment
conceded, the security forces could not have been in possession of the full
facts and were obliged to formulate their policies on the basis of "incomplete
hypotheses".

The soldiers who carried out the shooting had received certain information from
their superiors about a car bomb which could be detonated by any of the three
suspects by pressing a button. They were also likely to be armed and would
resist arrest.  But none of this turned out to be true.  "The Court accepted
that the soldiers honestly believed, in the light of the information they had
been given, that it was necessary to shoot the suspects in order to prevent them
from detonating a bomb and causing serious loss of life. The actions which they
took, in obedience to superior orders, were thus perceived by them as absolutely
necessary in order to safeguard innocent lives." The judgment pointed out that
such use of force is acceptable under the Human Rights Convention where it is
based on an honest belief, valid at the time but which later is proved mistaken.
But, said the judges, crucial assumptions which affected the control and
organisation of the operation turned out to be erroneous, apart from the
terrorists' intention to carry out an attack.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1995 The Press Association Limited

                              106 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                         September 27, 1995, Wednesday

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 511 words


Former Irish Justice Minister Ray Burke said the ruling was "a legal milestone
with far-reaching implications." He also accused Britain of "resorting to
terrorism from time to time".  Mr Burke, now Foreign Affairs spokesman for the
Fianna Fail opposition party in Dublin, said: "It is a vindication of the long
and difficult campaign conducted by the families of the Gibraltar Three.  "The
European Court did not believe the lies, the excuses, the smears and the
cover-up that emanated from the highest level.  "The case was one of a number of
occasions that the British government acted completely outside the rule of law
during the 25 years of troubles, going beyond its legitimate role of protecting
the state and its citizens from terrorist attack." Mr Burke added: "Those in
government responsible for upholding the rule of law at that time are clearly
shown today to have been guilty of a dereliction of their democratic duty.  "The
judgment illustrates that the British government unfortunately also from time to
time resorted to terrorism, using their own paramilitary forces, the SAS and
special units of the Royal Ulster Constabulary."

Tory MP Terry Dicks said: "The vast majority of British people would like to
give a medal to the SAS who killed those terrorists.  "They certainly wouldn't
criticise them for what they did.  "The European Court ruling is crazy and
typical of Europe. Most people would like to see more terrorists six feet under
the round and not living a life of Riley in prison or being released early for
political reasons."

Former Irish Justice Minister and party leader Des O'Malley welcomed the ruling
but questioned the Dublin government's "muted" reation.  He said the judgment
clearly vindicated the right to life of a European citizen.  "What is a bit
surprising is that the ruling was so narrow. But it makes it abundantly clear
that what happened was improper and illegal and the same principle could be
applied to some other things that have happened in Northern Ireland." Mr
O'Malley added: "I am surprised the Irish government has reacted in such a muted
way. Perhaps they simply don't want to embarrass the British at official level."

Northern Ireland Political Development Minister Michael Ancram said the finding
against the Government "defies common sense", but he was pleased the judgement
found there was no premeditation by either the Government or the security forces
in the shooting.  Mr Ancram said many of the findings were in the Government's
favour and it was important to note that no compensation was granted.  "The
finding against us really defies common sense because in our view many lives
were saved by the action that was taken," he said during an engagement in
Northern Ireland.  "There was no evidence looked at by the court and I believe
that where the finding was against us it does defy common sense.  "At the same
time, many of the findings were in our favour and I think it is important to
note that no compensation was granted and there was no finding of
premeditation."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1995 The Press Association Limited

                              107 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                          September 28, 1995, Thursday

EURO PULLOUT THREAT AT SHOOT-TO-KILL RAP;
BRITAIN THREATENS TO QUIT EUROPEAN COURT OF HUMAN RIGHTS AFTER BEING CONDEMNED
OVER GIBRALTAR KILLINGS

BYLINE: Mark Dowdney And Sheree Dodd

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 840 words


FURIOUS Britain last night threatened to quit the European Court of Human Rights
after being condemned over the killing of three IRA terrorists in Gibraltar.

Deputy Premier Michael Heseltine hinted at a pull-out when he accused the
Strasbourg-based court of "giving succour to terrorists".

He said its judgment that SAS troops unlawfully killed the terrorists in 1988
was "incomprehensible".

By 10 votes to nine, the judges condemned Britain for giving the SAS orders to
shoot to kill instead of arresting the IRA squad at the border when they arrived
in Gibraltar.

Mr Heseltine provoked further outrage by seizing on the Death on the Rock
judgment to attack Labour.

He reacted angrily when Labour's Jack Straw said it was "incumbent" for the
British Government to observe the spirit and letter of the court's decision.

Blame

Mr Heseltine stormed: "The idea that we are going to sit here and say we are
going to accept the blame...for fighting terrorism in this country is
inconceivable.

"And I find it extraordinary that the spokesman for the Labour Party should be
giving this sort of encouragement to the terrorist mentality."

Jack Straw condemned Mr Heseltine's bid to play party politics.

"Labour's abhorrence of terrorism and its bi-partisan support of the peace
process are well-known," he said.

Northern Ireland Secretary Sir Patrick Mayhew, on a visit to New Zealand, said
last night: "It's a bit ironic that we have Sinn Fein bringing proceedings in a
court of human rights. What rights do the IRA give anyone?

"They don't accord anyone a trial, let alone a right of appeal."

The Strasbourg court overturned all previous findings which supported the
government's view that the deaths of Daniel McCann, Mairead Farrell, and Sean
Savage were justified.

The unnamed SAS men testified at the inquest that they feared the IRA squad was
about to explode a car bomb.

In fact, the terrorists were unarmed but across the border in Spain police found
a car rented by Farrell packed with 140lbs of Semtex explosive.  The court
turned down demands for compensation but ordered the government to pay the
relatives pounds 38,700 legal bills.

Mairead Farrell's brother Niall hailed the ruling as "a huge victory".

"The British Government has blood on its hands," he said.

Peace campaigner Tom Parry, whose son Tim was killed by the IRA, backed the SAS.
"If you live by the sword, then you die by the sword," he said.

Comment - Page 6

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: OUTBURST: Heseltine

                            Copyright 1995 MGN Ltd.

                              108 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Standard (London)

                               September 28, 1995

NEW BLOW AS IRA MEN WIN JAIL CASE

BYLINE: Charles Reiss,Paul Cheston

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 787 words


THE GOVERNMENT suffered a new blow in the courts today as Home Secretary Michael
Howard was condemned for "unreasonable and unlawful" treatment of five of the
IRA's most ruthless terrorists.

The judgment in the High Court fiercely criticised Mr Howard for delaying parole
rights for the five, jailed in 1976, thus keeping them behind bars for six
months longer than their allotted 20-year terms.

The Home Office parole policy, declared Mr Justice Dyson, was "manifestly
unjust" and "flouts the principles of the common law and the European Convention
on Human Rights". The judgment could affect the release dates of some 500
prisoners serving discretionary life sentences for violent or sexual offences.

The Home Office said it would consider an appeal.

The verdict, the latest in a series of court rebuffs for Mr Howard, was a direct
and damaging echo of the European Court of Human Rights judgment which only
yesterday condemned Britain over the Death on the Rock shootings of three IRA
bombers. Today's judgment gave instant new propaganda fuel to the Republicans
while ministers were still reeling at the verdict from Strasbourg.  As Tory MPs
demanded that Britain reject the European Human Rights Court findings, the issue
loomed large at a meeting of the Cabinet today. Downing Street said the Prime
Minister told the meeting that ministers would need to consider the implications
of yesterday's ruling.

With Foreign Secretary

Malcolm Rifkind in New York, Foreign Office Minister David Davies briefed the
Cabinet about British options - up to and including the ultimate sanction of
withdrawal from the Human Rights Convention.

Preparations for a special working party of ministers, reportedly to be chaired
by Deputy Prime Minister Michael Heseltine, to examine the fallout from
yesterday's court decision were jolted by news of today's setback.

The five men who challenged the parole policy in the High Court - Brendan Dowd,
once named as top terrorist organiser in Britain, Paul Norney, Sean Kinsella,
Stephen Nordone and Noel Gibson - were given a total of 16 life sentences after
they were found guilty on charges including conspiracy to murder and cause
explosions, attempted murder and possessing arms and explosives.  The judge at
the trial, Mr Justice Cantley, described them as "dedicated and utterly callous
terrorists". But three years ago their terms were fixed at a "tariff" of 20
years.

The tariff was due to expire in July this year but Mr Howard refused to refer
their case to the Parole Board until their sentences were complete.  This meant
they would have to wait until the next available hearing in mid-December.

Today Mr Justice Dyson ruled that the delay "frustrates the intention of the
sentencing judge who intended that the prisoner should be released at the end of
the period unless at that time he continues to be a danger to the public."

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1995 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              109 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 28, 1995

UK FURY AT SAS VERDICT;
European Court condemns use of 'excessive force' in Gibraltar shooting

BYLINE: Stephen Bates In Strasbourg, Owen Bowcott And Michael White

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1934 words


THE British government reacted with dismay and anger to yesterday's humiliating
ruling by the European Court of Human Rights that the shooting of three IRA
bombers by members of the SAS in Gibraltar in 1988 involved the use of excessive
force.

The unexpected decision, albeit by the narrowest of judicial margins,
resharpened traditional hostilities in Northern Ireland and prompted calls from
rightwing Tories for Britain to remove the right of individuals to petition the
Strasbourg court.

Political recrimination in the wake of the judgment last night resulted in
Labour's Home Affairs spokesman, Jack Straw, threatening the deputy Prime
Minister, Michael Heseltine, with legal action over his comments.

Although the Government dismissed the ruling and insisted there was no need to
change counter-terrorism tactics, the decision is likely to reinforce the
security services' wariness in deploying the SAS in Britain and elsewhere in
Europe.

The court was concerned on three specific counts. First, at the failure to
prevent the suspects from travelling into Gibraltar when they could have been
arrested at the border. Second, at the failure to allow for the possibility that
the security services' intelligence - that there was a nearby car bomb which
could be detonated by remote control - might be wrong, as it was. And third,
that there was an automatic recourse to lethal force.

There had been few hints that the European Court judges would reverse the
conclusions of the original Gibraltar inquest and the European Commission on
Human Rights that the security services had acted within the law.

But by 10 votes to nine, the court of international judges sitting in Strasbourg
yesterday decided Britain had breached Article 2 of the European Convention on
Human Rights in shooting IRA members Daniel McCann, Sean Savage and Mairead
Farrell in Gibraltar on 6 March 1988. The three were suspected of having planted
a car bomb.

The 60-page judgment cleared the British government under five other headings of
alleged violations of the three IRA members' human rights. But it convicted the
authorities - though not the soldiers who carried out the shootings - of not
making enough effort to capture them alive.

Led by Michael Heseltine, the Government's response was to deflect the
international criticism by attacking Mr Straw for allegedly giving
"encouragement to the terrorist mentality that this sort of judgment provokes".

Mr Straw had earlier said: "It is incumbent upon the British government, whether
they like it or not, to observe both the letter and the spirit of this decision
today."

Last night, he sent Mr Heseltine a letter warning that: "Your comments, if
accurately reported, are a disgraceful slur. In the absence of a sufficient
withdrawal and apology . . . I will feel compelled to consider legal action."

Mr Heseltine later told Channel 4 News: "It is not a disgraceful slur. He said
we should accept the findings of the court in spirit and in letter. If that
isn't part of a process that has seen a whole range of people sympathetic to the
terrorists, coming out with statements, encouraging full inquiries, I don't know
what is."

The bitterness of the exchanges reflected a growing division between the
Conservative right and Labour over the European courts' increasingly influential
role in landmark judicial decisions.

Downing Street last night insisted: "There was a very thorough investigation (at
the inquest) in 1988 and an interim ruling by the European Court's own
commission which found the British action to have been lawful. So it is
incomprehensible that the court can have come to a different view."

In Northern Ireland, Niall Farrell, the brother of Mairead Farrell, welcomed the
finding as a victory. "It shows quite clearly that the British government have
blood on their hands. They're a bunch of murderers." He accepted his sister and
the two others had been on reconaissance for an IRA bombing mission.  The leader
of the Ulster Unionist Party, David Trimble, said the decision would "strike
dismay into all police forces in Europe" and could hamper peacekeeping
activities and the maintenance of law and order.

By contrast, Gerry Adams, the Sinn Fein president, said: "This guilty verdict is
only the tip of the iceberg in Britain's long dirty war in Ireland, a war in
which almost 400 people have died at the hands of British state forces." The
Government publicly warned Sinn Fein not to make too much of the ruling.

The European Court clearly identified one of the key issues left unresolved by
earlier investigations - namely the nature of the briefings given to the SAS
soldiers. That evidence had been suppressed by the Government, using Public
Interest Immunity certificates.

Legal experts last night indicated that the ruling had clear implications for
future confrontations between the police and suspected armed criminals. Senior
officers will have to adopt a more cautious approach in briefings, on rules of
engagement and in tactics during incidents involving firearms.

UK's record

WELCH: A drug trafficker won back pounds 50,000 confiscated profits. The court
held that retrospective legislation enacted after he committed the crime
breached the European Convention on Human Rights.

TOLSTOY: Nikolai Tolstoy won pounds 90,000 compensation from the Government
after the court held a pounds 1.5 million libel award against him in favour of
Lord Aldington breached the right of free speech. The Government will have to
change the libel laws.

McMICHAEL: A Scottish couple won pounds 8,000 compensation after their baby was
taken into care and placed with foster parents and they were denied access.

BONER AND MAXWELL: The Government was forced to change Scottish legal aid
legislation after the court held that the denial of aid to two armed robbers for
appeals against conviction breached the convention.

Pending

SINGH AND HUSSEIN: Two men who committed murders as children who contend that
being detained without review by a court breaches the convention. The European
Commission of Human Rights has supported them. A court ruling could affect how
long the killers of James Bulger remain in prison.

BENHAM: The commission supports a claim by a new age traveller jailed for
failure to pay poll tax that his right to a fair trial was violated because he
was refused legal aid.

ERNEST SAUNDERS: the ex-Guinness chairman says that his right to a fair trial
for fraud was violated by allowing statements made by him under compulsion. The
commission backs him.

Cloud of doubt, pages 4 and 5; Leader comment, 16; The rights stuff, page 17

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              110 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 28, 1995

FORCE USED WAS 'MORE THAN NECESSARY'
The ruling

BYLINE: Stephen Bates

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1440 words


THE European Court of Human Rights decision that more force than absolutely
necessary was used on the three IRA terrorists at Gibraltar in March 1988 was
reached by a margin of 10 to 9, with a strong dissenting judgment. The judges
included the British representative, Sir John Freeland QC, but not the Irish
representative, Brian Walsh.

The judges from Italy, Luxembourg, Greece, Spain, Portugal, Malta, Poland,
Slovakia, Lithuania and Estonia voted in favour, with the dissent coming from
the 80-year-old Norwegian president of the court, Rolv Ryssdal, and judges from
Germany, Iceland, Turkey, Sweden, Finland, Britain, Hungary and Slovenia. All
but one of the judges are men, all are trained lawyers, and most are in their
60s and 70s. The court heard the case last February.

The judgment, highly unusually, went against both the inquest in Gibraltar,
which decided in September 1988 by a majority of 9 to 2 that the killings were
lawful, and the report from the European Commission on Human Rights, which
decided by 11 to 6 last March that there had been no breach of human rights.

The 60-page judgment found the Irish relatives' case persuasive on only one
point - but it was the crucial one, relating to whether the use of force could
be justified as absolutely necessary in the circumstances. The SAS soldiers had
acted reasonably, the court concluded, but the authorities had not.

The relevant section of the Convention on Human Rights, Article 2, states:
"Everyone's right to life shall be protected by law . . . deprivation of life
shall not be regarded as inflicted in contravention of this Article when it
results from the use of force which is no more than absolutely necessary."

The judgment states that the article ranks as a fundamental provision in the
convention. The judges rejected the claim by the relatives that the laws in both
Gibraltar and Britain were flawed.

"The rules of engagement issued to the soldiers and police provide a series of
rules governing the use of force which carefully reflect the national standard
as well as the substance of the convention."

The judgment also rejected the relatives' claim that the inquest had not been an
adequate means of investigating the deaths.  There was no substance to the
families' accusation that there had been a premeditated plan to kill the
terrorists.

The British government maintained that the soldiers' actions were absolutely
necessary to defend innocent civilians from unlawful violence and that they had
had to make a split-second decision which could have affected a large number of
lives if the terrorists had been in possession of a remote control to explode a
car bomb.

The court conceded that the knowledge of a possible terrorist attack presented
the British authorities with a dilemma over how best to protect lives and at the
same time use minimum force.

"The security authorities could not have been in possession of the full facts
and were obliged to formulate their policies on the basis of incomplete
hypotheses."

The soldiers honestly believed that it was necessary to shoot the suspects in
order to prevent them detonating a bomb. "The actions of the soldiers do not in
themselves give rise to a violation (of Article 2)."

But it is when the judgment considers the actions of the authorities in allowing
the three terrorists to cross the border into Gibraltar and whether they could
have arrested them, that it becomes much more critical of the authorities. "The
danger to the population of Gibraltar in not preventing their entry must be
considered to outweigh the possible consequences of having insufficient evidence
to warrant their detention and trial."

Most of the judges believed that the authorities made insufficient allowances on
that Sunday afternoon for other assumptions about the terrorists' behaviour.

The judgment is critical of the authorities for their scrutiny of the car and
their supposition that the terrorists had a remote control button. "The
authorities were bound by their obligation to respect the right to life of the
suspects, to exercise the greatest of care in evaluating the information at
their disposal before transmitting it to soldiers whose use of firearms
automatically involved shooting to kill.

"The court is not persuaded that the killing of the three terrorists constituted
the use of force which was no more than absolutely neccessary in defence of
persons from unlawful violence within the meaning of Article 2 of the
convention.  Accordingly it finds that there has been a breach of Article 2."

The judges ruled out any compensation for the relatives. But they held
unanimously that the UK had to pay a total of pounds 333,310 to the applicants
to cover legal costs. In a dissenting minority opinion the nine judges who voted
against rejected criticism of the authorities' behaviour.

"The court should studiously resist the temptations offered by the benefit of
hindsight . . . For the authorities to have proceeded otherwise than on the
basis of a worst-case scenario that the car contained a bomb which was capable
of being detonated by the suspects during their presence in the territory would
have been to show a reckless failure of concern for public safety."

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              111 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               September 28, 1995

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 434 words


The timetable

A TIMETABLE of the events which led to the European Court of Human Rights'
condemnation of Britain.

1988: March 6: Three unarmed members of an IRA "active service unit'', Mairead
Farrell, Daniel McCann, and Sean Savage, are shot dead by undercover SAS men in
Gibraltar. Their nearby car is later found not to contain the expected bomb.

March 8: The day the IRA team had planned to explode a powerful car bomb near a
military guard-changing ceremony. Spanish police find a Semtex-laden white Ford
Fiesta where the trio had left it, in an underground car park in Marbella.

March 16: A loyalist gunman throws hand grenades at the funeral of the three in
Milltown cemetery, Belfast, killing three men and injuring nearly 50.

March 19: At the funeral of one of those killed in the cemetery, two Army
corporals who drive into the path of the cortege are pulled from their car and
shot dead by the IRA.

April 28: Screening of the Thames TV documentary Death on the Rock, with
witnesses saying two of the bombers shot dead had been trying to surrender.

September 6: The inquest on the Gibraltar killings opens. In its opening days it
hears that Savage was shot up to 18 times, Farrell eight times, and McCann four
times.

September 30: The coroner's jury decides by nine-two verdicts that the shootings
were justified. Ministry of Defence welcomes "clear and conclusive" findings,
and lawyer for unnamed SAS men says they have been "totally vindicated".

1989: January 26: An independent inquiry clears Death on the Rock programme of
most serious criticisms. Within minutes the findings are rejected by Downing
Street, the Foreign Office and the Ministry of Defence.

April 6: The National Council for Civil Liberties calls for a public judicial
inquiry into the Gibraltar shootings, saying the inquest may have fallen short
of standards required by international law.

1990: April 22: Foreign Secretary Douglas Hurd signs orders barring the families
of the Gibraltar dead from suing the Ministry of Defence.

1991: May 31: A High Court judge in Belfast refuses relatives of the three IRA
members shot in Gibraltar a judicial review of the Government's decision
blocking their compensation claims.

1993: September 6: The European Commission on Human Rights announces it is
prepared to investigate the Gibraltar shooting.

1995: February 20: The European Court of Human Rights starts its consideration
of the Gibraltar shootings, at the request of the families of the three IRA
members shot dead. September 27: Britain condemned by the court.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1995 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              112 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               September 28, 1995

Judgment on Gibraltar. Britain condemned over shootings

SECTION: Pg. 18

LENGTH: 458 words


ALL judgments are difficult, that is why judges should be people of the utmost
probity and why it is all too easy to jeer at them. Nevertheless judgments must
be made and the condemnation of Britain by the European Court of Human Rights
over the Gibraltar shootings deserves to be examined with honesty and in a mood
of reflection. The MPs who predictably spluttered yesterday about the desire of
the British public to give medals to the SAS men who killed the IRA terrorists
were, as usual, both close to the mark and very far from it. The British people
understand perfectly well, as did the judges in the Strasbourg court, that the
IRA members had travelled to Gibraltar with the intention of setting off a large
bomb which would kill many people. Their car bomb was found later by Spanish
police and it is self-evident that many believe that those who take up bombs and
guns cannot complain if they die by them. Yet this is to miss the point of the
judgment. The soldiers involved were cleared by the judges who said that
responsibility must lie with their superiors, and thereby the Government, for
failing to prepare the operation properly and to ensure that the soldiers were
accurately informed.

Why the terrorists, if believed to be heavily armed, were allowed on to a
tightly-packed place like Gibraltar in the first place is unanswered. Doubtless
we will never know but, it is important now to look ahead and in that respect
two major problems are evident. The first concerns the European Court of Human
Rights which, by delivering such a close decision and one which overturns an
earlier ruling by the court's own commission, finds itself in difficulties. The
court has shown itself to be divided on an important case. It may well be
respected around the world but its effectiveness and authority must be
diminished by the divisive nature of the vote on this particular issue.

The second problem concerns the attitude of the British Government. To say that
the judgment is incomprehensible and defies common sense is all very well, but
the underlying attitudes of some members of both the Government and the Tory
Party are disquieting and based partly on ignorance. The court has nothing to do
with the European Union but is an arm of the European Union. Nor is it a
European imposition, being based on the European Human Rights Convention which
Britain signed in 1951 and in which Sir Winston Churchill placed great
importance. Now we find that certain Tories are angry about the convention on
human rights and might argue for withdrawal. Mr Heseltine, at his party
-political worst yesterday, would not rule that out and Mr Redwood, inevitably,
has his doubts. For Britain's sake and reputation, that must not happen.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1995 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              113 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          September 28, 1995, Thursday

Sudden death and the long quest for answers; THE GIBRALTAR SHOOTINGS Heather
Mills retraces events on the Rock and analyses the doubts that remain

BYLINE: HEATHER MILLS

SECTION: NEWS; Page  3

LENGTH: 2100 words


The gunning down of three unarmed IRA terrorists on the streets of Gibraltar by
the SAS has continued to haunt the British government.  The March 1988 killings
led to a cycle of death in Northern Ireland, re- opened claims that the
government operated a "shoot-to kill" policy and called into question the
reputation of British justice.

And yesterday British justice was found wanting when the European Court of Human
Rights decided that Mairead Farrell, Sean Savage and Daniel McCann had been
unnecessarily killed. For the families who have fought for seven years to
uncover the truth behind death on the Rock, it was, as they claimed, "proof the
government had blood on its hands".

Events leading to yesterday's political fall-out started a few months before the
bloodshed in Gibraltar, when the IRA began plotting a massive bomb attack on the
colony's changing of the guard ceremony. Unknown to the bombers, dispatched to
Spain from where they were to launch the attack, British security services were
on to them.

When three members of the team crossed Gibraltar's border with Spain for what
turned out to be a reconnaissance trip, the SAS were on the colony, waiting. The
British authorities have maintained the trio actually slipped into the Rock
unnoticed that Sunday morning but were picked up by MI5 surveillance experts and
Gibraltar police. They say Savage drove a car, which they believed contained a
bomb, while Farrell and McCann crossed the border on foot.

That remains to this day one of the most hotly contested pieces of evidence in
the case. But what is undeniable is that just before four that afternoon - just
two or three minutes after SAS soldiers took control from the Gibraltar
authorities - all three terrorists were brought down in a hail of 29 bullets, 16
pumped into Savage alone. A police siren sounded, and two soldiers leaped over a
barrier as Farrell and McCann lay dying in the road leading to the Spanish
border. A few seconds later and another volley of shots brought down Savage as
he headed up an alleyway back towards the town.

Briefly, the government's account that the SAS had thwarted the trio's plans to
devastate the colony with a large car bomb went largely unchallenged.  But it
soon emerged that although they were clearly bent on carnage at the time of the
shootings, the trio were unarmed and there was no bomb.  The planned attack was
for two days later on 8 March and the explosives were later found in Spain.

It revived allegations, which first surfaced during the Stalker-Sampson
inquiries into security force killings in Northern Ireland in 1982, that the
government was operating a "shoot-to-kill policy".

Those claims were brought into sharp focus two months after the shootings when
Thames Television produced Death on the Rock, a documentary which directly
challenged the government and the then Prime Minister, Margaret Thatcher, with
its investigation on both sides of the Gibraltar border.  In particular, it
produced new eye- witnesses who said the trio had been brought down without any
warnings and that Farrell appeared to raising her arms as if in surrender.

Police and security sources then apparently briefed certain newspapers in an
attempt to discredit the programme and in particular one of its key witnesse,
Carmen Proetta. But the documentary was later exonerated by a public inquiry,
and some of the newspapers paid out substantial libel damages to Mrs Proetta.
Furthermore, her evidence was later supported by others at the formal inquest in
Gibraltar later that year, into the shootings.

Stephen Bullock, a lawyer, described how two soldiers, with guns tucked down
their jeans, ran by him, stopped and watched the killing of Farrell and McCann
before running off and firing a "massive volley of shots" at Savage. A more
contentious witness, who later withdrew his evidence, said that a soldier had
stood on Savage's prostrate body and delivered a final coup de grace.

During the five-week inquest, 18 anonymous security service and SAS men,
shielded from public view by screens, gave their account of events in what they
had called "Operation Flavius". They maintained the terrorists had been seen to
park a car in Convent Square, where the changing of the guard ceremony was to
take place; they all believed or had been told it contained a remote control
bomb and that the trio were armed with weapons and a detonator; they shouted
warnings, but the three made suspicious movements as if going for weapons. Once
a decision had been made to shoot, they shot to kill. Soldier "D" told the
inquest that, faced with a wounded man saying "I surrender", he would continue
to fire. The man might still be in a position to retaliate, he said.

But a vital omission at the inquest was any evidence from the Spanish police,
involved since the previous November when it was known the IRA were planning an
assault and, more crucially, involved in the surveillance of the bomb team on
the Costa del Sol. The Spaniards maintained they had tailed the trio to the
border on the fateful Sunday when they handed over the operation, to the British
authorities.

Spanish officers later told the Independent that not only had they handed the
three over at the border, but that the car bomb, which the government maintained
Savage had driven over on the Sunday morning, was in fact driven over the
previous day, casting severe doubts on the official version of events. If the
security forces believed the car contained a bomb, why didn't they clear the
area?

They also claimed that the shooting blew the chances of capturing at least two
others involved in the plot - a woman reconnaissance expert using the name Mary
Parkin and a man travelling with documents in the name of John Oakes.

In the end, the jury of 11 Gibraltar citizens had to decide between the account
of the authorities, including some of the their own police officers, and that of
independent witnesses. It took them more than eight hours and they split
nine-two before bringing back the "lawful killing" verdict which was, in effect
overturned yesterday.

Never before had the combined counter-terrorist activities of MI5 and the SAS
been so exposed, and never before had the SAS been so pressed to justify its
actions. But key issues remain unresolved. The European Court ruled that as the
authorties had photographs of the trio, it should have been possible to arrest
them at the border. It also ruled that the soldiers had been given wrong
intelligence but had acted in good faith on that intelligence; the fault lay
with those who briefed the soldiers had not allowed for any margin of error in
that assessment.

We still do not know at what level - politically or militarily - the operation
was sanctioned. We know only that Defence Ministers agreed to the use of the SAS
and that Mr "O" - the very senior MI5 man responsible for the midnight briefing
of the soldiers - had not set foot on the Rock.  We know that the rules of
engagement were also drawn up in London.

We also know that the investigation into the killings fell short of usual
standards. The bodies and spent cartridges were removed without photographs or
recordings. The victims' clothing was removed, no X-rays were taken, and no
proper post mortem pictures taken. The pathologist was not shown forensic or
ballistic reports. Statements were not taken from the officers until three weeks
after the killings and no statements were taken from any independent witnesses
of any substance.

Yesterday's decision may have decided that the rule of law was breached, but it
has not ended the controversy.

The trail of blood that led

to court's

judgment

1988, 6 March: Three unarmed members of an IRA "active service unit", Mairead
Farrell, Daniel McCann and Sean Savage, are shot dead by SAS men in Gibraltar.

8 March: The day the IRA team had planned to explode a powerful car bomb near a
military ceremony. Spanish police find a Semtex-laden white Ford Fiesta in an
underground car park in Marbella.

16 March: Loyalist throws hand grenades at the funeral of the three at Milltown
cemetery, Belfast, killing three men and injuring nearly 50.

19 March: At the funeral of one of those killed at the cemetery, two army
corporals are pulled from their car and shot dead by the IRA.

28 April: Screening of the Thames TV documentary Death on the Rock, with
witnesses saying that two of the bombers shot dead had been trying to surrender.

1 May: Maxie Proetta, a witness, says he believes Farrell and McCann raised
their hands "in surprise" not surrender as his wife Carmen had told TV
interviewers.

6 September: The inquest on the Gibraltar killings opens. 30 September: The
coroner's jury decides the shootings were justified.

1989, January 26: Independent inquiry clears Death on the Rock of most serious
criticisms.

1990, 18 September: Sir Peter Terry, British governor of Gibraltar, is shot and
seriously wounded at his Staffordshire retirement home.

1991, 31 May: A High Court judge in Belfast refuses relatives of the three IRA
members shot in Gibraltar a judicial review of a government decision blocking
their compensation claims.

1993, 6 September: The European Commission on Human Rights announces it is
prepared to investigate the Gibraltar shooting.

1994, 1 September: IRA ceasefire takes effect in Ulster.

12 October: Loyalist paramilitaries announce ceasefire.

1995, February 20: European Court of Human Rights starts its consideration of
the Gibraltar shootings at the request of the families of the three IRA members
shot dead.

27 September: Britain condemned by the court.

Aftermath of a bloody day on the Rock: How events unfolded for four key figures

Carmen Proetta

Witness

Carmen Proetta, the key witness to challenge the Government's account of the
Gibraltar killings, is still paying the price.

Yesterday she travelled to Ireland to pursue yet another law suit arising out of
what appeared to be a campaign to discredit her organised by security sources.
She was falsely accused of being involved in vice and drugs and of having
anti-British views. "The Tart of Gib" screamed one Sun headline.

Now 51, she still works as a translator, as she did at the time her appearance
on the Death on the Rock brought her unwanted fame. She lives in a modest
bungalow bought with the pounds 300,000-plus damages she is estimated to have
received from several British newspapers.

Felix Pizzarello

Magistrate

The man who conducted the inquest into the shootings was yesterday presiding
over the usual business that dominates Gibraltar's criminal courts - motoring,
drugs and drink offences.

Now 60, Mr Pizzarello is, as he was in 1988, the colony's magistrate and
coroner. Initial concern from the families of the dead - that he was hamstrung
by a lack of powers to subpoena witnesses and documents - subsided as his
inquest revealed more about security service and SAS activity than had ever been
made public.

However, despite a faultless summing-up of the case, he was accused of allowing
the inquest to become adversarial rather than inquisitorial.

Sir Peter Terry Governor

The then governor of Gibraltar maintained a low profile both after the shooting
and during the inquest.

His only comment, which came after the lawful killing verdict, was: "Even in
this remote place, there is no place for terrorists." He paid a heavy price for
this staement. In September 1990, IRA gunmen opened fire on Sir Peter's home in
Staffordshire, wounding him in the head, injuring his wife, and narrowly missing
his daughter.

Sir Peter knew he was at risk, but had been determined to lead a normal life.
Now 69, Sir Peter and Lady Terry have since sold the house. Who's Who lists his
recreation as golf and he is vice president of Re-Solv, a solvent abuse pressure
group.

Roger Bolton TV Producer

Death on the Rock, the film broadcast in the This Week current affairs series,
marked the turning point, not only in the case against the SAS soldiers, but
also in the fortunes of the broadcaster Thames Television and the series editor
Roger Bolton.

The industry heaped praise on the programme but the Government was less than
impressed. Revenge came when Thames lost its London franchise under the 1990
Broadcasting Act and with that went This Week and many of its key staff.

Mr Bolton, however, remains a respected figure in factual programme-making and
has since set up as a successful independent producer.


LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1995 Independent Print Ltd

                              114 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                          September 28, 1995, Thursday

Rock And Hard Place

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 627 words


Britain must look beyond the Gibraltar judgment

Many people will sympathise with Michael Heseltine's ''incredulity'' at the
European Court of Human Rights' ruling over the shooting of three IRA terrorists
in Gibraltar seven years ago. The original inquest in September 1988 found that
the SAS acted lawfully when it gunned down Daniel McCann, Mairead Farrell and
Sean Savage. Last year, the European Commission on Human Rights ruled similarly
by 11 votes to six. It is unusual for the court to ignore the advice of the
commission. In this case, it voted against the United Kingdom by the narrow
margin of ten votes to nine.

In fact, the ruling is less damning than might be supposed. As Mr Heseltine
pointed out, the court found against the terrorists' parents on all but one
count. It did not accept that the shootings were the result of an ''execution
plot''. It conceded that ''the soldiers honestly believed, in the light of the
information that they had been given, that it was necessary to shoot the
suspects in order to prevent them from detonating a bomb and causing a serious
loss of life.'' The court accepted that the British authorities were confronted
by a murderous IRA active service unit and ''obliged to formulate their policies
on the basis of incomplete hypotheses''.

Only certain aspects of the operation have been condemned in this judgment. The
court argued that the three suspects should have been arrested at the border
before they entered Gibraltar and that the authorities were too confident about
the quality of their intelligence. Might the terrorists only have been on a
reconnaissance mission? Was there any reason to think that they were carrying
detonation devices? This ''failure to make provision for a margin of error''
was, the court said, compounded by the ''reflex action'' of the soldiers which
''lacked the degree of caution in the use of firearms to be expected from
law-enforcement personnel in a democratic society''.

The nuance of the judgment is reflected in the fact that the court rejected the
applicants' claim for damages. Nonetheless, this is a significant rebuke to the
British Government. It raises familiar questions about the legitimate response
of the State to terrorist attack. How does a democracy deal with a paramilitary
organisation that subjects its citizens to horrors such as the Enniskillen and
Warrington bombings, and seeks consistently to assassinate its elected
governors? One response is to declare martial law, or something like it. The
other is to treat terrorists as criminals and nothing more. Britain has
preferred the latter course.

As a result, it has had to respect the rules of civil order rather than the laws
of war in its campaign against the IRA. However galling it may be to ordinary
Britons, yesterday's European ruling is entirely consistent with that decision:
the United Kingdom was judged to have violated the human rights of three of its
subjects. The cost of denying the IRA the status of an army is to swallow hard
when a continental court wags its finger.

More important than outraged pride, perhaps, is that this judgment should not
become a significant issue in the peace process. Sinn Fein made predictable
noises yesterday about the discomfiture of the British State; so too did the
Labour Left. Yet the republican movement has kept a surprising distance from
this case in recent years. Its leaders quietly recognise that every war has its
casualties. Now they are embarked on a quite different campaign to achieve
constitutional legitimacy. It remains far from clear where this new process is
heading. But it would be deeply regrettable if it were blown off course by this
bitter echo of a bloody era that ought now to be in Ulster's past.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1995 Times Newspapers Limited

                              115 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 29, 1995

IRA PAROLE RULING DEALS FRESH BLOW TO MINISTERS

BYLINE: Alan Travis Home Affairs Editor

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 894 words


THE Government suffered its second legal humiliation in 48 hours for its
treatment of the IRA when a High Court judge said yesterday that ministers had
flouted the European Convention on Human Rights.

The judgment, by Mr Justice Dyson, declared that the Home Secretary, Michael
Howard, has unlawfully delayed for six months the possible release of five of
the longest-serving IRA prisoners in English jails. The ruling follows hard on
the heels of Monday's condemnation of Britain in the European Court of Human
Rights for the Gibraltar SAS killing of three IRA bombers.

The judgment is another devastating legal setback for the Home Secretary which
will undermine Britain's moral standing at a delicate point in the Irish peace
process. The Home Office went out of its way yesterday to stress that there had
been no separate treatment of IRA prisoners, admitting that up to 700 other
prisoners serving discretionary life sentences may have illegally had their
opportunity for parole delayed as well. Home Office ministers will consider an
appeal.

The case is the seventh time Mr Howard has been found to have acted illegally by
the courts in two years as Home Secretary.

In his 26-page judgment, Mr Justice Dyson said Mr Howard had acted unreasonably
and unlawfully in waiting until July when the five IRA men had completed the
20-year "tariff" set down for "retribution and deterrence" before they could
start the process of applying for parole. "Detention thereafter cannot be
justified unless the prisoner continues to be dangerous," said the judge.

Mr Howard had "flouted the principles of the common law and the European
Convention on Human Rights" in not referring their cases to the parole board in
time for a decision shortly after their "tariff" had expired. "Six months
unjustified detention is a very long period for anyone," said Mr Justice Dyson.

Gareth Peirce, solicitor for the five men, who got 16 life sentences for
attempted murder in 1976 for their roles in the IRA's North of England active
service unit, had argued there was overwhelming evidence that in the light of
the ceasefire and peace process they no longer posed a threat. The Lord Chief
Justice had also backed their release.

The ruling does not mean the five - Brendan Dowd, aged 47; Paul Norney, 37; Sean
Kinsella, 48; Stephen Nordone, 39 and Noel Gibson, 42, will be released before
the parole board considers their cases in December. "This is a victory for
others not for them," said Ms Peirce.

Gerry Adams, the Sinn Fein president, called for the immediate release of the
five men and demanded "an end to British victimisation of Republican prisoners".

* In Dublin Irish politicians warned the Home Office not to continue with the
"unseemly charade" of delaying parole for prisoners, writes David Sharrock.

Mary Flaherty, an MP in the ruling Fine Gael party who recently visited
republican prisoners in England, said: "With the early release of Private Lee
Clegg still fresh in the minds of all, to fail to respond to this judgment would
be deeply provocative and would leave the authorities open to legal actions."

Dublin split on arms, page 5

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              116 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            October 1, 1995, Sunday

A huge smoke-screen of humbug; Ministers should calm down, says Ian Jack.
Brussels' verdict on the Gibralter shootings was mild

BYLINE: Ian Jack

SECTION: COMMENT; Page  21

LENGTH: 1516 words


JONATHAN Aitken, the former Chief Secretary to the Treasury, may not always have
spoken or acted wisely in his political life, but we should give him credit
where it's due. Several years ago - long before the killings in Gibraltar - he
made this, to my mind profound, comment on how terrorism could affect a liberal,
lawful state: When the state tried to reconcile effective counter-terrorism with
the rule of law, what you got was "a huge smoke-screen of humbug".

The Gibraltar killings on 6 March 1988 were certainly an example of effective
counter-terrorism in the strictly military sense. Danny McCann, Mairead Farrell
and Sean Savage were terrorists - "volunteers on active service", as the IRA
said after they died - and the SAS made sure that they would never terrorise
again. Farrell was hit by five bullets, McCann by four, Savage by between 16 and
18.

Nobody who sat through their inquest, as I did, will ever again believe in the
idea (which is remarkably persistent) that shooting in the effective
counter-terrorism business can be done, as it were, nicely - a few disabling
shots aimed at the ankles. But then nobody who has ever witnessed the immediate
results of an IRA bomb, as I have not, may have reason to regret this.

The trouble here is the large gulf between, on the one hand, the techniques of
counter-terrorism and popular and political support for it ("murderous bastards,
they deserve what they got" - I admit to that thought sometimes), and, on the
other, how the law says the state should behave. Last week the European Court of
Human Rights decided that the British Government had broken the law by using
more force than was absolutely necessary in Gibraltar - that is, three people
need not have been killed - and by this judgment generated a lot of anger in
London. Michael Heseltine, Deputy Prime Minister, found the judgment
"incomprehensible"; Downing Street said that it "defied common sense".

And yet it was a mild enough verdict. The judges rejected claims by the
relatives of the dead that there had been a premeditated plan to kill them, or
that the laws of Britain and Gibraltar were flawed, or that the killers
themselves had broken the law, given what they had been told by their
supporters. Gibraltar is also history; there is now a truce in Northern Ireland,
perhaps permanent; the Government talks to the IRA's political wing; all kinds
of horror are being conveniently forgotten. So why all the anger and professed
incredulity?

One obvious answer is that governments do not like to be told they have broken
the law, especially by foreigners. Another is that they hate to be disbelieved
by eminent lawyers, because if the scepticism from Strasbourg became current in
United Kingdom courts it would undermine one of Britain's most important legal
strategies over 25 years of the Northern Ireland troubles.

The British Government put an enormous effort into constructing a version of
events that would reconcile the killings with the law, that would make them
legal. It was believed by a majority of the jury at the Gibraltar inquest in
1988 and, later, by another majority at the European Commission on (as opposed
to Court of) Human Rights. Last week's verdict implied that 10 out of 19 judges
thought it was hokum - Jonathan Aitken's "huge smoke-screen of humbug" - and I
think they were right.

THE most important facts about the killings are that the dead were unarmed, did
not try to resist arrest, did not have the means to explode a bomb and had not
placed a bomb in Gibraltar. They were not, at the time they were shot, either a
threat to the men who killed them or to anyone else. To make their killing
legal, therefore, looks a formidable proposition.  The Government rested its
case on the twin defence of "reasonable belief" and "reasonable force".

It had already used both with some success in Northern Ireland. In 1978, for
example, an SAS unit shot and killed a 16-year-old Catholic boy, John Boyle,
near a secret arms dump close to his home in County Antrim. Boyle was not in the
IRA - in fact the Army was keeping watch on the arms dump thanks to information
that had come from him via his father - and two SAS men were charged with
murder, to be acquitted on the grounds that they thought they had seen Boyle
pointing a rifle at them, which according to the judge meant that they could
reasonably (however mistakenly) believe that their lives were endangered.

"Reasonable force" had an earlier run before the courts, when, in 1971, Patrick
McLoughlin was shot dead with two other unarmed men as he tried to rob a bank in
Newry. His widow sued the Ministry of Defence for damages in the Northern
Ireland High Court, but the jury was persuaded by an argument that recalled an
earlier case, in which an army ambush had shot three men because the officer had
mistakenly believed that they were about to plant a bomb. As Lord Justice Gibson
(who was later killed by a Republican bomb) remarked at the time, shooting was
sometimes the only practicable means of arrest: "In the law you may effect an
arrest in the last extreme by shooting him the suspect dead . . . if you watch
Wild West films, the posse go ready to shoot their men if need be . . . shooting
may be justified as a method of arrest."

The difficulty with these arguments in the Gibraltar case is that McCann,
Farrell, and Savage were not killed as the result of some sudden confusion on a
dark night at a roadblock in County Armagh, by soldiers who had panicked or
mistaken their targets. The security forces had known for months about the IRA's
intended attack on Gibraltar. They knew the target (the band of the Royal
Anglian Regiment), the place (the square near the Governor's residence), and the
most likely time (about 11am on Tuesday 8 March).  A trap had been set,
codenamed "Operation Flavius" and dozens of SAS men and Special Branch officers
had been drafted from the UK. The terrorists' movements and false identities
were known: they had been watched in Spain, watched crossing the border, and
watched for every pace of their walk round Gibraltar.

So why not arrest them in the usual sense of the word? Because, so the
Government argued before the inquest, the security forces believed that Savage's
car contained a bomb, specifically a radio-controlled bomb, which could be
activated by pressing a button.

Many questions arise. One, if they were so certain Savage's car contained a
bomb, why did they allow it into Gibraltar? Two, why were civilians not cleared
from the area where the bomb was thought to be until after the three were shot?
Three, why did the Government persist, until the afternoon of the next day, with
the lie that there was a bomb in Gibraltar when there wasn't? Four, why was the
Army so certain - an absolute certainty, according to evidence given at the
inquest - that the supposed bomb was radio-controlled?

THE certainty of the men who led Operation Flavius was a key factor at the
inquest. In last week's judgment, the European Court criticised them for being
so certain - and wrong. Sceptics, myself included, wonder if that certainty was
not constructed after the fact - between the killings and the inquest. Without
it, the Government does not have a case. With it, the shootings can be defended
on grounds of reasonable belief and reasonable force. If it was reasonable to
believe that the bomb was radio- controlled and could be exploded at the press
of a button in the hands of McCann, Farrell, or Savage (despite the fact that
the target was two days away, despite the fact that the bomb, when found in
Spain, was equipped with timers), then it was also reasonable to shoot them, and
go on shooting them till the danger of any human life, and therefore movement,
was expunged.

If you believe, as the inquest jury did, that this was lawful, then you also
have to believe, as I tend to, that the three would have been killed in almost
any circumstance in which they were inside Gibraltar with a car. The reason for
shooting rather than arresting them was that they had all made suspicious
movements in the seconds before they were shot.  It became clear from the SAS
men's evidence that any movement was seen as suspicious.

As Soldier D said of the shooting of Savage: "In our rules of engagement, if we
thought the threat was so great. . . we had no need to give a warning.  We knew
the fact the bomb was there. We knew he Savage could well be carrying the device
to detonate the bomb. With him making such violent movements he was running
after hearing the gunfire that killed his companions . . .we didn't even need
give him a warning."

In other words, their deaths were inevitable. No doubt there is a difference
between premeditated and inevitable - it would certainly be surprising if
lawyers could not find one. Far from being incensed, the British Government
should perhaps wonder if it was lucky in the judgment of the European Court.

The author was Reporter of the Year in 1989 for a report on the Gibraltar
killings, published in 'Granta'


LOAD-DATE: October 02, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1995 Independent Print Ltd

                              117 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                October 3, 1995

Dark days before Labour's last win

BYLINE: Magaret Vaughan

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1122 words


Labour's last General Election win is a distant memory. Margaret Vaughan looks
back at the issues which confronted the electorate in 1974

IT WAS the year a chemical explosion killed 28 people in Flixborough, and a wave
of IRA bombings brought carnage to Guildford and Woolwich and Birmingham,
leaving 25 dead. It was the same year Nixon's stubbly jowls quivered in living
rooms around the world as he resigned, on television, in disgrace, over
Watergate. It was the year Canada pushed Pierre Trudeau on to the world stage,
and the year Golda Meyer was pushed off before the Golan Heights erupted. Slade
were stomping up the charts in platform shoes and flares, Gary Glitter was a
strange force in the land of pop, and John Denver was still singing his
plaintive ode to Annie.

It was 21 years ago, 1974. And it was the last time Labour won a General
Election.

My, it all seems such a long time ago. Less a stroll down memory lane, more a
whizz back with Stephen Hawking to a time not of another age, but on another
planet.

It should be a sobering thought for those gathered for the party's annual
conference and therapy session at Brighton that since the party last held power,
Nixon has been rehabilitated, the wounds of ravaged Ulster are being salved,
Gary Glitter has retired at least 12 times and John Denver's Annie left him long
ago. And an entire generation has grown up with no memories of political life
beyond those of Mrs Thatcher.

A week today, October 10, it will be exactly 21 years since Labour last won a
General Election. It's not a cause for celebration, and there are unlikely to be
any anniversary parties, not when Tony Blair knows that the key to the door of
No 10 still remains elusive. Whether it stays beyond his -- New Labour's --
reach may depend in some part on how his "vision thing" plays not just to the
activists gathered at Brighton, but to the electorate for whom Labour in power
is a dim memory.

If a week is a long time in politics, and an interminably sore seven days in the
life of a leader at conference, 16 years is a hell of a long time to wander in
the wilderness of opposition.

In March 1974, Harold Wilson squeaked to power in the first of two General
Election victories that year. He promised conciliation, a social contract, a
soothing of the industrial wounds that marked, what he termed, Ted Heath's Dark
Age.

Then, as now, it was social discord, high unemployment, and economic woes which
mattered most to the voters. Then, as now, the Labour leadership held out the
hope of a more consensual society.

The year 1974 had opened in a disturbed political climate after 12 months of
exceptional instability throughout the UK. Newspapers of the time describe a
country under siege, a sense of crisis gripping the nation.

A state of emergency was in force, a three-day week was restricting industrial
production, high inflation was accelerating. There were fears of food riots and
much talk of a national government.

Heath's hated Industrial Relations Act, designed to quell the industrial unrest
that marked the sixties, was the source of great conflict between government and
trade unions.

Wilson, according to his biographer, Ben Pimlott, sought to create a mood of
national harmony.

Strikes had been a problem in the sixties. In the inflation-ridden early
seventies they became a plague, the British disease. Government had tried
several tacks. After being forced to settle the 1972 miners' strike on the
miners' own terms, Heath had adopted a statutory policy which began with a
compulsory standstill on wages, followed by phased rises.

Disaster struck two days before an announcement of Phase Three when a new war
broke out in the Middle East, slashing Britain's oil supply and quadrupling the
oil price. Energy became the issue, with a knock-on effect for the coal board's
latest dispute with the miners.

The miners imposed an overtime ban and threatened to strike. In panic, Heath
announced a three-day week to restrict consumption of fuel. In February 1974,
the result of the miners' ballot showed 81% in favour of a strike. On February 7
Heath called an election, making it a single-issue campaign on the theme "Who
Governs Britain?''

The voters patently didn't give him the answer he wanted. They had other things
on their minds, apart from the miners, not least price rises which Heath had
once promised to cut at a stroke.

Labour's campaign theme was not about the miners or militants, but the
disastrous failure of three-and-a-half years of Tory government which he claimed
had turned Britain from the path to prosperity to the road to ruin.

It was widely assumed the Tories would win by a landslide. There was little in
Labour's manifesto to frighten voters. The bogey of Labour extremism seemed
irrelevant. Conditions, voters believed, could scarcely be more extreme than
they were.

Labour promised to renegotiate Britain's terms for entry into the Common Market,
into which Heath had led the country in 1972, and in the last few days the
miners were pushed into the background. Labour won.

With only four more seats than the Tories, but polling fewer votes, Wilson knew
he had to go back to the country. There was talk of the Tories becoming the
natural party of opposition. The Common Market threatened to tear both main
parties apart.

There followed, for Labour, a troubled summer. Scandals broke, most were proved
to be lies, but the tainted edge clung. Wilson's oft-remarked paranoia in that
summer seems with hindsight -- and the subsequent evidence of disaffected MI5
agents -- to have been well marked. That there was a rogue element in the secret
services intent on destroying Wilson and Labour in the summer of 1974 seems now
to be accepted.

There was a deepening crisis in Northern Ireland, the Diplock -- no-jury --
courts were set up and a new wave of terrorism began. Essential services broke
down in the province and law and order could barely be maintained.

Labour went back to the voters in October promising only that it would carry on:
Labour keeps its promises was the theme. Wilson conjured up the spectre of life
under Heath, of two million out of work, dark streets, unlit offices, TV
curtailed . . . "a frozen, broken-back Britain ruled under a state of
emergency".

In a last desperate throw, Heath called for a national coalition. He lost and
Labour won in October, but only just. Its majority dwindled to three. It hirpled
on, with the help or hindrance of 39 minor party MPs. And the rest, of course,
is history.

1974. It seems a long time, a very long time, ago.

There were fears of food riots and much talk of a national government

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Road to victory: Harold Wilson campaigns in Leith in the run-up to the
October General Election in 1974. Wilson conjured up the spectre of life under
Heath . . . "a frozen, broken-back Britain ruled under a state of emergency".

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1995 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              118 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           October 5, 1995, Thursday

MI5 chief goes public to clarify crime strategy

BYLINE: HEATHER MILLS Home Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Page  2

LENGTH: 375 words


HEATHER MILLS

Home Affairs Correspondent

Stella Rimington, the head of MI5, yesterday spelt out the security service's
credentials for its planned move onto the traditional policing territory of
organised crime.

Speaking in London, she said the ease and speed of modern communications and
travel, and the weakening of border controls, made it inevitable that organised
crime, such as drug trafficking and money laundering, would continue to grow.

Countering the threat successfully would require similar methods to those
employed in counter-terrorism, she said, detailing how MI5 had, for the past 25
years, co-ordinated intelligence work against both IRA and loyalist groups in
Britain and Europe - with "rarely visible" success.

The Government has agreed to allow MI5 to expand its role into fighting
organised crime, representing a victory for the MI5 director-general who, since
the IRA cease-fire, has been negotiating for an anti-crime role for officers
previously used on anti-terrorist work.

Mrs Rimington employs about 2,000 full-time staff and has an annual budget of
pounds 150m.

Chief constables are understood to have agreed the move but are determined to
restrict MI5 to a supporting role. Sir Paul Condon, the Metropolitan Police
Commissioner, said recently that there was great strength in exploiting the
talents - and powers - of all agencies. But lawyers and civil rights campaigners
are concerned about MI5's lack of public accountability and the culture of
secrecy that engulfs the service.

Addressing the English Speaking Union last night, Mrs Rimington said that
economic espionage, terrorism and the proliferation of mass-destruction weapons
- as well as organised crime - were seen as the major threats to national
security in the post-Cold War world. Increasingly, MI5 was forging links with
other governments and their intelligence agencies to share information on mutual
concerns such international terrorist activity.

But the new order also "created conditions which encourage the growth of. . .
'organised crime'," Mrs Rimington said. She added: "This phenomenon is
comparatively new. In many countries, including the UK, its impact and
seriousness are still being assessed."


LOAD-DATE: October 05, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1995 Independent Print Ltd

                              119 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 16, 1995

DEATH ON THE RUE;
Last month when police marksmen shot and killed Khaled Kelkal, the chief suspect
in the summer's terrorist bombing campaign, the deep divisions in French society
became clear. For some there is still liberty, but what, asks Jonathan
Steele,happened to fraternity and equality?

BYLINE: Jonathan Steele

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGE; Pg. T2

LENGTH: 3254 words


SEVERELY wounded, the young Algerian terrorist suspect lay on his back beside a
bus-shelter, a pistol still in his hand. As he raised his arm, with little
chance of aiming at anything, one of the French policemen crouching nearby
shouted "Finish him off, finish him off". More shots rang out. Khaled Kelkal was
dead.

Coming a few days after the European Court condemned Britain's Special Air
Services for shooting three IRA men in Gibraltar in 1988, the death of Kelkal on
Friday, September 29, inevitably invited comparison with "Death on the Rock". It
looked like the latest round in a merciless vendetta, in this case between the
French state and those who have been planting bombs at vulnerable points around
the country since this summer.

Yet the only definite links between Kelkal and the wave of terrorism were his
fingerprints on adhesive tape connecting a detonator to an unexploded bomb found
on the high-speed railway between Paris and his home-town of Lyon. If the police
had arrested him after disabling him with their first wave of bullets, they
could have got valuable information on whether Kelkal, an unemployed 24-year-old
from Vaulx-en-Velin, a suburb of Lyon, was an angry ghetto youth enraged by
joblessness and marginalisation or the front man for a ring of Islamic
fundamentalists, exporting Algeria's civil war to the mainland of France.

For most of the French media, Kelkal's killing was seen as an unqualified
triumph. "Shot down" screamed the front-page headline in France-Soir over a
picture of his body. The television channels repeatedly showed clips of a member
of the special police kicking the corpse to check it had no movement left.
Kelkal's death looked like the end to a nightmare summer in which seven people
were killed and more than 100 injured in several bomb attacks.  No wonder the
public was thrilled that a prime suspect was dead, especially when Jean-Louis
Debre, the Interior Minister, excitedly announced that Kelkal was probably
involved in at least four of this year's terrorist incidents. In Vaulx
-en-Velin, however, youths set cars alight, smashed shop windows, and pelted the
police with stones.

The case revealed a cleavage in French society.  Most of France's thousands of
Algerian immigrants believe that Kelkal was yet another innocent victim of
police violence.  "It's happening constantly," comments Sarden, an Algerian law
student from Vaulx-en-Velin. "Except that Kelkal died in the most hateful way,
in the eye of the cameras. A body should be respected, not kicked around."
Sarden (who, like his friends, declines to give his last name) is one of the
leaders of Agora, a group which runs literacy classes and tries to help young
people find jobs in one of the suburb's three huge housing estates.

Vaulx-en-Velin, with its lawns and trees, freshly-painted walls, and young white
mothers pushing baby-buggies, is no American-style racial ghetto. "But come down
at night," Sarden says. "You'll see a different story. The police will be out in
force, and so will we." Although Agora is government-funded, Sarden and his
friends have little respect for the authorities. Four of them sit in the Agora
office, a ground-floor flat on the estate. One is Spanish, the other three
Algerian.

What angers them particularly is that they feel prevented from integrating. "I
feel myself French, and that's what my identity card says. It's the French who
make us foreign," comments Saeed. He has been lucky to find a job as a mechanic.
Jose, born in France of Spanish parents, has only managed to get casual work.
About 40 per cent of young people in Vaulx-en-Velin are out of work.

Sarden declines to comment on the fact that Kelkal was armed when he died, and
had certainly exchanged fire with the police.  "You can have various opinions on
the details. But his image here is positive.  He is not a pariah." All of them
are constantly stopped by police and required to show their papers. "I'm fed up
with being searched, often in the most intimate way. We feel we're always in the
dock."

THE three Algerians call themselves Muslims but none prays regularly or goes to
the mosque. Only a few of their friends do.  They laugh at the notion that
Islamic fundamentalism has penetrated the estate, seeing this as another example
of French hysteria. "We prefer talking to foreign reporters. They are usually
calmer and less prejudiced," Nabil says.

They point out that it was only thanks to a foreign journalist that the telling
phrase "finish him off" emerged, which implied that Kelkal's death was an
execution rather than a legitimate act of self-defence by the police. A reporter
from the Swiss paper, Le Nouveau Quotidien, reached the scene at the same time
as the police after the first report that Kelkal had been sighted and heard the
phrase after the first volley of shots which left the Algerian on his back on
the ground. She used it in her story.

The M6 television channel which taped the events as they unfolded declined to
broadcast that portion of the sequence. Patrick de Colis, its head of news,
later showed it to journalists, saying: "It was not censorship but a responsible
decision." Most other French stations approved his line. Alain Juppe, the Prime
Minister, was quick to defend the police. The French establishment, the media
and the politicians, had for once united in trying to brush the issue aside.

To French experts on race relations, the tragic episode has underlined two
truths - first, how little most French people understand about the thousands of
Algerians in their midst, and secondly, how they prefer to demonise them,
lumping them into the same bag with the new bogey of Islamic fundamentalism.

"France has more West Indians than Britain, and certainly more Africans," says
Emmanuel Todd, a senior researcher at the National Institute for Demographic
Studies (INED), which recently completed France's biggest survey of immigrants.
"Yet you hardly ever hear of them. The good thing is that the French are not
fixated on colour. But they are on Muslims.

"Even when it comes to Muslims there's an obsession with Algerians," he
explains. It reflects France's still tortured relationship with its former
colony where a war is raging between a hardline military regime and Islamic
fundamentalists. A row broke out last year in France when groups of Muslim girls
started wearing Islamic headscarves at school and some head teachers objected.
There was furore in the press.  "In half the cases they were Turks, in 40 per
cent Moroccans, and only a handful were Algerian," says Todd. "Yet you would
have thought from the media they were all Algerian and that it was connected
with the civil war there."

The other misunderstanding centres on the amount of integration France has
managed to achieve. There is much more than most French people, let alone other
Europeans, imagine and particularly "in the bedroom". INED discovered, after
interviewing more than 13,000 people, that arranged marriages are becoming a
thing of the past. Half the Algerian men who were born in France or came as
teenagers married French girls. Even a quarter of the Algerian girls married
French boys. According to Todd, the comparable figure for Turkish girls in
Germany marrying Germans is 1 per cent.  "In the long run I believe that the
British and the Germans will have a bigger problem of integration than the
French. The French are not fixated on colour or religion. They are more
concerned about customs and traditions," he says.

But this has a harmful effect on other cultures. Researchers see a massive and
painful disintegration of the Arab family in France, accelerated by
unemployment. Islam is not much of a defence since few French Arabs are
observant. Only 10 per cent of Algerian immigrant's children go to mosque. The
upward pull of integration also means that an Algerian who does well at school
is sucked into the middle class, leaving those who are left jobless in the
ghettos leaderless - a sure recipe for gangs and delinquency.

In this environment it is hardly surprising if a few young Algerians are
"returning" to Islam and becoming leaders of a rebel sub-culture. Khaled Kelkal,
it now turns out, was exactly one of these. A German researcher spent a year in
Vaulx-en-Velin three years ago talking to young immigrants.  Among them was
Kelkal.

His parents brought him to France at the age of two. His elder brother was sent
to prison for seven years for armed robbery, but Khaled did well at school until
he was transferred to a high-quality secondary school where he was the only
foreigner in his class. He found it hard to get on. "My pride collapsed. I had
to set my personality aside," he told his German interviewer. He began to play
truant, and started minor thieving before graduating to car theft. "When you
steal, you feel free because it's a game."

His parents tried to motivate him. They kept urging him to go back to school -
"You must succeed." But the bright Khaled was on a downhill path. Sent to
prison, he shared a cell with another Muslim who encouraged him to learn to read
Arabic and study the Koran.  It kept him off any temptation to mess with drugs.
Rather, it turned him into something of a drugs counsellor. Whenever he saw
other kids taking drugs, he urged them to get off it.

Khaled wanted to get a flat in Vaulx-en-Velin, and settle down and have
children. But that meant getting a job, which seemed impossible. His next dream
was to leave France. "I'm not Arab or French, I'm a Muslim," he stated. "I'd
like to get a bit of money to start a business. If I work, I eat. If I don't, I
starve. That's all. It will all depend on me and nobody else." That was three
years ago. The next summer Khaled went to Algeria with his mother, but he came
back to resume his life as a jobless young man on the edge of delinquency.
Nothing was heard of him until July this year when a car he had just bought
roared through a roadblock near Lyon. The police gave chase. The occupants fired
three times and got away. No one was identified.

Then, on August 26, Kelkal's fingerprints were found on a detonator. Suddenly
his face was displayed on 170,000 posters all over France. He had become a
public enemy.

WAS HE really responsible for the wave of fearful terrorist attacks, which
included a bomb at a crowded Paris underground station and another near the Arc
de Triomphe? The Interior Minister's comment that he had a hand in most of these
atrocities appears to have been a piece of stupid political triumphalism. The
police cast doubt on it at the time. Since Kelkal's death there have been two
new bombings, albeit small-scale. The police are examining a recent statement
from the fundamentalist underground army in Algeria, the GIA, which claims
responsibility.

The central lesson from this sad affair is that the French media and French
politicians must separate two distinct things: the plight of the Algerians in
their midst and France's role in Algeria. Father Christian Delorme, a Roman
Catholic priest appointed by the Archbishop of Lyon to work with immigrants,
says: "Khaled Kelkal's family is not practising, let alone fundamentalist. He
wore no sign of being religious. He smoke and drank beer, and stopped going to
mosque last year." Father Delorme has no reason to think the young man was
involved with Algerian terrorists. He wonders whether the terrorism could be a
dirty trick by the Algerian military to grip France even more firmly to its
side.

He acknowledges that newly arrived Algerians are trying to radicalise ghetto
youth. "But I am sure there are no organised Muslims in Lyon. Beyond the Islamic
networks, there is the Algerian military security. France should reduce its
support for this regime," Father Delorme told Le Figaro. Certainly, France
stands closer to the Algerian military than any other Western government, many
of which have tried to foster a dialogue between the regime and the Islamic
moderates. Now Chirac has announced he will meet the Algerian military leader,
General Liamine Zeroual, at the United Nations next Sunday. This high-profile
encounter, on the eve of Algerian presidential elections, which the opposition
is boycotting, will be the first time a French president has talked to the
regime since it cancelled parliamentary elections three years ago. The French
police union has condemned the meeting, fearing it will look like an endorsement
of the regime and will provoke a terrorist response.

On what Chirac should do about the separate issue of integration for France's
young Algerians, Father Delorme is blunt: "He should wipe out the television
images of the last few days and come out clearly and say that the ghetto youth
are children of France."

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              120 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            October 23, 1995, Monday

Traumatised by the new reality; France's crisis lies in its failure to adapt to
the end of the Cold War and one Germany, says David Marsh

BYLINE: David Marsh

SECTION: COMMENT; Page  19

LENGTH: 1178 words


Pity poor France! A Gallic conspiracy theorist, pondering the state of the
nation, might ruefully imagine that France had been brought to its current low
ebb by sleight of foreign hand. While nuclear test blasts echo fruitlessly
around the south Pacific, at home the currency is languishing, economic growth
declining, social divisiveness widening and confidence in political leadership
crumbling. Could this be a product of a cunning plot to destabilise France by
feeding it the illusion that the country could ignore the disagreeable realities
of the post-Cold War world? By seeking to tie the franc to the mark in a bid to
hold down a unified Germany - a policy now coming more unstuck by the day - has
France been lured into a position of economic and political infirmity by its
neighbour east of the Rhine?

The truth is more prosaic. France is in a mess because of its own failure to
make internal reforms to adjust to the collapse of the Berlin Wall and the
ending of the US-Soviet superpower system. External circumstances have changed,
but France still wants to play the game of "Carry On as a Grande Nation" -
exerting pivotal international influence without the pivot. Promising a
colourful mix of nationalism, Europeanism, socialism, corporatism and
liberalism, President Jacques Chirac took office in April either unaware or
uncaring of the contradictions in his policies.  Six months and a string of
broken promises later, the full extent of the crisis facing France's society and
its decision-making structures has been laid bare. Chirac has been hoist with
the petard of his own hubris.

France's economic malaise is just one element of its troubles. They include the
spillover into France of terrorist attacks emanating from the bloody unrest in
Algeria - a problem that both feeds and feeds off the growing alienation of the
country's new-generation immigrants from the Maghreb.  The economic crisis is,
however, the most serious manifestation of France's ills, not least because it
exposes the country's full vulnerability in the all-important bilateral
comparison with Germany.

The sheer ponderous continuity of German political leadership has exacerbated
France's task of maintaining economic credibility. Since 1983, when France
shifted away from devaluations to keeping the franc steady against the mark,
France has had eight prime ministers, none of them achieving the full confidence
of the financial markets - while Germany has had Chancellor Helmut Kohl.

Over the past five years the power of French-style capitalism, epitomised by the
omnipresence of grande ecole-educated functionaries in industry, banking and the
civil service, has been weakened beyond measure. Since German unification in
1990, top French industrial companies and banks have been much less successful
than German ones in restructuring their operations to meet international
competition.

The decaying influence of the French governmental elite has been evident, too,
in budgetary policy. Well-meaning statements of intent have not been turned into
action. Unlike Germany, which has recently been more adept than expected in
cutting its budget deficit to match the European targets for economic and
monetary union, France's fiscal stance has been irresolute. Its public sector
indebtedness, like that of Germany, has doubled during the past five years.
France, though, has nothing to show for it - in contrast to the Federal
Republic, which has taken on the extra debt to absorb and rehabilitate the
former East Germany.

Edouard Balladur, the Gaullist prime minister between 1993 and 1995 and Chirac's
opponent in the presidential election earlier this year, launched a piously
worded crusade two-and-a-half years ago to head off what he called the "fatal
trap of spiralling indebtedness". Balladur's rhetoric far outstripped his
capacity to deliver, and the deficit rose last year to 6 per cent of gross
domestic product, double the Maastricht target.

Balladur's successor, Alain Juppe, warned three weeks ago that high public
spending, particularly on social security, placed France in "national peril".
Juppe has faced anger within his own party over his illegitimate use of a chic
subsidised Paris apartment (which he is now being forced to vacate), a one-day
general strike from public service workers protesting about a planned pay
freeze, and increased attacks on the franc fort from right- and left-wing
politicians. The latest came last week from Juppe's Gaullist rival Philippe
Seguin, who criticised the "devastating" consequences of high French interest
rates.

High short-term interest rates no longer support the franc. They depress it
because the triple effect of lowering economic growth, pushing up government
spending on unemployment and further weakening the capital base of France's
badly overstretched banking system makes the franc fort policy increasingly
unsustainable in the eyes of the currency markets.

France will be able to avoid a formal devaluation against the mark thanks to the
wider currency fluctuation bands that were brought in during the 1993 summer
flare-up in the European exchange-rate mechanism. But the next few weeks are
likely to show that France is willing to trade a weaker franc - and (inevitably)
the postponement of its plans for European monetary union - in return for lower
interest rates and hopes of economic recovery.

As Le Monde delicately put it in an editorial on Friday, Britain, by lowering
sterling's value against the mark in September 1992, provided an "example" that
could "enrich" the French economic debate. Britain's devaluation, Le Monde
pointed out, is one reason why the UK has 1 million fewer unemployed people than
France. Unlike Britain in 1992, France has a low inflation rate and a current
account surplus, but the overriding need to reduce interest rates indicates that
the franc's link with the mark will shortly be "temporarily loosened" (as any
Paris governmental euphemism would no doubt describe it).

Unfortunately for Mr Chirac and Mr Juppe, France's troubles cannot be resolved
simply by Houdini-like unravelling of the mark knot. Reflecting shortages in
skills, flexibility and capital in much of French industry, as well as the
sluggishness of European export markets, France's immediate corporate prospects
would receive only a modest boost from a franc depreciation.  Further, a looser
monetary policy would require France to toughen further budgetary rigour - a
move already demanded by the Patronat employers' federation, which is likely to
cause more pain all round.

France is in the uncomfortable position of knowing that, whatever action it
takes on the economic front, the short-term consequences will be dire. This will
be grist to the mill of Parisian conspiracy theorists.  Anglo-Saxon
foreign-exchange dealers taking an autumn break around the Champs-Elysees in the
next few weeks should take out extra insurance cover.

The author is director of European strategy at Robert Fleming, the London- based
investment bank.


LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1995 Independent Print Ltd

                              121 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Standard (London)

                                October 25, 1995

SADDAM'S HIT-MAN IS EXPELLED BY BRITAIN

BYLINE: Charles Reiss,Tim Barlass

SECTION: Pg. 1, 2

LENGTH: 667 words


BRITAIN today expelled an Iraqi diplomat for plotting to kill opponents of
Saddam Hussein. He was given six days to leave the country.

The diplomat, Khamas Khalaf Al Ajili, was stationed in London as an
'administrative attache'.

A terse statement from the Foreign Office said that Ajili had been thrown out
for 'activities incompatible with his diplomatic status' - the traditional code
for spying.

A Foreign Office spokesman would give no further details. But sources indicated
that Ajili was a member of Saddam's feared Directorate of General Intelligence.

That organisation is known to have been responsible for terrorist attacks in the
Middle-East and elsewhere.

Surveillance of Ajili made clear that he was collecting information about
opponents of the Saddam regime living in Britain in order either to act as a
hit-man himself or prepare the way for others. 'He has been gathering
intelligence to target Iraqi dissidents in the UK,' said one source. 'We view it
with great seriousness.'

Ajili arrived in London in August last year. Britain has no diplomatic relations
with Iraq so he was stationed at the 'Iraqi interests section' in the Jordanian
Embassy with two other Iraqi diplomats.

The move comes just two months after two of Saddam Hussein's top henchmen, who
are married to two of his daughters, fled to Jordan from Iraq.

In London, the Iraqi National Congress, an umbrella organisation seeking the
overthrow of Saddam, said at the time the defections showed his regime to be
defunct and tottering. 'Even Saddam's daughters have no place in Iraq if their
husbands disagree with him and his sons,' said spokesman Dr Ahmad Chalabi.

The defections were just the latest signs of cracks appearing in Saddam's
keep-it-in-the-family powerhouse of political advisers and military strategists.

Saddam's eldest son Uday, head of the super-militia, was reported to have had
'polite but tense' talks with King Hussein in Amman to try to secure their
return.

However, according to a Jordanian official, he was forced to return to Baghdad
empty-handed.

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1995 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              122 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 25, 1995

BOMB BLASTS PROMPT NEW SECURITY TIES

BYLINE: Ian Black Diplomatic Editor

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FOREIGN PAGE; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 374 words


BRITISH security and intelligence services have improved co-operation with their
French counterparts following the bombings by Algerian extremists in the run up
to next month's presidential elections in the north African country.

Officials in London say there has been an increase in collaboration and
surveillance since the recent attacks by the Armed Islamic Group (GIA), in which
seven people have been killed.

Relations between the security service, MI5, and its French equivalent, the DST,
are described as excellent - a point being stressed in Whitehall before next
weekend's Anglo-French summit.

British officials are going out of their way to reveal the close working links
in an area normally taboo - a move intended partly to counter French criticism
that excessively liberal asylum procedures are making Britain a haven for
Islamic militants.

Both Algeria and France are angry that Britain has become a centre for
activists, although there is no evidence any are involved in terrorism.

Meanwhile the British authorities have been warned that Algerian intelligence
agents may try to provoke violent incidents to induce a crackdown.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              123 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 26, 1995

IRAQI ENVOY IS EXPELLED

BYLINE: Ian Black And Richard Norton-Taylor

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 640 words


BRITAIN yesterday ordered the expulsion of an Iraqi diplomat said to have
targeted exiled fellow countrymen opposed to Saddam Hussein.

The Foreign Office announced that Khamis Khalaf Al-Ajili, administrative attache
at the Iraqi interests section in London, had been told to leave the country by
October 31.

Officials, providing more details than normal in such cases, said Mr Al-Ajili
was in fact a member of Iraq's directorate of general intelligence, an
organisation known to be responsible for terrorist attacks.

MI5 has been watching him for some time but may only recently have had
sufficient evidence to back up the Government's demand for his expulsion for
"activities incompatible with his diplomatic status". He has been in Britain
since August 1994.

The Iraqi National Congress, an umbrella organisation of opposition groups,
welcomed the move: "It is well known that Saddam Hussein uses Iraq's embassies
overseas as bases for international terrorism, threats against the Iraqi
opposition, espionage and procurement of weapons of mass destruction."

Iraq severed diplomatic relations with Britain in February 1991 and has since
been represented by an interests section operating under the protection of the
Jordanian embassy. Yesterday's expulsion reduces its staff to two.

The man in charge, Zuheir Ibrahim, was summoned to the Foreign Office to be told
of the decision. He was not available for comment last night.

Iraqi National Congress sources noted that Latif Yahia, who escaped to Britain
after working as a double for Saddam's son, Uday, was recently beaten up in
London. Mr Al-Ajili was known to Iraqi exile activists.

Security sources made clear that a passage in a recent speech by Stella
Rimington, the head of MI5, in which she spoke of "concerted campaigns by some
states to murder their political opponents abroad", referred to Iraqi
intelligence agents.

The last diplomat expelled from Britain was an Iranian caught in May 1994
distributing forged papers about British policy in Bosnia. The Foreign Office
tried to keep that decision secret.

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              124 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                October 26, 1995

Expelled Iraqi came to target UK dissidents

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 236 words


AN IRAQI diplomat expelled from Britain was an intelligence agent targeting
Saddam Hussein's opponents in this country, it has been revealed.

Diplomat Khamis Khalaf Al Ajili, administrative attache at the Iraqi interests
section of the Jordanian embassy, was ordered to leave the country by October
31, the Foreign Office announced yesterday.

It is understood that Al Ajili was a member of Iraq's Directorate of General
Intelligence, which has been responsible for terrorist acts around the world.

He was engaged in targeting Iraqi nationals in this country, British sources
said.

A Foreign Office spokesman said: "He has been declared persona non grata on the
grounds he has been engaged in activities incompatible with his diplomatic
status."

The Iraqi National Congress, the umbrella organisation for the main Iraqi
opposition group based in northern Iraq, said in a statement: "We welcome the
expulsion from the UK of one of Saddam's agents, who was using diplomatic cover
to engage in terror against the Iraqi opposition in this country."

Formal diplomatic relations between Britain and Iraq were severed at the
beginning of the Gulf War but there is a small Iraqi interests section attached
to the Jordanian embassy in London.

Al Ajili, who arrived in Britain in August 1994, was one of just three Iraqi
diplomatic staff based in London. Britain has no diplomats in Baghdad.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1995 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              125 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           October 26, 1995, Thursday

Britain expels Iraqi for London spying

BYLINE: CHRISTOPHER BELLAMY

SECTION: INTERNATIONAL; Page  16

LENGTH: 381 words


CHRISTOPHER BELLAMY

An Iraqi diplomat is being expelled from Britain for passing information to
Baghdad which could have been used to kill Iraqi dissidents in London

The Foreign Office announced yesterday that Khamis Khalef Al Ajili, the
administrative attache at the Iraqi Interest Section of the Jordanian Embassy in
Kensington has been declared persona non grata and has been given until 31
October to leave the country with his family. He is accused of "activities
incompatible with his diplomatic status". This usually means spying and, in this
case, is understood to mean surveillance and targeting of Iraqi dissidents in
the UK.

Jeremy Hanley, the Foreign Office minister responsible for the Middle East, took
the decision after security services had apparently obtained evidence that Mr
Ajili was acting in violation of UN Security Council Resolutions. Resolution
687, passed after the end of the Gulf war, requires Iraq to stop acts of
terrorism, including those against Iraqi dissidents in foreign countries.

Baghdad has long been concerned about opponents of President Saddam Hussein's
regime operating abroad. Two months ago, the President's two sons-in-law fled to
Jordan, joining hundreds of Iraqis round the world who are working to overthrow
the regime.

Diplomatic relations between Britain and Iraq were broken off in February 1991
after the start of the Gulf war. Britain has no diplomats in Iraq but, under the
Vienna convention, both countries retained the right to maintain an interest
section in the other's capital. Yesterday the Foreign Office said it remained
undecided about whether it would allow a replacement for Mr Ajili.

Mr Ajili, known to belong to Iraq's Directorate General of Intelligence, arrived
in August 1994. He was one of three Iraqis at the Jordanian embassy.  The Iraqi
staff needed special permission to travel out of London and, in the words of a
security source yesterday: "We keep a close eye on their activities."

There is a substantial number of Iraqi exiles in London and Manchester.  The
exact number of dissidents who are prominent enough to be of interest to Baghdad
is unknown but they include members of the exiled Iraqi National Congress and
the Supreme Council for Islamic Resistance in Iraq.


LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1995 Independent Print Ltd

                              126 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                            October 27, 1995, Friday

TERRORISTS FREED EARLY;
TERRORISTS SET TO BE FREED EARLY FROM NORTHERN IRELAND JAILS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 414 words


HUNDREDS of terrorists are to be freed early from Northern Ireland's jails in a
new bid to boost the peace process - starting right away.

They will now be considered for remission after half - instead of two-thirds -
of their sentences.

Measures to make the move possible are to be rushed through the Commons within
days.

The Government aims to show it is prepared to respond to the ending of terrorist
violence, Whitehall sources said last night. Eighty-eight convicts are to win
immediate release.

A further 80 will be let out next year, and a total of 470 over four years.

The concession affects inmates sentenced to five years or more . . .  except
"lifers".

Pressure

Roughly half are believed to be IRA members and the rest Loyalists.

The Government insisted that the plan was not an amnesty.

Terrorists used to be eligible for release half-way through sentences until an
upsurge in violence in 1989.

London is under pressure to push the peace process along before President Bill
Clinton visits Britain and Ireland in a month's time.

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1995 MGN Ltd.

                              127 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                October 27, 1995

Man with blood on his hands;
Pressure on Labour hopeful to stand down over his role in 60s terror campaign

BYLINE: Tony Gallagher

SECTION: Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1774 words


A WOULD-BE Labour MP was under pressure to stand down as a candidate last night
as full details of his extraordinary past returned to haunt him.

Party leader Tony Blair faced acute embarrassment after John Lloyd, a
54-year-old barrister, confessed to his part in a South African terrorist
campaign when he was a radical young journalist.

Mr Lloyd was accused of having 'blood on his hands' over the confession in a
trial which ended with fellow terrorist John Harris being hanged for a fatal
bomb attack.

The disclosures are bound to appal those on the Right of the Labour Party, who
believe they should never consort with terror groups, no matter how apparently
worthy their cause.

Equally, those on the Left seem certain to express their outrage that one
'freedom fighter' could betray another.

Dr Brian Mawhinney, the Tory chairman, challenged Labour to drop Mr Lloyd as
prospective parliamentary candidate for Exeter, where he hopes to overturn the
8,000 Tory majority.

In a letter to Tony Blair, Dr Mawhinney said that 'even by the standards of the
Labour Party', it was extraordinary that Mr Lloyd had been chosen in the first
place.

Failure to ditch him 'will only confirm the impression given each year by
Labour's failure to support the renewal of the Prevention of Terrorism Act that
you remain soft on terrorism'.

Tory MPs were convinced that by endorsing the candidature of Mr Lloyd, who had
bombed targets such as radio masts and electricity pylons, but rejecting Liz
Davies, whose main offence was not paying her poll tax, Mr Blair had scored a
spectacular own goal.

Mr Lloyd said Labour's National Executive Committee had investigated his past
and told him it was irrelevant to his candidacy.

He was a member in 1964 of the African Resistance Movement, a group of white
intellectuals opposed to apartheid who carried out a series of bomb attacks.

In July of that year John Harris planted a bomb at Johannesburg central station
which killed a woman. Mr Lloyd has said he strongly disagreed with this action.

After his arrest, he claims, he was beaten by police and forced to stand for one
and a half days while being interrogated.

At Harris's trial in the autumn of 1964, Mr Lloyd turned state witness in
exchange for immunity.

His flatmate Hugh Lewin and journalist Ray Eisenstein, now 58, were sentenced to
seven years on sabotage charges. Physicist Baruch Hirson, 73, got nine years.

Mr Lloyd was in jail for four months while awaiting the trial. It is understood
he emigrated to Britain in early 1965.

Chief amongst his current accusers is Mr Lewin, now a 55-year-old journalism
tutor.

He said: 'He sent word via his lawyer that he would not give evidence against
me. The next thing I know he is in the courtroom speaking so fast that defence
lawyers could not get his words down.

'Because of him, our case collapsed and I served seven years. What he did to me
and others is unforgivable.'

According to Mr Lewin, Mr Lloyd's greatest offence was failing to recant his
evidence once he reached Britain.

Mr Lewin said: 'A member of the defence team came to see him and asked him to
retract his evidence now he was in the comfort of the UK. He refused.  That is
irredeemable. It was as good as putting John Harris's head in the noose.'

One of South Africa's most senior broadcasters, Jill Chisholm, revealed last
night that she flew to London in March 1965 and appealed to Mr Lloyd to retract
evidence he had given under torture.

Miss Chisholm, now head of news and current affairs at the South African
Broadcasting Corporation, said: 'He was no longer at risk, being in Britain, but
he felt unable to help.'

Harris was executed on April 1, 1965.

Mr Lloyd took British citizenship and rose through the ranks of the Labour Party
via the Anti-Apartheid movement.

He met his wife Jenny in 1968 when he was an English teacher in Bristol and she
was a classics student. They married the same year and have two daughters, Kate,
20, a Cambridge University student, and Rebecca, 18, who teaches music in
Zimbabwe. Mrs Lloyd was aware of his past when they married.

Mr Lloyd fought the 1992 election for Labour in Exeter, but the issue of his
past did not resurface until August this year, when he was due to be re-selected
as Labour's prospective parliamentary candidate.

'Someone phoned up Labour's National Executive and told them,' Mrs Lloyd said.
'John went up to London and explained everything to the NEC.

'It was hardly a secret anyway. Before his selection he made a full statement
explaining what had happened. The branch then spent half an hour discussing it
before selecting him unanimously.'

She insisted he was just a 'small cog' in the terror campaign and said 'he was
only the driver'.

Last night Mr Lloyd denied his testimony led to John Harris's death.

He said: 'My evidence on John was not critical. I discussed his plans with him
and totally rejected the idea.

'I was a member of the African Resistance Movement for a couple of years,
arising out of my student days. If this country were invaded by the Nazis I
would hope young people would do the same and join a resistance movement.

'We were in a similar position then in South Africa where any legal political
opposition was not allowed. The Liberal Party that I was a member of was banned
and so was the African National Congress.

'I joined the party because I was totally opposed to apartheid and we took what,
in the circumstances, was quite a restrained step. I don't regret it.

'There were two or three bombing missions in Eastern Transvaal. But we were
careful to choose targets well away from any people. That is why I wanted to be
totally disassociated with what John Harris did.'

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: (1) FROM THE DAILY MAIL, 1964 (2) LEFT: JOHN LLOYD, WHOSE PAST HAS
RETURNED TO HAUNT HIM.  (3) ABOVE: JOHN HARRIS, HANGED IN 1965.  (4) BELOW: HIS
WIDOW ANN AND THEIR SON DAVI SOON AFTER THE EXECUTION

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1995 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              128 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 27, 1995

LABOUR STANDS BY EXETER 'MANDELA'
Patrick Wintour and John Ezard on the contentious case of a prospective MP

BYLINE: Patrick Wintour And John Ezard

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 880 words


LABOUR yesterday brushed aside claims that John Lloyd, its candidate for Exeter,
had hidden his record of helping plant bombs against the South African apartheid
regime in 1964, and of betraying a fellow -saboteur hanged as a result.

Party officials said Mr Lloyd had made his activities known to both his local
party and the National Executive Committee.  They added that his position was
comparable to that of Nelson Mandela.

Mr Lloyd had held a local press conference in which he drew attention to his
past. His record had even been put on the Internet by the British National
Party.

Tory MPs sought to embarrass Labour leader Tony Blair by raising the issue of Mr
Lloyd's candidature at question time yesterday.

David Lidington, Tory MP for Aylesbury, asked Mr Major if he would "condemn
unreservedly the selection by the Labour Party in Exeter of a self-confessed
terrorist as their candidate?"

He replied: "Of course I am wholly and totally opposed to any act of terrorism
and I've no doubt the majority of the people in Exeter will feel the same way."

Last night Baruch Hirson - another ex-political prisoner betrayed by Mr Lloyd in
1964 - dismissed the comparison with Mr Mandela as "nonsense". "Mandela never
gave evidence in the witness box against his colleagues. Instead, he challenged
the South African government to hang him.

"Mr Lloyd is not fit to hold public office. We all suffered as badly as he did
in prison and - unlike him - we did not crack".

Mr Hirson, aged 73, now a London-based professional historian, was one of five
men charged with sabotage shortly after the trial of John Harris, who was hanged
after Mr Lloyd testified against him.

Mr Hirson was sentenced to nine years jail for planning to damage power lines.
Another defendant, Hugh Lewin, got seven years.

Mr Hirson, a physics lecturer at Witwatersrand University in the 1960s, said the
repercussions of Mr Lloyd's betrayal for Mr Lewin - his friend and flatmate -
had been most serious. "He really landed him in it."

Mr Lloyd had compounded the betrayal by first telling defence lawyers he would
not give state's evidence, then suddenly appearing in the witness box. He said
that Ann Wolfe, Mr Harris's widow, was still bitter about Mr Lloyd's conduct.

"Lloyd undoubtedly suffered but what he did disqualifies him," Mr Hirson said.

As reported in yesterday's Guardian, Mr Lloyd was given freedom to come to
Britain by the South African government after he turned state's evidence in
prison against members of the African Resistance Movement accused of sabotage
and bombing raids.

In a letter to Mr Blair, Tory party chairman Brian Mawhinney called on Labour to
remove Mr Lloyd from the list of endorsed candidates, saying: "Failure on your
part to do so will only confirm the impression . . . that you remain soft on
terrorism."

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              129 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            October 27, 1995, Friday

Ulster terrorists 'free by Christmas'

SECTION: NEWS; Page  2

LENGTH: 495 words


A total of 88 terrorist republican and loyalist prisoners could be released by
Christmas under an emergency Bill by the Secretary of State for Northern
Ireland, Sir Patrick Mayhew, to help resolve the impasse over the peace process.

The Northern Ireland (Remission of Sentences) Bill will be rushed through both
Houses of Parliament within the next fortnight, with cross-party backing.

Sir Patrick said yesterday it could lead to a further 88 prisoners in Northern
Ireland jails being released next year, bringing the total gaining early
remission to about 470.

The Northern Ireland Secretary denied the timing was connected with the peace
process, but he admitted the release of prisoners was a "potent factor".

The releases were foreshadowed in a speech by Sir Patrick on 25 August as a
bonus from the cessation of violence by both sides. However, it is clear the
Bill is a response to the demands by both the IRA and loyalist paramilitaries to
deal with the issue of prisoners as part of the peace process. It is part of a
hectic round of talks to make progress before President Bill Clinton visits
Britain and Ire- land at the end of next month. The measures, which are open to
judicial review by prisoners, may not go far enough for Sinn Fein, which has
been demanding a general release of IRA and loyalist paramilitaries. But it
could help to kick-start the process, which is deadlocked over the demands for
the IRA to decommission arms before joining all-party talks.

The release of prisoners - many wanted for serious acts of terrorism including
killings - will cause unrest among Ulster Unionists. But the Government is
hoping that the release of loyalist paramilitaries will dampen Unionist
criticism.

Northern Ireland ministers regarded it as fortunate that the first releases
would affect almost as many loyalist prisoners as IRA supporters. It does not
affect IRA prisoners in British jails, who are subject to the Home Office
probation rules.

The measure will reverse legislation enacted in 1989 under the Prevention of
Terrorism Act in the face of an upsurge in terrorist violence. This reduced
remission from one-half to one-third of sentence for prisoners serving fixed
term sentences in Northern Ireland.

The new Bill will allow all prisoners in Northern Ireland serving fixed term
sentences to be released after serving half of their sentence. They will then be
required to remain under licence for two-thirds of their sentence.

Release on licence means they may be recalled if it is decided that they present
a risk to others or are likely to commit further offences.

Sir Patrick denied the Bill was paving the way for a general amnesty for IRA and
loyalist terrorist prisoners. "It is nothing to do with an amnesty. These are
not political prisoners and this is not an executive release. We have always
said that people convicted with these offences must serve their sentences
according to the law."


LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1995 Independent Print Ltd

                              130 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            October 27, 1995, Friday

Mayhew rushes in Bill to free Ulster prisoners

BYLINE: COLIN BROWN Chief Political Correspondent

SECTION: POLITICS; Page  10

LENGTH: 497 words


A total of 88 terrorist republican and loyalist prisoners could be released by
Christmas under an emergency Bill by the Secretary of State for Northern
Ireland, Sir Patrick Mayhew, to help resolve the impasse over the peace process.

The Northern Ireland (Remission of Sentences) Bill will be rushed through both
Houses of Parliament within the next fortnight, with cross-party backing.

Sir Patrick said yesterday it could lead to a further 88 prisoners in Northern
Ireland jails being released next year, bringing the total gaining early
remission to about 470.

The Northern Ireland Secretary denied the timing was connected with the peace
process, but he admitted the release of prisoners was a "potent factor".

The releases were foreshadowed in a speech by Sir Patrick on 25 August as a
bonus from the cessation of violence by both sides. However, it is clear the
Bill is a response to the demands by both the IRA and loyalist paramilitaries to
deal with the issue of prisoners as part of the peace process. It is part of a
hectic round of talks to make progress before President Bill Clinton visits
Britain and Ireland at the end of next month.

The measures, which are open to judicial review by prisoners, may not go far
enough for Sinn Fein, which has been demanding a general release of IRA and
loyalist paramilitaries. But it could help to kick-start the process, which is
deadlocked over the demands for the IRA to decommission arms before joining
all-party talks.

The release of prisoners - many wanted for serious acts of terrorism including
killings - will cause unrest among Ulster Unionists. But the Government is
hoping that the release of loyalist paramilitaries will dampen Unionist
criticism.

Northern Ireland ministers regarded it as fortunate that the first releases will
affect almost as many loyalist prisoners as IRA supporters. It does not affect
IRA prisoners in British jails, who are subject to the Home Office probation
rules.

The measure will reverse legislation enacted in 1989 under the Prevention of
Terrorism Act in the face of an upsurge in terrorist violence. That legislation
reduced remission from one-half to one-third of sentence for prisoners serving
fixed term sentences in Northern Ireland.

The new Bill will allow all prisoners in Northern Ireland serving fixed term
sentences to be released after serving half of their sentence. They will then be
required to remain under licence for two-thirds of their sentence.

Release on licence means they may be recalled if it is decided that they present
a risk to others or are likely to commit further offences.

Sir Patrick denied the Bill was paving the way for a general amnesty for IRA and
loyalist terrorist prisoners. "It is nothing to do with an amnesty. These are
not political prisoners and this is not an executive release. We have always
said that people convicted with these offences must serve their sentences
according to the law."


LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1995 Independent Print Ltd

                              131 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                October 28, 1995

Public safety and a foolish judge

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 880 words


IMPECCABLY liberal, undoubtedly well-meaning and hopelessly wrong-headed, the
Government's chief inspector of prisons, Judge Stephen Tumim, sums up so many of
the faults and follies of establishment fashion.

In an astonishing outburst yesterday, he attacked plans to improve security in
Britain's jails as 'the road to the concentration camp'. He claimed the damning
report by Sir John Learmont into the Parkhurst prison escapes put security above
the demands of humanity, something he described as 'totally unacceptable'.

The public may be forgiven for taking a more robust view.

In the early Nineties, prisoners were escaping at a rate of around 500 a year.
Assaults were on the increase. Drug abuse was rampant. In some cases, inmates
virtually ran the jail.

Mercifully, there have been improvements. But as the escapes from Parkhurst and
Whitemoor demonstrate, there can be no room for smugness. In particular the
recommendation for a new top-security 'supermax' jail, where the most dangerous
criminals can be kept, is one which should be pursued urgently.

Of course that need not lead to Judge Tumim's nightmarish fantasy of
concentration camps. Indeed it must not. In a humane society, there is a moral
obligation to treat prisoners decently. And in any case, proper treatment helps
in the management of jails and encourages rehabilitation.

But prison has one overriding function. To keep criminals locked safely away.
That is how justice is served. That is how the public can be protected. It is a
point which should be obvious to anyone with a glimmer of common sense. The pity
is that our chief inspector of prisons seems unable to grasp it.

Band of brothers

IN the murky undergrowth of Left-wing politics, old hatreds never die. Some
elements in Tony Blair's shiny new Labour Party appear to take grim satisfaction
at the embarrassment which has overtaken the candidate for Exeter, Mr John
Lloyd.

It turns out that years ago, in his days as a radical young journalist in South
Africa, Mr Lloyd took part in a campaign of terrorist bombing. After he was
captured and tortured, he gave evidence in return for immunity. One of his
colleagues was hanged.

An ugly little story. It is undeniably a propaganda gift for the Tories.

But what is even more fascinating is the way the news got out. It didn't emerge
by accident. It wasn't the result of dirty tricks by Conservative Central
Office. No, the information has been made public in what looks like a deliberate
campaign by Left-wingers inside the Labour Party itself.

Curiouser and curiouser. And yet their action may have a certain perverse logic.
Many on the Left bitterly resent Mr Blair's attempt to make Labour fit for
Government. They despise the moderation embraced by former radicals like Mr
Lloyd. They are still raging over the way Liz Davies was dumped as candidate for
Leeds North-East for being too Left-wing. How better to take revenge than by
targeting those candidates who are accceptable to the party hierarchy?

Such silliness and spite expose a hollowness at the heart of 'New Labour'. The
sullen, festering resentment on the Left will not go away. It is time the voters
began to take notice.

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1995 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              132 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                October 28, 1995

DO THE DECENT THING;
STAND DOWN TERRORIST'S WIDOW TELLS LABOUR HOPE

BYLINE: Tony Gallagher

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 920 words


A FIGURE from the shadowy past of would-be Labour MP John Lloyd surfaced
yesterday with a challenge to his future.

Ann Wolfe, whose first husband John Harris was hanged after evidence from Mr
Lloyd about a fatal bomb attack, accused him of hiding the full details of his
role in a terror campaign in South Africa in the Sixties.

She alleged that Mr Lloyd, a 54-year-old barrister seeking election as MP for
Exeter, was guilty of a 'deception' by confessing only the 'partial truth' about
the execution.

Appealing for Mr Lloyd to drop out of the election race, she insisted: 'What he
has done is not honourable. Worse than that, it is ignoble. He should stand
down.'

The intervention of Mrs Wolfe, 57, a teacher, increases pressure on Tony Blair
to remove a candidate threatening to become an embarrassment.

Mr Lloyd claimed he gave court testimony under duress after he was tortured. 'If
I had been a free agent, I wouldn't have done it,' he was quoted as saying.

But Mrs Wolfe told how Mr Lloyd refused to retract evidence against her husband
when he reached the sanctuary of Britain.

'It was as good as sending my husband to the gallows,' she said at the Swiss
home she shares with her second husband, Martin, a former Cambridge botanist.

Mrs Wolfe said Harris and Mr Lloyd were members of the African Resistance
Movement, a white group seeking the overthrow of the apartheid regime in the
Sixties.

After a series of bomb attacks on strategic targets such as electricity pylons,
the nucleus of the group, including Mr Lloyd, was arrested but Harris remained
free.

Harris, she said, bombed Johannesburg railway station. A pensioner was killed,
though 'John's intention was not to hurt anybody', Mrs Wolfe said.

Harris was picked up and his legal team learned that Mr Lloyd planned to testify
against him.

Mrs Wolfe recalled: 'Lloyd's girlfriend sent a message to him saying, 'Do you
realise what you are doing? If you give evidence you are sending someone to the
gallows'.' Mr Lloyd, she said, ignored the approach.

With Harris on death row, Mr Lloyd was released from custody after four months
and emigrated to Britain.

Mrs Wolfe revealed that she sent a telegram asking him to recant but got 'no
response'. A family friend, Jill Chisholm, was then sent from South Africa to
plead with him but he 'wouldn't help'.

Mrs Wolfe rejected suggestions that Mr Lloyd was frank about his past.

She said: 'When Mr Lloyd was safely in England he refused to help us. I doubt he
told the Labour Party that.'

Mr Lloyd has denied that his testimony led to Harris's death. He said: 'My
evidence on John was not critical. I discussed his plans with him and totally
rejected the idea.

'I was a member of the African Resistance Movement for a couple of years,
arising out of my student days. If this country were invaded by the Nazis I
would hope young people would do the same and join a resistance movement.'

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: LEFT: JOHN HARRIS WHO WAS HANGLED RIGHT: JOHN LLOYD WHO GAVE EVIDENCE
AT HARRIS'S TRIAL AND IS ACCUSED OF REFUSING APPEALS TO RATRACT

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1995 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              133 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 28, 1995

AND THE LIST GOES ON . . .

BYLINE: Bob Woffinden

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN WEEKEND PAGE; Pg. T38

LENGTH: 5107 words


Politically, the setting-up of the Royal Commission on Criminal Justice in 1991
was one of John Major's shrewder moves. It took the heat out of the
miscarriages-of-justice debate. The public may even have been lulled into
believing that the issue was being properly tackled at last.

The media also began to lose interest at that time. The case of the Birmingham 6
had upped the ante; the tale of a solitary innocent man in prison would get
snagged by the So What? factor in news priorities. In any case, the subject was
simply passe. Rough Justice continued, fitfully, on BBC1; Trial And Error, more
purposefully, on Channel 4. Other avenues dried up.  One senior ITV executive
flatly remarked that, 'it is not the job of ITV documentaries to get innocent
people out of prison'.

So, the neap tide of public concern came and went, leaving high and dry a number
of prisoners insisting ever more vehemently, and in some cases with ever more
substance to their claims, that they too were victims of awful and longstanding
injustice.  When several were first imprisoned, John Major was not even an MP.

In The Count Of Monte Cristo, the falsely-accused Edmund Dantes escaped from the
Chateau d'If 'fourteen years day for day' after his arrest. Alexandre Dumas
clearly regarded that as an ocean of time, his protagonist having endured almost
incomprehensible incarceration. That was France in the early 19th century; that,
moreover, was fiction. The reality is that in Britain today the following men
have all endured comparable, or more severe, terms of imprisonment:

Frank Johnson

In custody since December 16, 1975

Johnson was convicted in September 1976 of the murder of John Sheridan, a
newsagent in Whitechapel, east London. It was a bizarre charge, considering that
Johnson had at one stage been praised for saving Sheridan's life; and a bizarre
trial, conducted at the height of public paranoia about IRA terrorist activity.
Many, especially in Ireland where the case receives on-going publicity, believe
that Johnson's is a case to set alongside those of the Birmingham Six, Guildford
Four, et al.

The only evidence against him was provided by co-defendants: Jack Tierney, a
notorious police informer, and David Smart, a former soldier. Smart admitted his
part in the attack, fire-bombing the newsagent's and setting fire to Sheridan.

Tierney and Smart were both linked to covert anti-terrorist operations. The main
theory of Johnson's supporters is that the incident was planned with the dual
purpose of smearing the IRA with a cowardly attack on an elderly man, and of
boosting the perceived performance of the Metropolitan Police with the
subsequent capture of an 'IRA active service unit'. The plot went wrong because
Johnson happened to be at the back of the shop at the time of the attack, and
reacted quickly by dousing the flames and calling an ambulance.

The police suggested instead that robbery was the motive. (If that had been the
case, then Johnson, who worked for and was trusted by Sheridan, could simply
have helped himself.) Sheridan survived for three weeks in hospital, during
which time Johnson frequently visited him. Police claimed they were unable to
take a statement from the badly-burned man. Yet doctors disputed this, and in
fact Sheridan did have lengthy discussions with his financial adviser.

Johnson was arrested 10 months after the incident. His solicitor told him there
was no case to answer, as the only evidence came from untrustworthy witnesses;
but when he failed to get the case thrown out, Johnson sacked his legal team and
defended himself.

It was hardly a sensible move, but Johnson was by that point deeply suspicious
of everyone. He was refused leave to appeal.  His new solicitor has put forward
fresh representations which the Home Office is considering.

Alf Fox

In custody since November 18,1980

On October 15, 1980, Jacqueline Fox and her mother, Kathleen Wathey, were found
dead at their home in South Elmsall, Yorkshire. A fire had been started, but the
local fire service arrived with commendable promptness. Fox had been
asphyxiated; Wathey, who'd sustained injuries prior to death, actually died of
smoke inhalation. Fox's six-week-old baby had been carefully placed out of
harm's way on the outside step.

West Yorkshire police regarded Alf Fox, who at the time was living apart from
his wife, as the immediate suspect. He was questioned for three days, and the
following week reconstructed his movements for the benefit of police. He was
arrested and held in custody on minor charges, but not indicted for the murder
until March 1981. Clearly, assembling a case against him had not been
straightforward. There was, for example, no forensic evidence whatever, even
though the fire had been started with petrol and Fox had surrendered his clothes
for examination straight away.

Ultimately, the Crown case hinged on casting suspicion over his movements that
evening; and on a statement from the owner of an off-licence. She gave critical
evidence indicating that Fox's car had been accelerating away from his wife's
house, and was later described by the Home Office as the 'principal witness'.

The case was featured on Rough Justice (BBC1) in September 1985. John Patten,
then minister of state at the Home Office, responded negatively to a submission,
on the grounds that a 'very thorough and unbiased' re-investigation had been
carried out by the West Yorkshire police.

The celebrated injustices suffered by Stefan Kiszko and Judith Ward were both
West Yorkshire cases. In the light of the appeal judgment in the latter, Michael
McColgan, Fox's solicitor, attempted to get hold of unused material. The police
told him that the files could not be found, and that, in any event, everything
had already been disclosed. McColgan persisted.  Ultimately, he found 600
witness statements which had never been made available to the defence. Several
would indeed have been very helpful.

Among them was a police action form of November 25, 1980, reporting that the
off-licence owner was unable to identify the car she had seen. A senior officer
had commented in writing: 'We can take this no further.' Yet her statements used
in the trial not only identified Fox's car model (a Ford Granada); but were
dated October 26 -30 - a month earlier.

Had this been revealed during the trial, argued McColgan, then not just the
evidence of the Home Office's 'principal witness', but the entire police
investigation would have been discredited.

An exhaustive submission was presented to the Home Office on July 8, 1993.
Another police investigation was undertaken by Greater Manchester police. Their
report was delivered in January 1995. However, notwithstanding further legal
arguments which had been submitted in the interim, the Home Office has still not
reached a decision on the case.

Paul Cleeland

In custody since November 5, 1972

In the early hours of November 5, 1972, Terry Clarke was shot dead in Stevenage
in front of his wife, who described the gunman as being 5ft 8in and dark.
Cleeland was 5ft 11in and fair and, as a family friend, would presumably have
been recognised.

The investigation was handled by Hertfordshire police, with the assistance of
the Metropolitan Police. Leading forensic scientists, including Dr Julius Grant,
who died in 1991, questioned the ballistics evidence, arguing that the gun
Cleeland was alleged to have used could not have caused Clarke's wounds.
Moreover, there was conflicting police evidence about when the gun was taken for
forensic examination. The prosecution alleged that there was lead on Cleeland's
clothes, though the value of such evidence was seemingly vitiated by the fact
that, professionally, he was a painter and decorator. More sophisticated tests
which could have distinguished between lead from guns and lead from paint were
not undertaken.

Most disturbingly, Cleeland wanted to bring evidence to rebut a police account
that they had overheard him confessing to the crime. However, prison records at
Wandsworth jail were apparently tampered with to invalidate this line of
defence. An inquiry concluded that the alteration of five different sets of
prison records could have not been caused by innocent error.

Cleeland, like Frank Johnson, made things difficult for himself by dispensing
with his lawyers. The jury failed to reach a verdict at the original trial, and
he was only convicted at a retrial before Mr Justice Lane, the future Lord Chief
Justice.

His appeal was turned down in 1976 by Mr Justice Lawton - at roughly the same
time as he turned down appeals in the cases of the Guildford Four, the
Birmingham Six and Michael McMahon and David Cooper in the vexed Luton
post-office murder case. A full-page article in the Times in 1982 led to a
Commons debate. Cleeland's case attracted the support of both Shirley (Barones
s) Williams, at the time his constituency MP, and her Conservative successor,
Bowen Wells. They pressed his case with the Home Office, but in March 1987
Douglas Hurd refused to send the case back to appeal.

Cleeland has since employed a variety of judicial manoeuvres to try to advance
his case; and has accused the authorities of trying to undermine his mental
health. Many of those assessing his case today seem to regard him as embittered
and paranoid.

Paul Vickers

In custody since October 4, 1980

Paul Vickers, formerly a successful consultant orthopaedic surgeon and potential
Conservative Party candidate, was convicted at a high profile trial at Teesside
Crown Court of the murder of his ailing wife, Margaret. He had been having an
affair, but adamantly denied that this provided any motive for murder. Indeed,
there was evidence of how devoted he had been to his wife, and of how he had
grieved after her death. Vickers had her body buried (not cremated) and readily
gave permission for an autopsy to be performed. This counted for little,
however, beside the seemingly incontrovertible evidence that drugs which he had
administered had killed her. Vickers always maintained that the drugs, then
newly marketed, were intended to cure her.  Over the years, in prison, he
carried out research in the world's medical literature. As fresh studies into
the drug's effects were published, it became clear that they did not have the
malign effects the Crown had postulated. He obtained a fresh opinion, based on
tissue samples, from Lawrence Henry, professor of pathology at the University of
Sheffield. Henry wrote several lengthy reports, concluding that Margaret's death
was attributable to different causes.

After submissions by his solicitors, Kenneth Clarke, then Home Secretary,
referred the case back to appeal. The appeal, in February 1994, lasted for two
weeks, and was wholly concerned with abstruse medical and scientific argument
about the precise cause of death. Ultimately, the appeal was turned down. By
then, however, the case had become 'sundered': half the defence evidence was
heard at trial and the other half at appeal. No one tribunal had heard all the
evidence. Indeed, the jury members were misled. They were told that the cause of
death was clear cut.  Instead, it was a matter which some of the country's
leading medical experts would debate inconclusively for two weeks.  Had the jury
known this, their verdict could have been different.

Abed Hussein

In custody since August 25, 1978

Hussein was convicted of the murder of his young brother, who was less than two
years old. The Crown case was based on his confession - made under interrogation
by West Midlands police. He was then 16, couldn't understand English easily and
had no access to a responsible adult. Two social workers were introduced to the
interview room for Hussein's statement, but he had no chance to speak to them
before, and had by then confessed.

He had been baby-sitting when the child collapsed - his mother was in hospital
at the time - so he was the immediate suspect; but postmortem evidence suggested
that the subdural haemorrhage suffered by the baby could have been caused by
blows inflicted up to 48 hours earlier.

The case helped to fuel concerns about vulnerable young people confessing in
police stations in adverse circumstances in the absence of appropriate adult
advice. The law has long since been changed; but there are a number of people
still paying the price of inadequate legal provisions in the Seventies and early
Eighties.

His lawyers have argued at the European Court that the Home Secretary should not
be allowed discretion over the terms of imprisonment of convicted juveniles. The
fight against his conviction continues as a separate matter.

Bob Maynard and Reg Dudley

In custody since January 22, 1976

This case became known as the torso murders and entered legal history, becoming
what was then the longest murder trial ever held in this country. The jury
acquitted three of the seven defendants; but Bob Maynard and Reg Dudley both
received life sentences.

The verdicts were brought into question when the severed head of one of the
victims turned up in a public lavatory in Islington, north London. This was
compelling new evidence; a central contention of the Crown case that he had been
shot in the head was instantly disproved. But the Maynard Dudley appeals were
dismissed in April 1979. Getting further fresh evidence to enable the case to be
referred back to appeal was problematic, simply as there had been hardly any
evidence in the first place. The two were convicted largely on the basis of
veiled admissions they were alleged to have made to police, and which they
always denied having made.

The development in the late Eighties of the ESDA (electrostatic document
analysis) test offered the opportunity to assess scientifically the authenticity
of the critical police statements. Maynard and Dudley asked for these tests to
be carried out.  In 1991, the Metropolitan Police stated that these documents
had been 'routinely' destroyed a year earlier at a time when the case was
attracting publicity, when one of those acquitted was still pursuing a civil
claim for wrongful arrest, and when the interview notes themselves had been the
subject of fierce dispute both at trial and appeal.

Linguistics experts who subsequently analysed the statements for Rex
Bloomstein's documentary on the case for True Stories (Channel 4) averred that
the supposed admissions were 'not acceptable as evidence of guilt'. Lawyers for
the men further discovered that Micky Cornwall, one of the victims, had been
under surveillance by West Midlands police at the time of his disappearance.
Such records as have been disclosed about this contain baffling discrepancies.
In May 1995 the Guardian reported that Anthony Wild, a prison informer who gave
evidence in return for a reduced sentence, had confirmed that his original
testimony was concocted. The Home Office then instructed investigating officers
to take a statement from him.

Andrew Evans In custody since October 8, 1972

Evans, a 17-year-old army recruit, was convicted of the murder of 14-year-old
Judith Roberts in Tamworth, Staffordshire, in April 1973 on the basis of a
confession. The murder was attributed to someone in army uniform, and 15,000 men
serving locally were routinely questioned.

Evans subsequently had a dream about the crime and called in at Longton police
station to see if he could be of assistance.  He was interviewed by members of
Staffordshire and Stoke-on-Trent police and, after two days of questioning,
signed a three-page confession. No solicitor, doctor or responsible adult had
been present.

At the time, Evans was a socially inadequate, barely literate, highly vulnerable
youth. He had been discharged from the army after a mere six weeks, as a chronic
asthmatic, on the day following the murder. The murdered girl had suffered
serious head injuries and 14 wounds to the body.

It was thought that the murderer's clothing would be seriously bloodstained.
Both Evans's army uniforms were in good order when he handed them in. His
confession apart, there was no evidence against him. Fingerprint evidence from
the scene didn't incriminate him; no one picked him out at an identity parade.

The police had an alternative suspect, who was released once charges were
preferred against Evans. In 1973 his barrister formed the view that there were
no grounds on which he could appeal. Today, there are a growing number of people
who feel that Evans has been deplorably served by the legal profession.

After his case was publicised in the Observer in July, the Home Office told
Evans that he would be moved from the Verne, Weymouth, where he gets free
association, to Lindholme, near Doncaster, which is a lock-up. Evans is
appealing to the prison ombudsman. The case has also been featured on Crime
Stalker (Central TV). John Stalker averred that Evans 'shouldn't even have spent
a day in prison'.

Neil Edginton

In custody since September 22, 1981

Neil Edginton was convicted of the murder of Joy McKenzie in Honley, near
Huddersfield, at about 4.45pm on a sunny Sunday afternoon. Traffic was flowing
past the point where the murder occurred. From the descriptions given by passing
motorists, West Yorkshire police built up a picture of their suspect: a
motorcyclist in his late twenties, of medium build and height, wearing a green
cagoule and riding a Yamaha. Two months later, they arrested Edginton. He was
21, 6ft 1in, thin, had a yellow cagoule, and rode a Honda. Edginton agreed that
he had ridden past the scene, but claimed it was earlier that afternoon.
Damagingly for him, however, bloodspots on his cagoule were from the same rare
group as the murdered woman's. The significance of these had evaporated even
before the case went to court; Edginton's own blood group was exactly the same
as McKenzie's. The most telling point in his favour was that the victim suffered
such horrifying injuries that the murderer should have been covered in blood.
Yet only a few spots of what seems to have been his own blood were found on
Edginton's clothing.

At Leeds Crown Court, the jury failed to reach a verdict. Because of what was
deemed to be prejudicial publicity, the retrial was planned for a different
location. In the event, said Neil's father, Colin Edgington, the retrial took
place across the corridor, in the same Leeds courthouse. This time, there was a
conviction.  Peter Hill, producer of the BBC's original Rough Justice
programmes, has privately funded further research into the case. He has
established corroborating evidence for Edginton's statement that he had passed
the spot earlier that afternoon. He would have been back at home by the time of
the murder.

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              134 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                November 4, 1995

LONDON LINK TO ISLAMIC 'TERRORIST'

BYLINE: Paul Webster In Paris And Richard Norton-Taylor

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 774 words


AN ALGERIAN living in London was yesterday named as a key figure behind the
three-month bombing campaign which has killed seven people and injured nearly
200 in France.

The allegation that Abdelkader Benouif, who edits a clandestine news bulletin,
al-Ansar, published in west London under the pseudonym Abou Fares - was behind
the attacks was made in the French newspaper Le Monde.  Mr Benouif was among 26
people sentenced to death in absentia following a bombing in 1992 at the Algiers
airport that killed nine people and injured 123. Le Monde said detectives had
established links between Mr Benouif and an alleged terrorist leader, Boualem
Bensaid, arrested in Paris on Wednesday.

Media reports said Mr Bensaid's fingerprints matched those found on the
fragments of at least one of the bombs.

In Britain, security sources insisted that MI5 and Special Branch were liaising
with their French counterparts. But the press leak may have been intended to
embarass the British government. Only last Tuesday, the Foreign Secretary,
Malcolm Rifkind, denied that London had become a haven for Islamic guerrillas.

France has repeatedly accused al-Ansar of inciting Islamic extremists to carry
out terrorist activities. A recent issue of the Arabic newspaper praised past
attacks in Algeria. Security sources in Whitehall said they relied on the French
authorities to provide sufficient information for extradition.

There was no official confirmation of the allegation against Mr Benouif but
detectives in Paris claimed Mr Bensaid had telephoned him before ordering a
Lille terrorist unit to prime a bomb in the northern city on Sunday. Police
seized the bomb in a raid on Thursday.

Mr Benouif's name was also said to be contained in a notebook carried by Khaled
Kelkal, who was shot dead near Lyon last month after being linked with an
attempt to blow up a high-speed train on the Lyon-Paris line.

If the police allegation that Mr Benouif also co-ordinated terror units in
Belgium and Italy is true, it seems likely that President Jacques Chirac would
have informed John Major during the British -French summit last weekend.

Mr Benouif was said by detectives to be legally resident in London, one of the
main propaganda bases for the GIA, which opposes the Algerian junta and is
determined to upset the presidential election on November 16.

Mr Bensaid, arrested with nine other Algerians, was tracked down by a classic
police operation, French detectives said.  Using information obtained after the
arrest of Khaled Kelkal's accomplices, the Algerian was traced to a Paris flat.
Police tapped all the public telephone boxes in the area and listened when he
made calls.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              135 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           November 4, 1995, Saturday

Paris bombs 'planned in London'

BYLINE: JASON BENNETTO

SECTION: HOME; Page  1

LENGTH: 441 words


An Algerian extremist living in London was named yesterday as one of the key
figures behind the three-month terrorist bombing campaign in France.

The man is accused of masterminding some of the attacks while in Britain, and is
believed to have given orders to a suspected bomber who was arrested in Paris on
Thursday.

Two French newspapers, Le Monde and Le Parisien, said yesterday that the man in
London, known under the pseudonym of Abou Fares, was a senior member of
Algeria's Armed Islamic Group (GIA), which has claimed responsibility for most
of the attacks. Details of the suspect have been passed to Scotland Yard, which
has been working closely with the French authorities since the outbreak of the
bombings. Since July, seven people have been killed and around 170 injured.

Abou Fares - which means "the father of knights" - is alleged to be partly
responsible for an extremist underground magazine called Al Ansar, which is
published and distributed in London. Both he and the publication are known to
British anti-terrorist officers.

Over the past year the Security Service and the police have privately warned of
a likely increase in activities by Algerian Islamic fundamentalists in this
country. Algeria claims that Britain has become a haven for Islamic extremists.
French police have confirmed most of the details in the two French newspapers,
which said Abou Fares gave orders to Boualem Bensaid, a 27-year-old Algerian
arrested on Thursday. Mr Bensaid is accused of making a phone call, taped by
police, in which he was allegedly heard to instruct accomplices to plant a car
bomb near Lille.

Le Parisien said Abou Fares supplied guerrillas in France with funds, and
organised training trips to Afghanistan for Muslim militants. His mobile phone
number was also found in an address book belonging to Khaled Kelkal, an
Algerian-born bombing suspect killed in a gun battle with police near Lyons in
September.

Since the start of the terror campaign the police and MI5 have stepped up their
surveillance of Algerian extremist groups in Britain. Scotland Yard said
yesterday: "We can confirm that the Metropolitan Police has offered its support
and advice regarding terrorism and organised crime at high-level meetings
between British and French authorities.

"There are already established links . . . with French officers working in
London and a Scotland Yard officer based in Paris. These links have proved
invaluable. Following the scale of bombings in London in recent years, we are
able to conduct a very productive dialogue with our French counterparts."

London safe haven, page 10


LOAD-DATE: November 06, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1995 Independent Print Ltd

                              136 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Standard (London)

                               November 06, 1995

Police in race to charge Algerian bomb suspects

BYLINE: Luke Blair,Fiona Cairns

SECTION: Pg. 22

LENGTH: 614 words


A RACE against time began in London today to charge two Algerians suspected of
getting round UK immigration to mastermind the horrific French bombing campaign
from Britain.

At least one of the suspects, thought to have issued orders by fax from his
London base as he claimed state benefits, has applied for political asylum in
the UK. His case, due to be heard in the New Year, has fuelled concern that
Britain is seen as a soft touch.

Last night armed police arrested another three men, believed to be Algerian
diplomats, at a Chiswick flat.

Police have until 3pm today to hold without charge the two key suspects at
top-security Paddington Green station. But Scotland Yard was expected to ask
Home Secretary Michael Howard today for the extra anti-terrorist powers that
would allow it to hold them for a further five days.

Detectives working with MI5 think they are key members of the Armed Islamic
Group, which has claimed responsibility for most of the bombings over France's
support for Algeria's military government.

Armed police arrested the most prominent of the two, a long-term London
resident, in the Queensway area on Saturday.

French authorities say they have proof the 36-year-old masterminded the
three-month wave of Paris bombings from his London base. They are believed to
have found faxed orders to accomplices at addresses in France which included
detailed plans of popular tourist sites.

He has been living on welfare in London for months, illegally claiming hundreds
of pounds, reports say.

Even though he originally entered Britain on false papers, he was able to stay
after applying for asylum. He had been sentenced to death in his absence, along
with 25 others, for allegedly planting a bomb which killed nine people at
Algiers airport in 1992.

Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir Paul Condon warned yesterday that
terrorists should not think Britain a "soft target".

"We want the terrorists to believe that if they carry out their vile work on the
streets of London then they will be caught and, if convicted, receive the
harshest of sentences," he said.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1995 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              137 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            November 6, 1995, Monday

French seek extradition of bomb suspects from UK

BYLINE: MARY DEJEVSKY Paris

SECTION: INTERNATIONAL; Page  14

LENGTH: 568 words


MARY DEJEVSKY

Paris

The French judicial authorities were yesterday preparing to request the
extradition of two Algerians detained in central London on Saturday under the
Prevention of Terrorism Act. They believe one of the men, Abdelkader Benouis,
alias Abou Fares, commanded the terrorist cells responsible for recent bomb
attacks in Paris and Lyons.

The other was said by a French radio station to be Farouk Deneche, the brother
of Abdelkrim Deneche, whom the French tried unsuccessfully to have extradited
from Sweden last month in connection with the St Michel Metro bombing in July.
Abdelkrim Deneche was freed from custody in Stockholm last week pending
deportation from Sweden as an "undesirable alien".

Scotland Yard has refused to confirm or deny the identity of the two men held at
the weekend, who are being questioned at the top-security Paddington Green
police station in west London, or to give any details.  French reports said the
two were arrested on Saturday afternoon after several days of surveillance, as
they were preparing to leave the country.

Mr Benouis had been named in French media reports the previous day as the
commander and possible paymaster of the Paris-based co-ordinator of the
bombings. He has lived in London since being granted political asylum in 1993
and edited the British edition of an Islamic newsletter, Al-Ansar.

It is not known whether the British authorities knew, when they granted asylum,
that he had been sentenced to death in absentia for his presumed role in the
1992 Algiers airport bombing, in which nine people were killed.

French reports say that Mr Benouis, who has had at least three aliases, was the
recipient of regular telephone calls from Paris made by Boualem Bensaid, one of
10 people detained by French police last week. The number of Mr Benouis's mobile
phone is also said to have been found in notebooks belonging to Khaled Kelkal,
the Algerian killed by police after a three- week manhunt in September.

Kelkal became a wanted man after his fingerprints were allegedly found on a bomb
which failed to explode on the high-speed train line near Lyons in August.
French sources now say that Mr Bensaid's fingerprints were found on that bomb,
too, and on the remains of the bomb which exploded at Maison Blanche Metro
station in Paris on the day of Kelkal's funeral.  They also say that in Mr
Bensaid's Paris flat police found quantities of sodium chlorate - one of the
explosive agents common to the Paris and Lyons bombs - detailed maps and
timetables of the Paris and Lyons Metro and railway networks, an automatic
pistol and foreign bank documents.

The identification of Mr Benouis and the "London connection" by the French media
followed several weeks of criticism from French officials about what they saw as
Britain's lax approach to the activities of Islamic fundamentalists.

Saturday's arrests were accordingly greeted in Paris with a mixture of "we told
them so" and condescending approval that the British authorities appeared to be
acting on pledges of a harder line given to President Jacques Chirac in London
10 days ago.

However, French reports also noted that the Paris investigators needed to make
out a better case for the extradition of Mr Benouis than they had for the
extradition of Mr Deneche from Sweden. Otherwise, they warned, they could face
similar embarrassment.


LOAD-DATE: November 06, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1995 Independent Print Ltd

                              138 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                November 7, 1995

NEWS IN BRIEF: ALGERIAN TERROR SUSPECTS HELD

BYLINE: Richard Norton-Taylor

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 414 words


POLICE were last night holding five Algerians in London, four of them in
connection with recent terrorist attacks in France.  They include Abdelkadir
Benouif, alias Abou Fares, alleged to have discussed the attacks over the
telephone with Boualem Bensaid, arrested in Paris last week.

Police have applied to the Home Secretary to allow them to continue to hold
Benouif under the Prevention of Terrorism Act. He was arrested after French
newspapers alleged he was a key figure behind the three-month bombing campaign
which has killed seven.

But security sources said last night that the French had still not applied for
his extradition. Benouif, who applied for political asylum in Britain, was
sentenced to death in absentia for his alleged role in a bombing at Algiers
airport in 1992 when nine people were killed.

One Algerian arrested on Saturday is believed to be Farouk Deneche, the brother
of Abdelkrim Deneche, whom France unsuccesfully tried to have extradited from
Sweden last month in connection with the Paris metro bombing in July. Farouk
Deneche is understood to have been released, then rearrested for an alleged
breach of immigration rules.

Of the four others arrested on Sunday, one has been released. The three others
are being held at Paddington Green police station in central London, along with
Benouis and Deneche. - Richard Norton -Taylor

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              139 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                           November 7, 1995, Tuesday

Brokers to raise cover in the City

BYLINE: Marianne Curphey

SECTION: Business

LENGTH: 146 words


THE Northern Ireland ceasefire has prompted insurance brokers to increase cover
for commercial property in the City for the first time since it was reduced in
1992-93 after a wave of IRA bombings.

After more than 12 months without bombs in mainland Britain or in Northern
Ireland, brokers yesterday announced that they would increase cover from the
current maximum of Pounds 25 million to Pounds 100 million for most risks.

Willis Corroon, the broker acting on behalf of the British Insurance and
Investment Brokers' Association, said that the policies would be underwritten by
a group of Lloyd's of London insurers.

During the height of the IRA campaign, insurance companies reached agreement
with the British Government to provide terrorist cover through Pool Re, a
special reinsurance company, backed by the Government acting as insurer of last
resort.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1995 Times Newspapers Limited

                              140 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                November 8, 1995

FRENCH LIAISE WITH YARD ON EXTRADITION

BYLINE: David Pallister

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 360 words


FRANCE last night issued an international arrest warrant for an Algerian being
held in a London police station who is wanted for questioning about a wave of
bomb atacks in France.

The warrant was sent to Interpol hours after a leading French anti-terrorist
magistrate flew to London to discuss with Scotland Yard the possible extradition
of Abdelkader Benouif.

Jean-Louis Bruguiere, who is investigating the activities of six Algerians held
in Paris, met officers from the Yard's anti-terrorist squad, Special Branch and
M15.

The French authorities want to question Benouif, alias Abou Fares, who was
arrested on Saturday under the Prevention of Terrorism Act after his presence in
Britain was leaked to the French press. The police can detain him only until
Saturday and the French authorities have expressed concern about whether they
can muster evidence in time for an extradition request.

Mr Benouif, who is appealing against the refusal of asylum, is the latest
suspect for a series of bomb attacks which have killed seven people and wounded
about 170 in France since July 25.

Three other Algerians who were arrested on Sunday are being held until Thursday
under the act.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              141 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           November 9, 1995, Thursday

Royal recognition for 'People of the Year'

SECTION: NEWS; Page  2

LENGTH: 271 words


The Princess Royal paid tribute yesterday to Britain's "People of the Year"
during the Royal Association for Disability and Rehabilitation's 36th annual
awards ceremony.

She joined hundreds of diners at a gala lunch to recognise 13 men and women for
their courage and achievement.

Among them was a posthumous award for Alison Hargreaves, the mountaineer who
died during her solo assault on K2 this year without oxygen, and solo
round-the-world yachts-woman Lisa Clayton.

After a silence to honour former winner, the late Gordon Wilson, whose daughter
was killed by the IRA bomb at Enniskillen, and who himself died earlier this
year, the Princess praised past winners.

The awards were chaired by BBC director-general John Birt. Citations were read
by newsreader Trevor McDonald.

Jim Ballard, the husband of tragic mountaineer Alison Hargreaves, played down
reports that they were to have divorced on her return from her ill- fated
Himalayan expedition.

Ms Hargreaves was killed in an avalanche this summer after successfully scaling
K2 - the world's second highest mountain - without oxygen. Her body remains on
the mountain.

Seventeen-year-old Kelly Turner, the teenage girl from east London who reported
her former boyfriend to the police for his part in a savage race attack on a
Bengali student, was also a winner. She is currently working as a full-time
volunteer for the Commission for Racial Equality and plans to become a police
officer.

Leading fashion designer Betty Jackson was honoured for her achievements.  Her
clothes are sold worldwide and she was made an MBE in 1987.


LOAD-DATE: November 09, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1995 Independent Print Ltd

                              142 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                           November 12, 1995, Sunday

SOLDIERS' OFF-DUTY UNIFORM BAN MAY BE LIFTED

BYLINE:  Charles Miller, Defence and Diplomatic Correspondent, PA News

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 391 words


Military uniforms are set to make a return to the streets of Britain, it was
disclosed today.  Senior officers are pressing for the security ban on uniforms
for off-duty servicemen and women to be lifted if the Ulster peace process moves
ahead.  Army khaki, Royal Navy dark blue and RAF light blue have not been seen
for years because of terrorist fears.  Off-duty service personnel are told to
wear "civvy" clothing and to blend in as much as possible.  But military chiefs
are concerned that the policy has partially alienated the armed forces from the
general public.  And the problem has been compounded by the prison-like
appearance of military bases behind huge security fences.  "We are fed up
skulking around in mackintoshes and shell-suits and operating in bases that look
like Alcatraz," said a senior Army officer.  There are also doubts whether the
policy has actually prevented terrorist attacks as pubs and other haunts
favoured by the military are well known to locals in garrison towns and cities.
The military is deeply concerned that its current image is failing to attract
sufficient recruits.  The Ministry of Defence has been forced to consider an
embarrassing U-turn on cost-cutting measures because of an alarming shortage of
frontline troops.  Some 400 Gurkhas due to be made redundant next year will be
reprieved to help the Army meet the dramatic shortfall in recruits.  And a
£1,400 cash bonus is to be offered to soldiers to persuade them to stay on for
three years. But the Army will still be undermanned by around 2,000 soldiers
next year, predominantly in the infantry, Royal Artillery and Royal Armoured
Corps.  Now, defence chiefs are looking at halting the closure of the Army's 126
recruitment offices, re-instating the Junior Leaders system of early training
for promising 16-year-olds, and reversing apprenticeship cuts.  Commanding
officers of battalions are to be given an extra £1.5 million to be used
specifically for recruiting in their local areas.  "We have to get our image
right," stressed the source. "We now have two generations of people with no
direct experience of the military because of the end of National Service in
1960." Officers hope that the return of uniforms in public places will help
remind the general public of the military and their role in the nation's
security.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1995 The Press Association Limited

                              143 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                           November 13, 1995, Monday

HOTEL BREAK-INS FUND BOMB BLITZ;
FRENCH BOMB ATTACKS FINANCED BY BRITISH BURGLARIES

BYLINE: Jeff Edwards

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 334 words


TERRORIST bomb attacks in France have been funded by a spate of burglaries in
Britain.

A series of London hotels were hit by thieves this summer and more than pounds
100,000 was stolen.

Detectives believe the cash was sent to Algeria to pay for the terror campaign.
A series of blasts in France have left seven dead and nearly 100 injured.

Scotland Yard has also discovered that the attacks were masterminded from the
UK.

In most of the hotel break-ins, foreign tourists were targeted. Cash, credit
cards, cheques and jewellery were stolen.

Suspects

French detectives are to travel to Britain to interview the burglary suspects,
who have been remanded in custody.

An alleged terrorist, who was last week charged with bombing offences by London
police, is to be extradited to France.

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1995 MGN Ltd.

                              144 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                           November 13, 1995, Monday

OFF-DUTY UNIFORM BAN ON MILITARY MAY BE LIFTED

BYLINE:  Charles Miller, Defence and Diplomatic Correspondent, PA News

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 354 words


Military uniforms are set to make a return to the streets of Britain, it was
disclosed.  Senior officers are pressing for the security ban on uniforms for
off-duty servicemen and women to be lifted if the Ulster peace process moves
ahead.  Army khaki, Royal Navy dark blue and RAF light blue have not been seen
for years because of terrorist fears.  Off-duty service personnel are told to
wear "civvy" clothing and to blend in as much as possible. But military chiefs
are concerned that the policy has partially alienated the armed forces from the
general public.  And the problem has been compounded by the prison-like
appearance of military bases behind huge security fences.  "We are fed up
skulking around in mackintoshes and shell-suits and operating in bases that look
like Alcatraz," said a senior Army officer.  There are also doubts about whether
the policy has actually prevented terrorist attacks as pubs and other haunts
favoured by the military are well known to locals in garrison towns and cities.
The military is deeply concerned that its current image is failing to attract
sufficient recruits and officers hope that the return of uniforms in public
places will help remind the general public of the military and their role in the
nation's security.  Yesterday, the Government admitted that Ministers must
shoulder the blame for a fall in recruits. Armed forces minister Nicholas Soames
said too many young people saw the services as "a business in decline" and were
reluctant to pursue a military career. He said he wanted to raise the profile of
the army by putting over a more positive image of life in the services and
eventually encourage service personnel to return to wearing uniforms on the
streets.  The Ministry of Defence has been forced to consider an embarrassing
U-turn on cost-cutting measures because of an alarming shortage of frontline
troops.  Some 400 Gurkhas due to be made redundant next year will be reprieved
to help the Army meet the dramatic shortfall in recruits.  And a £1,400 cash
bonus is to be offered to soldiers to persuade them to stay on for three years.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1995 The Press Association Limited

                              145 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           November 14, 1995, Tuesday

Stalked by the shadows of history; Britain, once a safe haven for European Jews,
now has the worst record for anti-Semitic attacks, writes Peter Popham

BYLINE: Peter Popham

SECTION: COVER STORY; Page  4,

LENGTH: 1714 words


When the head of Islamic Jihad, Fathi Shqaqi, was murdered in Malta recently,
his followers declared that "every Zionist, wherever he is, will be a target of
our strikes and of our bodies that will explode in anger". It was not a solitary
outburst: since the Israeli government signed the agreement with the PLO on 23
September, committing it to pulling out of six towns on the West Bank, the
threats made by those infuriated to see the peace process succeeding have
multiplied, aimed as much at the Jewish diaspora as at Israelis.

Yet the response of the Jewish community in Britain to these menaces was
negligible. The reason: the community is already at a high state of alert.
Jewish schools, synagogues and other institutions are under constant guard when
occupied. The offices of important organisations such as the Board of Deputies
of British Jews are reinforced by armed policemen of the Diplomatic Protection
Group. When members of the board met the Home Office in August, they were
advised to maintain security at the existing high level, one degree below the
highest level possible.

Why should this be necessary? After all, for decades when other European
countries bristled with menace for Jews, Britain was, by comparison, a haven of
peace. For many, this has not changed. Rabbi Abraham Pinter, from the orthodox
community in north London's Stamford Hill district, says: "I feel more
comfortable in Britain than in any of the countries I've been to." A member of
the orthodox community in Gateshead says of that bleak town: "It was a
comfortable little corner of England in which to settle down." Britain's last
"pogrom" was as recent as 1911, when mining communities in South Wales erupted
in protest at Jewish landlords - but in the context of the 20th century, it's a
pretty small blot.

"The Jewish community does not suffer from violence like blacks and Asians and
other visible minorities," says Mike Whine of the Board of Deputies of British
Jews. "Social anti-Semitism has been declining for 50 years, and Jews are now
seen, not as outsiders, but as part of the indigenous white population."

Yet last year, for the third year running, Britain had the worst record of any
country in the world for anti-Semitic attacks. According to the report
Anti-Semitism Worldwide, more than 300 incidents were reported.  Jewish
institutions were blasted by bombs, graves desecrated, children and adults
assaulted and abused, and hate mail, resuscitating the most ancient and
poisonous religious libels, disseminated across the country.

The report is quick to add that Britain's unenviable position at the top of this
league may be due to her "elaborate system of reporting and collecting data".
But the alarm is real. In the wake of the huge car bombs detonated outside the
Israeli embassy and the office of a Jewish charity in July 1994, hundreds of
thousands of pounds was raised within the community to set up a volunteer force,
the Community Security Trust, to mount guard outside synagogues, Jewish schools
and other community institutions.

To get into Mr Whine's office you pass an armed policeman of the Diplomatic
Protection Group and a Jewish volunteer, and cross a strip of pavement cordoned
off by tall black bollards. You pass through double doors where two security
officers go through your bags with the thoroughness of the people at David
Ben-Gurion Airport, under a sign that reads: "SECURITY NOTICE . . . In recent
months terrorists have attacked Jewish community buildings in Britain."
Comfortable is not the word that springs to mind.

One of the trouble spots singled out for mention in Anti-Semitism Worldwide is
Gateshead, the suburb of Newcastle which is home to a large orthodox community.
About 120 years ago, Jews fleeing Russian persecution began docking and settling
down in Newcastle. Several years and quarrels later, a pious Jew called
Zachariah Bernstone walked over the Tyne across the Redheugh Bridge, looked
around him at the ugly mining town he found there and declared: "Here I am and
here I stay."

Slowly a community grew up around his house, and in this century, as refugees
poured in from the Continent, it expanded rapidly. During the Thirties, the
seats of Jewish learning in Eastern Europe crumbled, but new ones sprang up
here, until Gateshead became known to religious Jews around the world, and
rabbis and students flocked there to teach and learn.  The community numbers
some 4,000. A Jew could go from infancy to the pinnacle of Judaical studies
without leaving this square mile.

Yet the mark the community has made on Gateshead is a subtle one. "Be a proud
Jew but keep a low profile," an orthodox Jewish father will counsel his son, and
it is advice that this community has taken. The primary school looks like any
other in the country, except for the Star of David on the gable end. A high
privet hedge discourages starers. At the heart of the community there are no
signs, no monuments, no architectural tempting of fate. There is, however,
eternal vigilance: at the corner of the street, three young men in black suits
and big black hats stand talking and joking, shooting the breeze, taking the
air. But when a stranger walks by, their eyes follow him all the way around the
corner.

According to the report on anti-Semitism, there was "a growing number of
assaults" against Gateshead's Jewish community in 1994. Mr Whine confirms that
it has been a persistent problem for four years, and is getting worse. But the
senior teacher in the community, who agrees to be interviewed on condition that
we do not reveal his name, is keen to play down the problem.

"You can call it anti-Semitism if you want, but it's not of the professional
type. I would call it hooliganism coupled with ignorance: they're out to harass
a member of the public, and if they can get a Jew in, why not?  It's not planned
anti-Semitism: I'm walking along the street and people call out 'Jew!' or throw
stones or knock my hat off. It doesn't happen every day, but it's something you
live with. All the attacks are very minor. We ignore it and we train the
students to ignore it."

They have also trained the media to ignore it, as neither the local paper nor
the Jewish Chronicle has carried news of the community's difficulties for over
four years. "I'd say major harassment and anti-Semitism are on the decline," he
says, but adds: "We get full support from the Northumbrian police. I'm in
contact with them on a daily basis."

The thuggery with which Gateshead's Jews cope stoically is in a sense an
anachronism: they have the conspicuousness here that Asians or blacks have in
other parts of the country - and Gateshead has no other significant minorities
to take the heat.

Elsewhere, the level of anti-Semitism has receded, but that which exists, says
Mr Whine, has become "more concentrated and focused". At the same time those
responsible have become more diverse, encompassing Islamic fundamentalists,
secular groups opposed to the Middle East peace process and British neo-Nazis.

When the bombs went off in Kensington and Hendon last July, suspicion was
directed at groups such as Hezbollah; but Hamas claimed the credit, while the
six people arrested for the attacks and now in custody awaiting trial are
secular Palestinians.

Combat 18, the neo-Nazi group blamed for the disruption of last year's football
match between England and Ireland, has published two magazines replete with
anti-Semitic abuse, including material denying the holocaust.  Thousands of
leaflets have been sent to homes and schools in London over the past two years,
accusing Jews of ritual murder and paedophilia - a revival of the most ancient
and evil anti-Semitic canard - and trying to spread alarm among unsophisticated
non-Jewish parents. "We believe that your children may be in mortal danger,"
they say. No one has been prosecuted for their publication.

Meanwhile, a new source of hatred and defamation has arisen in the form of the
Internet, through which far-right groups in America and continental Europe
spread their ideas and co-ordinate their activities, beyond the reach of police
surveillance. Then finally there are those among us who find their recreation in
smashing tombstones in Jewish cemeteries. Attacks have occurred in Bournemouth,
Hull and east London in the past two months.

Is Britain the most anti-Semitic country in Europe? It seems unlikely.  Every
synagogue in France is under armed guard; in Slovakia and Romania anti-Semitic
parties are part of the governing coalitions; in Russia, anti-Semitic remarks
are part of Vladimir Zhirinovsky's standard patter.  Abraham Israel contrasts
Britain's relatively benign mood to that he found in Austria. "I'd heard that
one-third of Austrians have anti-Semitic feelings. I couldn't find the other
two-thirds. You feel everyone's eyes in your back."

But as Clive Lawton, head of an organisation called Jewish Continuity and
formerly headmaster of King David's School in Liverpool, points out, if the
phenomenon exists, statistics have little meaning. "It's like asking women if
violence to women matters. Of course it does. The damage is far greater on a
psychic level than a physical level."

The arrival in Britain since the Fifties of more conspicuous minorities has
lowered the profile of the Jews, but as the writer Conor Cruise O'Brien once put
it hauntingly, anti-Semitism is "a very light sleeper", and far from withering
away, it has once again begun ominously to rise.

Mr Lawton believes that blacks and Asians were never the essential target of the
racists. "If they were the real object, denial of the holocaust would not be
important. But for these people the Jews remain the core of the race problem,
while blacks and Asians are a symptom. They believe it is the Jews who have
trapped and confused the whole world. Therefore holocaust denial is very
important to them."

Mr Lawton's position is the opposite of that held by Jews for whom assimilation
in the white community has never been easier or more sensible. "We Jews are the
paradigmatic minority, we are professional refugees. We shouldn't forget that. I
wear a skull cap to express my solidarity with blacks, to insist on my
difference."


LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1995 Independent Print Ltd

                              146 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          November 15, 1995, Wednesday

Riyadh blast a declaration of war, says dissident

BYLINE: MICHAEL SHERIDAN Diplomatic Editor

SECTION: INTERNATIONAL; Page  14

LENGTH: 513 words


MICHAEL SHERIDAN

Diplomatic Editor

A leading Saudi Arabian dissident who has sought refuge in Britain was yesterday
quoted as saying the bomb blast in Riyadh on Monday was a "war declaration"
against the Saudi royal family.

He predicted more acts of violence and attributed the car bomb attack on an
American training centre to disgruntled young Saudis trained in Afghanistan. Six
people, five of them Americans, died in the explosion and 60 were injured,
including an Indian worker who died yesterday.

Professor Mohammed Masari's comments in an interview with the Associated Press
are likely to lead to renewed demands from the Saudi government for Britain to
curb the activities of dissidents in London.

"The question is to whom the war declaration is directed - and that's to the
Saudi regime," Mr Masari said, adding that the bombers "chose a target that
would be acceptable to everyone." He expected that "there will be more violent
action but not necessarily this form."

The professor heads a group known as the Committee for Defence of Legitimate
Rights (CDLR), which attacks the royal family's alleged corruption and seeks
firmer adherence to the Sharia, or Islamic law.

Although the group insists it advocates peaceful reform, its agitation for
change has infuriated the Saudi royal family. The subject was raised last week
at talks in Jeddah between the Foreign Secretary, Malcolm Rifkind, and King
Fahd. It also came up at Mr Rifkind's meeting with the Saudi Foreign Minister,
Prince Saud al-Faisal. British businessmen in the kingdom said last week they
feared the issue could damage Britain's commercial interests.

Mr Rifkind said the government did not like the presence of people such as Mr
Masari but could take no action against them unless they broke the law. "We take
a very hard line but we act against terrorism, not opinions," Mr Rifkind said.

The Home Office is reviewing an appeal by Mr Masari against deportation to Yemen
and he has also lodged an application for political asylum.

The security services are believed to be keeping a close eye on Mr Masari and
the CDLR. There is little doubt that if officials can find a reason to get Mr
Masari out of the country they will do so.

Two little-known groups, the Islamic Change Movement and the Tigers of the Gulf,
claimed responsibility for Monday's bombing. Such titles are often no more than
a nom de guerre, giving no clues to the identity of the perpetrators.

But both Mr Masari and Western officials agreed on the likelihood that the
bombing could be the work of so-called "Afghanis," devout young men trained by
the CIA and Pakistan's military intelligence to use arms and explosives against
Soviet troops in Afghanistan.

Many have since returned to the Middle East to discover a new outlet for their
skills, joining a pool of discontented youth who regard existing governments as
corrupt and see Islam as the solution. Some have made their way to Bosnia to
fight as mujahedin alongside forces of the Muslim-led government in Sarajevo.


LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1995 Independent Print Ltd

                              147 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Standard (London)

                               November 16, 1995

FO condemns Saudi dissidents in London

BYLINE: Keith Dovkants

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 627 words


THE FOREIGN Office today made an extraordinary attack on a group of London-based
dissidents whose activities have enraged the Saudi royal family.

The self-styled Campaign for Defence of Legitimate Rights has been waging a
propaganda war against the Saudi regime from a flat in Willesden. Its spokesman
Dr Mohammed Al-Massari has applied for political asylum in Britain.

After the terrorist bombing in Riyadh on Monday, which claimed six lives, the
group told a Middle Eastern newspaper it believed American installations in
Saudi Arabia were "legitimate targets".

This was roundly condemned by the Foreign Office today. A spokesman said of the
campaign: "Such people are unwelcome in Britain and their views are thoroughly
distasteful to the British government and the British people."

Foreign Secretary Malcolm Rifkind was in Saudi Arabia last week where, it is
understood, King Fahd made a personal appeal for the government to expel Dr
Al-Massari.

The campaign bombards Saudi Arabia with faxes claiming corruption among members
of the Royal family and ruling ministers. It has been suggested Britain's
chances of completing a £3 billion arms deal have been jeopardised by the
continued presence of Dr Al-Massari in London.

But under the asylum rules he cannot be expelled if he has not contravened
British laws.

The Home Office is still considering his case, however, and the increasing
tension it is causing between Britain and its important Middle East ally is
creating serious diplomatic problems.

Dr Al-Massari said his group was political and had no military wing. He claims
the CDLR had no part in the Riyadh bombing and he blamed "young hotheads".

On the question of his continued presence in Britain he said: "I've heard that
Mr Rifkind has asked all the relevant government departments to find some way of
getting me out of the country.

"I think they are determined to come up with something."

ends

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1995 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              148 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Standard (London)

                               November 16, 1995

Major's Letter gives new Ulster peace hope

BYLINE: David Shaw

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 667 words


HOPES rose today of new progress in the Ulster peace process after Dublin
greeted a 'friendly, constructive and forward-looking' letter from John Major
following last weekend's apparent rift.

The Prime Minister sent a letter to counterpart John Bruton following the Irish
premier's remarks in which he effectively accused Britain of foot-dragging and
dismissed London's objections to Sinn Fein joining talks as 'comparatively
minor' in historical terms.

It was said to have satisfied Mr Bruton and a discussion between the two men as
early as next week was not being ruled out. In Dublin, Mr Major's move was being
hailed as offering a significant breakthrough. There was hope that a
'twin-track' procedure, where preliminary talks take place alongside an
arms-decommissioning body's deliberations, could succeed.

Officials said there were few real differences between the two governments,
although it was being emphasised Sinn Fein must move on the decommissioning of
IRA arms before it could enter all-party talks.

Mr Major has called on Sinn Fein to state unequivocally that there could be no
return to terrorist violence and bitterly denounced the continuing intimidation
in the Province.

He told MPs: 'If their commitment is real, threats and thuggery should stop.
Killing has stopped. Much else has not. That may not be murder, but it is not
peace and it is not a way of behaviour that merits Sinn Fein's entry to the
talks until they have changed what they are doing. I want to see Sinn Fein
denounce such behaviour and stop it.'

Downing Street said afterwards Mr Major had spoken out because he had found some
of the victims' accounts 'gruesome beyond belief' but was not setting a new
pre-condition for Sinn Fein to enter talks.

Today the Mr Major was to meet Ulster Unionist leader David Trimble for the
latest in a series of talks with Northern Ireland party leaders. It follows a
meeting on Tuesday between the Northern Ireland Secretary Sir Patrick Mayhew and
the Democratic Unionist leader Ian Paisley.

Irish police last night found explosives at a farm near the Ulster border - the
second such discovery in the area in less than a week.

Acting on a tip-off last night, police uncovered potential bomb parts and a
small haul of explosives in outbuildings of the farm at Tonyglasson, near
Castleblayney, Co Monaghan.

The find was made six miles from the Ulster border and eight miles from the spot
where 2,000lb of explosives were discovered last Friday.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: JOHN BRUTON:ULSTER PEACE HOPES RISE AFTER

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1995 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              149 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                          November 18, 1995, Saturday

IN PARLIAMENT YESTERDAY

SECTION: PARLIMENTARY NEWS

LENGTH: 1394 words



    The cost of insuring buildings against terrorist bomb attacks is to be
reduced by a fifth next year as a result of the Northern Ireland ceasefire, the
Government announced. Trade and Industry Minister of State Tony Nelson said
premiums for those insured through Pool Reinsurance would fall by 20% providing
good claims experience continued.
    Health Secretary Stephen Dorrell dismissed claims of "rationing" of
treatments in the National Health Service, insisting authorities were obliged to
use resources in a way that reflected priorities for care.  Mr Dorrell clashed
with shadow health secretary Harriet Harman after reports that nearly a third of
authorities are openly limiting some treatments. Forty of the 129 in England,
Scotland and Wales have either reduced or stopped purchasing certain preventive
and non-emergency treatments as a matter of policy, according to an independent
survey.  Miss Harman claimed health care rationing was "sweeping through the NHS
today" and blamed ministers directly for it.  But Mr Dorrell rejected the
charge, declaring: "The true scandal would be if the health service didn't use
resources in a way that reflected health priorities." Mr Dorrell and Miss Harman
again clashed as she pressed her attacks. At one point, as she hit out over
rationing claims, he accused her of "lying". He apologised after being ordered
to withdraw the remark by Deputy Speaker Michael Morris.  Miss Harman told the
House how Joan Foster, a 72-year-old Peckham constituent with a suspected heart
attack, spent 19 hours on a trolley at London's Kings College Hospital in a room
with stab victims, one of whom died. Miss Harman has written to hospital chiefs
demanding an explanation.
    Social Security Secretary Peter Lilley said that, in Britain, "the number of
people out of work is now lower than any major country in western Europe,
including Germany for the first time".
    Tory Hartley Booth (Finchley) protested at a "scandalous situation in
Government policy" on homelessness. He said there were 825,000 empty homes in
Britain - seven for every homeless person. "We have no excuse as a nation for
having empty properties and yet we have homeless people. The two must be married
up."
    The Education (Student Loans) Bill gained a formal Commons first reading. It
will enable the Government to make payments to private sector suppliers in
connection with subsidised loans to students, allowing students to choose
between private and public providers for loans towards maintenance costs.
    Tory former social security minister Sir Rhodes Boyson (Brent N) called for
the pensioners' £10 Christmas bonus to be boosted to as much as £100 in the
Budget.
    The number of civil servants employed by central government departments in
Whitehall and regional offices is continuing to fall, Public Services Minister
John Horam said. A total of 506,300 were employed on October 1, a 5% decrease on
the previous year. The number of casual staff fell 1% to 19,200.  IN PARLIAMENT
ON MONDAY: The fourth day of the Queen's Speech debate - on the topics of
investment, trade, industry and transport - is opened by President of the Board
of Trade Ian Lang, followed by shadow trade and industry secretary Margaret
Beckett. Shadow transport secretary Clare Short winds up and Transport Secretary
Sir George Young replies.  The Lord Chancellor, Lord Mackay of Clashfern, opens
the second day of the Queen's Speech debate in the Lords on the topics of law
and home and social affairs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1995 The Press Association Limited

                              150 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                           November 19, 1995, Sunday

PENDENNIS THE OBSERVER DIARY.  BECAUSE WHO SAID LIFE WAS FAIR...

SECTION: THE OBSERVER REVIEW PAGE; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1427 words


Spin on this, Hugh

Spare a thought for the poor old Saint Sebastian of modern spin-doctoring, Hugh
Colver, who walked from Tory Central Office because he couldn't bear those nasty
chaps in the Conservative Party suggesting all manner of dirty tricks aimed at
the Opposition. St Hugh, who enjoyed an excessively easy ride from the prints
because of his squeamishness at Smith Square, is now resting, but soon may be
looking for a new job. Potential employers may think him too angelic to be a
good spin doctor.

But wait! He was the spin supremo at the MoD when three IRA members were gunned
down for being on the edge of triggering a car bomb, a device which subsequently
turned out not to exist. St Hugh was also spinning madly away at British
Aerospace when the company denied that it had tried to sell a job-lot of
electric cattle prods " handy for torturers " to some Middle Eastern arms
dealers who later turned out to be from Channel Four. This man should not wander
the JobCentres of the land for long.

What's new pussycat?

If John Major is still smarting from the mauling he received in Thatcher: The
Downing Street Years, he may be disturbed to learn of a new no-claws-barred
account of life at Number 10. Humphrey: A Day in the Life of the Downing Street
Cat promises to open the cat-flap on Cabinet meetings and shed new light on the
'special relationship' with the White House incumbent " Socks, that is. This
literary paw de force is being rushed out for Christmas by HarperCollins, which
numbers Norma Major and Lord Archer among its authors.

The Second Coming

Despite being scooped by Diana's revelations on Panorama, The Beatles Anthology
begins its run on ITV tomorrow, followed the next day by their newly-released
double album Anthology Volume 1. And not a second sooner: to avoid leaks,
bootlegs and pirate airings, EMI has put everyone on a war footing. Security
could hardly be tighter if John Lennon himself had turned up.  Lorries loaded
down with an initial 600,000 copies of the album leave the Dutch pressing
factories " presently under armed guard " tonight and arrive in the UK at the
crack of dawn tomorrow. If you can't wait a day longer than the 25 years since
the last Beatles record. . . well, several shops in major cities are opening at
midnight tomorrow.

Sheikhs, battle and Rolls

The recent grisly bombing of American servicemen in Riyadh prompted questions
about how important the feudal kingdom of Saudi Arabia is as an ally of the
West. As far as Britain is concerned, Pendennis has the answer. There is a
little-known but infallible method of discover ing how importantly the Foreign
Office rates its embassies abroad: ask them what type of car the British
Ambassador drives.

In a fairly important foreign capital such as Ottawa or Rome, our man is
chauffeured around in a Jaguar XJ6 or Rover 827. In a back-of-beyond sort of
place " Antananarivo or Tegucigalpa spring to mind " an LR Discovery or Range
Rover is good enough. And then, of course, there are the tip-top foreign
postings, distinguished by a Rolls-Royce Silver Spur in the British Ambassador's
personal parking lot. There are only nine capitals in the world significant
enough to be in this category, they are in four of the richest countries in the
world " the USA, Japan, Germany and France, and in four of the biggest "
Australia, China, India and Brazil. Oh, and in one other " Saudi Arabia.

Big Brother revisited

Good news for Stella Rimington in this week's Queen's speech " MI5 will be
allowed to work with the boys in blue in the nation's fight against organised
crime. Bad news, however, has come our way about the spirit of Glasnost that has
allegedly swept the security service in recent years. Pendennis remembers the
numerous allegations that MI5 operated a dirty tricks department (AIA, we are
told) in the distant past to burgle its way into the homes and offices of anyone
it considered subversive: trade unionists, peace campaigners, Labour Party
members and the like. Not any more, though, surely? To find out, Pendennis gave
MI5 a call at its plush new riverside headquarters in Westminster on 0171-828
8688. Could we possibly speak to the AIA branch, please? Within seconds we were
connected to the said buggers and burglars, who answered the phone with an
abrupt 'yep?' Could they confirm that AIA is still in the business of
housebreaking in the pursuit of political intelligence?  At which point the chap
at the other end was overcome by a severe bout of shyness and put down the phone
before being able to provide an answer.

Say 'cheesy'

Voters who think that their MPs need a prod during debates should pay heed to
the activities of the Liberal Democrat whips office. The other day they noticed
that their newest arrival, Chris Davies " victor in the Littleborough and
Saddleworth by-election " was looking rather glum during a televised debate.
Swiftly they got on the phone to his pager service and sent him a message which
read 'smile'. The bemused MP was sighted by political boffins fumbling with his
vibrating pager, and then flashing a Blairesque grin. 'I think he'd had rather a
heavy day,' said a colleague, in explanation.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1995 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              151 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 24, 1995

EGYPT STEPS UP PRESSURE ON BRITAIN FOR 'HARBOURING ISLAMIC TERRORISTS'

BYLINE: Ian Black Diplomatic Editor

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1267 words


BRITAIN faces a serious crisis in its relations with Egypt because of the
presence here of leaders of the extremist Jihad (Holy War) movement, who were
allegedly involved in terrorist attacks and assassinations in Cairo and abroad.

In a deliberate intensification of what was a discreet row between Cairo and
London, Egypt's interior ministry announced yesterday that two Jihad leaders
living in Britain had helped instruct 36 militants who are now under arrest.

These suspects allegedly planned suicide attacks on ministers, politicians,
policemen and journalists, and received instruction from other senior figures
living in Switzerland and Austria.

The two in Britain were named as Adel al-Bari, said to have already been granted
political asylum, and Yasser al-Serri. Mr Serri has been sentenced to death in
his absence for his alleged involvement in the attempted assassination of the
Egyptian prime minister Atef Sidki two years ago.

These men used code-names, disguises and forged documents to facilitate their
life abroad, the Egyptian statement said.

A Foreign Office spokesman said last night: "We will be in touch with the
Egyptian authorities to see if they can provide us with any evidence against
these men. If they have broken British law they will be acted against."

Neither the Foreign Office nor the Home Office, which is directly responsible,
will comment on individual asylum cases.

British officials have for some time been privately concerned about Mr Serri,
but the Egyptian government is losing patience after last weekend's suicide bomb
attack on the Egyptian embassy in the Pakistani capital, Islamabad, in which 16
people were killed.

The Jihad group, which assassinated President Anwar Sadat in 1981 and wants to
set up an Islamic state, was one of three militant organisations to claim
responsibility for the Islamabad attack.

Days before the attack, President Hosni Mubarak said: "I do not understand why
countries such as Britain and Germany give refuge to criminals. One day they are
going to pay a very high price."

Pressure from Egypt comes amid intense lobbying by Saudi Arabia, concerned about
the activities of its national Mohammed al-Massari, head of the London-based
Committee for the Defence of Legitimate Rights, who sends faxes denouncing the
Saudi royal family.

Last week, the Foreign Office took the unusual step of condemning Mr Massari
after he issued a statement saying United States soldiers killed in a bomb
attack in Saudi Arabia were "a legitimate target".

"Such people are unwelcome in Britain and . . . their views are thoroughly
distasteful to both Government and people," an FCO spokesman said. Saudi Arabia
is a hugely lucrative market for British firms.

The Foreign Office is seeking changes in the asylum law that would rule out
applicants whose presence were judged detrimental to British national interests,
even if they had committed no crime under British law. But this is a legal
minefield.

The campaign reflects mounting concern that London is acquiring a reputation as
a haven for radical Islamists.  There is evidence of an Islamist international
operating here: a London-based Algerian newsletter regularly has statements by
Mr Massari.  Exiles from other Gulf states, including Bahrain and the United
Arab Emirates, have also set up here.

One Arab source said: "The Egyptian government can't keep quiet any longer. The
Islamabad explosion was very shocking and now they don't know what the next
target will be.

"Britain is going to have to take some action - not only with the Egyptians but
the Saudis as well. There is increasing anger in the Middle East amongst friends
of the British government."

Mr Serri's reputation causes alarm among less radical Islamists. "They consider
moderates as non-believers," one said.  "They don't tolerate us and they use
(pseudonyms). You can't even know who they really are."

Mr Serri's name came up earlier this week when three Egyptian men went on trial
in a military court on charges of setting up contacts between the influential
Muslim Brotherhood and the Jihad.

Prosecutors say Mr Serri faxed anti-government statements from his London
hideout to distribute in Egypt. He denied this in a faxed message to Arab
newspapers.

Inside the Middle East, page 17

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              152 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 24, 1995

ARMS AND THE MAN ON THE BEAT;
On a policemen's holiday to an industry fair, officers looked for ways to ease
their jobs. Alex Duval Smith reports from Paris

BYLINE: Alex Duval Smith

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FOREIGN PAGE; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 894 words


SIX French policemen in jeans and flight jackets were fondling a Ruger automatic
pistol. "Just feel this. The trigger action is beautiful; so smooth," Jean-Marie
said as he pointed the gun across the room. "Bang!"

"We should have these on our rounds - that would keep the yobs at bay," said
another as he admired the Colts and Berettas on a stand at the Milipol fair
yesterday.

Milipol, in its ninth year, is a kind of police supermarket with everything from
tear-gas canisters to armoured vehicles. For the six off-duty officers, the fair
at Le Bourget was uncannily handy for the Parisian housing estates they patrol.

Jean-Marie's eyes shifted to a pretty girl posing behind a see-through riot
shield.

"We need to see what is on offer so our union can lobby for better equipment.
All the force thinks about is cutting costs," he said. "If we had automatic
pistols instead of revolvers we could fire up to 15 bullets without reloading."

British companies exhibiting at Milipol were keener to play down their presence.
A firm which sells riot shields and truncheons to the Metropolitan Police asked
not to be named.

"The last time we had our name in the paper, someone burnt down our factory," a
salesman said.

P .W Allen & Co, which makes bomb-disposal equipment in Evesham, stressed the
non-offensive nature of its business. One item that attracted a lot of interest
was a bomb search kit, including endoscopes and mirrors, which was stored in an
ordinary suitcase and cost pounds 1,300.

The sales manager, Glyn Buckler, said: "Suffice it to say that Britain - and I
suppose Israel - lead the world in anti-terrorist technology and training." At
the next stand, Colin Mills from TBA in Rochdale was selling bomb-proof litter
bins and bullet and stab-proof vests.

"Our top-selling model, used by the West Yorkshire police, retails at pounds
350," said Mr Mills, whose title is ballistics business manager. To him the fair
is an obligatory showcase.

"We have been asked by Paris city council to give a quote for 60,000 bomb-proof
bins, based on the Warrington model we developed after the IRA bombing there. It
can resist up to two kilos of Semtex," he said.

Nearby, the director-general of a company which makes rubber-bullet launchers
was bemoaning the lack of British custom at Milipol, which is expected to draw
15,000 visitors.

Xavier de Veron de la Combe, who had just sold 500 of his "Flash-Ball" launchers
to police patrolling housing estates, said: "My gun comes with a variety of
projectiles, including rubber balls and plastic pellets containing tear-gas or
indelible oil. From 15 metres they can pierce the side window of a car. They
only cost pounds 265 each.

"The Metropolitan Police is testing them, but I'm not very hopeful. With the
British police's insistence on not carrying arms, there is just no market. You'd
be lucky to sell a radio to a British bobby."

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              153 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 25, 1995

30 YEARS FOR COCAINE SMUGGLERS

BYLINE: Duncan Campbell Crime Correspondent

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 760 words


TWO men yesterday received 30-year jail terms for drug smuggling, believed to be
the longest sentence for the offence imposed in a British court. The sentence is
greater than those for most murders and the same as for IRA bomb attacks.

The two men were sentenced at Snaresbrook crown court in east London for a
pounds 125 million cocaine smuggling operation.

The case had been moved out of London after claims that a juror had received
"inappropriate attention".

George Sansom, aged 42, from Dulwich, south London, the cousin of the former
Arsenal and England footballer Kenny Sansom, was said to have organised the
marketing of the drug in Britain.

Coleman Mulkerrins, aged 53, from Twickenham, south-west London, was said to
have run the financial side of the operation.

Kenny Sansom gave character evidence for his cousin during the trial.

Last night Mulkerrins's solicitor, James Saunders, said: "In a case where the
evidence is extremely thin and the defence was prevented from knowing all the
facts, to give a man a sentence which is effectively a death sentence - he will
be 73 before he is entitled to parole - is worrying."

The court had heard that Mulkerrins put up pounds 200,000 in June 1992 to buy a
ship used to transport cocaine across the world.

The vessel was tracked after it loaded the drugs off the coast of Venezuela
until it docked at Durham Wharf in Charlton, London, in November 1992. A
12-month surveillance operation was undertaken.

The 795-kilogram consignment was loaded into a van, which was driven to a lock
-up unit in Deptford, south-east London.

Six men, mainly members of the ship's crew, were arrested. Following a pounds 2
million trial at Southwark crown court in December 1993, they were all acquitted
by a jury of being knowingly concerned in the drugs importation.

Mulkerrins was arrested in May last year and Sansom was only recently extradited
from Spain.

Their trial started in June but, just before closing speeches were made, the
jury was discharged and the case was transferred to Norwich crown court where
Mulkerrins and Sansom were convicted of being knowingly concerned in the illegal
importation of 795.6 kilograms of cocaine.

Judge Andrew Brookssaid: "Those who choose to become involved in the trafficking
of class A drugs must be told in the clearest possible terms that in dealing
with them the courts will show little or no mercy."

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              154 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           November 26, 1995, Sunday

Britain rules out peace summit

SECTION: NEWS; Page  2

LENGTH: 264 words


THE Anglo-Irish peace process suffered a setback last night when British
officials ruled out the possibility of a summit with the Irish premier before
the arrival of President Clinton this week.

Officials from both governments met in London yesterday but were unable to build
on progress made in earlier discussions on key issues. John Major and his Irish
counterpart, John Bruton, had hoped to be able to launch the "twin-track"
process with a summit before Mr Clinton arrives on Wednesday.

On Friday, Ireland's most senior civil servant, Paddy Teahon, flew to London
with four colleagues for a meeting with British officials led by Sir Robin
Butler, the Cabinet Secretary.

But sources indicated that progress made on one outstanding issue - British
insistence that the security forces' arms are not regarded as equivalent to
terrorist bombs and weapons - was "unpicked" yesterday afternoon.

They blamed the changed composition of the Irish delegation, which yesterday
included officials from Dick Spring's foreign affairs department and justice
department civil servants. Earlier meetings had taken place solely with Mr
Bruton's civil servants. Mr Spring is seen in London as taking a harder line
than Mr Bruton over disarmament; one source blamed "the hand of Sinn Fein" for
the setback.

The other big issue is the remit of the international commission to be set up to
assist the decommissioning. Britain insists that the Washington III condition -
that the IRA begins decommissioning before talks begin - should be separated
from the commission's remit.


LOAD-DATE: November 27, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1995 Independent Print Ltd

                              155 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 29, 1995

EGYPT WARNS BRITAIN OF 'RISK' OF HARBOURING EXILES

BYLINE: Ian Black Diplomatic Editor

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FOREIGN PAGE; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 614 words


EGYPT has again publicly warned Britain that by harbouring Islamic militants
fighting to overthrow the government of President Hosni Mubarak it faces the
prospect of being hurt itself.

In a blunt message that will dismay the diplomats and intelligence agencies
seeking to solve the problem discreetly, Egypt's interior minister, Hassan
al-Alfi, predicted that Britain would be "burned by the fire of terrorism" as
long as it granted a sylum to violent fundamentalists.

"There are information centres for the terrorists who roam British soil and who
hold conferences there," Mr al-Alfi told the semi-official Al-Ahram newspaper.

"They also get their instructions there, and all the attacks that occur are
comissioned from outside Egypt," he said.

Britain has asked Egypt for information about suspected members of the militant
Jihad (Holy War) group or its offshoots who are living in Britain. But the two
countries have no extradition treaty, and attempts to change Britain's asylum
laws are likely to prove difficult.

Last week, Jihad claimed responsibility for the bombing of the Egyptian embassy
in Pakistan, in which 16 people died and 60 were wounded.

Two other militant groups said they were behind the bombing, and one claimed
responsibility for killing an Egyptian diplomat in Geneva this month. Shots were
also fired at Egypt's embassy in Bulgaria.

Cairo is especially concerned about two men living in Britain: Adel al-Bari,
said to have already been granted asylum; and Yasser al-Serri, sentenced to
death in absentia for alleged involvement in the attempted assassination of the
Egyptian prime minister, Atef Sidki, two years ago.

Diplomatic sources say four other Jihad activists are also being monitored.

Saudi Arabia and several other north African regimes challenged by Islamists
have also singled out Britain as a haven.  President Mubarak has spoken more
forcefully on the subject since surviving an assassination attempt in Addis
Ababa last summer.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              156 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                               November 30, 1995

TAKING RISKS FOR PEACE

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 920 words


THE pressure was on. The President was coming. Frantically, the Prime Ministers
of Britain and the Irish Republic tried to compose their differences before he
arrived.

With only hours to spare, John Major and John Bruton reached an agreement to
differ about whether the IRA would hand over even an ounce of Semtex before Sinn
Fein could be allowed a seat at the negotiating table.

The shotgun compromise which the two Johns made amounts to this:

An international body, headed by an American Senator, will examine how IRA arms
might be 'de-commissioned'. Meanwhile, talks about talks are supposed to get
under way. The hope is that this twin-track approach will enable decisive
all-party discussions on the future of Northern Ireland to start by February.

The best that can be said to this fraught process - seemingly designed to
placate resting terrorists in their refusal to disarm - is that it gave
desperate momentum to the stalled peace process just before the presidential jet
came to a halt at Heathrow.

So the stage was set for Bill Clinton to play the world statesman.

Warmly, he enthused about the special bond that has united Britain and America
in time of war. Movingly, he praised John Major for taking 'a risk for peace'.

Yes, Britain's leader has shown huge courage and tenacity in so unsparingly
staking his prime ministerial authority to give the people of Northern Ireland
the chance of a future without the bomb and the bullet. If any man can broker
lasting peace in that tortured and riven land, it is John Major.

But what risk will Mr Clinton take for peace when this morning he visits Ulster,
where no incumbent President of the United States has previously set foot?

If anybody has the global clout to persuade Sinn Fein that the IRA should lay
down its arms before joining talks, it is Clinton. But the President has a
problem: nowhere outside Erin is the Irish lobby so powerful as among the
Democrats in the States. That is Clinton's party. And he needs the
American-Irish vote if he is to be re-elected.

Yesterday he spoke with eloquence and sincerity to Parliament about the need for
free nations to unite against the terrorist threat.

Today he has a unique opportunity to do something about that in Northern
Ireland. It is to be hoped that he is big enough to put a higher priority on
peace in this part of the United Kingdom than on American domestic politics.

The Group

AMERICA'S First Lady had the pleasure yesterday of taking coffee with a most
select group. Among the favoured 22, were the flower of the politically correct
and the liberal establishment. The guest list included Polly Tonybee of the
Independent, Georgina Henry of the Guardian, and Sue Slipman formerly director
of the National Council for One Parent Families.

And there was also Sarah Ebanja, described in the quaint argot of the US Embassy
as 'hailing from South of the Thames where most persons of colour live.' Lady
Bracknell could not have put it better.

No doubt the conversation was stimulating. But if Hillary Clinton thought she
was meeting a truly representative gathering of British women, then heaven help
her.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1995 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              157 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          November 30, 1995, Thursday

Court threat to anti-terror law

BYLINE: KATHERINE BUTLER in Brussels

SECTION: NEWS; Page  4

LENGTH: 300 words


KATHERINE BUTLER

Brussels

Britain could be forced to revise its anti-terrorism laws if the European Court
of Justice rules today that their operation infringes the right to move freely
within the EU.

A ruling against Britain would further antagonise Euro-sceptic Tory backbenchers
in the wake of the recent European Court of Human Rights' verdict condemning
Britain for the 1988 SAS killings of three IRA bombers in Gibraltar.

It would also fuel demands that the powers of the Luxembourg-based court should
be severely curtailed in next year's EU constitutional review.

The court is due to rule on a challenge by Irishman John Gallagher to a 1991
order under the Prevention of Terrorism Act barring him from the UK.

Its judgement could open the way for Mr Gallagher, expelled for alleged
connections with the IRA, to sue the Government for compensation. Other
compensation claims could follow: Sinn Fein leader Gerry Adams brought a
parallel case to the Luxembourg court which was withdrawn in May of this year.

In October the court was advised by its advocate general that Mr Gallagher's
treatment by the British authorities was in conflict with the freedom of
movement rights enshrined in the EU treaty. While the full court is free to
ignore that advice, the advocate general's opinion is confirmed in eight out of
10 cases.

The key part of the interim ruling stated that although the British Government
is entitled under EU law to expel individuals for security reasons, safeguards
must include a full hearing by an independent authority before the expulsion
decision becomes definitive. Mr Gallagher was given a hearing after his
deportation by a Home Office official, and the judge implied that this could not
be considered to be entirely independent.


LOAD-DATE: November 30, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1995 Independent Print Ltd

                              158 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                               December 01, 1995

A JUDGMENT THAT ENCOURAGES TERROR

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 840 words


THE timing is bitterly ironic. As President Clinton warns terrorists that their
day is over, the European Court issues a judgment to delight every IRA thug who
ever planted a bomb or shot a bystander in the back.

In condemning the way the Prevention of Terrorism Act works, the Court has
strayed far beyond the bounds of ordinary controversy. Its ruling yesterday is
an affront both to political morality and to common sense.

Consider the facts. The terrorist John Gallagher, who had already been jailed in
Dublin for possession of firearms, makes his way to London. In 1991, he is
picked up by the police under the PTA and kicked out of the country as a
suspected IRA member.

Now he has the effrontery to claim his rights were violated under the European
law which guarantees freedom of movement. The Luxembourg Court has upheld his
challenge. The way has been cleared for dozens of terrorist suspects to demand
compensation for being excluded from mainland Britain.

For a quarter of a century, this country has endured terrorist savagery on a
scale beyond the experience of any other democracy. Children, women, innocent
citizens have been butchered or maimed by killers who think to gain by violence
the things they could never achieve at the ballot-box.

Yet the remarkable fact is that British standards of law and decency have never
broken under the pressure. There may have been lapses. There may have been
mistakes. But the rule of law still applies. The Prevention of Terrorism Act,
for example, has to be renewed every year. It continues to exist because -
despite the wretched opposition of the Labour Party - our elected Parliament
wishes it.

Now a few unelected, wholly unrepresentative European judges find technical
objections to our democratic process. They clearly think the British Government
should risk the safety of its own citizens in order to comply with the letter of
European law. Their ruling is an insult to the British people and to the
countless victims of terrorist violence.

DEFENDING THE FAITH

THE Daily Mail has not been slow to excoriate the Church of England over its
repeated failure to give a moral lead. Today we congratulate the Archbishop of
Canterbury for his ringing defence of traditional family values.

It is extraordinary that a senior churchman should feel the need to mount such a
defence. But the tragic truth is that Anglicanism has for 20 years and more been
guilty of equivocation, waffle and 'liberal' ambivalence about marriage. It is
one of the reasons congregations have dwindled.

Yesterday could prove a watershed. Dr Carey insisted that the Church must
support the two-parent family as the foundation of the good society.

Remarkably, his words received thunderous applause from a Synod which has so
often espoused the cause of political correctness. Speakers like David Sheppard
and Synod liberals who think living in sin is compatible with the Christian
message received only a lukewarm response.

The Church desperately needs robust leadership. In the Lords yesterday, Lady
Young, leader of the Tory peers, launched a blistering attack on Government
plans for 'no fault' divorce. How refreshing it would be if the Archbishop now
followed the logic of his own argument, and came out openly in her support.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1995 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              159 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                December 1, 1995

'DAY IS OVER FOR THE MEN OF VIOLENCE'

BYLINE: David Sharrock Ireland Correspondent

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1134 words


PRESIDENT Clinton fanned the flames of optimism in Northern Ireland yesterday
with a simple but emphatic message to the men of violence: "You are the past,
your day is over."

On a day of set-piece political theatre, the US president - the first to set
foot in Northern Ireland - was able to spring a few surprises, going walkabout
and shopping on the Shankill near the scene of an IRA atrocity which claimed 10
lives, and the Falls Road, where he shook hands publicly for the first time with
the Sinn Fein president Gerry Adams.

The "accidental" encounter outside a cake shop fooled nobody but spoke volumes
about the sensitivities which still surround contacts with Sinn Fein. John Major
is yet to follow the president's lead and shake hands.

It was the briefest of encounters. Afterwards Mr Adams said he had told the
president: "Cead mile failte (one thousand welcomes). Welcome to West Belfast."
Mr Clinton replied: "Nice to see you. I look forward to seeing you this
evening."

He was referring to a reception at Queen's University, where care was taken to
ensure that political enemies such as Mr Adams and the Democratic Unionist
leader Ian Paisley all met Mr Clinton without meeting one another.

Indeed, the president spent 25 minutes talking with Mr Paisley in a separate
room, away from the reception, and was handed a three-page letter detailing the
Democratic Unionist Party's view on the way forward.

But first there were visits to Belfast, west and east, a reception in
Londonderry, and a musical interlude provided by Van Morrison outside Belfast's
City Hall, where the president switched on the Christmas tree lights.

His big political message was delivered early on, at Mackies factory. Ministers
were delighted with Mr Clinton's speech. "It was everything we expected," said
one senior government official.

The president praised the twin-track initiative, announced by Mr Major and the
Irish prime minister John Bruton hours before he arrived in Britain. "Engaging
in honest dialogue is not an act of surrender, it is an act of strength and
commonsense," he said to applause.

Mr Clinton condemned the punishment beatings of the paramilitaries, but added
that the sinners and the sinned against must forgive one another. He said he was
equally proud to be of Ulster Scots and Irish stock and his comments were
sprinkled with literary references which spanned the ancient divide.

In Belfast he quoted the poet Louis MacNeice to describe the nature of the
American melting pot, rejoicing at things being various. In Derry he recollected
the words of Seamus Heaney. "I believe we live in a time of hope and history
rhyming."

He trod a careful path between the national and unionist traditions. "I believe
that the greatest struggle you face now is not between oposing ideas or opposing
interests.

"The greatest struggle you face is between those who, deep down inside, are
inclined to be peacemakers, and those who, deep down inside, cannot yet embrace
the cause of peace.

"But you, the vast majority, Protestant and Catholic alike, must not allow the
ship of peace to sink on the rocks of old habits and hard grudges.  You must
stand firm against terror."

With one eye on the Protestant boy and Catholic girl who introduced him to the
Mackies gathering he said: "Only you can create a lasting peace. But when we see
the bright gaze of these children we know the risk is worth the reward."

* Canada's chief of defence staff General John de Chastelain, aged 58, who
retires at the end of the year, is expected to become a member of the
international commission on the Irish peace process.

The second member will be Harri Holkeri, the Finnish prime minister between 1987
and 1991. He is currently president of the board of governors of the Bank of
Finland.

Leader comment, page 20

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              160 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                December 1, 1995

TERROR CODE BREACHED EURO-LAW

BYLINE: Clare Dyer Legal Correspondent

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 907 words


BRITAIN'S procedures for excluding suspected terrorists breach European law, the
European Court of Justice in Luxembourg ruled yesterday.

The decision comes two days after the court's Advocate General decided in a
preliminary opinion that Spanish fishing companies can claim up to pounds 30
million in compensation for being prevented from fishing from British ports.

Tory Eurosceptics reacted furiously to yesterday's ruling. But Michael Howard,
the Home Secretary, vowed to resist compensation claims by those excluded under
the Prevention of Terrorism Acts.

The court ruled that procedures whereby suspected terrorists are first expelled
and only then allowed an interview with an adviser nominated by the Home
Secretary breach the right to freedom of movement guaranteed by the Treaty of
Rome.

In the Commons, Mr Howard described the ruling as narrow and limited. "It
doesn't go to the substance of the exclusion order making power; it goes only to
procedures."

The ruling will force the Home Office to delay future decisions, except in
urgent cases, until the Home Secretary's nominee has given an opinion.

Experts in European law said the ruling could open the way to claims by up to
500 people excluded under emergency powers. But Mr Howard said: "We shall
resist, and I believe resist successfully, any claim for compensation that is
made."

The Court of Appeal asked the Luxembourg court for a ruling in the case of John
Gallagher, a carpenter from the Irish Republic who had been jailed in Ireland
for three years for unlawful possession of firearms.

He came to Britain seeking a job and worked from April 1990 until September
1991, when he was served with an exclusion order.

Mr Gallagher returned to Ireland for family reasons but later challenged the
order. He was interviewed at the British embassy in Dublin by a Home Office
nominee who gave no reason for the exclusion. Mr Gallagher denies any
involvement in terrorism.

Mr Gallagher's solicitor, Stephen Grosz, said he was considering a claim for
compensation for his client's loss of earnings and the upheaval to his life.

Julie Wolf writes: The European Commission claimed growing support yesterday for
its drive to ban tobacco advertising, despite strong opposition from the
Government. After a meeting of health ministers, Padraig Flynn, Social Affairs
Commissioner, said there had been a significant step forward in forging a
compromise.

Under the compromise, advertising would be banned in publications distributed
outside their home country and on radio stations beamed across borders.

Commission officials said there were signs that Germany would consider a limited
advertising ban, as suggested by the Spanish presidency.

This would leave Britain and its allies, Denmark, the Netherlands and Greece,
without enough votes to block the measure, although they could force a delay.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              161 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            December 1, 1995, Friday

EU judges say British anti-terrorism Act is illegal

BYLINE: STEPHEN WARD Legal Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Page  2

LENGTH: 466 words


STEPHEN WARD

Legal Affairs Correspondent

Britain's Prevention of Terrorism Act, used to exclude suspected Irish
terrorists from the country, is in breach of European Union law, the European
Court of Justice in Luxembourg ruled yesterday.

The Government faces claims for thousands of pounds in compensation from
suspected terrorists who argue they were excluded under the unlawful procedure,
and challenges to bans from the 36 people currently excluded from Britain under
the Act.

The move will give fresh impetus to government plans to use the forthcoming
Inter- Governmental Conference on the EU's future to seek curbs on the powers of
the European Court. The back-bench MP, Sir Teddy Taylor, said yesterday: "It
seems appalling that the non-elected European Court is telling the British
government not only how to operate on terrorism, but how not to.

The Sinn Fein president, Gerry Adams, was excluded until this year, but the Home
Office dropped the order after he began a challenge before the Luxembourg court.

Although the Home Office insists its exclusion orders have all been justifiable,
until now it has never had to demonstrate that there had been independent
backing for its judgment that a person "is or has been concerned in the
commission, preparation or instigation of acts of terrorism connected with the
affairs of Northern Ireland".

Stephen Grosz, solicitor for the former republican activist John Gallagher, who
brought yesterday's case, said there were few safeguards against abuse of
exclusion orders, but this would help.

A spokesman for the Home Office emphasised that the Act would remain in force.
He said: "We shall consider very carefully the implications of this judgment.
But it is clear that it does not question the power to make exclusion orders -
it addresses only the procedures involved in making them," a spokesman said.
"The power to exclude remains an important weapon in our counter-terrorist
armoury. We don't propose to surrender that weapon until it is completely safe
to do so."

The legal challenge was brought by Mr Gallagher after he had been excluded from
Britain as a suspected terrorist. Ruling in his favour, the European Court
declared that the operation of the PTA was a breach of the principle of freedom
of movement, enshrined in the Treaty of Rome. The case will now go back to the
Court of Appeal in London.

Mr Gallagher, 35, was arrested in London in September 1991 and served with an
exclusion order. He was deported to Ireland three days later. He lost his job
and his possessions in England.

He maintained that he had had no involvement in political or paramilitary
activity at the time of his arrest, and challenged the ban. His exclusion order
was lifted at the end of last year.


LOAD-DATE: December 01, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1995 Independent Print Ltd

                              162 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          December 6, 1995, Wednesday

Egypt sends 'hit squads' to kill enemies in UK

BYLINE: ROBERT FISK Cairo

SECTION: TITLE; Page  1

LENGTH: 311 words


Egypt has sent up to 100 men from the state security service to London to start
a Europe-wide manhunt for dozens of Islamic fundamentalists, some of whom are
said to be in Britain.

A reliable military source in Cairo said the agents - about 40 of whom are
US-trained - began to arrive in London in November as part of an operation to
track down and kill the Egyptian regime's enemies abroad. A number of the agents
are believed to be armed, one Egyptian source described them as "hit squads",
and their presence in Britain is likely to cause the government deep concern.

It is unclear whether the British security services were told of the decision to
send the agents, the last of whom is said to have arrived on 20 November. Their
dispatch to Europe follows promises by the Egyptian Interior Minister to hunt
down Muslim militants who - intimidated by police shoot-to-kill tactics, torture
and death sentences at home - have pursued their war against Egyptian diplomats
abroad.

An Egyptian official was murdered in Geneva last month and a suicide car-bomber
blew up the Egyptian embassy in the Pakistani capital, Islamabad, six days
later, killing 18 people. Another 100 Egyptian agents were due to be sent to
Pakistan on a similar mission to their counterparts in Britain, but their
departure from Cairo was cancelled after the Islamabad bombing.  At least one
Egyptian militant, Talaat Qassem of the Gema'a Islamiya - the Islamic Group -
went missing in the Croatian capital of Zagreb while visiting Islamist groups in
Bosnia in September. The group later accused Egypt of abducting him back to
Cairo.

President Hosni Mubarak has blamed Britain and Germany for offering asylum to
the regime's militant opponents, warning that both countries will "pay a heavy
price" for giving sanctuary to Egypt's enemies.

Cairo's dirty war, page 13


LOAD-DATE: December 06, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1995 Independent Print Ltd

                              163 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                               December 19, 1995

Outrage as Dublin judge bails Brixton gun escapers;
TERROR SUSPECTS ARE FREED TO FIGHT AGAINST EXTRADITION

BYLINE: Paul Eastham

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1067 words


TWO terror suspects who shot their way to freedom from Brixton prison were
released on bail in Ireland last night.

Tory MPs were outraged as Nessan Quinlivan and Pearse McCauley were freed by the
High Court in Dublin, where they faced extradition to London.

To the dismay of Downing Street, they could be free for up to 18 months while
the battle continues to return them to Britain.

The pair broke out of Brixton while awaiting trial accused of conspiracy to
murder Whitbread brewery executive Sir Charles Tidbury, conspiracy to cause
explosions and having guns with intent to endanger life in November 1990.

They were held in the Republic in 1993, two years after their escape, and served
sentences in Portlaoise prison on arms charges.

Seconds after their release last month, they were re-arrested to face
extradition to Britain.

Scotland Yard fears that the bail decision confirms its worries that the
political climate surrounding the peace accord is damaging their chances of
extraditing the two men.

Quinlivan, 30, was ordered to stay at his family home in Limerick, while
McCauley, 31, from Strabane, County Tyrone, was told to live with relatives of
his fiancee in Tipperary. Bail was set at £70,000 each.

Tory MPs reacted angrily. Right-winger Tony Marlow said: 'This is an appalling
ruling but hardly an unusual one as far as the Republic is concerned.'

* Three Maze Prison escapers fighting extradition from California were bailed by
a San Francisco judge yesterday. Kevin Artt, Terence Kirby and Paul Brennan were
among 38 IRA men who broke out of the Northern Ireland jail in 1983. They were
held in America between 1992 and 1994.

By PAUL EASTHAM

Political Correspondent

TWO terror suspects who shot their way to freedom from Brixton prison were
released on bail in Ireland last night.

Tory MPs were outraged as Nessan Quinlivan and Pearse McCauley were freed by the
High Court in Dublin, where they faced extradition to London.

To the dismay of Downing Street, they could be free for up to 18 months while
the battle continues to return them to Britain.

The pair broke out of Brixton while awaiting trial accused of conspiracy to
murder Whitbread brewery executive Sir Charles Tidbury, conspiracy to cause
explosions and having guns with intent to endanger life in November 1990.

They were held in the Republic in 1993, two years after their escape, and served
sentences in Portlaoise prison on arms charges.

Seconds after their release last month, they were re-arrested to face
extradition to Britain.

Scotland Yard fears that the bail decision confirms its worries that the
political climate surrounding the peace accord is damaging their chances of
extraditing the two men.

Quinlivan, 30, was ordered to stay at his family home in Limerick, while
McCauley, 31, from Strabane, County Tyrone, was told to live with relatives of
his fiancee in Tipperary. Bail was set at £70,000 each.

Tory MPs reacted angrily. Right-winger Tony Marlow said: 'This is an appalling
ruling but hardly an unusual one as far as the Republic is concerned.'

* Three Maze Prison escapers fighting extradition from California were bailed by
a San Francisco judge yesterday. Kevin Artt, Terence Kirby and Paul Brennan were
among 38 IRA men who broke out of the Northern Ireland jail in 1983. They were
held in America between 1992 and 1994.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1995 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              164 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                           December 24, 1995, Sunday

Libya tells all on IRA arsenal

BYLINE: Liam Clarke

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 773 words


LIBYA has given Britain a full account of how it helped arm the IRA and financed
its terrorist operations for 20 years.

The information is part of a comprehensive inventory of the IRA's present
arsenal which the British government passed to the international arms commission
headed by George Mitchell, an American senator, nine days ago.

Security sources say Libya has also given Britain the names of 20 key IRA
terrorists who were trained in Libya, as well as details of Pounds 9m in cash
handed to the IRA during the 1970s and 1980s. Evidence of more than 130 tonnes
of weapons shipped from Tripoli to the IRA between 1985 and 1987 has also been
passed to the Mitchell commission.

The Libyan weapons still in IRA hands are believed to include 650 Kalashnikov
AK-47 rifles, 12 general purpose machineguns, 20 DHSK armour-piercing
machineguns capable of shooting down helicopters, and one surface-to-air
missile. Security sources say the IRA has also stockpiled 40 rocket-propelled
grenade launchers, six flame-throwers, 60 revolvers, more than 500 detonators
and two tonnes of Semtex military explosives.

Correspondence detailing the most recent diplomatic contacts between the United
Nations, Libya and Britain have been circulated to the UN security council and
some have been reprinted in the New York-based Irish Echo newspaper.

General John de Chastelain, the Canadian chief of defence staff and the military
expert on the commission, is studying the inventory after being briefed on its
contents by the Royal Ulster Constabulary (RUC) and British intelligence during
his recent visit to Belfast.

Although Sinn Fein has told the commission it will speak about IRA arms, it says
it has yet to be asked for a detailed inventory. The IRA has said it will not
talk to Mitchell's group.

Chastelain was told that the bulk of the IRA armoury comprised eastern bloc
weapons supplied by Libya. A few items, including several high-powered sniping
rifles which IRA terrorists have used to assassinate soldiers in South Armagh
were supplied by IRA sympathisers in America.

Since 1992, Britain has repeatedly asked Colonel Gadaffi's regime for disclosure
of its links with the IRA and has submitted five sets of questions to Omar
al-Muntasir, the Libyan foreign minister, through the UN.

The latest and final set of answers was handed over by Libyan diplomats at the
UN on October 31. A British government statement to the security council says
that ''there remain gaps and omissions in the information given to us but when
the Libyan disclosures are considered in their entirety we are satisfied that
they have largely met our expectations''.

However, the statement adds: ''We should not forget the circumstances which led
to our putting these questions to them. The material and financial help given to
the Provisional IRA added significantly to its paramilitary capabilities at a
time when it was waging a terror campaign against British interests.''

About half the Libyan supplies have been used up by the IRA in terrorist
operations or seized by the security forces. Most of what remains is thought to
be concealed in underground bunkers in the Irish republic. Security sources
estimate that these caches could support a full-scale IRA campaign for about 15
years.

The most significant items in the IRA arsenal are the Semtex and detonators,
which have enabled the terrorists to carry out ''spectacular'' bombings, such as
the 1992 and 1993 explosions in the City of London. The quantity of Semtex still
in IRA hands is sufficient for up to 1,500 bombs.

The quantity of AK-47 rifles also remains a threat. Most IRA operations are gun
attacks, and the terrorists need to have only 50 or 60 rifles in use at any one
time.

Libya's relationship with the IRA dates back to 1973. Relations were suspended
three years later when loyalist paramilitaries visited Tripoli and told Gadaffi
the majority of people in Northern Ireland were opposed to the IRA.

Links were restored in 1984 when Libyan diplomatic representatives were expelled
from London following the shooting of PC Yvonne Fletcher outside the Libyan
embassy.

Arms shipments to Co Wicklow, in the republic, began the next year. They
continued until the largest of them, Pounds 3.7m worth of weapons aboard the
Eksund, was seized in French waters in October 1987.

The prospect that Gadaffi would betray Libya's IRA connections emerged after the
UN security council imposed sanctions on his country when two Libyan
intelligence agents were charged with plotting to bomb a Pan Am jumbo jet, which
crashed over Lockerbie in 1988.

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Ireland

                    Copyright 1995 Times Newspapers Limited

                              165 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Standard (London)

                               December 27, 1995

TORY FURY OVER £40,000 GIBRALTAR;
Leader comment: Page 9

BYLINE: Charles Reiss

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 600 words


THE GOVERNMENT faced Tory anger today with news that Whitehall has paid almost
£40,000 to the families of three IRA terrorists shot dead by the SAS in
Gibraltar.

The £38,700 Christmas payout was made to meet the legal costs and expenses of
the relatives of Mairead Farrell, Sean Savage and Daniel McCann.

It followed the verdict of the Strasbourg European Court of Human Rights in
September on the 'Death on the Rock' killings.

The court ruled by 10-9 that the shooting of the three, planning a bomb attack,
breached the European Convention of Human Rights.

The judges turned down requests for compensation but ruled the Government must
meet the families' legal costs by the end of the year.

The verdict was bitterly condemned by ministers, dismissed as 'ludicrous' by
Deputy Prime Minister MIchael Heseltine and attacked by Downing Street, who said
it 'defied common sense'.

Prime Minister John Major ordered a group of senior ministers to take a 'long,
hard look' at pulling out of the Court altogether.

However, today it emerged that the Government had quietly paid out the money
just before Christmas.

Anti-European Tory MPs were quick to condemn what they called a climbdown.

'We are simply asking for trouble by paying this money,' declared MP Sir Richard
Body. Sir Richard added that ministers had given the IRA 'a stick to beat the
Government with'.

Another Euro sceptic MP BIll Cash called the payment 'a cop out'.

Ministers, though, concluded weeks ago that Britain had no option but to pay
out.

It was not realistic, they decided, to pull out of an international human rights
body set up partly at the behest of Britain and of Sir Winston Churchill in
1950.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1995 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              166 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               December 27, 1995

DEATH ON THE ROCK PAYOUT

BYLINE: Helen Nowicka

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 694 words


THE Government has paid the legal costs of relatives of three IRA members shot
dead by the SAS in Gibraltar, who persuaded the European Court of Human Rights
that the killings represented excessive force.

The payments, totalling almost pounds 40,000, were made on Christmas Eve, just
before the expiry of the three-month deadline set by the court in Strasbourg
which would have run out today. They represent an embarrassing about-turn for
ministers who, at the time of the judgment, said the Government would do nothing
about it.

In September the court of international judges ruled by a margin of 10 to nine
that the killings of Mairead Farrell, Sean Savage, and Daniel McCann in 1988
breached Article 2 of the European Convention of Human Rights. It instructed the
Government to meet the families' legal costs.

The three, who at the time of the shooting were unarmed, died in an undercover
operation mounted by the British authorities who suspected them of having
planted a car bomb. No explosives were found on the Rock.

The court's ruling was met with anger by John Major, and the Deputy Prime
Minister, Michael Heseltine, who described it as "ludicrous". He threatened to
withdraw Britain from the European Convention of Human Rights in protest and
said of the ruling: "We shall do absolutely nothing about it."

However, it emerged yesterday that the payments had been made. Foreign Office
sources have argued the move is not an admission of guilt but an act of
compliance.

The bombers' relatives were jubilant.  Mairead Farrell's brother, Niall, said
last night: "This is a clear indication that the British Government now accepts
the verdict of the highest human rights court in Europe that they unlawfully
killed our loved ones."

The lawyers for the three families have written a detailed communication to the
Council of Ministers of the Council of Europe, which is responsible for
implementing of the European court's verdict, expressing concern at the
"ill-informed and contemptuous remarks" made by senior British government
ministers after the ruling.

The document stresses that the verdict, and the British response to it, cannot
be taken lightly "as it is the first time ever the (European Court of Human
Rights) has found a state to be responsible for the unjustified use of lethal
force by law enforcement officials".

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              167 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               December 28, 1995

Echoes of Gibraltar shootings rumble on

BYLINE: Russell Edmunds

SECTION: Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1112 words


Russell Edmunds explains why the Government had little option but to pay legal
costs to relatives of the IRA members who died on the Rock THE years pass but
the controversy over the so-called "Death on the Rock" killings lingers on.
Yesterday it took another turn as the Ministry of Defence confirmed that it had
paid nearly £40,000 in legal costs to the relatives of the three IRA members
shot dead by the SAS in Gibraltar. What happened on that Sunday afternoon in
March 1988 has been the subject of legal debate, newspaper investigation,
television documentary, and political argument. At the heart of the matter lies
one question: to stop a major IRA bomb outrage in Gibraltar, was it really
necessary to kill the terrorist team involved? That issue has divided opinion in
Northern Ireland and between the British and Irish Governments. Few incidents in
the entire Ulster troubles threatened to destroy relations between London and
Dublin as this one did and, to this day, the views of the two Governments widely
differ over the deaths on the Rock. That Mairead Farrell, Sean Savage, and
Daniel McCann were leading IRA terrorists is not in dispute. They had carefully
planned their operation over a period of months but had been unaware that
British intelligence, in co-operation with other European undercover agents, was
monitoring their movements. Ironically, it is believed that Irish police played
a significant role, even though the Dublin Government expressed outrage at the
SAS action in killing the IRA trio. The terrorists' target was a regiment of
British soldiers based in Gibraltar. A car bomb would detonate during the
ceremonial parade outside or nearby the Governor's house. The deaths and
maimings of dozens of soldiers and bystanders would be arguably the IRA's most
spectacular outrage and a major morale-booster for Irish republicans. But on
that Sunday afternoon, the whole plan collapsed as a unit of the SAS, secretly
flown into Gibraltar, confronted the IRA team and killed them all. The deaths
plunged Britain and its then Prime Minister, Margaret Thatcher, into
international controversy as she characteristically and stalwartly applauded the
SAS action. What is forgotten today is that the Gibraltar killings set off a
chain reaction of other horrendous events over that terrible week in 1988. At
the subsequent funerals in West Belfast's Milltown Cemetery, loyalist terrorist
Michael Stone fired shots and threw hand grenades at republican mourners who
included the entire hierarchy of Sinn Fein as well as many leading IRA
activists. He killed three mourners on St Patrick's Day, 1988, but two days
later there was even more horror. Two Army corporals were brutally hauled from
their car, beaten and shot dead by republican mourners attending the funeral of
an IRA man who had been one of Stone's victims in the cemetery attack. Since
then, interest and controversy over the Gibraltar killings has been promoted by
the relatives of those killed, in particular by the family of Mairaed Farrell,
whose brother Niall yesterday welcomed the payment of £38,700 legal costs by the
British Government. He said bitterly: "The Government is facing up to the
reality of the court's verdict and they are accepting it. If they hadn't, they
would have been ostracised as a terrorist state." The amount, however, seems
trifling set against the years of political and legal wrangling over the
killings. For example, the inquests of Farrell, Savage, and McCann ran for weeks
in Gibraltar. A Belfast solicitor, Patrick McGrory, devoted untold time to
representing the families of those killed and, indeed, the controversy outlived
him as he died last year. Even greater legal expense has been involved in taking
the case into the international arena, leading to a judgment last September by
the European Court of Human Rights. The sum of £38,700 pales against the overall
costs involved in obtaining a split decision from no fewer than 19 international
judges. What they concluded might be interpreted as a legal fudge. On the one
hand they held that Britain had not been involved in a shoot-to-kill policy; on
the other, that the SAS action in Gibraltar breached Article Two of the Human
Rights Convention. By a 10-9 majority, the judges held that the killings were
unlawful but rejected relatives' claims for compensation. Unionist reaction
yesterday in Northern Ireland to the news of the payout was predictably hostile.
Ulster Unionist security spokesman Ken Maginnis and the Democratic Unionists,
whose leader is the Rev Ian Paisley, were at one in their condemnation. The
payment of costs was "a Christmas present to the families of terrorists". They
pointed to smaller amounts awarded to the families of terrorist victims, such as
Colin Parry, whose son was killed by the 1993 IRA bomb at Warrington. Mr Parry
received £7500 from the Criminal Injuries Compensation Board and yesterday the
Unionists said they shared his view that "no-one seems to make the same
strenuous effort on behalf of the victims as for the terrorists". The Unionists,
like some Tory back-bench MPs, believe the Government has gone back on its word.
They point to the anger expressed by Deputy Prime Minister Michael Heseltine
when he described the September judgment as "ludicrous" and threatened to
withdraw from the European Convention. Sir Teddy Taylor, MP for Southend East,
said yesterday: "I hope the utter nonsense of this payout will make people think
about the merits of having this court at all. "I am outraged that just before
Christmas the British Government decided to rejoin the court for another five
years." However, behind the political fury in Ulster and Britain lies the
reality, unpalatable though it is to the critics, that the Government had little
alternative but to pay out. In the words of Sir Teddy Taylor: "Many people who
find themselves short of money will be angry at these payouts but they could not
be avoided as Britain is a member of the European Court of Human Rights and
those who object have little ground for complaint." The arguments over the
rights and wrongs of the Deaths on the Rock may never be settled. As with so
many aspects of the Ulster troubles, people seem to believe what they want to
believe. That means that most Unionists in Northern Ireland consider the
killings were wholly justified, while many nationalists contend that the deaths
could have been avoided and that undue force was used. The judgment of the
European Court was far from clear-cut and, £38,700 notwithstanding, still leaves
the Gibraltar killings open to differing interpretations in the history books of
Northern Ireland's violent past.

LOAD-DATE: March 06, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1995 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              168 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               December 30, 1995

THE HUMAN ZOO: SMILEY PEOPLE

BYLINE: Jon Ronson

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN WEEKEND PAGE; Pg. 46

LENGTH: 1427 words


Monday night. Christopher Jarman and I are driving towards Whitehall Palace, on
our way to meet Tony Blair. Christopher is coordinator of the potentially
forthcoming National Smile Week, and is hoping to win Tony Blair's official
support for his venture.

'Let's get everyone to smile,' explains Christopher. 'Let's make 1996 the year
when everyone started smiling again. And then, maybe, happiness will follow.'
Just as we arrive at Whitehall, however, we learn that a suspected terrorist
attack on Parliament is under way. An efficient, yet undeniably non-smiling,
policeman stops the car to divert us.

'Turn around,' he says. 'Go back. You can't get through. Just turn back now.'
'Smile,' grins Christopher at the policeman, shooting me a knowing glance.
'Smile,' he winks. 'It may never happen.' 'Sir,' replies the policeman, 'we have
found a suspect package in an abandoned car. We are about to undertake a
controlled explosion. You're holding up the traffic. Please go now.' I drive
away.

'See,' says Christopher, grinning broadly. 'Nobody smiles any more. Smile, Jon.
Go on! Give it a shot!' I smile.

'Doesn't that feel good?' says Christopher. 'Mmm? You see! Ha ha!' I myself am
debating whether to be an official 'subsidiary patron' of National Smile Week.
Honoured as I am to have been offered this subsidiary accolade, I am worried
that I may be compelled to smile publicly alongside the other subsidiary
patrons, including, Christopher hopes, skater Jayne Torvill, the presenter of
Channel 4's Dosh, and Simon London of Live TV.

'You'll understand that we don't want you to be an actual official patron,'
explained Christopher on the phone, 'because you're not esteemed enough, with
all due respect. But we're delighted to make you one of our many esteemed
subsidiary patrons.' 'What does the honour actually entail?' I asked.

'Well,' said Christopher, 'your name will be on the leaflet, in a special two
-page spread for all the subsidiary patrons.  And, of course, you'll have to be
seen to be smiling during the week.' 'All week?' I asked.

'Is that so terrible?' said Christopher.

'Won't it hurt?' I said. 'Won't my muscles seize? Isn't it deleterious to the
face?' 'Oh no,' said Christopher, 'not at all.' Actually, I have already
experienced the success of a similar venture on a recent trip to Krakow, Poland.
When 200 Western tourists were polled as to 'What's wrong with Krakow?' the same
response was noted time and time again. Nobody smiled. So the mayor passed a
decree, and everywhere brightly-coloured posters reminded the citizens that a
happy face was the new law in town. 'Hi!' I said to the waitress. 'I'd like a
beer, and can you send it outside to the terrace?' 'That,' she smiled, 'is not
possible.' 'Why?' I said.

'Not possible,' she smiled. 'The terrace is not my responsibility.' She flashed
me a warm grin. 'Simply not possible.' 'Please?' I smiled.

'No,' she smiled back, firmly. And then, smiling, she turned away and refused to
acknowledge my presence for the rest of the night. I moved to another bar.

Perhaps, in retrospect, National Smile Week was doomed to failure in a country
like Poland - a country where one cannot effectively proclaim: 'Smile, it may
never happen,' because it already has happened. But Britain, Christopher
contends, is different. We are a nation of genetic smilers who have had the
smiles knocked off our faces by recession, crime and so on.  And we are ready to
smile again in 1996.

'Wasn't there a National Smile Week last May?' I ask him.

'Yes there was,' he mutters, 'and it was an absolute, unmitigated disaster.' 'In
what way?' 'The whole thing was totally hijacked by the dentists,' says
Christopher. 'They craftily turned it into National Dental Care Week.'
Wednesday. Undeterred by our failure to meet Tony Blair, Christopher has decided
to attempt to co-opt Tina Turner to spearhead the campaign. Today, she is
appearing at a press conference at The Hyde Park Hotel - where he intends to
corner her - so we take our places among the throng of showbiz correspondents.

'How did you enjoy working in a Bond movie?' asks one man.

'Great,' says Tina, 'although my favourite Bond is Sean Connery.' 'Who's your
favourite Bond?' 'Sean Connery,' replies Tina.

'Excuse me,' says Christopher. 'Do you like to smile?' 'I love to smile,' says
Tina.

'Great,' says Christopher.

'Is that it?' I ask, startled.

'For now,' mutters Christopher, guilefully. 'Bide my time . . . I'll call up
Tina's people, quote her unequivocal answer to my question, and see what they
say.' Two weeks later, and Christopher calls. 'Bad news,' he says. 'Tina won't
be available in a spearheading capacity. Although she may join you as a
subsidiary patron.' 'That's something,' I say, helpfully.

'Well,' says Christopher, 'you've got to smile. Eh? Or what else have you got?'

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              169 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                January 1, 1996

No Headline Present

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 590 words


Britons held in

drugs chase

MADRID: Five Britons were in custody yesterday after armed Spanish Customs
officers stormed a yacht on the high seas and allegedly found four tonnes of
hashish worth £274m.

The arrest came after a Customs launch chased a German-registered yacht for more
than an hour, during which shots were fired, in heavy seas off Cartagena,
south-west Spain. A civil guard spokesman said the men would not be named until
they had appeared before a magistrate.

Ice hits Germans

BONN: Black ice brought chaos to western German roads at the weekend, causing
more than 2000 accidents and injuring around 150 people. The region around
Cologne, Bonn, and Duesseldorf was worst hit with around 1100 accidents caused
by the thick film of treacherous ice, but police said no-one had been seriously
injured as drivers pulled over to wait for gritting lorries to arrive.

Terror claim

MADRID: The Basque separatist group Eta yesterday claimed responsibility for a
car bomb that killed six Defence Ministry employees in a suburb of Madrid
earlier this month. The group, which has been fighting for an independent Basque
state since 1968, also said it had planted a bomb which killed a woman shopper
in a Valencia department store on December 16.

Flood toll rises

DURBAN: Searchers have found 10 more victims of South Africa's Christmas Day
floods, bringing the death toll to 135. The bodies were found along the
Umsunduzi River in the KwaZulu-Natal province city of Pietermaritzburg.

Ambush kills 7

COLOMBO: Four Sri Lankan soldiers and at least three Tamil Tiger guerrillas were
killed in a firefight on Buffalo Island in the east of the country yesterday. An
army patrol lying in ambush on the island, just south of Batticaloa town, was
attacked by the rebels who are fighting for an independent homeland.

China bars Net

BEIJING: China plans measures to stop the entry of obscene or harmful material
into the country via the Internet. The Communist Party and the State Council,
China's Cabinet, recently ordered such measures after learning that
"pornographic and detrimental information" had been disseminated through the
country's growing links with the worldwide electronic network.

Costas lashed

MADRID: Thousands of Scottish winter sunshine seekers remained trapped in their
hotels and apartments yesterday as high winds and heavy rains continued to
batter the Costas and the Balearic islands. The clouds rolled in on Christmas
Eve and weathermen predicted no let-up for days in Spain's worst weather for
four years.

Premier named

PARIS: Algerian President Liamine Zeroual has appointed 43-year-old Ahmed
Ouyahia as Prime Minister to replace Mokdad Sifi, who becomes a Minister of
State. The new premier is Algeria's youngest leader in modern history.

Britain's turn

UNITED NATIONS: Britain today takes over the presidency of the UN Security
Council, which rotates monthly among its 15 member states. Ambassador Sir John
Weston takes over from Russia's chief envoy, Sergei Lavrov.

Cultists 'in peril'

PARIS: Nine former members of a doomsday cult are in danger, possibly because
they witnessed last year's ritual deaths in Switzerland, authorities say.
French and Swiss police are hunting ex-followers of the Order of the Solar
Temple after 16 bodies were found in a forest near Grenoble on December 23. An
expert on the cult has told police that the nine who saw a similar death ritual
in Switzerland in October 1994 may be kidnapped or murdered.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1996 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              170 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                January 5, 1996

Saudi deportation order to preserve trade links

BYLINE: By Benedict Brogan;Political Reporter;;

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 384 words


A GOVERNMENT Minister admitted yesterday the deportation of a leading Saudi
Arabian dissident was ordered to preserve the UK's billion-pound trade links
with its richest Middle Eastern ally.

The frank admission of political expediency from Home Office Minister Ann
Widdecombe was condemned by human rights activists and Labour MPs campaigning
for Professor Muhammed Al-Massari.

Dr Al-Massari, who sought asylum in Britain last year after fleeing Saudi Arabia
through Yemen, has been given 10 days to appeal the decision to deport him on
January 19 to Dominica in the Caribbean.

As head of the Islamic Committee for the Defence of Legitimate Rights (CDLR) Dr
Al-Massari has been a vocal critic of the Saudi regime, accusing it of
corruption and human rights abuses. He has called for the overthrow of the Saudi
royal family in favour of an Islamic government. Miss Widdecombe denied the
Government had caved in to Saudi pressure, but added: "What we do know is that
his activities have been complicating our relations with the Saudis and we have
had various representations from people in British business and the Saudis about
the situation." She said that "British interests as a whole do require his
removal".

Saudi Arabia is one of Britain's closest allies in the Gulf. The British arms
industry benefits from the continuing £20bn Al-Yamamah arms deal negotiated by
Baroness Thatcher.

Dr Al-Massari condemned the Government for putting business considerations ahead
of its traditions of defending free speech, and expressed pity "that such a
great country has come to this level". He was supported by Labour MPs George
Galloway, who has criticised British support for Saudi Arabia, Mr Tony Banks,
and Mr Ken Livingstone. Mr Galloway said Britain had "bowed to the tyranny of
Riyadh".

Miss Widdicombe said Dr Al-Massari's activities had complicated Britain's
relations with the Saudi regime. In November he angered the kingdom by refusing
to condemn outright a terrorist attack in the capital Riyadh that killed seven
people, including five Americans.

She said: "If people come here and use our hospitality in order to attack
extremely friendly governments with whom we have good diplomatic and very good
trade relations, we have a very difficult balance to strike."

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1996 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              171 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                January 06, 1996

BLAIRINGLY OBVIOUS;
BUSINESS BOSSES SOLD ON LABOUR'S EASTERN PROMISE

BYLINE: Darryl Gibson

SECTION: Pg. 17

LENGTH: 960 words


THE words were music to their ears . . . just as Tony Blair intended in his
orchestrated address.

In an hour-long speech to the cream of Japan's business leaders and the media
yesterday, he spoke of a 'new Labour Party' as a partner, not an adversary, to
business.

'The new Labour is not about class war, nationalisation or state control,' he
declared. 'A change in government in Britain will not change the Japan-Britain
relationship. It will be strengthened and I am personally committed to that
happening.'

It was just what they wanted to hear. And many business chiefs, until now
classed as Thatcherites, were clearly left believing that the Labour leader is a
man to reckon with.

In an unplanned masterstroke of timing, Japanese prime minister Tomiichi
Murayama announced he was quitting only minutes after Mr Blair finished his
policy speech to the Keidanren, the country's most powerful business lobby.

The news, which was completely unexpected, somewhat overshadowed the impact of
Mr Blair's performance.

But the coincidence did not escape him.

'I arrived in Japan at a rather interesting time . . . the changing of prime
ministers . . . something we wish to see happen in Britain.'

Bosses of major trading houses, auto companies and manufacturers attending the
Keidanren meeting were keen to know Mr Blair's vision of a Labour Britain.

From their questions, some in English, there emerged a clear view that many
business leaders see Mr Blair as a viable alternative to the Tories.

Although many Japanese companies were first attracted to invest in Britain
during Mrs Thatcher's tenure, few bosses spoke of Britain under Labour as a
difficult place to invest.

Mr Blair's position on the EU, where he said Britain must play a 'central role',
also came under scrutiny during an afternoon Press conference.

Decrying a 'marginalising' of Britain in Europe, he suggested that Japanese
business will not invest in Britain unless the country is 'clearly a major
player' in Europe.

The 'old Labour' of confrontation and nationalisation was gone and his
government, if formed, would work to 'enable all in Britain' to compete for
investment and jobs in a global marketplace.

'New Britain' would enhance the relationship with Japan, 'welcoming inward
Japanese investment' and expanding ties beyond the economic to foreign policy
and security levels.

Mr Blair said Labour welcomed Japan's 'speedy' offer of contributions to Nato
and UN peacekeeping in Bosnia but he did not say if he would like to see
Japanese ground forces join the peacekeepers.

Defence Secretary Michael Portillo's plan to engage the Japanese in a new
defence relationship with Britain, however, 'crosses party lines' and was
something he would support.

Murayama's decision to step down followed 555 tumultuous days in office which
have seen a killer earthquake, a terrorist attack on Tokyo's subways, banking
failures and lingering recession. He also presided over a year of painful
memories of World War II.

Mr Blair, by contrast, was being seen here as very much a man of the future.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1996 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              172 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            January 8, 1996, Monday

LETTER : Political asylum does not permit propaganda campaigns

BYLINE: Mr Randhir Singh

SECTION: COMMENT; Page  12

LENGTH: 204 words


From Mr Randhir Singh Bains

Sir: Your leading article on Saudi deportation states that "all Mr Masari has
done is engage in a peaceful campaign against a medieval, absolutist monarchy".
While Mr Masari may not have been directly involved in violent activities
directed against the Saudi government, his London-based Committee for the
Defence of Legitimate Rights appeared to condone last year's bomb attack on an
American building in Riyadh.

However, in attempting to condemn his deportation, one only needs to defend the
principle of asylum, not the man at the centre of controversy.  Indeed the
Government did exactly that when, a few years ago, it refused to deport the Sikh
separatist leader Jagjit Singh Chohan to India, or the MQM leader Altaf Hussain
to Pakistan, although both of them were accused of instigating terrorism in
their countries of origin.

But now, by ordering the deportation of Mr Masari at the behest of Saudi regime,
the Government has not only exposed itself to the charge of following
double-standards but has also set a dangerous precedent for rendering Britain's
asylum laws amenable to external pressure.

Yours faithfully,

Randhir Singh Bains,

Gants Hill, Essex


LOAD-DATE: January 09, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1996 Independent Print Ltd

                              173 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Standard (London)

                                January 17, 1996

OUTRAGE AT PAYOUT FOR IRA BOMB GIRL

BYLINE: Peter Oborne

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1094 words


TORY MPs today demanded an urgent change in the law on compensation amid
mounting disbelief and anger over the £13,500 paid to an IRA terrorist who
twisted her ankle.

Outraged MPs contrasted the extraordinary payout to Donna Maguire, who was
convicted of plotting the death of British soldiers in Germany, with the far
smaller amounts paid to terrorist victims.

Senior Tory backbencher David Wilshire today called the payment "obscene" and
said it had made Britain "the laughing stock of the thinking world". He promised
an emergency motion in the Commons today and declared: "There has to be
something seriously sick with our system if we carry on like this.

"This situation is both offensive and grossly unkind to innocent people who are
seriously injured by the activities of the IRA. I can just imagine how they are
feeling this morning."

The row broke after a Belfast Court ordered the payment of £13,500 to Maguire
after she claimed she tripped over a broken paving stone in Newry, County Down,
11 years ago.

Her injuries stopped her from dancing, jogging, swimming and wearing high heels,
she said. MPs pointed out today that they were not enough to stop her playing a
key role in the IRA unit that spied on army bases and plotted the deaths of
British troops.

Last June Donna Maguire was convicted by a German court of trying to kill
sleeping British soldiers with a murderous attack on Quebec Barracks in
Osnabruck in 1989. The attack failed.

She was given a nine-year sentence but released almost at once because of the
time she had spent awaiting jail.

Her lawyer explained that she had delayed bringing the case because she was
"outside the jurisdiction for a lengthy period of time".

Today MPs contrasted the payment to Maguire with the far smaller payouts to IRA
victims. The parents of schoolboy Tim Parry, 12, who was killed by a bomb in
Warrington, Cheshire, in 1993, were paid £7,500.

TORY MPs today demanded an urgent change in the law on compensation amid
mounting disbelief and anger over the £13,500 paid to an IRA terrorist who
twisted her ankle.

Outraged MPs contrasted the extraordinary payout to Donna Maguire, who was
convicted of plotting the death of British soldiers in Germany, with the far
smaller amounts paid to terrorist victims.

Senior Tory backbencher David Wilshire today called the payment "obscene" and
said it had made Britain "the laughing stock of the thinking world". He promised
an emergency motion in the Commons today and declared: "There has to be
something seriously sick with our system if we carry on like this.

"This situation is both offensive and grossly unkind to innocent people who are
seriously injured by the activities of the IRA. I can just imagine how they are
feeling this morning."

The row broke after a Belfast Court ordered the payment of £13,500 to Maguire
after she claimed she tripped over a broken paving stone in Newry, County Down,
11 years ago.

The injury stopped her from dancing, jogging, swimming and wearing high heels.
MPs were pointing out today that they were not enough to stop her playing a key
role in the IRA unit that spied on army bases and plotted the deaths of British
troops.

Last June Donna Maguire was convicted by a German court of trying to kill
sleeping British soldiers with a murderous attack on Quebec Barracks in
Osnabruck in 1989. The attack failed.

She was given a nine-year sentence but released almost at once because of the
time she had spent awaiting trial.

Her lawyer explained that she had delayed bringing the case because she was
"outside the jurisdiction for a lengthy period of time".

Today MPs contrasted the payment to Maguire with the far smaller payouts to IRA
victims. The parents of schoolboy Tim Parry, 12, who was killed by a bomb in
Warrington, Cheshire, in 1993, were paid £7,500.

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1996 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              174 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           January 30, 1996, Tuesday

Grid promise to consumers: 'No power cuts'

BYLINE: Mary Fagan and Peter Victor

SECTION: NEWS; Page  2

LENGTH: 476 words


MARY FAGAN

and PETER VICTOR

The National Grid last night promised consumers: "There will be no power cuts
tonight or in the foreseeable future." A grid spokesman rejected what he called
"media scare stories" and said that, barring unforeseen circumstances - "like a
jumbo jet coming down on power lines or an act of terrorism" - there was no
likelihood of power cuts.

The spokesman added: "We have worked with the regional electricity companies and
generators and they have co-operated very well. We have enough power and enough
reserves.

Electricity generators sought to dispel growing alarm over the possibility of
power cuts during a spate of freezing weather. Record demand caused by the
freezing weather sweeping across Britain had fuelled fears that consumers might
suffer electricity blackouts.

A spokesman for the Consumers' Association said: "Consumers pay hundreds of
pounds a year to private monopolies for a reliable service and it beggars belief
that these companies cannot allow for the fact of the UK having cold winters."

Labour's consumer affairs spokesman, Nigel Griffiths, said the public was
suffering a crisis of confidence in the newly privatised National Grid: "We have
to ask what power companies have been doing with all the money they have earned
in recent times. If they have to turn the voltage down or cut people off, then
public confidence will disappear completely."

Offer, the electricity watchdog, has called on the generators to explain their
part in the power supply problem and to ask what safeguards are in place when
gas supplies to generating stations fail. The move by the watchdog came amidst
growing concern that power stations can be cut off when demands on British Gas
soar. One industry source said:"In terms of the consumer, it is robbing Peter to
pay Paul."

A spokesman for Offer said: "We want information on the situation and how it has
arisen. We need to get to the bottom of it and have written to the generators
today. We will also be in contact with the gas watchdog, Ofgas, and the
Department of Trade and Industry."

Under the current system, some very large gas users, including power stations,
have contracts which allow them hefty discounts on condition that supplies can
be cut off when demand from other consumers soars.

Weather forecasters predicted the worst of the cold weather was over, although
it will remain chilly.

Professor David Llewellyn-Jones of Leicester University said global warming
could explain Britain's recent bouts of extremely hot and cold weather.  The
earth observation scientist has researched global warming by measuring changes
in sea and land surface temperatures from space.

He said: "Britain has always had extreme weather, but what is expected with
global warming is that we will see an increase in freak winters."


LOAD-DATE: January 30, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1996 Independent Print Ltd

                              175 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                February 2, 1996

ACADEMIC UPROAR AT BANNED BOOK;
Leonard Doyle on an anthropological study that a university fears puts its staff
in danger

BYLINE: Leonard Doyle

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1120 words


CAMBRIDGE University Press is refusing to publish an important new work on Greek
anthropology following advice from the security services and the Foreign Office
that publication could provoke a terrorist attack against Cambridge University
staff in Greece.

The decision has provoked outrage and incredulity in academic circles and is
expected to have wider repercussions for the CUP's reputation as an academic
publisher. The editorial board for the CUP's anthropology series has resigned in
protest and leading academics are warning that the Press's 40-year history of
publishing important works of this kind could end if authors turn instead to US
publishers.

The book, entitled Fields of Wheat, Hills of Blood, deals with the thorny issue
of Macedonian identity. It is an ethnographic study of villages in northern
Greek which contradicts the official line that there is no Slavo-Macedonian
minority in Greece.

In tendering his resignation, Michael Herzfeld, the British-born professor of
anthropology at Harvard University, said censoring the book "represents an
unacceptable restriction of academic freedom", which would damage the Press's
reputation and implicitly insult the Greeks by presuming to censor on their
behalf.

The decision to pull the book at the last minute followed an extraordinary
request by senior officials at the CUP in Cambridge for a "terrorist threat
assessment" by officials at the British embassy in Athens and from its chief
salesman in Greece, Craig Walker. No Greeks were consulted, nor were the views
of the British or US academic experts canvassed. The CUP's actions are also
understood to have been motivated by fears of a boycott affecting a lucrative
market for its books and revenue from setting some 300,000 English exams in
Greece every year.

Anthony Wilson, chief executive of Cambridge University Press, has confirmed
that a decision was made not to publish the book, but refused to explain on what
grounds.

The Greek-born author, Anastasia Karakasidou, received death threats two years
ago for publishing her research on the Slavic speakers of Greek Macedonia,
raising issues central to Greece's dispute with the neighbouring former Yugoslav
republic of Macedonia. Her researches revealed that there were villagers in
northern Greece who speak a Slavic tongue and consider themselves culturally
"Macedonians".

Internal Cambridge University Press documents obtained by the Guardian, reveal
the Press was so concerned about the risk of "terrorist violence" that it felt
there was a "moral imperative" not to publish.  In a memorandum dated 12
January, a CUP executive, Jessica Kuper, stated that "it was impossible to
discount the advice received from the British embassy in Athens" which had
"warned that publication might put at risk the lives of Press staff in Athens,
and of Cambridge University personnel in Greece."

When a committee of senior Cambridge University academics (known as the Syndics)
met on 1 December 1995 to decide what to do, they were told that MI6 was worried
about the possible effects of publication on Greek public opinion and the
consequent risks to British interests. They were reminded of a handful of
attacks on British interests in Greece including the murder of a British Council
official in the 1980s.

The Syndics saw copies of a letter from Britain's charge d'affaires in Athens,
Christopher Denne, in which he said reaction to publication could range from
"public criticism, protests and demonstrations, or violence or threat of
violence against the author or publishers". Mr Denne admitted no British
official had read the manuscript.

The Foreign Office says it never advised the CUP not to publish but that "we
were asked a difficult question and we gave an honest answer which we stand by."

After the decision not to publish, two senior members of the Press's editorial
board, Prof Herzfeld and Professor Stephen Gudeman of the University of
Minnesota, immediately resigned. While in the UK, Cambridge professor Jack
Goody, the co-founder of the series, signalled his intention to quit if the
decision was not rescinded.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              176 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                February 5, 1996

SINN FEIN DENIES RISK OF SPLIT IN IRA;
McGuinness dismisses Mitchell fracture warning

BYLINE: David Sharrock Ireland Correspondent

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 774 words


SINN FEIN'S chief negotiator, Martin McGuinness, yesterday denied there was any
danger of the IRA splitting because of grassroots republican unrest over the
peace process.

Mr McGuinness was responding to a claim by George Mitchell, leader of the
international panel on decommissioning paramilitary weapons, that there are
potentially damaging differences of opinion within the republican movement.

Mr Mitchell, who headed the three-man advisory body and who acts as President
Clinton's special Ireland envoy, said everybody needed to move quickly to full
negotiations on Northern Ireland. But he conceded that the deadline of the end
of this month set by the British and Irish governments for the commencement of
all-party talks would probably not be met.

Asked on BBC1's Breaksfast with Frost whether the IRA would return to violence,
he said: "I think there is a danger of a fracture within that organisation. It
seems clear that not all on the republican side favour the ceasefire and the
potential for some elements to take direct and violent action does remain.

"I hope that is not the case. I do believe that the political parties that are
closely associated with the paramilitary organisations on both sides . . . are
committed to the process. That's why I believe it is important to draw them
further into the democratic process by getting these negotiations going as soon
as possible."

Speaking later, Mr McGuinness said: "I was surprised to hear that Senator
Mitchell has said this. I believe that over the course of the last 18 months
since the beginning of the ceasefire that the IRA have proved themselves to be a
very disciplined and cohesive organisation. I don't believe there is any danger
of a split in the IRA."

On Saturday the IRA denied responsibility for a gun attack during which 57 shots
were fired at the home of a policeman in County Tyrone. The IRA issued a coded
message in Belfast condemning as "mischievous" claims that it was behind the
attack.

Police sources have said all the indications so far were that the IRA was
responsible and that one of its favoured weapons - an AK47 assault rifle - was
used.

Over the weekend Sir Hugh Annesley, Chief Constable of the Royal Ulster
Constabulary, issued a fresh warning of an IRA bombing campaign in Britain if
the ceasefire breaks down.

Friday's shooting and the murder on Tuesday of INLA chief of staff Gino
Gallagher raised fears that the ceasefire could crumble if the peace process is
not moved forward soon.

David Trimble, the Ulster Unionist leader, echoed Mr Mitchell's warning of the
threat of a return to violence by the IRA. He said the IRA and other republican
groups were "quintessentially fascist".

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              177 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                February 6, 1996

Britons to help in blast hearing OK

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 682 words


LAHOMA CITY: British forensic experts with experience of investigating IRA bombs
are to help the legal team defending an accused in the bombing of Oklahoma City
last year. The defence team of Timothy McVeigh, 27, charged with murder and
conspiracy in the blast which killed 168 people, is seeking British help because
forensic scientists in the US lack the experience and expertise of their UK
counterparts.

In another development, it emerged that McVeigh's lawyer and the FBI are
investigating possible links between the extremists who planted the Oklahoma
bomb with right-wing or neo-Nazi groups in Britain and Germany.

O.J accuses

LOS ANGELES: O.J Simpson rang a live television programme last night to claim
that the murder of his ex-wife were linked to the drug problems of her socialite
friend, Faye Resnick. Simpson, cleared last October of murdering Nicole Brown
Simpson and her friend Ronald Goldman, told CNN's legal affairs show Burden of
Proof that he had "no doubt whatsoever" that the killings were linked to "the
worlds of Faye Resnick". His lawyers say the murders may have been an attempt by
drug dealers to scare Resnick into paying a debt.

Seven down

LOS ANGELES: Elizabeth Taylor has filed for divorce from her seventh husband,
Larry Fortensky, according to court documents. Taylor, 63, who separated from
Fortensky last August, cited "irreconcilable differences" in the petition. She
met Fortensky, a building worker, at the Betty Ford clinic, where they were both
undergoing treatment. In 1991, Fortensky, then 39, married Taylor in a private
ceremony at Michael Jackson's California estate.

UN plans job cuts

UNITED NATIONS: The UN is considering cutting 1150 professional and clerical
workers to ward off a financial crisis that threatens to bankrupt the world
body. Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali may announce today that he has no
choice but to accept the recommended lay-offs, which are made necessary by
proposed budget cuts and debts owed by the United States.

All change

ROME: An Italian company that empties telephone boxes has taken to paying its
workers in coins because local banks refuse to accept all the change. One female
worker appeared on television hauling away her 23st redundancy payment of six
million lire in 100, 200, and 500 lire coins. "It's still money," she said.

Kashmir protest

ISLAMABAD: Pakistan was shut down yesterday by a government-called general
strike to support militant demands for independence in the Indian-ruled part of
Kashmir. Anti-India rallies were held across the country and in Pakistan
-controlled Azad (free) Kashmir.

Collins v Random

NEW YORK: A courtroom battle has begun pitting British actress Joan Collins
against a publishing giant, which is demanding a $ 1.2m (£800,000) refund for a
manuscript it said was unfinished and unpublishable. Random House is suing Miss
Collins, 62, to recover an advance on a two-book contract that the company
claims she breached. Miss Collins is counter-suing for £2.4m which she claims
the publishing house still owes her.

Arson confessed

PARIS: A Frenchman has admitted starting a rash of mysterious fires that claimed
two lives and spread fear in the south-eastern French town of Moirans
-en-Montagne. The man, reported to be a 35-year-old linked to one of the
families whose homes were attacked, has confessed to raising seven of 13 fires
in two short streets since November.

Trial opens

BOSTON: A Boston court was under tight guard yesterday as the trial began of a
24-year-old hairdresser accused of shooting two women dead at abortion clinics.
John Salvi is charged with killing the two receptionists and injuring five
others at two clinics in December 1990.

Serbs held

SARAJEVO: The Bosnian Government has arrested a Serb general, a colonel, and six
other men for investigations into suspected war crimes. The government has
informed the commander of Nato ground forces, Lieutenant General Michael Walker,
of the arrests and has asked the UN war crimes tribunal to question the men
today.

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1996 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              178 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                          February 7, 1996, Wednesday

DAYTON-STYLE PLAN FAILS TO CLOSE LONDON-DUBLIN GAP

BYLINE:  Sarah Womack and Chris Parkin, PA News

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 1106 words


London and Dublin were again at loggerheads tonight, this time over Irish
proposals for a Bosnian-style conference to break the deadlocked peace process.
Northern Ireland Minister Michael Ancram said the idea was "at best premature",
while Unionists and their Tory supporters at Westminster condemned the proposal
as "mischievous" and a "desperate ploy".  Irish foreign minister Dick Spring
unveiled the initiative to Northern Ireland Secretary Sir Patrick Mayhew in
Dublin, although it formed no part of the official communique released
afterwards.  Mr Spring said he wanted to lock all the parties into the same
building, although not necessarily in the same room or around the same table,
for two days to hammer out a compromise.  "I believe this offers a prospect of
maintaining momentum in the peace process," he told reporters, shortly before
flying to Washington.  The two-day conference concept on the lines of that held
in Dayton, Ohio, last year, was first advanced by Mr Spring at last week's
meeting in London of the Anglo-Irish Intergovernmental Ulster Conference, which
was resumed in Dublin today.  British Government sources said tonight they had
made it clear then that the idea did not find favour in London.  Mr Ancram added
that the next substantive move in the process was the meeting of the two heads
of government later this month.  Referring to Mr Spring's proposal, he said: "We
have never believed that there is any purpose in moving forward unless there is
a good chance of that move succeeding." Democratic Unionist deputy leader Peter
Robinson said: "Mr Spring knows very well that as far as the Unionist community
is concerned, the issue at the core of the problem is the issue of
decommissioning.  "His proposition does not face up to that reality at all, and
instead of trying to seek advantage, it would be better to try and seek a
resolution to the problem - the process of an election." David Wilshire,
vice-chairman of the Tory backbench Northern Ireland Committee, said Mr Spring's
suggestion was a "desperate ploy by Dublin to undermine the democratic process
in the United Kingdom".

Sir Patrick again insisted that the idea of early elections in Northern Ireland
- proposed by Mr Major, but rigorously opposed in Dublin - was not a hurdle, but
a door to eventual all-party talks.  He made clear Britain continued to regard
elections as the best way forward.  He also hinted that the target date for
inclusive negotiations at the end of this month might not be met, by declaring:
"At least we hope it will be possible to secure agreement within that time-frame
on the way forward." But Mr Spring was adamant on the issue, asserting: "The
Irish government's position remains unchanged".  He gave relatively little
detail of his plan for a conference similar to that held in Dayton, Ohio last
year to end the Bosnia war, but is almost certain to raise the issue at his
meeting with US President Bill Clinton tomorrow.  He indicated that he would
want the all-Northern Ireland party conference idea considered at the
Anglo-Irish summit meeting later this month between Mr Major and Irish premier
John Bruton.  But Ulster Unionist MP William Ross said it would be "completely
impossible" for his party to join Dayton-style talks.  "It is another effort by
the Dublin government to avoid democracy taking root in Northern Ireland at all
costs," he said.  "We had in the former Yugoslavia a large number of different
groups fighting a full-scale war.  "We have here a very small, murderous
terrorist group launching an attack on the UK as a state." Andrew Hunter,
chairman of the Tory backbench committee on Northern Ireland, also said there
was no parallel between the situation in former Yugoslavia and Northern Ireland.
"We are looking for a means of generating confidence so there can be meaningful
all-party talks, leading to negotiations. I don't see how this idea will lead to
that confidence," he said.

Mr Spring later rejected British Government claims that his plan for a
Bosnian-style Ulster conference was premature.  Speaking at Dublin airport ahead
of his departure to the United States, Mr Spring said: "I don't accept that
anybody can say its premature.  "After all, we are within 21 days of the end of
February.  We have the firm aim to be in all-party talks by that date.  "Unless
we have proposals such as mine - and act on them - we are not going to make the
progress that is necessary." The Irish government was offering a facility where
issues could be discussed "in a reasonable and rational way".

Mr Spring told Channel 4 News: "What we hope to do is to work up these
proposals. It is important that we remind ourselves that it is the firm aim of
both governments to launch all party talks before the end of February.  "It has
been said on many occasions that some parties are not ready for formal all party
talks.  "Some people maintain you won't have all-party talks until you have
elections. Others want to have negotiations before they have elections.  "What
we are offering is an opportunity for all those parties to come together and to
put the various propositions on the table and then see if we can reach agreement
to move on to all party talks." Mr Spring said he would prefer to have a better
relationship with the Unionist Parties and he believed that would happen once
they all sat down together and worked in a reasonable fashion.

Shadow Ulster Secretary Marjorie Mowlam today urged the British and Irish
governments to step up the twin track talks.  She said Labour's support for the
Government's position was based on the principles outlined in the Downing Street
Declaration and the Joint Framework Document.  "Our policy - unity by consent -
is one of the options available in those documents and that is the basis for our
support.  "Labour's principles - equality of opportunity, anti-discrimination,
fairness and justice - are the bedrock of our approach to the peace process now
and that will continue in Government," she said at a meeting of the
Parliamentary Labour Party at Westminster.

Mr Wilshire said later that "impeccable sources" were telling him that Mr Spring
was privately threatening to scupper election plans.  "The private side of what
Mr Spring has said publicly is that if the Government does not cooperate with
his proposal he will make sure that Sinn Fein and the SDLP do not take part in
the elections," he said.  "That is what I am told is being said and I challenge
Mr Spring to deny it. I believe my sources and I think it is absolutely
monstrous. It is gross interference by a foreign government."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1996 The Press Association Limited

                              179 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               February 10, 1996

IRA SMASH CEASEFIRE;
Bomb injures more than 100 ? Major attacks 'appalling outrage'

BYLINE: John Mullin, Duncan Campbell, Patrick Wintour, David Sharrock, Vivek
Chaudhary, David Pallister And Helen Nowicka

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1814 words


THE 17-month IRA ceasefire came to a bloody end at 7.01pm last night with a
blast that rocked east London, injured more than 100 people, one critically, and
thrust Northern Ireland back into political ferment.

After one hour of shock and hectic checking with the security forces who, like
the Government, were taken "completely by surprise", Prime Minister John Major
attacked the bombing as "an appalling outrage". He called upon Sinn Fein and the
IRA to condemn unequivocally those who planted the bomb near South Quay railway
station on the Isle of Dogs.

The Sinn Fein president, Gerry Adams, said he was saddened and appeared to
accept that the IRA ceasefire had ended, saying he regretted that "an
unprecedented opportunity for peace has foundered on the refusal of the British
government and Unionist leaders to enter into dialogue and substantive
negotiations."

Mr Adams appealed for calm, and also hinted at a split by saying Sinn Fein's
peace strategy remains the main function of the party and his personal priority.

In Washington, adminstration officials revealed that the Sinn Fein leader had
warned President Bill Clinton's national security adviser, Anthony Lake, less
than an hour before the explosion that an IRA return to violence was imminent.

"He had indications that there was going to be a bomb blast and he felt it was
legitimate enough that he wanted to give a heads-up to Anthony Lake," an
official said. He gave no indication of how long the two men had spoken, nor of
the exact time of the telephone call.

The belatedness of Mr Adams' call suggested that the Sinn Fein leader had not
known about the definite end of the ceasefire for long. It is possible he only
learned about it around the time of the first warning given to the Irish
television station, RTE, one hour before the blast.

This led to strong speculation that a large part of the Sinn Fein leadership
were unaware of the planned IRA action or, alternatively, unable to prevent it -
something that might yet help the Irish and British governments keep the peace
process on track.

The Irish prime minister, John Bruton - who phoned both Mr Major and Mr Adams
late last night - was caught totally unaware.

In his conversation with Mr Major, Mr Bruton accepted the IRA had made "a
conscious decision" to end the ceasefire and pressed Mr Major to stick with the
peace process.

Mr Bruton admitted his ignorance of IRA tactics: "Whether it represents a
permanent return to violence or a short-term measure is not possible to discern
at this stage."

Six people were seriously injured in the blast - one critically - and there were
reported to be 100 walking wounded, including a five-year-old girl with facial
injuries. Three of the injured were police officers. Thirty seven people were
taken to hospital. People seeking information on the injured were asked to call
0171 834 7777.

The bomb was believed to have been planted, at ground level, in an underground
garage in a six-storey office block between South Quay station and an unfinished
and empty building known as South Quays One. Nearby buildings, where workers
were still at their desks when the explosion blasted the Isle of Dogs, were
protected from worse damage by the empty building.

No one within Sinn Fein immediately supported the bombing. Earlier in the day,
Mr Adams had taken calls on BBC Radio in Belfast. His message was that talks
were the way ahead.

David Trimble, leader of the Ulster Unionists, said: "If there has been a
resumption of violence then it has clearly been done in order to try and prevent
elections in Northern Ireland. It is incredible that people who, for the last 18
months, have been telling us they want to move into the democratic process
should be resorting to violence."

Mr Clinton voiced his "deep concern", and Washington said it would urgently be
contacting all the parties in order to continue the peace process. Aides said
the president would not automatically break off contact with Sinn Fein. Later he
made a ten-minute phone call to Mr Major.

The first hint that the ceasefire was about to end came when Scotland Yard
received warnings from news agencies and Sky Television at 5.41pm that a coded
statement had been received.

Commander John Grieve, head of Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist branch, said after
visiting the scene: "Shortly before 6pm this evening there were a series of
warnings, coded, of a recognised nature, that brought the police and emergency
services here. Whilst they were clearing the scene an explosion occurred at
7pm."

The message warned that the IRA had "with great reluctance" decided that the
"complete cessation of violence" would end at 6pm.

Within an hour, the threat had been realised. Moments after 7pm the blast was
heard throughout east and north-east London.

The Northern Ireland Secretary, Sir Patrick Mayhew, spoke of his sense of
outrage.  "Here were the republicans, offered a path through to the talks which
they claim they have wanted to join for a very long time. That path was by way
of elections.  Rather than face elections they appear to have gone back to the
bomb," he told BBC television news.

In his statement, Mr Major said: "This is an appalling outrage. My first
thoughts are with the casualties, their families and the emergency services. We
will pursue relentlessly those responsible for this disgraceful attack.

"Sinn Fein had given assurances time and time again that they were committed to
peaceful progress. I now call on the leadership of Sinn Fein and the IRA to
condemn immediately and unequivocally those who planted this bomb and any
suggestion that the ceasefire is now over.

"It would be a tragedy if the hopes of the people of Britain and Northern
Ireland for lasting peace were dashed again by the men of violence. This
atrocity confirms again the urgent need to remove illegal arms from the
equation."

Mr Major was joined by the Labour leader, Tony Blair, who condemned the bombing
as a sickening outrage.

Many of the injured were taken to the Royal London Hospital.

Full reports, pages 2, 3, 4 and 5; Leader comment, Bomb that blew hope away, and
Hugo Young, page 26

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              180 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               February 10, 1996

LONDON: TIGHTER SECURITY BROUGHT IN AS THE CAPITAL PREPARES FOR A RETURN TO THE
BAD OLD DAYS OF ROADBLOCKS AND CHECKS AFTER 17 MONTHS FREE OF TERRORISM

BYLINE: David Pallister

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 974 words


LONDONERS wake up today facing a return to the fearful and inconvenient bad old
days of security checks at public and commercial buildings, the resumption of
roadblocks around the City and a police force, backed by MI5, on high alert.

After 17 months free of Irish terrorism, the first preparations of tightened
security at government buildings in Whitehall were put in place within minutes
of the explosion on the Isle of Dogs.

But past experience of IRA bombing campaigns in Britain means that if the unit
responsible for the blast follows earlier precedents, its next targets could be
unpredictable. It has shown it can strike anywhere in the country, using
different methods of attack on widely diverse targets.

Despite the warning last night, the fact that the terrorists hit a busy area as
people were leaving work suggests that they may not be reluctant to cause
further large civilian casualties.

The effect of the ceasefire on the retail trade in Britain has been enormous.
In the year before the ceasefire was called, there were 6,133 terrorist
incidents involving the retail trade with losses totalling pounds 226 million.
Last year the losses, mainly from the actions of animal liberation groups, were
pounds 4.9 million, a fall of 98 per cent.

The Metropolitan Police also valued the ceasefire because officers were freed
from duties connected with high profile targets. Now they could be switched from
anti-burglary and anti-street robbery operations to anti-terrorism initiatives.

The search for the bombers has literally been a baptism of blood for the new
head of the Anti-Terrorist Branch, Commander John Grieve, who took over only
last month. He was at Docklands last night to take charge at the scene. Despite
the absence of Irish troubles and the reduction in the size of the branch,
Scotland Yard has insisted it would not dismantle the units and systems needed
to combat terrorism in the capital.

As one source put it recently: "Just because your house isn't burgled for two
years, you don't cancel the insurance."

The return of Irish terrorism will also engage the the Security Service, MI5,
and its new head, Stephen Lander, who is due to take over as director-general
from Stella Rimington at Easter.

MI5, which employs 2,000 people and has an annual budget of pounds 150 million,
had been searching for a new role in the wake of the terrorist ceasefires and
the break-up of the former Eastern bloc, and has been gearing up to join the
fight against organised crime.

Last month the Security Service Bill, which paves the way for MI5 to join the
fight against drug traffickers and other major organised criminals was given a
second reading without a vote in the Commons.

The explosion is also likely to ensure the retention of the Prevention of
Terrorism Act, the legislation first introduced after the Birmingham pub
bombings in 1974 and renewed every year.

Last month, Michael Howard, the Home Secretary, and Sir Patrick Mayhew, the
Northern Ireland Secretary, set up an independent inquiry to examine the future
of the legislation.

In what now appears sadly optimistic language, its terms of reference were "to
consider the future need for specific counter-terrorism in the UK if the
cessation of terrorism connected with the affairs of Northern Ireland leads to a
lasting peace, taking into account the continuing threat from other kinds of
terrorism and the UK's obligations under international law".

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              181 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               February 10, 1996

MAJOR: MINISTERS BELIEVE NATIONALISTS CAN ONLY RESCUE POSITION BY AGREEING TO
ELECTIONS AS PM CALLS ON SINN FEIN TO CONDEMN 'THOSE WHO PLANTED BOMB'

BYLINE: Patrick Wintour And Rebecca Smithers

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 614 words


JOHN Major responded to the bomb attack by calling on Sinn Fein to condemn
unequivocally those who planted the bomb and any suggestion that the ceasefire
is now over.

His statement makes clear that Mr Major sees some prospect that the attack was
not the work of a co-ordinated IRA and was possibly implemeted without the
agreement of Sinn Fein.

The Northern Ireland Office confirmed that Mr Major would go ahead with his
planned meeting with the Irish prime minister, John Bruton, later this month.
Ministers thought democratic nationalists could only rescue the position by
agreeing to hold elections.

In a tough statement, Mr Major said: "This is an appalling outrage. My first
thoughts are with the casualties, their families and the emergency services. We
will pursue relentlessly those responsible for this disgraceful attack.

"Sinn Fein had given assurances time and time again that they were committed to
peaceful progress. I now call on the leadership of Sinn Fein and the IRA to
condemn immediately and unequivocally those who planted this bomb and any
suggestion that the ceasefire is now over.

"It would be a tragedy if the hopes of the people of Britain and Northern
Ireland for lasting peace were dashed again by the men of violence. This
atrocity confirms again the urgent need to remove illegal arms from the
equation."

The Northern Ireland Secretary, Sir Patrick Mayhew, called the bombing "an
outrage" and said it made it more difficult to be optimistic. He said: "The
republicans were offered a path to elections.  Rather than elections, they
appear to have wanted to go back to the bomb. They have turned their back on the
democratic process."

Tony Blair said: "I utterly condemn this sickening outrage. My sympathy goes to
the victims. There can be no justification whatsoever for a return to terrorism.
I call on everyone - including Sinn Fein - to condemn this appalling act utterly
if they are serious about the peace process."

Paddy Ashdown said: "The IRA have gone against the will of the people of
Ireland."

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              182 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               February 10, 1996

IRA blows up ceasefire;After 17 months of peace a curt message: This is for
real, Charlie. You better go with this statement.;Bomb rocks Docklands and
injures at least 100

BYLINE: By Ian Bruce;Defence Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 950 words


A HUGE bomb blast last night ripped through the Docklands area of east London,
wounding more than 100 people and signalling what could be the end of the 17
-month IRA ceasefire in Ulster and a return to all-out violence.

The explosion came just before 7pm, an hour after a telephoned warning to RTE,
the Irish national broadcasting organisation in Dublin. The caller used a
recognised code word and claimed to represent the Provisional IRA.

In a prepared statement, he said it was "with great reluctance that the
leadership announces that the complete cessation of military operations will end
at 6pm on February 9".

The text blamed Mr Major and his Government for "squandering" the opportunity
presented by the unilateral ceasefire declared on August 31, 1994, and said:
"The sectional rights of the London Parliament have been placed before the
rights of the people of Ireland."

Shortly afterwards, a Belfast newspaper was warned that a bomb would go off at
South Quay and the warning was passed to Scotland Yard who evacuated the
station, which is part of the Dockland Light Railway system.

The political shockwaves of the bombing reverberated in London, Belfast, Dublin,
and Washington as political leaders wondered if this could be the end of the
Northern Ireland peace process.

Mr Major, in a statement issued within an hour of the explosion, condemned it as
"an appalling outrage" and pledged that the security forces would hunt down
those responsible.

Sinn Fein had given assurances time and time again that they were committed to
peaceful progress. "I now call on the leadership of Sinn Fein and the IRA to
condemn immediately and unequivocally those who planted this bomb and any
suggestion that the ceasefire is over."

Mr Major and Irish Premier John Bruton later discussed the bombing over the
telephone. A Downing Street spokesman said: "Both he and the Prime Minister were
united in absolute condemnation of violence and determined to work together to
make further progress towards peace."

Mr Gerry Adams, president of Sinn Feinn, the IRA's political wing, said he was
saddened by the explosion and blamed the British Government for failing to enter
into all-party negotiations. He appealed for calm and said the search for peace
in Northern Ireland had to be redoubled.

He added that he "presumed" the IRA had been responsible for the bombing.

Mr Adams said he had contacted Mr Bruton to assure him that Sinn Fein "remain
wedded to our peace strategy".

Mr "Gusty" Spence, the man who announced the Protestants' truce in October 1994,
pleaded with loyalist gunmen not to hit back.

He said: "My message to the loyalist paramilitaries at this moment is - for
heaven's sake and for the sake of the people of the whole of Northern Ireland,
hold anything that you may anticipate doing until such times as the situation
becomes clear. I am down on my knees begging."

The RUC announced last night steps that were being taken to reintroduce security
measures which had been relaxed in response to the ceasefire.

The bomb went off in an underground car park near South Quay. A six-storey
building above the car park partially collapsed and hundreds of windows in the
surrounding area were shattered.

Despite the evacuation precaution, what witnesses described later as "an
enormous explosion" produced about 100 "walking wounded" and up to six
casualties with more serious injuries, including a man and a woman who were
critical, said Scotland Yard. A five-year-old girl suffered face wounds.

More than 30 other people were also receiving hospital treatment, mostly for
injuries caused by flying glass.

One victim, 17-year-old college student Farid Berezag, described how he
sustained face injuries in the blast.

"I was sitting in the car with my father in a car park near South Quay station,
waiting for my sister and a friend," he said.

"There was a huge blast, I saw a blue flash and my dad was thrown forward.
Luckily he was wearing a seat belt otherwise he would have gone through the
window.

"I jumped out of the car and I was running down the street, my neck was gushing
blood and I was screaming 'help me someone'. A police officer stopped me and
calmed me down, then I was taken to hospital."

Mr Berezag said his 14-year-old sister Layla sustained a broken leg and was
seriously shocked. His father had face injuries.

Sixteen-year-old Neil Parker was walking with his seven-and-a-half month
pregnant girlfriend Samantha Herbert near the station when the bomb exploded.

He said: "My girlfriend was knocked to the ground and she was screaming in pain,
she was just hysterical. She was taken to an ambulance and checked out but she
and the baby are both okay.

"But some of the people at the scene were in unbearable pain. Some of them had
really bad facial injuries and blood was all over the street with lots of debris
and broken glass."

As revealed exclusively in The Herald on Tuesday, security forces in the UK were
already on alert and hunting up to eight Provisional active service units -
usually four-man cells of gunmen and bombers - which had been infiltrated into
the country over the last two to three years in preparation for a resumption of
violence if peace talks broke down.

A senior security source said of the bombing: "It is entirely possible that the
hard men of the IRA's military wing have taken over once more, and that Sinn
Fein negotiators knew nothing about it. If that is the case, then the political
process may have been undermined and we could see a resumption of bomb outrages
and other terrorist activity throughout Ulster and Britain itself."

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: One of the victims of last night's bomb blast at Canary Wharf.

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1996 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              183 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               February 10, 1996

Outraged politicians condemn 'tactical error'

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1273 words


THE Prime Minister last night condemned the Canary Wharf bomb as "an appalling
outrage".

As politicians united in condemning the blast which many believe to be a
"tactical error" by the IRA, Mr Major said: "We will pursue relentlessly those
responsible for this disgraceful attack."

Mr Major said Sinn Fein had given assurances that it was committed to peaceful
progress.

He added: "I now call on the leadership of Sinn Fein and the IRA to condemn
immediately and unequivocally those who planted this bomb and any suggestion
that the ceasefire is now over.

"It would be a tragedy if the hopes of the people of Britain and Northern
Ireland for lasting peace were dashed again by the men of violence. This
atrocity confirms again the urgent need to remove illegal arms from the
equation.

However, the Prime Minister was adamant that he remained "committed" to the
search for peace in Northern Ireland, adding that he would not be distracted by
terrorism.

On Irish television, Mr Gerry Adams, president of Sinn Fein, refused to condemn
the London explosion and he launched a bitter attack on Mr Major, blaming him
for the resumption of violence because he had put his personal political gain
above the people of Northern Ireland.

President Bill Clinton condemned the bombing "in the strongest possible terms".
In a statement issued by the White House, he said: "No-one and no organisation
has the right to deny the people of Northern Ireland's wish for peace.

"The terrorists who perpetrated the attack cannot be allowed to derail the
effort to bring peace to the people of Northern Ireland - a peace they
overwhelmingly support."

Mr Adams was in Washington last week and met Mr Clinton on Thursday. He was
photographed shaking the president's hand.

Mr Clinton and Americans in general have already made the connection that the
bombing at Canary Wharf must have been planned, approved, and set in motion
before Mr Adams reached Washington.

If confirmed that the IRA has formally broken the ceasefire, Mr Adams will be
held guilty of hypocrisy and, at the least, disrespect for the United States.
Mr Clinton went to great lengths to bring all the power of his office and
country to encourage a ceasefire.

He allowed Mr Adams to visit the United States two years ago, against the
vehement opposition of the British Government, and paid a highly successful
visit to Ireland himself last November.

Irish Prime Minister John Bruton described the explosion as a major setback to
the peace process in Northern Ireland.

"We are facing a tragic situation," he said in his first interview on Irish
television last night.

Mr Bruton was speaking after a one-hour emergency meeting of the Irish
government. His gloomy assessment came after Mr Bruton had an intensive round of
consultations with security chiefs in the Irish Republic as well as with key
political figures, including Mr Adams and the SDLP leader, Mr John Hume.

Mr Bruton appealed to Mr Adams to use his influence to prevent the peace process
from complete annihilation.

"I am sure many people believe that overcoming this setback tonight will be
impossible," he said. "But it will be overcome if we are determined enough and
apply sufficient dedication and imagination to it."

Northern Ireland Secretary Sir Patrick Mayhew said his reaction was one of
outrage.

"Here were the Republicans offered a path through to the talks which they claim
they have wanted to join for a very long time. That path was by way of
elections. Rather than face elections they appear to have gone back to the
bomb," he said.

"If anything comes out of this dreadful affair, it is the vindication of the
fears of the people that the refusal, even to start decommissioning, illegally
held arms held by terrorist organisations, represented and was intended to
represent a threat. That threat has now been made manifest."

Mo Mowlam, Shadow Northern Ireland Secretary, said: "I

Continued on Page 3

Continued from Page 1

organisations, represented and was intended to represent a threat. That threat
has now been made manifest.''

Mr Hume of the SDLP, one of the key men who helped broker the IRA ceasefire,
will be devastated, friends said.

"I can't imagine the impact this will have on him," said a close friend in his
home city of Londonderry last night.

Mr Hume, 65, MP for Foyle since l983, risked everything to persuade the IRA to
put away its weapons. He had been in regular contact with Mr Adams.

But nearly 18 months into the ceasefire, he had become more and more
disillusioned with the British Government's refusal to move into all-party talks
with Sinn Fein.

"He feared a return to violence was always a possibility, but he never suspected
this was on the cards," said an associate in Belfast last night.  ''He'll be
shattered."

Labour leader Tony Blair joined the condemnation of the bombing, calling it "a
sickening outrage".

He said: "There can be no justification whatsoever for a return to terrorism.  I
call on everyone - including Sinn Fein - to condemn this appalling act.

"All parties must at once return to the peace process and resume the ceasefire."

SNP leader Alex Salmond said: "It is tragic to see innocent people so callously
attacked, just when we hoped that such outrages were a thing of the past. The
cause of peace in Northern Ireland is so important for every citizen of these
islands that all politicians must continue to work for a permanent cessation of
violence and an enduring and just political settlement."

Former Northern Ireland Minister Michael Mates, who remains close to
developments in Ulster, said whoever carried out the bombing has made "a huge
tactical error".

He said: "It has confirmed all the fears that the British Government and the
Unionists had that the ceasefire was only a ploy for the IRA to get its way and
if it didn't get its way it would resort to violence."

Mr Ian Paisley, leader of the Democratic Unionists, said: "I regret that the
British Government did not realise that terrorists are terrorists, and until
they bring forth fruits for repentance they cannot be trusted."

Mr Paisley added: "Why did the IRA want to keep their arms and bombs? To do what
they have done tonight."

Mr Ken Maginnis, Ulster Unionist spokesman on security, said: "I suppose I spent
18 months hoping against hope that I was wrong when I predicted this ceasefire
was nothing but an attempt by the IRA and Sinn Fein to open a window of
opportunity for those who have the support of just 4.8% of the entire Northern
Ireland electorate.

"Sadly, my hopes and the hopes of thousands have been dashed by what has
happened."

Mr William Smith, of the fringe Progressive Unionist Party, said: "I am totally
devastated. We had no inkling this was about to happen or even that there was a
slight hiccup within the republican movement."

He called on the loyalist paramilitaries to remain calm.

Mr Andrew Hunter, chairman of the Conservative back bench Northern Ireland
Committee, said: "This is an evil outrage and a very, very sad day because so
much has been achieved during the last 18 months and the yearning for permanent
peace is so strong.

"The IRA now has no friends in the world. But we must continue to search for
permanent peace and an overall settlement."

The Labour MP for Bow and Poplar, Mrs Mildred Gordon, whose constituency
includes the Isle of Dogs, said: "It's tragic that my constituents, many of whom
are of Irish descent, should have become the victims of the breakdown of the
peace negotiations."

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Gerry Adams: refused to condemn London blast;q From Monday's Herald;q
From Tuesday's Herald

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1996 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              184 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          February 10, 1996, Saturday

The terrorists' 23 years of devastation

BYLINE: HEATHER MILLS Home Affairs Correspondent.

SECTION: NEWS; Page  2

LENGTH: 579 words


HEATHER MILLS

Home Affairs Correspondent.

With last night's blast in London's Docklands, the IRA has resumed its attack on
the capital's commercial centres.

It was three years ago when London last witnessed similar scenes of devastation.
A huge bomb blew apart the heart of the City killing one, injuring 40 and
causing pounds 1bn of damage.

But the terrorists' determination to bring their grim message to mainland
Britain and the centre of both political power and wealth goes back over 23
years - and people rather than buildings have often been the target.

In March 1973 two car bombs blew up outside the Old Bailey killing one and
injuring 170. The following year terrorists blew the roof of Westminster Hall,
injuring five.

Three months later, in October 1974, they brought carnage to Guildford, killing
five and injuring 50 by bombing two pubs frequented by soldiers.  In November
the same team killed two outside Woolwich barracks in south London. The next
month, they repeated the dreadful exercise in Birmingham, killing 21 and
injuring many more.

The following year, they shot dead Ross McWhirter, co-founder of the Guinness
book of Records, and a vociferous IRA opponent.

It was four years before they claimed their next victim - the Shadow Secretary
of State for Northern Ireland Airey Neave. The Tory spokesman was killed by a
car bomb close to the House of Commons.

Two years later in October 1981, a coach of Irish Guardsmen were the targets of
a 30lbs bomb loaded with metal bolts. Several were badly hurt and two passers-by
were killed.

In 1982, at the height of a particularly brutal campaign, two radio-controlled
bombs in the Royal Parks killed 11 soldiers, seven horses and injured 50 others.
The following year, active service units turned their attentions to commerce - a
bomb at Harrods in Knightsbridge killed six and injured 93.

About a year later they scored what was, in their eyes, one of their biggest
triumphs. The IRA managed to explode a bomb in the Grand Hotel, Brighton during
the Conservative Party Conference. Lady Thatcher, then Prime Minister, escaped
but five were killed and dozens more injured, many of them seriously.

Four years later they had returned their attentions to the military, killing one
man at Inglis Barracks in Mill Hill and 11 more at Deal in Kent.

In 1990, Ian Gow, a supporter of the Ulster Unionists, was killed by a car bomb,
and an army careers office, the Stock Exchange and the upmarket Carlton Club
were the focus of small devices.

In 1991, they targeted John Major, firing mortar bombs at Downing Street.

Two young boys, Jonathan Ball, aged three, and Tim Parry, 12, were killed by a
bomb in Warrington on 20 March, the following year.

And perhaps prompted by the outrage at the deaths of two such innocents, it was
later that year the IRA started hitting at commerce. A huge bomb rocked the
Baltic Exchange, in the City, which killed three, injured 90 and caused an
estimated pounds 800m of damage.

The same year, two IRA gunmen hijacked a minicab and forced the driver to take
explosives to Downing Street, but they exploded in Whitehall.

In 1993 a series of small devices were set off in London's West End causing more
chaos than major damaged . It was in April that year they devastated the City.

The IRA's last efforts before the ceasefire included three mortar attacks at
Heathrow, which caused only minor damage.


LOAD-DATE: February 12, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1996 Independent Print Ltd

                              185 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          February 10, 1996, Saturday

Security ring of steel certain to return

BYLINE: JASON BENNETTO Crime Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Page  3

LENGTH: 436 words


JASON BENNETTO

Crime Correspondent

The bomb blast in London yesterday is almost certain to force the police and
security agencies to bring back much of the capital's protective "ring of
steel".

Security measures for key targets, such as senior politicans, police stations,
and Downing Street, will have been stepped up immediately.

There will also be a tightening of security in public areas, and potential
economic targets - such as Europe's tallest tower block, Canary Wharf - and
mainline railway stations.

In the 17 months since the ceasefire there has been a gradual running down of
anti-terrorist precautions. Ministers and other public figures are no longer so
closely guarded; public buildings, such as stations, have relaxed their
security.

But yesterday's blast, if it is found to be the work of the IRA, will reverse
all those changes.This will have a knock- on effect on the UK economy and the
lifestyle of millions of citizens.

The blast follows recent warnings from intelligence and security officers that
the IRA has assembled a "hit list", which would target leading politicians for
assassination.

Although yesterday's explosions suggests that economic targets and "big bombs''
- such as those which hit the City of London in 1992 and 1993 could also be on
the agenda.

MI5 and anti-terrorist officers have recently warned the Government that the IRA
would strike quickly at targets on the mainland if the ceasefire broke down.

Protection on some ministerial cars, which have bullet proof windows, has been
upgraded to include sophisticated electronic sensing devices which alert the
driver if a bomb has been attached to the underside.

The warnings were publicly aired by Sir Hugh Annesley, the Chief Constable of
the Royal Ulster Constabulary, who said last weekend that if there was a return
to violence, the campaign would be directed at mainland Britain.

The immediate effect of a resumption of terrorism in the UK is likely to be the
kind of police activity that was commonplace until the ceasefire: random stop
and search, armed roadblocks and police patrols.

In the 17 months since the ceasefire, many anti-terrorist and Special Branch
officers in London and Belfast - whose numbers were at an all time high - have
been moved into normal policing work or transferred to other duties - such as
animal rights, Middle Eastern terrorism and to anti-drugs work.

MI5 which has successfully taken a lead role in terrorism intelligence-
gathering over the police, only to then see the need downgraded, will now have
to realign itself.


LOAD-DATE: February 12, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1996 Independent Print Ltd

                              186 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          February 10, 1996, Saturday

LEADING ARTICLE:A time for statesmanship, vision and imagination

SECTION: COMMENT; Page  20

LENGTH: 1000 words


Last night's IRA bombing in London's Canary Wharf is a return to a nightmare
many hoped had at last been banished. The hope that the IRA had established an
irreversible commitment to peaceful politics has been shattered. A movement
which had appeared finally to have recognised that killing would achieve nothing
has returned to its bankrupt policy of bombing its way to achieving its goals.

It is still not clear whether the bombs in east London were planted by the IRA
or splinter group. But that is a detail. Whoever was responsible, last night's
bomb was a grave development. The armed wing of the republican movement appears
to have returned to a war of attrition that now looks more anachronistic and
aimless than ever.

Nowhere will the misery of this event be felt more acutely than in Northern
Ireland. After 25 years of killing, everyone there had had enough. And as the
peace continued, the pleasure and relief of peace grew. People felt safe to go
out at night. They ceased to worry when a friend or relative failed to come home
at the expected time. Old boundaries and borders were crossed. Investment and
jobs were being attracted, with much waiting in the wings to see whether the
peace would last.

The rising hope was most obvious during Bill Clinton's visit to Belfast before
Christmas. A dour city that had failed to celebrate the first anniversary of the
ceasefire in September at last felt relaxed enough to let down its hair and
enjoy the freedom of peace.

Whatever the frustrations felt about the failure of political talks about
Northern Ireland's future, there were no demands among the nationalist community
for the IRA to recommence its campaign. This is not 1969, when Catholics were
being burned out of their homes and expected the IRA to play a protective role.
This is 1996, when nationalist political representatives are engaged in detailed
talks with the Government about establishing a long-lasting political settlement
in Northern Ireland. It is a period when the Dublin government has been offered
unprecedented influence in the affairs of Northern Ireland. Indeed, there were
fears among Unionists that the nationalist agenda had largely been accepted by
the British government.

The people of Northern Ireland must now make their feelings known about the
failure of the IRA to keep its promise. The IRA does not speak for the vast
majority of the population. Those horrified by the prospect of the termination
of the peace process must now go out into the streets in vast numbers to send
the IRA the unequivocal message that they abhor what happened last night.

The greatest loser from the collapse of the ceasefire will be the republican
movement. Sinn Fein was in the process of being rehabilitated and accepted as a
constitutional party. The advantages and opportunities to pursue its goals
peacefully were plain. Only this month, Gerry Adams, the Sinn Fein president,
shook hands with President Clinton. He has been feted in America, even talked
about for a Nobel peace prize. In Britain, the way had been cleared for
comprehensive talks on the future of Northern Ireland, albeit delayed until
elections had been held.

Unless Sinn Fein clearly rejects the IRA's abandonment of the 17-month
ceasefire, that party must expect once more to be ostracised and excluded from
the political process in Northern Ireland. The days when the republican movement
could use both the Armalite and ballot box to further their aims are over. It
would have to learn that the title, Sinn Fein, meaning "Ourselves Alone", will
be literally true.

The next few days will reveal Sinn Fein's position. It may be that the bombing
and the breakdown of the ceasefire was the work of a splinter group, against the
advice of Sinn Fein. However, we must also beware of Sinn Fein presenting itself
as powerless to stop the IRA campaign and using violence as tool to manipulate
politics in Northern Ireland. This would be a dangerous game for Mr Adams to
play.

The disappointment at the breakdown in the ceasefire will also be acute in both
London and Dublin. John Major associated his administration closely with the
peace process. The ending of the IRA's ceasefire - and the subsequent peace
process - was expected to be the most significant feature of his time in office.
Likewise, the administration in Dublin has worked hard to push the political
process along and maintain the commitment of republicanism.

The lesson that both governments must take from last night's bombing is that
they must redouble their efforts to provide leadership and a vision of a better
Ireland. Amid the bickering of the past few months, they have at times lost
sight of the big picture and the great opportunity which has presented itself.
Now is the time to hold up that big vision once again in the hope that the
current breakdown in peace will be shortlived, once the perpetrators of last
night's outrage recognise the fruitlessness of their action.

In the volatile situation that is bound now to develop in Northern Ireland, it
is essential that the loyalist paramilitaries do not now escalate the situation.
They have promised to honour a "no first strike" policy. But they must not now
feel free to end their ceasefire, a move that could only fuel sectarianism in
Northern Ireland and make it still harder to re-establish peace.

Likewise, it is not time for Unionist politicians such as Ian Paisley to harp on
about their view that the peace would never last. The peace process always
lacked sufficient backing from Dr Paisley: we do not need any more of his
inflammatory language at this dangerous time.

Likewise, David Trimble, leader of the Ulster Unionist Party, must act in a
statesmanlike fashion. He has in recent weeks demonstrated a more imaginative
attitude to political progress. It was his idea to hold elections in Northern
Ireland, so offering a way around an issue that was preventing talks - the
decommissioning of weapons.


LOAD-DATE: February 12, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1996 Independent Print Ltd

                              187 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           February 11, 1996, Sunday

Bombing leaves hopes for peace hanging by a thread; n Police find body as IRA
admits London attack n Major challenges Sinn Fein over 'evil act'

BYLINE: Stephen Castle, David McKittrick, Jason Bennetto and Alan Murdoch

SECTION: TITLE; Page  1

LENGTH: 807 words


POLITICAL leaders in Britain, Ireland and the United States are this weekend
urgently trying to salvage the Irish peace process, blasted off course by the
half-ton IRA bomb that on Friday night killed one person and injured dozens more
when it exploded in the rush-hour in London's Docklands commercial area.

The huge home-made device, left in a small flat-bedded lorry about 80 yards from
the South Quay station of the Docklands Light Railway, caused immediate damage
estimated at pounds 85m, bringing to an end the ceasefire declared by the IRA 17
months ago. Thirty-nine people were injured, including three police officers, of
whom five were still in hospital last night. One of them, Zaoui Berrezag, aged
55. was in a critical condition.

For most of yesterday it was thought that there had been no deaths, but last
night police searching the wreckage of the hi-tech plate-glass office buildings
torn to shreds by the explosion found one body and, with one person reported
missing, were searching for others. Suggestions that police attempts to ensure
the safety of people in the locality were inadequate were rejected by the
Commissioner of the Metropolitan Police, Sir Paul Condon. He said: "It would be
unfair to describe this as a failure of security. It was a failure of humanity."
The bombing was "unexpected" he said.

There were further suggestions that the intelligence agencies had been warned of
the bombing, but had not heeded the warnings.

Despite initial speculation that the bomb was planted by a republican splinter
group, the IRA yesterday admitted responsibility. Gerry Adams, the Sinn Fein
president, however, said that he had "no pre-knowledge" of the outrage and
called for urgent talks with the Northern Ireland Office.

But John Major joined the Irish Government in putting renewed pressure on Mr
Adams to commit himself to a permanent ceasefire. Condemning the bombing as an
"evil act", the Prime Minister challenged Sinn Fein to "say now that their
campaign of violence has stopped, and they will never resume it again".

Meanwhile, there was speculation in Washington that President Clinton might
despatch Tony Lake, the US National Security adviser, and Senator George
Mitchell, who headed the recent commission on disarmament, to Belfast to offer
the peace process American assistance .

Tonight Mr Major will call together senior ministers, including Sir Patrick
Mayhew, Secretary of State for Northern Ireland, and Michael Howard, the Home
Secretary, and leading security and intelligence chiefs. They will analyse
relations between Sinn Fein and the IRA, and whether Friday's bomb was an
aberration or a total ceasefire breakdown.

In a statement yesterday Mr Major said there was now "a dark shadow of doubt"
where "optimism" had existed. He added: "The IRA once again callously threaten
the desire for peace. They will not be allowed to prevail.  Too many lives have
already been saved, too much good has come out of the ceasefire, to allow that
to happen."

A meeting between Mr Major and his Irish counterpart, John Bruton, scheduled for
later this month, may be brought forward. Mr Major has invited leaders of the
Unionist and Social Democratic and Labour parties in the province to talks at
Downing Street over the next few days.

The Rev Ian Paisley, leader of the Democratic Unionists, and John Hume, leader
of the SDLP, are expected to give their views on the crisis to Mr Major
tomorrow. David Trimble, leader of the Official Unionists, should follow two
days later. He flew to the USA for a pre-arranged visit to the White House
yesterday, accusing Sinn Fein leaders of "following the leadership of the IRA in
its return to violence".

President Clinton will be lobbied to back the Unionists' proposals for elections
before all-party talks. The administration may also come under pressure to
review its relaxation of visa restrictions on Mr Adams and his Sinn Fein
colleagues.

John Taylor, the Unionists' deputy leader, called on the Irish government to
"remove its veto on the elected body" which the Unionists see as the key to the
creation of all-party talks.

Andrew Hunter MP, chairman of the Conservative back-bench Northern Ireland
Committee, insisted: "The basic principle is that the search for a permanent
peace and an overall settlement continues.

"One bomb, horrific though it was, cannot and will not destroy what has been
achieved over the last 18 months, because the almost tangible yearning for peace
in the republic and Northern Ireland is not going to end."

It was not a time for precipitate action, he added, but to take stock and
determine how to translate that yearning for peace into reality. "The IRA will
not bomb their way into talks. If that is their objective, it is demented
thinking and it will not work."


LOAD-DATE: February 12, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1996 Independent Print Ltd

                              188 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           February 11, 1996, Sunday

Bomb took security services by surprise

BYLINE: David McKittrick and Jason Bennetto

SECTION: THE LONDON BOMB; Page  4

LENGTH: 727 words


ALL the signs are that the Docklands bomb caught the security services and
police by surprise, making it the latest in a series of failures to predict the
intentions of the IRA, whose highest reaches appear impervious to penetration.

Within the past 10 days a senior Government minister and a key senior official
both privately indicated that the authorities were confident of the IRA
cessation holding. Only last weekend the Chief Constable of the RUC, Sir Hugh
Annesley, said of the IRA: "Are they intent on doing anything to breach the
ceasefire? On the intelligence patterns at the moment, the answer is no."

Senior sources make it clear that Sir Hugh's comments were not just for public
consumption, but a genuine intelligence assessment. It was thus no more accurate
than the intelligence belief, in August 1994, that the IRA ceasefire would of
around three months' duration.

By contrast, Irish government sources have been much more anxious that a
breakdown of the ceasefire was a real possibility. This was one of the main
reasons why Dublin had recently been pressing so hard for the early opening of
all-party talks.

Britain's misreading of opinion in the IRA's upper ranks was important: it meant
that London felt free to maintain pressure on the republican movement over the
issues of de-commissioning and the holding of elections.  The Government
apparently calculated that the republicans had no choice but to accept the
continuing delays in getting to all-party talks.

The British authorities may now struggle to answer the important question of
whether Gerry Adams knew about the IRA's intention to return to violence.  If he
was party to the decision, he must have known that such an attack would retard
all-party negotiations. If, as he claims, he knew nothing of the move, then both
his status and authority within the republican movement has been thrown into
serious doubt.

The security services, which insist they had not relaxed vigilance during the
ceasefire, had warned that IRA units were continuing to operate throughout
mainland Britain, stockpiling explosives and firearms and identifying potential
targets. They had also carried out "dry runs" to practise planned hits.

Senior Cabinet ministers were warned that in the event of the ceasefire ending
they would be targets, and protection was increased accordingly.

Inevitably, however, the physical signs of security had begun to fade during the
ceasefire. Police officers guarding the City of London, for example, recently
stopped carrying firearms - a measure reversed yesterday.

Sir Paul Condon, the Commissioner of the Metropolitan Police, denied yesterday
that a security failure was to blame. He said: "All the intelligence agencies do
their best to anticipate and combat terrorist incidents. In the real world there
are criminals who on occasions would seek to put down this sort of device. It
would be unfair to describe this as a failure of security. It was a failure of
humanity."

The IRA attack also effectively snuffs out any thoughts of reducing the staff at
MI5, who are in charge of Irish anti-terrorism intelligence gathering. A small
number of officers are about to move into work against organised crime, but the
vast bulk of the 2,000 staff will continue with the operations against the Irish
terrorists - an activity that until Friday night seemed increasingly redundant.

In Ireland even members of the IRA's northern and southern commands were unaware
that a decision had been taken to halt the 17-month ceasefire, according to the
Belfast morning newspaper the Irish News. But republican sources told the
newspaper that the key element in their decision had been the insistence of John
Major on elections in Northern Ireland in the wake of the Mitchell Commission
report.

The IRA's "Green Book" code of conduct forbids the movement's volunteers or
members of Sinn Fein taking seats or pledging allegiance to any form of
government in the Republic or the North. The secrecy which enveloped the London
bombing wrong-footed most of the republican movement. Republican sources told
the Irish News there was no mounting sense of excitement before the bombing.The
decision was made by the General Headquarters staff and sanctioned by the Army
Council, with no one else privy to the decision, says the newspaper.


LOAD-DATE: February 12, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1996 Independent Print Ltd

                              189 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                           February 11, 1996, Sunday

LEADING ARTICLE: WHY PEACE MUST ENDURE

SECTION: THE OBSERVER NEWS PAGE; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 840 words


The peace of our island has been shattered by the Docklands bomb, but the peace
process in Ireland must continue. The foundation for peace rested on all sides
talking to each other, sometimes covertly and not always in good faith, but the
essence of it was talk.

John Major once said it would 'turn my stomach' to talk to Sinn Fein and the
IRA, even though his officials were doing just that at the time. You do not make
peace with your friends, you make peace with your enemies, as Seamus Mallon, the
deputy leader of the SDLP, pointed out yesterday. Channels of communication must
remain open.

For that, it is important to rebuild trust. John Major forfeited the goodwill of
nationalists and the Irish government when, he insisted, without consultation,
on elections to a Northern Irish assembly before all-party peace talks could
begin. He was suspected, with good reason, of putting the interests of the
Conservative Party, with its dwindling majority, ahead of the need for peace. It
was an example of talking too much to one's friends: the Ulster Unionists, whose
support at Westminster he may have to rely on to remain in power.

We said then that Major was wrong to insist on premature elections, which would
shore up memories of Stormont and the sectarian divide. The same remains true
today, despite the cruel and terrible effects of the IRA bomb. The proper time
for elections is when a new agenda for Northern Ireland, forged at all-party
talks, has been agreed.

Britain's old enemy, the IRA and its allies in Sinn Fein, complain that they got
little more from the ceasefire than delay and double-cross from the Government.
Not so. They need only ask on the streets of Belfast whether the cessation of
violence was worth it and register the disappointment and despair there today.

The promise of permanent peace gave Gerry Adams the run of Clinton's White House
and funds and promises of investment poured in. However delicate his
relationship with his friends in the IRA, he now has to redeem that pledge. If
he is to remain a trustworthy player in the peace process, he must do more than
offer traditional expressions of regret for the resumption of violence,
accompanied by loud condemnation of the intransigence of the British Government
and Ulster Unionists. He must insist, as Dublin has demanded, that there will be
no more bombs.

The Irish government is behaving with commendable responsibility. So must the
Ulster Unionists. They must resist the temptation to use the bombing to call the
peace process to a halt. In the past few months, a new leadership under David
Trimble has gone far to change the tone of Unionist rhetoric from passionate
anatagonism to reasoned pragmatism. If the same spirit could be held on to now,
much can be done to bring nationalists and unionists together at the local as
well as national level.

After 17 months of ceasefire we are all guilty of taking peace too much for
granted. Old enmities do not evaporate in sleep, but they can be overcome in
direct conversation. The road is harder now than it was two days ago, but not
nearly as hopeless as two years before. We must keep to it.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              190 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                           February 11, 1996, Sunday

NOW IRA TARGETS CITY;
MASSACRE FEAR AS FIRST BLOOD IS SPILT;
IRA MAY TARGET CITY OF LONDON NEXT

BYLINE: Roland Watson And Kim Sengupta

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 480 words


SECURITY chiefs believe the City of London will be the next target in the IRA's
renewed campaign of terror.

Police chiefs were told only weeks ago that Provo hard-liners were poised to
unleash a new, bloody onslaught.

IRA units, which had been dormant for 17 months since the ceasefire, had even
carried out "dry runs" on potential targets . Security chiefs and Special Branch
officers believe the next attack is likely to take place between 11am and noon
on a weekday in the City when the financial centre is at its most crowded.

The briefing from Scotland Yard's Special Branch, leaked to the Sunday Mirror,
stated: "There are indications of growing impatience among hard- liners at the
pace of progress, and pressure for a return to violence.

"In such an eventuality, it is likely that the mainland will be a key focus of
terrorist activity. A number of suspected PIRA (Provisional IRA) members are
known to be resident in Britain and there is evidence of PIRA contingency
planning for a resumption of violence should the ceasefire break down."

Security services had also noted a significant increase of IRA members and
sympathisers visiting the mainland.

But John Major vowed to continue the search for peace despite Sinn Fein chief
Gerry Adams' refusal to condemn the outrage.

The Dublin Government said it would not meet Adams until the ceasefire was
restored.

Adams claimed he had no prior knowledge of the bombing, leading to speculation
that there is a split between the political and military wings of the Republican
movement.

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1996 MGN Ltd.

                              191 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                           February 11, 1996, Sunday

IRA TARGET CITY IN NEW CAMPAIGN;
CITY OF LONDON TO BE IRA'S NEXT TARGET

BYLINE: Exclusive Roland Watson And Kim Sengupta

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 654 words


SECURITY forces claim the City of London will be the next target in the IRA's
renewed campaign of terror.

The Sunday Mirror can reveal that security services warned in an urgent briefing
only weeks ago that Provo hard-liners were poised to unleash a new, bloody
onslaught.

The detailed report sent to police forces throughout the country described how
terrorist cells were already in battle-readiness on the mainland.

IRA Active Service Units had even carried out "dry runs" on potential targets -
including military bases and the homes of public figures.

Major financial institutions in the City have been advised to take precaution
against bomb attacks.

Security chiefs and Special Branch officers believe the attack is likely to take
place between 11 and 12 am on a weekday, when the City is at its most crowded.

The briefing from Scotland Yard's Special Branch, leaked to the Sunday Mirror,
stated: "The security services have issued the following warning: There are
indications of growing impatience among hard-liners at the pace of progress, and
pressure for a return to violence.

"In such an eventuality, it is likely that the mainland will be a key focus of
terrorist activity. A number of suspected PIRA (Provisional IRA) members are
known to be resident in Britain and there is evidence of PIRA contingency
planning for a resumption of violence should the ceasefire break down.""

Intelligence had shown that the Provos were taking advantage of the peace
process to establish active service units, backed up by a network of "sleeper"
agents and safe houses.

Security services had also noted a significant increase of IRA members and
sympathisers visiting the mainland.

Meanwhile John Major last night held open the door to Gerry Adams despite the
Sinn Fein chief's refusal to condemn the Canary Wharf outrage.

The Prime Minister called the bombing an "evil act" but vowed to continue the
search for peace in Ulster.

But the Irish government last night said it would not meet Adams until the
ceasefire was back in place.

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SNUBBED: Gerry Adams;; TERROR CASUALTY: An innocent victim of the IRA
blast is taken to hospital

                            Copyright 1996 MGN Ltd.

                              192 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               February 12, 1996

POLICE WARNING OF MORE IRA BOMB ATTACKS

BYLINE: Patrick Wintour, David Sharrock And Duncan Campell

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1240 words


THE Irish government launched a furious attack yesterday on Britain's strategy
for peace in Northern Ireland in the wake of Friday night's London bombing,
describing it as like "throwing petrol on to a fire".

As John Major convened an emergency cabinet meeting to discuss the fall-out from
Friday's blast in Docklands that left two people dead, the Irish prime minister
said Britain's insistence on elections to a Northern Ireland assembly as the
best way forward was a "serious mistake".

In a 20-minute phone conversation with Mr Major yesterday, John Bruton urged him
to withdraw the plan. His comments came as a senior police officer warned that
the IRA could attack other targets of economic or political significance.

David Veness, assistant commissioner of the Metropolitan police, said: "It is
too early to say whether this is a one-off attack or whether it represents a
renewed long-term campaign of violence."

Faced with the prospect of a full-scale resumption of the IRA's mainland bombing
campaign, Sinn Fein leaders appealed to Dublin and London for concrete
concessions to take to the IRA as a means of restoring the ceasefire.

Sinn Fein's president, Gerry Adams, insisted the IRA was open to persuasion, but
pleaded yesterday: "What is the point in me going to the IRA unless I am able to
go with a persuasive argument?"

Sinn Fein strategist Martin McGuinness said he had no case to present to the IRA
for restoring its ceasefire.

"The British government must bear total responsibility for the collapse of the
peace process," Mr Adams writes in the Guardian today. "It has been guilty of
criminal neglect. Sinn Fein has repeatedly pointed out that the peace process
could not stand still. If it was not moving forward, it was in grave danger of
moving back."

There was mounting concern in London and Dublin that loyalist paramilitaries
were preparing to mount a bombing campaign in Ireland, especially if the IRA
bombs London again.

In discussions lasting more than three hours, the Cabinet in London agreed to
restore security measures on the mainland to pre-ceasefire levels, but held back
for the moment from putting troops back on the streets of Belfast.

Despite the fierce criticisms from Mr Bruton, ministers still insisted that
elections to a negotiating body in Northern Ireland represented the best way
forward.

Friday night's bomb, between 500 lb and one ton in weight, had been placed on a
flat-back Ford Cargo lorry with false registration plates, it emerged yesterday.
It had been spotted by an officer, PC Roger de Graaf, injured in the blast,
moments before the explosion.

Police were studying thousands of feet of closed circuit television film
yesterday attempting to trace the vehicle's movements and see if there are any
signs of the bombers leaving the lorry.

The two men killed in the explosion, whose bodies were found on Saturday, were
named as Inan Ul-Haq Bashir, aged 29, of Streatham, south-west London, and John
Jefferies, aged 31, of Bromley, Kent.  Three seriously injured people remain in
hospital.

To Mr Adams's anger, Dublin broke off all ministerial contact yesterday with
Sinn Fein until the IRA returns to the ceasefire. The move was welcomed by the
Northern Ireland security minister, Sir John Wheeler.

Mr Bruton insisted that until the IRA issued "a simple statement restoring the
cessation" there would be no face-to-face contacts with Sinn Fein. "You can't in
a democracy negotiate under threat of violence," he told Irish radio.

With Dublin openly hopeful the ceasefire can be reinstated, Mr Major was under
pressure from Mr Bruton not to punish Sinn Fein by making their eventual
inclusion in all-party talks more difficult.  However, there was no sign Mr
Major was going to risk being seen to reward terrorism by weakening his stance.

The Northern Ireland Secretary, Sir Patrick Mayhew, said on BBC's Frost on
Sunday that the peace process was "very seriously injured, but not terminally
injured".

The Ulster Unionist leader, David Trimble, said it would be "reprehensible and
terrible if the electoral process was set aside by the use of violence".

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              193 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               February 12, 1996

THE END OF THE CEASEFIRE: SETBACKS ON ALL SIDES;
Papers

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 867 words


UNITED STATES

The New York Times

The IRA's leaders "have made a terrible mistake by returning to violence. They
cannot gain more through terror than they can through the patient pursuit of
peace. If anything, a new campaign of terror will only set back their cause and
wound their people."

Mr Major "should reconsider his approach to arranging all-party peace talks. He
has been playing a dangerous game of brinksmanship with the paramilitaries,
gambling that they would not return to violence and insisting unrealistically
that the IRA hand over some of its weapons before such talks could begin. He
seemed not to understand that Mr Adams offered a hope for peace and needed to be
able to show his followers some concrete advantage in putting down their guns."

The Boston Globe

"The Irish Republican Army says it wants Ireland under a nationalist government.
The already dubious prospects for this result were shattered on Friday as
decisively as the windows blown out by the bomb in London.

"There are grounds to question Britain's insistence on disarmament and new
elections. But by breaking the 17-month-old truce, the IRA has put the onus on
itself. Diplomatic manoeuvring cannot be compared to a deadly assault on
innocent people."

IRELAND

Sunday Tribune

"Mr Adams and Sinn Fein cannot have it both ways - they are either committed to
peace or they are not. If they are not, they know their future: life as they
lived it for the past 25 years and political isolation. If they are committed to
peace and demonstrate that commitment, their future is fashioning an
accommodation within which they and their neighbours can live happily. Mr Adams
needs to decide fast who are his friends and who are his enemies."

Belfast Telegraph

"It will be very difficult - some would say impossible - to pick up the pieces,
but it must be attempted. The first necessity is for the British and Irish
governments to patch up their recent differences, which have been so damaging to
the peace process, and speak out with one voice against any renewed IRA
campaign."

Sunday Independent

"To hope to advance a peace process by acts of terrorism is simply a
contradiction in terms. No democratic government or party can act under the
duress of such violence to accommodate Sinn Fein around any negotiating table.
On the other hand, there is now an urgent need for the Ulster Unionist party
leader, David Trimble, to take risks comparable to those taken by Albert
Reynolds and John Hume in the past. The time has come for courage and enterprise
on the part of all the constitutional parties."

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              194 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               February 12, 1996

FRANCE WOOS DISCERNING BRITISH;
The strong franc discourages visitors, but a new promotion plan has been
launched, Alex Duval Smith reports from Paris

BYLINE: Alex Duval Smith

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FOREIGN PAGE; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1360 words


BRITISH "strivers" and "potterers" are to be the target of the biggest-ever
campaign to promote France after they turned their backs in droves on
cross-channel holidays last year.

In poster and television advertising campaigns, French tourism officials are
spending pounds 3 million to promote their country to the British who, with 9
million visits a year, are the most francophile country in the world.

The decision to spend 60 per cent more than last year on wooing Britons is aimed
at improving France's image, tarnished by nuclear tests, a terrorist bombing
campaign and strikes which paralysed the country at the end of last year.

Tourism officials estimate that 15 per cent fewer Britons travelled to France in
1995. Officially, they say France suffered because the strength of the franc
lured Britons to cheaper destinations like the US, Spain and Italy.

But, 10 days ago, barely half an hour before President Jacques Chirac announced
the end of France's underground nuclear test series in the South Pacific,
British television viewers received the first blast of a pounds 1.2 million
series of commercials.

According to a spokesman for Maison de la France, the tourism promotion body,
France has rested on its laurels for too long.  "Short trips increased in 1995,
which is probably thanks to the Eurostar, but the number of holidays which
lasted for more than five days declined. France has long been lazy about
promoting itself," he said.

Yet tourism is one of the country's main commodities; France is the world's
number one tourist destination, with 60 million visits a year. Britain provides
the largest number of tourists, followed by Germany and the Benelux countries.

To focus the tourism campaign, Maison de la France has drawn up a marketing
plan. It reveals that most Britons travelling to France are aged between 24 and
44, closely followed by the "increasingly wealthy" 45-64 age group.

They are well-heeled, coming from the AB and C1 socio-economic groups - market
research jargon for such categories as surgeons, bank managers, solicitors,
police constables and teachers. They spend an average of pounds 366 a holiday in
France - less than those Britons who travel to Spain and Greece.

The plan says the British believe France is "sophisticated" and their top three
reasons for visiting it are the food, the wine, and the chateaux. Britons who
had not visited France perceived it as expensive and uninteresting and said they
believed contact with the local population would be difficult.

A disproportionate number of Britons who did visit France were categorised as
"strivers" - ABs, aged between 35 and 55, who "like the good life and the
perceived authenticity" of France. The second -largest group were the less
well-off and older "potterers", who "like cheap holidays by the sea - often
camping".

A spokesman for Maison de la France said 60 per cent of British holidaymakers
travelled to France by ferry, with an ever-increasing number flying and using
the Eurostar or Le Shuttle.

Budget constraints meant more and more were renting houses. In combination with
France's image problem, this had helped to create an 11 per cent drop in hotel
bookings over 10 years.

The marketing plan's strategy says: "It is worth noting the importance of la
middle class - 38 per cent of the population - and its aversion to group travel,
at least in coming to France."

It adds: "The Briton, while coming from a homegenous and conventional society,
has a pronounced taste for authenticity because it flatters his taste for
individualism."

Tourism promoters have therefore identified areas in which France could do
better. One is naturism - a market most attractive to Germans, 45 per cent of
whom say they like to bathe naked. Even though the British are more prudish -
only 9 per cent wish to strip off - naturism is an expanding market, says the
report.

Britons are Europe's top anglers, with 4.8 million owning tack, says the report.
Boosting promotion of this leisure activity would increase visits by 25- to
54-year-olds from "more modest backgrounds", it says.

Britons are also said to be keen on theme parks, but less so than the Germans or
Spanish "because they have a good selection at home". In 1993, Disneyland-Paris
was the most popular theme park, with 12.9 million visitors.

Yesterday, at the Bastille, Stephanie Lecoustey's bureau de change was quiet.
She was offering 7.10 francs to the pound. "I change more US dollars than any
other currency but that is because people from around the world carry them," she
said.

"There has definitely been a decline in the number of people bringing me
sterling. But there has been an increase in the number of French people buying
pounds. That is why I can sell sterling at 8.10."

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              195 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               February 12, 1996

BAD FAITH AND DISHONESTY;
Following the IRA bomb, Gerry Adams accuses the British government of criminally
neglecting the peace process

BYLINE: Gerry Adams

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGE; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1934 words


"If the focus remains on the past, the past will become the future and that is
something that no one can desire."

IN THAT one small sentence, Senator George Mitchell and his colleagues in their
international report last month captured the heartfelt aspiration of the people
of Ireland for a lasting peace. A peace process, any peace process, if it is to
be meaningful and enduring, must tackle the issues at the heart of a conflict.
Success, a permanent peace, depends upon a negotiated settlement firmly rooted
in democracy and self-determination.

For nearly a year-and-a-half, the guns of war in Ireland were silenced. For
several years in advance of that, myself, the SDLP leader John Hume, the former
Irish Taoiseach Albert Reynolds and Irish -America painstakingly put together a
package which persuaded the IRA to call a complete cessation of military
operations on the basis that it would lead to an inclusive process of
negotiations. Regrettably, both British government and unionist intransigence,
and their refusal to engage imaginatively or flexibly with the peace process,
prevented the urgent and necessary consolidation of that process.

On Friday night last, the IRA ended its 18-month-long cessation. The
announcement was greeted universally with disappointment and regret. At this
time my thoughts are with the families of those killed and injured in the London
explosion. I understand the pain they are going through. I speak from the
personal experience of losing many relatives, friends and colleagues in 25 years
of conflict. It may be difficult for some people to absorb this after what
happened on Friday night, but the reality is that the IRA was undefeated when 18
months ago it took a very courageous decision to create what was universally
recognised to be the greatest opportunity since partition to resolve the
conflict and secure a lasting peace settlement. But the British government and
the unionists erected one obstacle after another to frustrate every attempt to
sit down around the negotiating table.

Inclusive negotiations, without preconditions or vetos, is the key to advancing
the peace process to a peace settlement. This was the commitment given by the
two governments, publicly and repeatedly in the run-up to the IRA cessation.
This was the context in which the IRA in August 1994 made their historic
announcement. Since that time there has not been one word of real negotiations.
Nor is there even the prospect of negotiations beginning.

For 18 months Sinn Fein and others have been standing at the negotiating table
waiting for the British government and the unionists to sit down with the rest
of us to agree a new and peaceful future.  The cumulative evidence points
damningly to a British-government strategy locked into a psychology of war; a
mindset which demands victory over republicans rather than agreement and
compromise. We have witnessed bad faith and dishonesty, new preconditions,
stalling, negativity and provocation. British bad faith and dishonesty which
confounded those who believed that the British would approach the peace process
positively; bad faith and dishonesty which was so barefaced that it surprised
even those of us with a healthy cynicism about British intentions.

We watched as Private Lee Clegg was released and then promoted, as David Trimble
marched through the nationalist community in Garvaghy Road, as Irish prisoners
were mis-treated in English jails, as plastic bullets were fired at peaceful
demonstrators, as RUC raids wrecked nationalist homes. We pointed out, with
growing desperation, that there could be no negotiated peace without peace
negotiations. That without peace talks there was no peace process.

Yet Sinn Fein maintained its positive approach to the peace process. Last
November, the two governments established the twin-track approach. The Irish
Taoiseach, John Bruton, described it as the means to remove preconditions to
all-party talks.  But when Senator George Mitchell's international body issued
its report, the British government dumped it, reneging again on its commitment
to begin all-party talks.

When the IRA announced its complete cessation of military operations, it
presented everyone, but particularly the two governments, with a unique and
unprecedented opportunity. The hope and expectation was most effectively summed
up by Seamus Heaney, when he described the new situation as a "space in which
hope can grow".

Our goal was to deepen that hope, to nourish it and to build a new beginning for
all of the Irish people, and to open a new chapter in the relationship between
the Irish and British people. Regrettably that hope was dashed on the rock of
John Major's self-interest and the need for unionist votes at Westminster. While
the IRA must bear the responsibility for its actions in London, the British
government must bear its total responsibility for the collapse of the peace
process. It has been guilty of criminal neglect.

One thing is clear: it is not possible to have peace in Ireland unless the
British government is committed to that objective.

Clearly, the question now must be what happens next? In any conflict, there are
two ways of bringing it to an end. Either one side defeats the other, seeks a
surrender of the other, or we somehow find a way to rebuild the peace process
and work for and secure a negotiated peace settlement.

Sinn Fein has repeatedly pointed out, with others, that the peace process could
not stand still. If it was not moving forward it was always in grave danger of
moving back. That has now happened.

But despite the tragic break-down of the IRA cessation, Sinn Fein's peace
strategy remains as the main function of our party.  Our efforts to build an
effective peace process must be redoubled.

What is clearly needed is a negotiated peace settlement. We needed that before
Friday night's events; we need it more than ever now. How do we achieve that
goal? In his submission to the Forum for Peace and Reconciliation in Dublin just
before Christmas, FW De Klerk recommended that a peace process should be played
like a one-day, and not a three-day, game of cricket. In other words, it is
crucial that people sit down around the table and treat each other as human
beings.

Peace in Ireland can only be achieved through honest dialogue and democratic
negotiations based on equality. This is not a military problem. It is a
political problem which was militarised by the British. It needs a political
solution; that can only be achieved by dialogue.

This is not a time for knee-jerk reactions or for slamming the door on dialogue.
That will only aggravate the situation.  People in Ireland and Britain want
above all to see their governments and political representatives move positively
and decisively to engage in dialogue to resolve our difficulties.

For Sinn Fein's part, we are firmly committed to democratic and peaceful means
of resolving political issues and to the objective of an equitable and lasting
agreement that can commend the consent and allegiance of all the people on the
island of Ireland.

Sinn Fein also remains committed to the total disarmament of all armed groups
and to the removal, forever, of all guns, republican, loyalist and British, from
the political equation in Ireland. Sinn Fein's commitment to our peace strategy
and to a lasting peace based on democratic negotiations remains absolute.

Gerry Adams is President of Sinn Fein

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              196 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               February 12, 1996

DOWN, NOT OUT;
Maggie Brown on how papers coped with the attack on Docklands - the new Fleet St

BYLINE: Maggie Brown

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGE; Pg. T7

LENGTH: 1240 words


PIERS MORGAN, editor of the Canary Wharf-based Daily Mirror, was yesterday
reliving the extraordinary events of last Friday's bomb attack. "It was quite a
night," he said. The blast had almost halted the production and distribution of
a large slab of the national press (see table) and exposed, as never before, the
vulnerability of Britain's new Fleet Street to terrorist attack.

The question on everybody's mind is whether Canary Wharf was chosen because of
its commercial significance, as an alternative to the City of London, or whether
the IRA has decided to make national newspapers specific targets.

The night also produced acts of bravery and ingenuity, as the heavily affected
papers threw all their energies into ensuring they could tell the grim story.
Only two groups, News International and Associated Newspapers, were unaffected.

The 7pm blast rocked the tower where Saturday's editions of the Daily Mirror,
Daily Telegraph and Independent were being prepared. "It was pretty
frightening," Morgan said. "We could look out and see the effect of this bomb,
just 150 yards away. It certainly brought things home".

The Independent and Daily Mirror were close to 7.30pm deadlines, and managed to
send their first editions away with the story. Everyone then got down to
massively reworking the paper. However, at about 8.45pm, just before the task
was complete, Canary Wharf tower was evacuated. The lifts were frozen, everyone
trekked down the stairs and regrouped on the iron bridge that leads away from
Canary Wharf. Each editor tried to direct operations via mobile phone. Then they
all took shelter in the same pub. "It was like old Fleet Street all over again,"
said one executive.

The Telegraph, which prides itself on its late first edition deadline was caught
in a production nightmare - it wasn't as advanced as other papers and had to
print a bloated Saturday paper.

Deputy editor Sarah Sands led key staff to the paper's emergency one-room bunker
in the City, which includes a miniature production centre. This was set up two
years ago after production was threatened when a van with two tons of explosive
was parked outside the Canary Wharf tower: thankfully, the attack was foiled.
From the chaos they salvaged a decent 24-page paper, but experienced huge
problems. Sands said there were systems faults which need to be addressed.

Morgan meanwhile spent pounds 4,000 chartering a private plane to fly two
journalists to Glasgow to oversee the Mirror from the offices of the sister
title, the Daily Record. Arriving at midnight they managed to retrieve some
completed pages locked up on the system at the deserted Mirror HQ.  Since the
Mirror and Independent print their southern editions in Watford, distribution
was unaffected by the cordon thrown around the Isle of Dogs, which initially
prevented lorries moving papers being printed there, including the Daily
Express. Just after midnight Charles Wilson was the first back into the tower:
"He rang me to tell me I could go back in," said Morgan.

THE Guardian, based some five miles west in Farringdon Road, heard at around
7.45pm that its print plant had been taken out by the blast some 200 yards away.
The ceilings fell in, the cabling and machinery were damaged, and the sprinklers
went off, immersing everything in three inches of water. The editor, Alan
Rusbridger, said there was a genuine feeling the papers should not be stopped:
this was one occasion when national papers almost submerged their intense
rivalry. The Guardian was extended a helping hand by both Sir David English
(chairman of the Daily Mail and Mail on Sunday) and Conrad Black (proprietor of
the Telegraph), whose offer of emergency print arrangements at the West Ferry,
Isle of Dogs site was taken up.

Rusbridger said a senior police officer rang the papers to say that print
lorries would be allowed through the cordon. "The police said, 'if the papers
don't get out we will regard it as a triumph for the IRA' ". But what of the
future? The Telegraph is reviewing its contingency plans today. And it will not
be alone.

Morgan said the Mirror had a contingency plan, but in the chaos the man who knew
about it could not be found. The Daily Mail also has emergency headquarters, and
plans to use its regional press capacity if its London works are bombed. Bill
Ellerd-Styles, veteran of the foiled attempt to blow up Canary Wharf two years
ago, said: "The last two major attacks have been aimed at newspapers. We didn't
used to be targets. I think we are now. We are not safe. It may happen again. We
have got to be prepared for it".

Alan Rusbridger adds: "It's dangerous to have such a concentration in one place.
But I can't see anyone investing millions elsewhere now."

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              197 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               February 12, 1996

Senior police officer warns that terrorists could strike again 'at any time, in
any city';After the blast the war of words begins;Flat-back lorry holds key in
hunt for IRA bombers

BYLINE: James Mckillop;

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1077 words


THE hunt to trace the IRA underground team that broke the ceasefire with such
devastating effect was well under way last night. At the centre of the inquiry
is the recent history of a blue flat-back lorry which may have been converted
from various vehicles, probably using a Ford Cargo chasis.

It became clear yesterday that the bomb which blew the peace away on Friday
night was planted on this vehicle.

With a senior police officer warning that further devices could be detonated at
any time in any city in mainland Britain, the blue flat-back was last night
providing the top-level investigation team into the Docklands blast with its
best line of inquiry thus far.

It also became clear yesterday that the undercover IRA unit must have been
supremely confident its mission would be successful, as the blue low-loader
packed with explosives was parked by a pillar under a London docklands railway
station well before the IRA announced its so-called cessation of military
operations was about to end.

It had every reason to believe that police on the mainland had dropped its guard
against terrorist attack.

Members of the unit responsible for the atrocity had unquestionably made good
their escape from the scene long before warnings of an impending explosion were
delivered.

A series of coded telephone calls were made to newspapers and broadcasting
organisations in London and Ireland from 5.30 pm on Friday. The bomb went off at
7.01 pm as thousands of office workers were making their way home for the
weekend and hundreds of children were attending a basketball match nearby.

While police and MI5 have suspected for some months that there were those within
the IRA who were pushing for a return to violence, there was no reason to expect
that the ceasefire would end in such a sudden and dreadful manner on a Friday
night.

Not only have the police begun a massive inquiry to weed out Friday's killers,
but an operation is under way to discover the whereabouts of other IRA sleeper
units which may have taken advantage of the ceasefire to mix into communities.

Some estimates suggest there could be eight such sleeper units in position in
mainland Britain just waiting the final order to put into effect plans to
detonate further "spectaculars" in English cities.

Metropolitan Police Assistant Commissioner David Veness warned that attacks
could occur at any time, anywhere on the mainland. He urged the public to
exercise particular vigilance.

It could be that the world-wide condemnation might make the IRA high command
think again about further atrocities, but police and security forces are taking
no chances.

Amid the devastation caused by Friday's bomb blast, the new head of Scotland
Yard's anti-terrorist branch issued an appeal to the public for their assistance
in tracing the flat-loader vehicle before it was abandoned with its deadly
cargo.

Police are particularly anxious for anyone who saw it being driven in the area
of the blast to contact them.

Commander John Grieve, who had not been due to take up his new role until this
morning, but took charge immediately the bomb devastated the Isle of Dogs,
issued an artist's impression of the suspect vehicle.

The flat-back lorry was carrying the false number plate of C292 GWG, he said.
The vehicle which genuinely carried those plates was now in police possession.

However, it was feasible that members of the public may have seen the suspect
lorry parked near their home. He urged the public to search their memories and
come forward with any information that might help the investigation.

It could be that someone may have seen work being carried out in converting the
lorry. Others involved in vehicle conversion or the motor industry might have
been asked for assistance.

"It may not have looked like it did before the explosion," said a police
spokesman. "Its longer history could be of vital importance."

The vehicle was spotted by 30-year-old PC Roger de Graaf minutes before the
blast ripped through London's Docklands.

By yesterday, the police inquiry into the explosion had taken on a familiar
pattern. Officers and forensic experts had begun the painstaking task of sifting
through the debris in the search for evidence that would give details of the
device and timing device which could in turn pinpoint the perpetrators, in
particular the master bomber.

Streets, buildings, and rooftops over a huge area were being scrutinised. Five
buildings near the centre of the blast are now structurally unsound and the
final insurance bill is expected to be well over £100m.

Police will also examine footage from security cameras, including those on the
concourse of South Quay station, in the hope that they might have picked up the
terrorists either parking the vehicle carrying the bomb or as they made good
their escape. Hundreds of potential witnesses will also be interviewed.

After the respite from terrorists attacks, Londoners will today return to work
to old familiar scenes. The immediate effect of the atrocity was that, within
half an hour, the ring of steel around the City of London was back in place,
reinforced by officers carrying Heckler & Koch sub-machine guns and wearing flak
jackets.

Despite the ceasefire, the bollards blocking off routes and controlling traffic
into the Square Mile have remained in place.

However, since the IRA cessation of hositilities began and until Friday night,
there had been no requirement for spot checks on vehicles. Once more, this will
become a daily occurence for those travelling on the 12 routes into the City.
Vigililance in and around public buildings will also be intensified.

Those whose offices were at the centre of the devastation will have to wait
until they hear where they are going to be rehoused. There is more than
sufficient space in Docklands to accommodate them all.

For the rest of Londoners going about their daily business, they can now expect
an influx of bomb warnings that will close mainline and tube stations.  Most of
them will prove to be false alarms, but it will all add to the misery of getting
about London.

It will be frustrating, and many will be angry that the peace process has
seemingly come to an end in this dreadful fashion. Many will blame the
politicians.

However, Londoners have been here before. Despite the inconveniences it will be
a case of "business as usual".

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: An artist's impression of the blue flat-back lorry. ;In the cold light
of day: debris lays strewn across the streets of London's Docklands yesterday
following the IRA bomb blast on Friday night which killed two people.  Picture:
TONY HARRIS/PA

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1996 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              198 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               February 12, 1996

Police call for vigilance amid fears that loyalist paramilitaries will target
Dublin;Security alert for more IRA bombs

BYLINE: By Ian Bruce;Defence Correspondent;;

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 934 words


POLICE and security forces last night ex-pressed "extreme concern" that the IRA
was preparing to carry out further mainland at-tacks and that loyalist
paramilitaries would target Dublin in retaliation for the Docklands bomb.

In London, Assistant Commissioner David Veness warned the attacks could occur
"any time, anywhere" on the mainland, and he urged the public to exercise
particular vigilance.

Past experience, the statement said, showed the terrorists were likely to pick
high-profile targets with "economic or political significance or which are
otherwise prestigious".

Police hunting the gang responsible for the attack issued details of a lorry
which they believe was used by the bombers, and Mr Veness said any future attack
was likely to be a large vehicle bomb carried in a goods vehicle - although
other vehicles could not be ruled out.

He appealed to the public to report any suspicious activity relating to
underground car parks or lock-up garages.

Ministers last night backed the calls for renewed public viligance as Mr John
Major was briefed in Downing Street by Home Secretary Michael Howard and
Northern Ireland Secretary Sir Patrick Mayhew about the security situation.

The Prime Minister will today make a Commons statement about the security
situation, while there will also be a special meeting of the Cabinet's Northern
Ireland Committee.

The Northern Ireland security forces believe that both the Provisionals and the
Protestant Ulster Defence Association will try to avoid an immediate resumption
of hostilities within Ulster, and instead concentrate on a proxy war in mainland
Britain and the Republic of Ireland.

They also fear that loyalist paramilitaries are targeting Dublin for a terrorist
attack in retaliation for Friday's IRA bomb.

The 60,000-strong Ulster Defence Association and its militant offshoot, the
Ulster Freedom Fighters, are now the subjects of intense surveillance in an
effort to forestall a tit-for-tat bombing in the Irish capital.

A vital part of the intelligence operation will centre on Dunmurry, a village
south-west of Belfast which houses the UDA's operational headquarters.  Officers
from the Irish Garda's special branch counter-terrorist unit are also on alert
for "known players" from Ulster travelling south of the border.

The UDA is known to possess a considerable stockpile of weapons and explosives,
much of it gained in clandestine deals from former Eastern Bloc countries after
the collapse of the Soviet Union.

According to security sources, the problem for loyalist terrorists operating in
the south is that their accents identify them instantly as Ulstermen and arouse
suspicion. They also lack the infrastructure of a sympathetic community in which
to hide while they plan and execute an attack.

The IRA's repeated bombing successes on mainland UK over the past two decades
have been due largely to the ease with which individuals can enter the country
and live and work in towns and cities without attracting attention.

As revealed exclusively in The Herald last Tuesday, up to eight "active service"
units of three to four people apiece are already in Britain awaiting orders for
a renewal of the bombing campaign. One of these units carried out Friday's
outrage in London.

All are thought to be "first-timers" with no previous criminal record or
specific links with terrorism, which makes them almost impossible to find.
Security forces are now concentrating on locating the quartermasters who supply
them with explosives and weapons for operations.

Unlike the IRA, which honed its survival skills during 25 years of bitter
experience against the British Army and British intelligence agencies, the UDA's
main claim to fame is its ability to conduct random acts of murder in its own
backyard.

A source said yesterday: "The UDA is more of a blunt instrument than a finely
tuned paramilitary organisation. But it has the capability of carrying out a
hit-and-run attack on Dublin. It has shown in the past that it has scant regard
for inflicting innocent casualties by bomb and bullet.

"There is reason to believe that loyalist extremists are planning a revenge
strike, and security measures are being stepped up accordingly on both sides of
the border. In essence, we are trying to narrow the UDA's options. It must be
said, however, that no security system is watertight."

The shock of the ending of 18 months of peace in the province could well produce
an intelligence bonus. The Royal Ulster Constabulary and the various agencies
operating from British Army headquarters at Lisburn, County Antrim, hope that
public outrage on both sides of the sectarian divide will encourage individuals
sickened by terrorism to come forward with information on those responsible.

The UDA was set up in 1971 as an umbrella organisation to co-ordinate the
efforts of a number of Protestant paramilitary groups in and around Belfast.
Despite factional in-fighting and various leadership tussles, it became the
military wing of the Ulster Vanguard Party a year later.

The organisation found a ready source of financial support among loyalists in
Scotland, particularly in Lanark- shire and Ayrshire.

A number of Scottish UDA "units" still meet and train regularly, and Scotland
has also been used as a safe haven for "known players" on the run from the
authorities in Ulster.

Workers in the City of London will be faced with the "Ring of Steel" security
harking back to the days before the IRA ceasefire when they return to work this
morning.

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1996 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              199 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           February 12, 1996, Monday

A road too far from the Bogside; Eamonn McCann, an expert on the republican
movement, explains why the IRA abandoned Gerry Adams

BYLINE: Eamonn McCann

SECTION: COMMENT; Page  19

LENGTH: 471 words


If there is no change in British policy on the North, the leadership which held
the republican movement to the ceasefire for 17 months is doomed.  That's the
view of republican and community activists to whom I've been speaking over the
past two days. Many who deeply disapprove of Friday's bombing also put much of
the blame on John Major.

The reasons for the resumption of IRA violence run deep. This was clear in
reaction to the publication of the Mitchell report on 24 January. The report,
because it urged that decommissioning be dropped as a precondition for admitting
Sinn Fein to full-scale talks, was widely interpreted as tilted towards
nationalism. But this is not how IRA activists will have seen it.

To them, it was a partitionist document. Its "principles" amounted to a new
precondition: that all parties agree to abide by the terms of any agreement -
and to resort to democratic and exclusively peaceful methods in trying to alter
any aspect of the outcome with which they disagree.

Given that all other parties had resolved that the outcome would be put to a
referendum in the North, in practice this meant accepting the constitutional
status quo and pledging to seek to change it only within the law. This
challenged the republican leadership to move away decisively from the core
belief of their tradition - indeed their very raison d'etre - that only an
all-Ireland vote on an all-Ireland settlement would carry legitimacy.

All the indications on the ground are that Gerry Adams and his associates would
have tried hard to sell the Mitchell principles. It would have been daunting
task, and not without personal danger for those undertaking it, but the Adams
leadership might just have pulled it off. When Major "binned" Mitchell and
substituted the "election option" - the Ulster Unionist Party line - Adams was
seen to be thwarted even as he readied himself for the effort to lead
republicans down this stony, unwelcome path.

Nobody I have spoken to in the Bogside doubts that this sequence of events was a
powerful factor in persuading IRA chiefs that there was no point following Adams
any farther down the peaceful road.

Nobody doubts, either, that Major did it for reasons of parliamentary arithmetic
which has no direct relevance to the desperate predicament of Northern Ireland.

Paddy Logue, a leading trade unionist and manager of the Pilot's Row Community
Centre in the Bogside, says: "Every commentator in Britain is cynical about Tory
motives in forming policy on crime, health, education, you name it. But there
seems to be no scrutiny of the way they approach this place. We need a debate in
Britain on the fundamentals of Northern policy, and quick."

The writer is a former leader of the civil rights movement, who now lives and
works in the Bogside.


LOAD-DATE: February 12, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1996 Independent Print Ltd

                              200 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           February 12, 1996, Monday

Ministers may be next target; Fears of more bombs as efforts intensified to
salvage peace process

BYLINE: JASON BENNETTO, DAVID McKITTRICK, DONALD MACINTYRE and PATRICIA WYNN
DAVIES

SECTION: TITLE; Page  1

LENGTH: 826 words


JASON BENNETTO, DAVID McKITTRICK, DONALD MACINTYRE and PATRICIA WYNN DAVIES

Police chiefs said last night they were "extremely concerned" that the IRA was
about to carry out a second terrorist attack, as security sources suggested the
next target could be leading politicians. David Veness, Assistant Commissioner,
Specialist Operations at Scotland Yard, said the attacks could occur "any time,
anywhere" on the mainland.

Experience showed the terrorists were likely to pick high-profile targets with
"economic or political significance". His statement - two days after a bomb in a
truck killed 2 people, injured 100 and devastated buildings in Docklands, east
London - was endorsed by chief constables.

A security source disclosed that intelligence suggested a politician or leading
public figure could be a likely next target. An assassination or car bomb was
possible. The source said: "The current assessments are fairly pessimistic. It
seems likely that there might be further attacks, although the timetable is
unclear."

The warnings came as politicians on both side of the Irish Sea struggled to keep
the peace process alive. There was determination in London, Dublin and
Washington not to allow the process to collapse. But the strains showed in a
public rift between the Irish and British governments over whether an election,
as proposed by John Major, or Dublin's idea of a Dayton-style conference was the
best way to proceed to break the impasse.

The Taoiseach, John Bruton, said an election would be a mistake that would "pour
petrol on the flames", adding that he believed a Dayton-type conference could
restore the IRA ceasefire. John Hume, the SDLP leader, said elections would lead
to chaos: "An election should emerge from the dialogue, not be a precondition to
it." He warned against "slamming the door" on Sinn Fein, arguing that urgent
talks were essential. Gerry Adams, the Sinn Fein president, also urged Mr Bruton
to meet him, saying he believed the IRA was still "open to persuasion".

Mr Major, who will make a statement in the Commons today, last night met Michael
Howard, the Home Secretary, and Sir Patrick Mayhew, the Northern Ireland
Secretary, for talks on the security and political implications of Friday's
bombing. A No 10 spokesman said afterwards: "There is an absolute determination
to pursue the criminals responsible for the bombing relentlessly.'' He later
insisted that elections were "the most viable route . . . no one should have any
fear of a democratic process". Downing Street added that Mr Howard had told the
meeting that security was back to pre-ceasefire levels in Great Britain.

The Prime Minister spoke for 20 minutes on the telephone with Mr Bruton.
Downing Street insisted it was a "friendly" exchange, despite Mr Bruton's
criticism earlier in the day of Mr Major's continued promotion of elections in
Northern Ireland as the way of securing all-party talks.

A summit between the two prime ministers looks certain before the end of the
month but probably not until next week. Downing Street sought to play down the
gulf between London and Dublin but acknowledged that the two governments "see
things in slightly different terms". Mr Major is expected to echo in today's
statement Mr Bruton's warning that there will be no ministerial meetings with
Sinn Fein unless the Government is satisfied that the ceasefire is back in
force. Downing Street said last night that the two prime ministers had agreed to
work together for a restoration of the ceasefire and all-party talks.

In Belfast, there was relief when loyalist paramilitary groups let it be known
they had no immediate plans to retaliate for the London bombing.

The bombing was a severe blow to the credibility of Mr Adams, the attack a
rejection of his long-standing policy of advocating political action.  His
status outside the republican movement was revived somewhat, however, as many
political figures indicated they accepted his assurance that he had not known of
the attack.

He and Sinn Fein colleagues Martin McGuinness and Mitch-ell McLaughlin gave
interviews in which they expressed determination not to give up on the peace
process. Their stance found an unusual echo in the Government's position, as set
out by Sir Patrick, who said the peace process was "very seriously injured but
not terminally injured". Mr McLaughlin, Sinn Fein chairman, said the party would
not put itself at odds with the IRA leadership.

The warning of possible political assassinations comes after the Independent
disclosed that MI5 and anti-terrorist officers recently told ministers the IRA
would strike quickly at targets on the mainland if the ceasefire broke down.

Assistant Commissioner Veness said: "We are extremely concerned that even if
this does not herald the start of a new campaign, it could well be the intention
of the IRA to follow this with more attacks of a similar nature."


LOAD-DATE: February 12, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1996 Independent Print Ltd

                              201 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                           February 12, 1996, Monday

ARCHBISHOP URGES NEW EFFORTS FOR PEACE

BYLINE:  Linda Jackson, PA News

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 244 words


Archbishop of Canterbury Dr George Carey today called on the church to redouble
its efforts for a peace settlement in Northern Ireland.  Dr Carey said:
"London's Docklands bombing was of the greatest concern to everyone in Britain
and Ireland - both in terms of injuries and loss of life and in the search for
peace. "At such moments the role of the Church is this: to redouble its efforts
to help achieve a peace settlement and to continue to support all those - not
least politicians of different traditions - who will strive for a peaceful
resolution of the conflict." He was speaking at the opening of the General Synod
in London, where members of the Church's ruling body issued a statement
expressing their "deep dismay" at the terrorist attack.

The statement, carried unanimously, said: "We - the bishops, clergy and laity of
the Church of England meeting in the General Synod - express our deep dismay at
the terrorist bomb attack in East London last Friday.  "We offer our heartfelt
sympathy to the casualties and their families.  "We remain convinced that
peaceful and democrat processes are the only morally acceptable and practicable
way to resolve the historical conflicts in Ireland.  "We assure all those
striving for a peaceful solution of our continued prayers and support." Dr Carey
urged church members to pray about their anxieties and concerns and have the
confidence that God would help find a way through all the troubles.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1996 The Press Association Limited

                              202 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                           February 12, 1996, Monday

SECTION: PARLIMENTARY NEWS

LENGTH: 2664 words


Tory former Northern Ireland Secretary Tom King said terrorists should not be
allowed "to dictate the agenda" or to take away the determination to continue to
fight for peace.  He told the Prime Minister "All people of goodwill ... will
support you in your continuing brave determination to work to that end." In
reply, the Prime Minister praised the courage of Londoners involved in the
blast, adding: "There was a great deal of quiet bravery on that occasion." For
the Ulster Unionists, John Taylor (Strangford) said: "This is a very bad day for
Northern Ireland, for Great Britain, and for the Republic of Ireland, and we
appreciate their united front." The "inevitability" of another terrorist attack
had been increasing because Sinn Fein had been "totally isolating itself", said
Mr Taylor.  But abhorrence in Northern Ireland at what had happened could be
used to isolate the terrorists and involve the people in the democratic process,
he urged.  "That is why we believe that an election is the one way of opening up
an opportunity." Mr Major replied: "You were right to say that Sinn Fein were
finding themselves increasingly isolated ...  "Above all, I agree with you about
the desirability of mobilising the people of Northern Ireland for the peace
process. They are the most powerful advocate for the peace process."

terrible atrocity".  The people throughout Northern Ireland and the republic had
shown "their massive will for peace".  He called for a referendum in the north
and south, asking people to say if they totally disapproved of violence and if
they wanted all parties to start dialogue.  Neither the IRA nor anyone else
could ignore such a referendum result.  He said: "I think that one of the best
ways forward now is to let the people speak and let them speak very clearly.
Because if they do, neither the IRA or anybody else will be able to ignore them.
"And how do I ask you to let them speak: have a referendum in Northern Ireland
before the end of this month and ask John Bruton to do the same.  "And put two
questions. One, do you totally and absolutely and unequivocally disapprove of
violence for any purpose whatsoever on this island?  "And number two: do you
want to see all parties brought to the table to begin the process of dialogue to
create lasting stability?" Mr Major agreed there was a massive will for peace
and said he would take account of Mr Hume's words.  "We are looking at a range
of different options about how we might proceed in the future.  "There is more
than one option that lies before us at the moment and we are examining those
options." Andrew Hunter, chairman of the Tory backbench Northern Ireland
committee, asked Mr Major to make it "a priority" to promote "meaningful
dialogue" between the parties and that violence would not be rewarded.  Mr Major
said: "Certainly we are keen to encourage dialogue ... and will continue to do
so." Liberal Democrat Leader Paddy Ashdown said: "It would have been simply
impossible for this atrocity on Friday night to have been a spontaneous act.
"It must have been carefully and deliberately planned over the last few weeks
while the rest of us have been trying to find ways to peace.  "Is it not the
case that the aim of this act, was not just to maim innocent bodies, but also to
make a casualty of peace itself.  "And is that not the reason why those who will
not condemn must be regarded as condoning?  "Is this not the moment when the
Sinn Fein must decide whether they are going to be a democratic party committed
to peace, or whether they are going to be the prisoner of every callous and
arbitrary decision made by the IRA army council." His party would continue to
support Mr Major's "patient and courageous" search for peace with Mr Bruton.
But he said: "Is it not, however, a iron law in these matters that, wherever the
Irish Government and the British Government agree they can have success,
wherever they disagree, they give the terrorists a chance.  "Surely, therefore,
the first priority now must be to restore trust and unanimity of voice and
action between Dublin and London?  "Surely if that requires compromise on the
favourite solutions being put forward by both sides, that is a small price to
pay." He urged Mr Major: "A new spirit of compromise is the only way - the only
way - to ensure that peace itself is not added to the long list of casualties
from Canary Wharf."

Mr Major told Mr Ashdown that he was right that the bomb was "not spontaneous".
The Prime Minister added: "You are undoubtedly right that it must have been
planned, prepared and sanctioned over a substantial period of time.  "It did not
happen miraculously within a few short hours or a few short days. That is
undoubtedly the fact." And he agreed that those who failed to condemn the
bombing may be seen to condone it.  As to negotiations between London and
Dublin, he said: "Our objectives have, and remain, the same: to try to bring all
parties together so that a democratic agreement can be reached.  "We haven't
always agreed on every aspect of it. Throughout the last three years, we have,
many times, had to compromise between ourselves as to the right approach to
take.  "We have done so, we have reached those agreements. I'm confident that we
will be able to reach those agreements again in the future." He said he looked
forward to meeting the Taoiseach "very shortly", very possibly next week.

Democratic Unionist leader the Rev Ian Paisley said he found it "very strange"
that when nationalist leaders had condemned the bombing they then repeated the
"propaganda lie" that Mr Major and the Unionist leaders were to blame.  He
accused them of being prepared to "parrot the lying propaganda" of IRA/Sinn
Fein".  He said a tax disc on the bomb-attack lorry was stolen from another
vehicle three weeks ago according to police in Northern Ireland.  Mr Paisley
said the lorry was brought via Larne to the British mainland. Police had
confirmed this to the owner of the tax disc, one of his constituents.  Mr
Paisley: "So three weeks ago the planning was going on, the premeditation was
going on of this terrible carnage.  "How could any democratically elected leader
in this House be asked to sit down and negotiate with people who would be doing
that while they were talking peace?" The people of Northern Ireland should "have
their say" - but not through Mr Hume's idea of a referendum on chosen questions,
but "on who speaks for who at the negotiating table".  Mr Major said he noted
what he said about the tax disc: "which is very strong corroborating evidence".
The Prime Minister said "lack of confidence" was the obstacle to negotiations.
"It is that lack of confidence that we have to address if we are to have
everybody seated down together, which is the objective that all of us seek.
"Often, in emotion, hot words are spoken that cannot easily be recalled and lie
on the record to cause difficulties in the future.  "They may not, as you know,
easily be recalled, but I think with the greater issue in mind, they can be
forgotten, forgiven and put to one side."

Former Northern Ireland Minister Michael Mates said the response to the idea of
elections was predictable from some people.  But he said there were others who
were not sure what was meant by it - because of "propaganda which has been put
out that this was simply, first, a stalling device, or, second, a way to get
back to the old ways of politics in Northern Ireland." He was sure there were
some people who were still unsure about the idea and he urged Mr Major to "spell
out much more clearly" what he had in mind.  The Prime Minister said he hoped
that in private discussions to be held with the parties he might be able to
"iron out" areas of difficulty before publishing a paper setting out what the
outcome would be.  He would take on board Mr Mates's comments.

told MPs that the latent threat of un-decommissioned weapons been converted into
"an act of horrific violence" by the Canary Wharf blast.  He said: "The
restoration of a ceasefire and the entering into further negotiations with Sinn
Fein/IRA begs the question, will they simply further down the line, when they
meet with another impasse, or some situation which does not meet with their
approval, simply blast it out of the way in the manner of Canary Wharf?" Mr
Major said his aim was to see a parallel decommissioning of weapons alongside
the election process.  And he added: "In outright war one can only go for
victory. In circumstances such as those we face, I think there will be areas
where people will have to look and see whether the ends justify the means, and I
think if we can get through to an election process with parallel
decommissioning, the end is clear - ... the beginning, the continuing and the
completion of the decommissioning of weapons.  "What we are seeking is the
mechanism, here is a way I believe we can achieve it." Tory Michael Spicer
(Worcestershire S) asked whether the Dublin Government had asked for any British
help in "routing out" terrorists south of the border.  Mr Major said the Irish
Government had not asked for that sort of help but added that cooperation
between the two governments had improved over the years and made "a very
considerable contribution" in the fight against terrorism.  Labour's Mildred
Gordon, whose London seat of Bow and Poplar includes the areas of South Quay
devastated by the blast, asked: "If the leadership of Sinn Fein is undermined,
with whom will the Government negotiate?" Ms Gordon asked the Prime Minister who
was going to pay for the damage to the Docklands Light Railway, whether there
would be any financial help for the councils to help pay for the damage to
buildings in the area and whether the Government would support a fund for
victims, relatives and householders not covered by insurance.  On the question
of negotiations, Mr Major said: "We cannot negotiate with Sinn Fein while a
campaign of violence is taking place." And turning to the damage to Ms Gordon's
constituency, Mr Major said that the financial implications had not been worked
out but that Environment Secretary John Gummer would consider applications for
grants under the Bellwin Scheme under which the Government can contribute to a
council's emergency spending as a result of a disaster.  The Prime Minister said
that individuals injured in the blast would probably be able to apply for
Criminal Injuries Compensation Scheme money.  He would write to Ms Gordon about
repairs to the Docklands Light Railway and financial help for businesses in the
area when he knew more.

stated that "terrorism would have won" if the election plans for Northern
Ireland were scuppered by the Canary Wharf bomb.  Mr Major replied: "We don't
wish to see there be any rewards for terrorism of the sort we saw last week."
Veteran Labour leftwinger and ex-Cabinet minister Tony Benn (Chesterfield)
clashed with the Prime Minister after telling MPs that the ceasefire had brought
new life to Northern Ireland and the ceasefire was the product of work done by
Mr Hume, Sinn Fein Leader Gerry Adams and former Irish premier Albert Reynolds.
He said: "In one sense there has been no peace process, there has been a
ceasefire. The peace process must necessarily mean talks and ... it was the
breach between London and Dublin and London and Washington that certainly made a
peace process more difficult.  "John Bruton was told on the telephone about the
election proposal, never consulted, and the Mitchell report suggesting that
there be all-party talks was set aside." Mr Benn claimed the Government was
"continuing to prevaricate" over all-party talks.  Mr Major said he did not
agree with Mr Benn's version of history, which, he claimed, was "lamentably
inaccurate in every respect".  The Prime Minister said the British Government
had done everything in its power to bring the ceasefire into operation and move
towards a permanent settlement.  He said the main obstacle blocking a permanent
settlement was Sinn Fein/IRA's refusal to decommission any arms.  "They were
asked to make some decommissioning to instil confidence so that the Unionist
parties could sit down with them without the threat of a gun held to their head
the moment they didn't get precisely what they wanted in negotiations." Mr Major
told Mr Benn: "I know you feel deeply about this but you are wrong, plain
common-or-garden wrong!" Barry Porter (C Wirral S) said events over the past few
days had suggested that the army council of the IRA had ignored Sinn Fein, and
Sinn Fein could not now deliver decommissioning if they were asked.  "There is
now an opportunity for Sinn Fein to take their democratic opportunity and to
take part in any democratic process that is necessary to determine who comes to
the negotiating table." The Prime Minister replied: "As far as the relationship
between Sinn Fein and the IRA are concerned I think they are both members one of
another, and that is the position, and has been for a very long time.  "Were
that not the case, then perhaps Sinn Fein would be more prepared to openly
condemn activities that no civilised person could possibly condone." Bridget
Prentice (Lab Lewisham E) said that one of the victims of the blast was John
Jeffries, a constituent.  "He was a very talented young musician and very
popular in his local community.  "We must ensure that his life is not lost in
vain and that everyone in the Commons and those parties that might want to be
part of it, must do all in their power to ensure that the peace process gets
back on track" Mr Major, expressing his sympathies to Mr Jeffries's family and
friends said: "Mr Jeffries's death, and the death of others and the injury of
others, is a stark commentary on what we have seen for a very long time in this
dispute in Northern.  "They were innocent victims. They had no connection
whatsoever with the ancient feuds that light these hatreds and keep them
burning. The best memorial to Mr Jeffries and to all the others who have been
murdered over the past 30 years, would be for all of us to bend all our will to
finding a proper full term solution"

said the democratic nationalist parties in Ulster should be reminded that in a
united integrated United Kingdom, they would have a secure and honoured
position.  "If we were to restore a proper measure of local government in
Ulster, they would be able to exercise real power in some areas." Mr Major told
him: "There are very few easy choices in this matter, but I pray we do not come
to the old hard choices again, for that would mean violence and terrorism had
taken full root and were flourishing again.  "There is a whole new generation of
politicians in Northern Ireland with aptitudes and skills which are not being
fully utilised in the way they could and should be in their own constituencies.
We hope we can get to a position where they can use their talents" Labour
chairman of the Northern Ireland Select Committee, Clive Soley, said Mr Major's
desire for negotiations as a gateway to talks was not mutually exclusive to the
Irish Government's desire for proximity talks.  "Such proximity talks could
address some of the fears and anxieties and uncertainties about the nature of
such elections. These talks could be necessary to make those elections
successful, which is what you seek to achieve." Mr Major replied: "The Irish
Government seek proximity talks to clarify essentially what would be the
position, during and after elections. I am discussing bilaterally with the
democratic political parties exactly the same points." Speaker Betty Boothroyd
called an end to the questioning after Mr Major had been on his feet for over an
hour and seven minutes.  Tony Benn on a point of order called for a Commons
debate on Irish matters reminding the Speaker there had not been such a debate
since the ceasefire.  She told him: "You are right, we have not had debate on
these matters for some time."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1996 The Press Association Limited

                              203 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                           February 12, 1996, Monday

PEACE PROCESS IS NOT OVER SAYS MAJOR

BYLINE:  Trevor Mason, Parliamentary Chief Reporter, PA News

SECTION: PARLIMENTARY NEWS

LENGTH: 2014 words


The Prime Minister today stressed his determination to press ahead with the
peace process for Northern Ireland despite the Docklands bombing last Friday
night.  Mr Major told a sombre and crowded Commons: "The peace process in
Northern Ireland has received a serious setback from the men of violence. But it
is not over, not by any means.  "This Government will not be deterred by
terrorism. The people of Northern Ireland have tasted peace, a peace that
changed their lives.  "I have told the House before that I will leave no stone
unturned in the search for peace. That is true today and will remain true in the
future." Mr Major condemned the Docklands bombing as an "evil act" which left a
"huge question mark" over Sinn Fein's position as one of the parties involved in
the pursuit for peace.  He reaffirmed his belief in elections in the province as
the most promising opening available to all-party talks but acknowledged the
Government's mind was "not closed" to other possible routes.  The Prime Minister
was strongly supported by Labour leader Tony Blair who said: "The vast majority
of people from both traditions are committed to peace ... Sinn Fein is not
predominant even in the nationalist community, north or south."

Mr Major's statement came just hours before he makes a rare nationwide
television address on the latest setback to the peace process.  In it he
defended the Government's position, insisting: "No one, no one, took more risks
for peace than this Government over the last two years." To murmurs of support
from his own benches, Mr Major said it was time for Sinn Fein to decide if they
were "a front for the IRA or a democratic political party committed to the
ballot and not to the bullet".  Despite Irish premier John Bruton's stark
warning that early elections in Northern Ireland would "pour petrol on the
flames", the Prime Minister said he would continue to persuade all concerned
that this was a way forward.  Claiming the plan had been misunderstood and
misrepresented, he said: "I am not proposing an Assembly with legislative and
administrative powers. Any suggestion of a return to old-style Stormont rule is
manifest nonsense on the basis of the proposals we have put forward."

The Prime Minister told MPs: "There is no doubt the evil act in London was the
work of the IRA.  "It has all the hallmarks of their operations with the callous
sacrifice of innocent lives." Outlining last Friday's events, he said: "The
whole House will join me in extending out deepest sympathies to all the innocent
victims and their families.  "It is little short of a miracle that the casualty
list was not much longer." He warned: "This may not be the last such atrocity.
More may follow, both here in the mainland and in Northern Ireland if the IRA
ceasefire is not renewed.  "We will do all we can to prevent them and to catch
all those responsible. The protection of the public will be our first priority."
Security in Britain had returned to pre-ceasefire levels. In Northern Ireland
itself no "irreversible steps to downgrade our security capability" had been
taken despite the ceasefire.  "All necessary measures to cope with the present
situation are now in place. The RUC is on full alert."

Mr Major went on: "There is no shred of an excuse for this return to violence,
least of all now, when all-party negotiations were clearly in sight." After the
August 1994 ceasefire, the Government had "constantly sought to move the peace
process on to the all-party negotiations everyone knows are necessary.  "No one,
no one, took more risks for peace than this Government over the last two years.
But we never lost sight of the fact that the IRA commitment had not been made
for good. No responsible government could have done otherwise." This was why a
start to the decommissioning of arms was seen as vital to creating the
confidence needed for all-party talks.  "But all the time that Sinn Fein were
calling for all-party talks, we knew the IRA continued to train and plan for
terrorist attacks.  "Punishment beatings and killings continued. They remained
ready to resume full-scale terrorism at any time. We could never be confident
their behaviour was that of an organisation which had decided to renounce
violence for ever. Theirs was not a true peace.  "I regret to say that the
events of last Friday showed that our caution about the IRA was only too
justified. The timing of the return to violence may have been surprising. The
fact that violence could resume was not."

The Prime Minister stressed: "We must now continue the search for permanent
peace and a comprehensive political settlement in Northern Ireland. Let there be
no doubt that the Government's commitment to this is as strong as ever, and will
remain as strong as ever.  "We will work for peace with all the democratic
parties and with the Irish Government. But a huge question mark now hangs over
the position of one of the parties, over Sinn Fein.  "Their leaders have spoken
often of their commitment to peace and peaceful methods. But they have always
ducked and weaved when they have been questioned about the IRA and their
methods. After the events of last Friday their ambiguity stands out starkly."
Sinn Fein's leaders claimed not to have known about the bomb and the IRA's end
of ceasefire statement.  "But they have refused either to condemn or to
dissociate themselves from either.  "Sinn Fein must decide whether they are a
front for the IRA or a democratic political party committed to the ballot and
not to the bullet."

Mr Major said that in the absence of a "genuine end" to violence, meetings
between British Ministers and Sinn Fein were "not acceptable and cannot take
place".  He added: "We and the Irish Government are at one on this: the ball is
in the court of Sinn Fein and the IRA, if indeed that distinction means
anything.  "It is for them to show, through their words and actions, whether
they have a part to play in the peace process or not. I am not in the business
of slamming doors. But the British and Irish people need to know where Sinn Fein
now stand." The popular will for peace had never been clearer.  "The peace
process will go on. This process will be intensified with those parties which
have not, for the present, disqualified themselves.  "The aim as it has always
been to establish the necessary confidence to enable negotiations between all
parties to start." The Government's objective before and since the ceasefire had
been to get to a position where all constitutional democratic parties could get
round the table together.  "Everything else is a means to that essential end."
His call for elections after the Mitchell report had been consistently
misrepresented by Sinn Fein and misunderstood more widely.  "I repeat now that
its purpose is to lead directly and speedily to negotiations between all parties
committed to peaceful and democratic methods, aimed at reaching a comprehensive
settlement.  "The proposed elections are a door to full negotiations. I continue
to believe that they provide the most promising opening available. We will
pursue this proposal and seek to persuade all concerned that it is indeed away
forward, not a means of delaying progress."

Mr Major said there were ways forward to negotiations with all parties. They
could include Sinn Fein "but only if there is an unequivocal return to the
ceasefire" he stressed.  "Others have ideas too, including the Irish Government.
Our minds are not closed. Nor, I know, are theirs." He planned to meet Mr Bruton
in London soon to discuss "all possibilities.  "I intend to find a way through
to the negotiations with all those committed to democracy." The benefits of the
ceasefire, providing new hope for the future, had been seen by all. "These must
not lightly be thrown away," he said.

Mr Blair told Mr Major: "I join you in condemning without reservation the
atrocity at Canary Wharf." There had been much speculation about whether the IRA
meant the bomb as a one-off or part of a more prolonged campaign, said Mr Blair.
"For them it may be a matter of tactics. But for the victims, it has been a
matter of life and death, and there can be nothing but the most profound
contempt for those who will butcher wholly innocent people in the pursuit of any
such strategy, whatever it is." The Labour leader told the House: "The question
now is hard but simple - how do we regain the momentum for peace without
concessions to the men of war?" The vast majority of people from both traditions
in Ireland were committed to peace.  "Sinn Fein represent a section of
nationalist opinion, but it is worth recalling they are not predominant even in
the nationalist community, North or South," said Mr Blair.  If Sinn Fein wanted
to participate in negotiations, "then they must accept the same peaceful methods
as everyone else", he declared.  This was "the only conceivable course that any
British Government could conceivably justify".  Decommissioning weapons remained
the obvious way to establish with confidence that Sinn Fein would accept
exclusively peaceful methods in the future, but this had been ruled out by them,
said Mr Blair.  A new electoral mechanism was an alternative. But if elections
went ahead, they should not be a return to Stormont and should lead directly to
substantive negotiations with decommissioning beginning in parallel.  The Labour
leader told Mr Major: "You are surely right to emphasise that other options,
whether from the Irish Government or otherwise, will always be open to
consideration ...  "But no option can include Sinn Fein unless they come within
the democratic process in a genuine, complete and irreversible way.  "That means
that they have to be prepared to play by the rules of democracy - that sometimes
you can get your way, but sometimes you don't. But you cannot achieve by
violence what you are denied by the will of the people." Mr Blair told the
House: "I do not believe that this is the end of the search for peace. It cannot
be - the benefits of peace have been incalculable ...  "Peace is what the vast
majority of the people of all of Ireland - Northern Ireland and the Republic -
want. To deny them peace is to vanquish democracy and let violence determine
events."

Mr Blair urged: "The bombers should not gain concessions from the bomb, but
neither should they be allowed to thwart peace." Those taking the "many hard
decisions" needed in the days and weeks ahead would require "unusual courage and
determination", said the Labour leader.  He warned: "There will be still more
and perhaps even greater risks needing to be taken than ever before.  "But the
risks are justifiable, and the people in Northern Ireland should know that
whatever the political differences between myself and the Prime Minister, on
this we shall four-square together in the cause of peace." Mr Major replied: "I
am very grateful for your continuing and firm support for the efforts that we
are making to try to produce a satisfactory outcome and a permanent peace for
the people of Northern Ireland." On Sinn Fein's participation in future talks,
the Prime Minister told the House: "I am not seeking today to erect barriers or
to produce harsh words that will make it more difficult for those in Sinn Fein
to do what needs to be done.  "Sinn Fein-IRA will need to decide again that the
ceasefire must return. That is essential for them to do that." The Prime
Minister insisted: "We are not at the end of the road for peace.  "If we are
pushed back, we will start again. If we are pushed back again, we will start
again. If we are pushed back a third time, we will start again.  "There can be
no end to this search for a permanent settlement in Northern Ireland until we
have achieved a permanent settlement in Northern Ireland." He declared: "We may
have to take more risks. We will not take reckless risks.  "But if we see a risk
that we believe is appropriate in the cause of peace, a justifiable risk, then
we will take it and seek the support of this House for doing so."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1996 The Press Association Limited

                              204 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               February 13, 1996

THE END OF THE CEASEFIRE: ARMED POLICE PATROLS IN ANTI-TERRORIST DRIVE;
The hunt: Bomb scares and increased security cause problems across country

BYLINE: Duncan Campbell And Alex Bellos

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 827 words


THE Commissioner of the Metropolitan Police yesterday warned Londoners that they
would have to be prepared for armed police patrols on the capital's streets as a
result of the IRA's Docklands bomb.

Sir Paul Condon's warning came as detectives investigating the bombs announced
that they had had an excellent response to calls for information about the
low-loader lorry in which the bomb had been placed.

Sir Paul yesterday said that Londoners must face the possibility of further bomb
attacks. He asked for their co-operation with the increased security on the
streets. This will include additional armed patrols.

"You can help us by being millions of eyes and ears," hesaid.  It was now
necessary to return to the vigilance that had operated at the height of the
bombing campaign. He asked those responsible for buildings or places of
entertainment to take particular precautions and to retain all security video
film.

Detectives are already examining security video footage for clues to the
identity of the bombers. They say they are hopeful of information because there
is a large quantity of good quality film available.

The search at the bomb site was continuing yesterday and is not likely to be
completed for a further two days. The reponse to calls for information about the
lorry has been excellent, according to the anti -terrorist branch.

Security sources said that suggestions that there were up to six IRA active
service units on the mainland and that politicians might be the next target was
highly speculative.

Throughout Britain, police forces were reinstituting security measures which had
been relaxed in the last 17 months and issuing warnings to the public. In
London, the additional security and bomb scares brought traffic to a standstill
in some areas.

Armed police patrols have also been introduced around the Channel Tunnel
entrance in Folkestone, Kent.

Meanwhile, as workers were returning to their offices in London's Docklands
yesterday, loss adjusters predicted that the five buildings nearest the blast
would have to be demolished.

Police had still cordoned off a large section at South Quay containing many
offices. Several firms told staff not to come in for a week and many have
already been forced to relocate their premises.

Rob Turner, of the Building Group, said that most of its 160 workers were
spending yesterday moving into other premises on the Isle of Dogs.

The Docklands Light Railway was not running beyond Canary Wharf station,
although its managing director, Malcolm Hutchinson, said service may resume
later in the week.

John Gale, a loss adjuster, said the cost of the bomb could easily reach pounds
150 million.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              205 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               February 13, 1996

TALK PEACE BACK TO LIFE;
We mustn't be panicked by the IRA bomb into ending dialogue, argues Mo Mowlam

BYLINE: Mo Mowlam

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGE; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1040 words


AFTER 527 days, the IRA ceasefire ended with a violence that shocked us all.
Perhaps people unfamiliar with the twists and turns of the peace process who had
come to assume that peace alone would be enough in Northern Ireland, will be
more shocked than most. Those who have followed closely will know the process
has been fragile for months. Despite the progress that has been made, many of
the difficult issues have yet to be properly addressed.

The first of those has been how to establish the necessary confidence to bring
the parties to the negotiating table. After Friday, this will be an even greater
task. The question now is: how can we regain the momentum?

The biggest push has to come from the British and Irish governments working
together. The most successful steps in the peace process so far - the Downing
Street Declaration and Joint Framework Document - have come from a twin
approach.

As part of Labour's bi-partisan approach we will do all we can to help both
governments to move forward beyond this appalling setback.

We cannot just go back three days and pretend that nothing has happened. But
neither can we hang our heads in defeat. Sinn Fein must commit themselves to a
genuine ceasefire. And Senator Mitchell's six principles to build confidence
should now clearly be accepted by Sinn Fein.

If such assurances are received from Sinn Fein then the options to achieve all
-party talks remain. Among those are the route of an electoral process or
mechanism. We know this is a contentious option. We have stressed that the
concerns of the nationalist community - who fear a return to the excesses of
majority rule - must be addressed and overcome.

Other options too have been put on the table, such as, the report of Senator
Mitchell or the Government's contention that a start be made to the
decommissioning of paramilitary weapons. That was ruled out in the senator's
report on the basis that the paramilitary groups would not do it. John Hume
spoke yesterday of his idea for a referendum. What we have emphasised is that no
option can proceed without the broad agreement of all parties.

Achieving that agreement was the original remit of the twin-track talks process.
That should continue to be the focus of the two governments and we welcome their
commitment to maintain the search for peace in dialogue with those parties in
Northern Ireland who are committed to peaceful and democratic methods.

Friday's bomb means that unless and until Sinn Fein succeed in re-establishing
the ceasefire, they will not be brought into this process.

Over this weekend I spoke to many people who feared that the peace process had
been set back two years. It is clear from the two governments that they are
determined not to let that happen and to build on the progress made so far. But
it is equally clear that things cannot simply revert to how they were before
Friday. Security will be stepped up in Britain and in Northern Ireland. The IRA
are now a live threat again. For the protagonists in the peace process, that
changes perceptions and destroys confidence. That will have to be slowly and
painstakingly restored.

In the House of Commons yesterday everyone spoke angrily of their contempt for
those responsible for the bomb. But the atmosphere was also one of sadness.  In
Northern Ireland that is palpable - especially among young people. Their
expressions of fear and disappointment tell us that we cannot slide back into
the old ways.

Labour will work to help pick up the pieces. I am visiting Dublin tomorrow to
talk with the government there about how the momentum can be re-established. We
all have to redouble our efforts in a renewed spirit of co-operation to
encourage agreement and to get the peace process back on the rails.

Mo Mowlam is shadow spokesperson for Northern Ireland

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              206 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               February 13, 1996

Sinn Fein told they must decide whether they are a front for IRA or a democratic
party;Peace bid not over, says Major

BYLINE: By Stephen Mcgregor;Parliamentary Correspondent;;

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1233 words


A CLEARLY angry Prime Minister yesterday stepped up the political pressure on
Sinn Fein to show a serious commitment towards a lasting peace in Northern
Ireland after Friday's IRA bomb outrage in London.

In his Commons statement on the bombing - which he described as an evil act with
the callous sacrifice of innocent lives - he repeated that the Government would
work for peace with all the democratic political parties and with the Irish
Government.

However, he added: "A huge question mark now hangs over the position of Sinn
Fein. Their leaders have spoken often of their commitment to peace and peaceful
methods, but they have always ducked and weaved when they have been questioned
about the IRA and their methods. After the events of last Friday, their
ambiguity stands out starkly."

The Prime Minister, who was adamant that this would not be the end of the peace
process - "if we are pushed back, we will start again," he said - stuck by his
plan for elections as a way ahead, but he did not rule out a plan put forward by
SDLP leader John Hume for some sort of referendum, stating that a range of
options was being examined.

In a packed and sombre House, Mr Major won the backing of both Labour leader
Tony Blair and the Liberal Democrats' Paddy Ashdown for his stance against the
terrorists, and the need for the peace process to continue.

The Prime Minister expressed sympathy for those who had died and paid tribute to
the resuce services, but there was no mistaking his political message to the IRA
and Sinn Fein, stating the IRA had brought the 17-month-old ceasefire to an end
and there was not a shred of an excuse for this when all-party negotiations
clearly were in sight.

He told the House: "No-one, no-one, took more risks for peace than this
Government over the last two years. But we never lost sight of the fact that the
IRA commitment had not been made for good. No responsible Government could have
done otherwise.

"That was why we and others saw a start to the decommissioning of illegal arms
as a way of creating confidence in Sinn Fein's acceptance of democratic peaceful
methods, and showing that violence really had ended. But all the time Sinn Fein
were calling for all-party talks, we knew that the IRA continued to train and
plan for terrorist attacks.

"Punishment beatings and killings continued, they remained ready to resume
full-scale terrorism at any time. This was not a true peace. The events of last
Friday showed that our caution about the IRA was only too justified."

Mr Major emphasised the Government's commitment to peace, but continued: "Sinn
Fein's leaders claim they did not know about the bomb at South Quay and the
IRA's ceasefire statement, but they have refused either to condemn or dissociate
themselves from either.

"Sinn Fein must decide whether they are a front for the IRA or a democratic
political party committed to the ballot not the bullet. Meanwhile, one thing is
clear. In the absence of a genuine end to this renewed violence, meetings
between British Ministers and Sinn Fein cannot take place.

"That is also the position of the Irish Government, who have made clear to Sinn
Fein that their attitude and willingness to meet at political level will be
determined by whether the IRA ceasefire is restored. The ball is in the court of
Sinn Fein and the IRA if, indeed, that distinction means anything."

In defending his election plan, he reiterated that its purpose was to lead
directly and speedily to negotiations between all parties committed to peaceful
and democratic methods, aimed at reaching a comprehensive political settlement.

An elected body would have to be broadly acceptable and would be strictly time
-limited, and he was clear he was not supporting any return to an assembly with
legislative and administrative powers.

Making clear his determination, he told MPs: "The peace process has received a
serious setback from the men of violence, but it is not over by any means. The
Government will not be deterred by terrorism.

"The people of Northern Ireland have tasted peace, a peace that changed their
lives. I have told the House before that I will leave no stone unturned in the
search for peace. That is true today and will remain true in the future."

Mr Blair joined in the condemnation and said of the IRA: "For them, it may be a
matter of tactics, but for the victims its has been a matter of life and death
and there can be nothing but the most profound contempt for those who will
butcher wholly innocent people in the pursuit of any such strategy, whatever it
is. The question now is hard but simple - How do we regain the momentum for
peace without concessions to the men of war?"

Sinn Fein represented a section of nationalist opinion, but they were not
predominant in the nationalist community, north or south. The vast majority of
people from both traditions were committed to peace, and if Sinn Fein wanted to
participate in negotiations then they must accept the same peaceful methods as
everyone else.

Mr Blair told the House: "I do not believe this is the end of the search for
peace. It cannot be. The benefits of peace have been incalculable. Peace is what
the vast majority of the people of all of Ireland want. To deny them peace is to
vanquish democracy and let violence determine events."

He said: "The bombers should not gain concessions from the bomb, but neither
should they be allowed to thwart peace. There will be still more and perhaps
even greater risks needing to be taken than ever before.

"But the risks are justifiable and the people in Northern Ireland should know
that whatever the political differences between myself and the Prime Minister on
this we stand four-square together in the cause of peace."

For the Ulster Unionists, Mr John Taylor (Strangford) said: "This is a very bad
day for Northern Ireland, for Great Britain and for the Republic of Ireland, and
we appreciate their united front."

Abhorrence in Northern Ireland at what had happened could be used to isolate the
terrorists and involve the people in the democratic process, which was why he
believed an election was the one way of opening up an opportunity.

Putting forward his referendum plan, the SDLP's Mr Hume said the people
throughout Northern Ireland and the Republic had shown their massive will for
peace. The referendum, he suggested, could ask people to say if they totally
disapproved of violence and wanted all parties to start dialogue. He claimed:
"Neither the IRA nor anyone else could ignore such a referendum result."

The Prime Minister told Liberal Democrat leader Paddy Ashdown he had been right
to claim the bomb was "not spontaneous." Mr Major said: "It must have been
planned, prepared and sanctioned over a substantial period of time, it did not
happen miraculously within a few short hours or a few short days." He agreed
that those who failed to condemn the bombing may be seen to condone it.

Tory Michael Spicer (Worcestershire South) asked whether the Dublin government
had asked for any British help in "routing out" terrorists south of the border.

Mr Major said the Irish Government had not asked for that sort of help but added
that co-operation between the two governments had improved over the years and
made "a very considerable contribution" in the fight against terrorism.

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Pictures: Press Association;The Prime Minister, with Ulster Secretary
Sir Patrick Mayhew alongside, told MPs: "No-one took more risks for peace than
this Government over the last two years";SDLP leader John Hume, with Unionists
John Taylor and Sir James Molyneaux behind him: Mr Hume urged a referendum in
the north and south, asking people to say if they disapproved of violence and
wanted all-party dialogue

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1996 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              207 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           February 13, 1996, Tuesday

Carey calls for redoubled efforts; AFTER THE BOMB: THE CHURCH

SECTION: NEWS; Page  2

LENGTH: 238 words


The Archbishop of Canterbury, Dr George Carey, yesterday called on the Church to
redouble its efforts for a peace settlement in Northern Ireland.

Dr Carey said: "London's Docklands bombing was of the greatest concern to
everyone in Britain and Ireland - both in terms of injuries and loss of life and
in the search for peace.

"At such moments the role of the Church is this: to redouble its efforts to help
achieve a peace settlement and to continue to support all those - not least
politicians of different traditions - who will strive for a peaceful resolution
of the conflict."

He was speaking at the opening of the General Synod, in London, where members of
the Church's ruling body issued a statement expressing "deep dismay" at the
terrorist attack.

The Anglican Archbishop of Armagh, Lord Eames, today voiced the outrage and
disappointment of people in Northern Ireland at the Docklands bombing.  He told
the Lords: "Nowhere in the UK is the disgust and anger and frustration at the
events on Friday been more obvious than in Northern Ireland.

"From a province that for 25 years has suffered hardship and cruelty and the
unending hurt of terrorist attack, that is a sentiment which is spontaneous.

"It comes from Roman Catholics and Protestants".  Lord Eames said: "Those who
carried out that atrocity on Friday did not have the mandate of the vast
majority of the people of Ireland."


LOAD-DATE: February 13, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1996 Independent Print Ltd

                              208 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               February 14, 1996

BRUTON WARMS TO MAJOR'S PLAN FOR NORTHERN IRELAND

BYLINE: David Sharrock And Patrick Wintour

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1160 words


THE reconciliation of the Irish and British governments over the peace process
took a step forward yesterday when the Irish prime minister, John Bruton, warmed
to John Major's proposals for elections in Northern Ireland.

However, Mr Bruton said his condition for the consideration of elections was
that they should follow Dublin's proposed "proximity" talks. They should then
"lead directly and speedily, without equivocation, to all-party negotiations".

Mr Bruton's speech, which came in a Dail debate on the IRA's Docklands bomb
attack last Friday, marked a change in tone from his original reaction to the
elections proposal. He had said elections would "pour petrol on the flames".

British ministers expressed quiet satisfaction last night at the Irish prime
minister's softening attitude.  Although Downing Street did not disguise its
continued scepticism about proximity talks, it is possible that these talks
could be woven into the British plan for elections.

The two prime ministers are expected to meet soon to discuss the plan.

It emerged yesterday that Mr Major is shortly to set out a consultation paper on
his election plan.  A key element will be the speed with which the Prime
Minister envisages the elected body moving to all-party talks.

In an attempt to assuage sceptical nationalists, ministers promise privately
that a timetable will be set out in the legislation on the elections. Ministers
claim Unionists have signed up to this in the past week.

However, the new optimism was dealt a blow when the pivotal figure of John Hume,
leader of the nationalist SDLP, ruled out elections. "We have been down that
road twice before. Twice before, it ended in disaster and made the problem
worse."

He added that Unionist parties in the elections might "seek hardline mandates",
and "some parties could seek mandates not to talk to certain people" - a
reference to a Unionist boycott of talks with Sinn Fein until the
decommissioning of IRA weapons had begun.

John Taylor, the Ulster Unionist deputy leader, underscored this point by
insisting that agreement on the phased decommissioning was a precondition of
talks.

A further and more immediate stumbling block is likely to be Britain's
insistence that it will not allow Sinn Fein to enter all-party talks, or even
possibly stand in the elections, without a return to the ceasefire.

But Ulster Unionist Martyn Smyth said his party would not hold proximity talks
with Sinn Fein before elections - as did Ian Paisley - even if the IRA called a
ceasefire.

Mr Bruton told the Dail he was satisfied that a viable basis existed for
restoring peace. He asked the IRA to think again.  "A quarter-century of
violence did not progress any of your political aims.  Indeed, it divided
Ireland more than ever before."

He said he had made an act of faith by believing and trusting Sinn Fein. "I
believed that they had made an irreversible commitment to peace. That act of
faith has now been thrown back in my face by the IRA."

However, Mr Bruton said he shared the Republicans' frustration at the slow pace
of the peace process.

Gerry Adams, the Sinn Fein leader, said yesterday that putting the peace process
back on track would be difficult. "The only way is for real talks and all-party
talks. That is one of the reasons why it collapsed, because the British broke
the commitments they made to bring that about."

Meanwhile, the Irish opposition Fianna Fail leader, Bertie Ahern, launched a
stinging attack on Mr Major's government. He said: "Over the past 18 months,
they singularly failed to provide any credible or broadly acceptable route into
all-party talks. In public at least, it was not apparent that they had lifted a
finger to urge the Unionists towards talks."

End of the ceasefire, page 5

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              209 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                          February 14, 1996, Wednesday

500 TROOPS ON THE WAY TO ULSTER

BYLINE:  Roger Williams and Deric Henderson, PA News

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 1144 words


Five hundred troops are on their way to Northern Ireland, in the wake of fears
that last Friday's London Docklands bomb could herald further IRA attacks.  The
Government insisted the decision, confirmed tonight by the Ministry of Defence,
was based on the needs of security, not politics.  But it marked a determination
to be visibly ready for swift reversal of the security reductions made over the
17 months of the IRA ceasefire which ended with the Docklands bomb.  The
troops-in decision follows reintroduction of flak jackets for RUC officers,
unmarked armoured cars replacing some police patrol cars, and more roadblocks.
The news came as the Association of Chief Police Officers said chief constables
from across Britain would be meeting to coordinate their response to the end of
the ceasefire.  The meeting - no date or place has been given - would "check
every possible measure is being taken to ensure public safety", said a
spokesman.  Security Service and Government officials were also involved in
discussions.  "ACPO stresses that all forces have remained in a state of
readiness and any adjustments in security during the ceasefire was made on the
clear understanding that measures could be reintroduced at very short notice."

The same understanding was stressed by the MoD as three major units, involving a
total of 1,600 men, were pulled out of Northern Ireland during the ceasefire.
Now men of the 1st Battalion of the Royal Irish Regiment based at Catterick,
North Yorkshire, are expected to arrive within the next 48 hours. It is
understood they will move into border areas of Armagh and Fermanagh.  A senior
security source confirmed to PA News: "In the light of the current situation, we
think this to be a prudent measure. We want to be able to provide whatever
support might be necessary for the RUC." RUC Chief constable Sir Hugh Annesley
and the Army GoC Lt General Sir Roger Wheeler have had a series of meetings to
discuss the security situation and although police and troops are on full alert
there has been no dramatic increase in the level of security on the streets.
Irish opposition leader Bertie Ahern described the decision to increase the
number of troops in Northern Ireland as "regrettable", though presumably the
result of security advice.  "I suppose the fact that there seems to have been no
prior communication just follows a long track of lack of understanding and
sensitivity between the Irish and the British governments," he said.  Labour's
Northern Ireland spokesperson Mo Mowlam, in Dublin for talks with Prime Minister
John Bruton, his deputy, Dick Spring, and opposition leaders, said she hoped the
measures were "of a temporary and precautionary nature".  The increase in troops
was greeted without surprise at Westminster.  Former Northern Ireland Minister
Peter Bottomley told PA News: "This is to be expected. Sinn Fein/IRA know that
the number of troops is appropriate to the threats." David Young, Labour MP for
Bolton South-East, said: "The sooner the men of violence recognise ... that we
are prepared to pay a heavy price to ensure that the future of Ireland depends
on the ballot box and not the bullet, the better." The arrival of the 1st
Battalion of the Royal Irish Regiment - expected to stay in the province for at
least three months - will bring the troop level back up to 17,000.  An MoD
spokesman said: "It does not mean a large-scale increase in military patrol
activity in the province." The two other units withdrawn from Ulster remained
"on short notice to move if required".  The planned meeting of chief police
officers is expected to look at the implications of warnings that London is not
the only mainland area in danger from possible further terrorist attacks in the
wake of the Docklands outrage, in which two died and dozens were injured.  The
ACPO spokesman said: "We would like to renew our appeal to the public to remain
vigilant and report any suspicions to their local police.  "Special attention
should be paid to lock-up garages, underground car parks and the normal security
measures such as cameras and CCTV.  "During this period of uncertainty our
watchword must be: 'Help your police to help you'."

reopens
    Irish President Mary Robinson travels to Northern Ireland tomorrow - less
than a week after the end of the IRA ceasefire.  She will attend an engagement
in Lisburn, Co Antrim, and a cross-border trade union conference in Newcastle,
Co Down.

The peace process debate in the Irish Parliament was today extended by 24 hours,
so it will end tomorrow night, because so many members of the house wanted to
contribute.  The move was agreed by Dublin Government ministers after a request
by Fianna Fail opposition party leader Bertie Ahern.  Irish Justice Minister
Nora Owen told the Dail that after a briefing from police chiefs, a full review
of security had been ordered in Dublin following last Friday's collapse of the
IRA ceasefire and the London bombing.  She added: "Continuing vigilance will be
required, and any further steps will be taken, if considered necessary."
Meanwhile, Labour Northern Ireland spokesman Mo Mowlam had talks about the peace
process with Irish deputy premier and Foreign Minister Dick Spring in Dublin
today.  Dr Mowlam was also meeting Mr Bruton and opposition party leaders.  She
backed the Irish government plan for a Bosnian-style "proximity" meeting ahead
of Ulster elections.  "There needs to be some kind of intense discussions
between the parties for the option of an elective process to work," she said.
"We have still got a long way to go." Mr Spring said the Irish Government was
awaiting a response from Sinn Fein to an offer of face-to-face discussions with
officials from his department, but repeated that there would be no ministerial
contact with Sinn Fein leaders until the IRA restored its ceasefire.

Meanwhile, Alliance Party leader Dr John Alderdice said Unionists would have to
commit themselves to full-scale negotiations on Northern Ireland's future within
two weeks of any election to all-party talks.  If the Government was to proceed
with arrangements for elections to all-party talks "then it can only be on the
basis that the Unionists commit themselves to starting full scale negotiations
within two weeks of the poll" he said.  Nationalists were concerned that after
all the trouble of an election, Unionists might be likely to stall further.
"Some comments by Unionist politicians have strengthened their fears," Dr
Alderdice said.  He said he had told Mr Major that he would support the election
plan if it was made a requirement that all parties entered "serious negotiating
mode" within two weeks of the election.  Any party wishing to take part in the
negotiations would also have to sign up for and accept the Mitchell Report on
arms decommissioning, he added.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1996 The Press Association Limited

                              210 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                          February 14, 1996, Wednesday

NATION'S POLICE CHIEFS IN BOMB THREAT TALKS

BYLINE:  Roger Williams, PA News

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 209 words


Senior police officers from across Britain are to meet to discuss how to meet
the threat of further IRA bombs, it emerged today.  The conference is expected
to consider warnings that it is not just London that is in danger from possible
further terrorist attacks in the wake of Friday's bomb in Docklands. The meeting
- which senior officers hope will be held next week - will draw together the
country's security chiefs, including the head of Scotland Yard's anti-terrorism
branch Commander John Grieve.  They are likely to issue a warning of the risks
faced in particular by prominent people.  It is thought to be have been
organised by the Association of Chief Police Officers, whose terrorism committee
is chaired by John Evans, chief constable of Devon and Cornwall.  Neither ACPO
nor Mr Evans were immediately confirming reports about the planned meeting,
though a Devon and Cornwall police spokesman said a statement was expected to be
made later.

Regional police chiefs are expected to be urged to develop local strategies for
maintaining security at the highest level.  The conference is likely to be
attended by heads of CID and assistant chief constables with responsibility for
operations.  The venue is unknown at this stage.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1996 The Press Association Limited

                              211 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               February 15, 1996

ULSTER FEAR AS TROOPS RETURN

BYLINE: David Sharrock And Owen Bowcott

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1147 words


THE Government will today restore troop numbers in Northern Ireland to almost
pre-ceasefire levels amid heightened fears of a return to violence in the
province following the IRA's bombing of the Isle of Dogs in London's East End.

Five hundred soldiers from the Royal Irish Regiment will fly into Belfast for
deployment in South Armagh, bringing the number of soldiers in Northern Ireland
back to nearly 17,000.

Three units involving 1,600 men were removed following the IRA's ceasfire
announcement in August, 1994.

The RIR battalion will leave its base at Catterick, in North Yorkshire, and be
redeployed in border country where crossing points into the Irish Republic have
been progressively reopened during the last 18 months.

The Ministry of Defence last night insisted the move was merely "a precautionary
measure to ensure the armed forces are fully able to provide instant support to
the RUC if required".

But news of the arrival of an extra battalion sent a shiver through nationalist
and Unionist politicians. Joe Hendron, the Social Democratic and Labour Party MP
for West Belfast, said he understood why the troops were returning but was
worried about the consequences.

"What I don't want to see is soldiers patrolling the Falls and Shankill Roads,"
he said. "It would be counter-productive and there would be inevitable
confrontations between young people and soldiers."

John Taylor, Ulster Unionist MP for Strangford, said: "The Government are
correct in taking precautions, but I am disappointed."

Labour's Northern Ireland spokesperson, Mo Mowlam, who was in Dublin for talks
with the Irish prime minister, John Bruton, his deputy, Dick Spring, and
opposition leaders, said she hoped the measures were "of a temporary and
precautionary nature".

At the same time, the Irish government announced that contacts with Sinn Fein
are to be resumed tomorrow, only at civil servant rather than ministerial level
- a sign of Dublin's uncertainty about republican intentions.

According to a British Army spokesman, there will be "no large-scale increase in
military patrols" on streets or country roads.

Police and troops have been put on full alert. Ramps to slow traffic have been
put back on some border crossings.

The Democratic Unionist Party's justice spokesman, Ian Paisley Jr, did welcome
the move. "I hope the British government isn't going to be gullible this time
and pull the troops in and out for cosmetic reasons," he said.

Fears of a second IRA bomb or an assassination attempt in mainland Britain
yesterday prompted police forces and the intelligence services to announce a
review of anti-terrorism precautions.

The Association of Chief Police Officers confirmed that various chief constables
would be meeting to check that "every possible measure is being taken to ensure
public safety".

The announcement followed claims that two live rounds had been found near the
home of the former prime minister, Baroness Thatcher. The Metropolitan Police
would only say "security searches had been made at various locations" in London.

Video film from close circuit cameras near the scene of the IRA bomb at South
Quay on the Isle of Dogs is being examined by anti-terrorist officers in the
hope of spotting familiar republican faces. The men who parked the vehicle are
believed to be visible, but it is uncertain whether they are clear enough to
identify.

Two office blocks and a block of low-rise flats damaged in the blast may have to
be demolished.

An inquest into the two victims of the bomb heard yesterday that both had been
identified by their fingerprints after being killed instantly.

Letters, page 16; Gerry Adams, G2 front

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              212 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               February 15, 1996

Security fears of new outrage as 500 troops head for Ulster;Spark for an IRA
bomb

BYLINE: Ian Bruce Defence Correspondent;;

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1055 words


INTELLIGENCE sources fear the Government may have supplied IRA hardliners with
an excuse for a second bomb in Britain by ordering in more troops. An additional
infantry battalion is being sent to Northern Ireland "for security reasons".

This, coupled with an announcement that decisions on future reinforcement would
be taken "on a day-to-day basis", were seen yesterday as tantamount to
provocation in the escalating battle of wills with the terrorists.

The 500 men of 1st Battalion, Royal Irish Regiment, were last night preparing to
fly from their base at Catterick in Yorkshire, bringing the total Ulster
garrison back to 17,000 troops.

Two other mainland-based units are also on short-notice readiness to move, if
needed, to reinforce the soldiers already there. More than 1600 men had been
withdrawn during the 17-month ceasefire as a gesture of goodwill. They included
45 Commando, Royal Marines, from Arbroath, and two artillery regiments pressed
into temporary service as foot soldiers.

The decision to boost troop levels was taken, according to Government sources,
by Northern Ireland Secretary Sir Patrick Mayhew on the advice of RUC Chief
Constable Sir Hugh Annesley and Lieutenant General Sir Roger Wheeler, the Army
commander in Northern Ireland.

The Defence Ministry insisted last night that it had been taken "on the needs of
security and not politics", despite the fact there has been no IRA or loyalist
terrorist activity within Northern Ireland since last Friday's London bomb.

However, security agencies last night greeted the announcement with
astonishment. One source said: "This looks very much like deliberate
provocation. It ups the ante unnecessarily.

"The ceasefire is still holding in Ulster. This could be the move which shatters
that situation. Its likeliest outcome is a new attack on the mainland, probably
within days.

"There are already 16,500 troops available in the province. Most of them are
maintaining a low profile and many are still in barracks. This is an escalation
which is neither prudent nor required. The Government appears to be inviting
retaliation while going through the motions of talking peace.

"The same psychological pressure could have been applied by keeping units in
mainland UK on short notice to deploy without sending them physically."

Irish Opposition leader Bertie Ahern described the move as "regrettable" and
added: "I suppose the fact that there seems to have been no prior communication
just follows a long track of lack of understanding and sensitivity between the
Irish and British governments."

An MoD spokesman said the reinforcement "does not mean a large-scale increase in
patrol activity in the province". The new troops are expected to stay for up to
three months and to be used for "bandit country" sweeps in Tyrone and Fermanagh.

The tightening of security applied since last week has meant the reintroduction
of ramps to slow traffic on the main crossing point between Ulster and the
Republic, the replacement of some marked police cars by armoured vehicles, and
the issue of flak jackets to RUC officers in areas considered dangerous.

Most soldiers remain unaffected, and parking control zones designed to protect
vulnerable areas from car bombs - a key feature of the 25 years of the Troubles
- have not been reintroduced.

Intelligence sources were convinced, before last night's move, that neither the
IRA nor loyalist paramilitaries would revert to terrorism within Ulster itself
in the meantime. Further bomb attacks, if they came, would probably be on the
mainland or in the Irish Republic.

The troops move came as Irish Foreign Minister Dick Spring said Sinn Fein
president Gerry Adams still had an important role in getting the peace process
back on the rails. But he added that a restoration of the IRA ceasefire would be
necessary for the resumption of ministerial contacts with the Sinn Fein
leadership.

Mr Spring was speaking after a meeting with Dr Mo Mowlam, Labour's spokeswoman
on Northern Ireland, at which they reviewed preparations for next week's
British-Irish summit between Prime Ministers John Major and John Bruton.

Mr Spring said the Irish government remains hopeful that Mr Adams will meet a
senior official to present Sinn Fein's views on the way forward.

Dublin threw another political lifeline to Sinn Fein by prolonging the work
programme of the Forum for Peace and Reconciliation.

This body was established by former Prime Minister Albert Reynolds in 1994 to
bring Sinn Fein into the political process following the IRA ceasefire.

The expectation was that the forum would be wound up after Mr Bruton suspended
ministerial contacts with Sinn Fein immediately after the IRA bombing at Canary
Wharf.

Mr Adams has led the Sinn Fein delegation at the Forum debates which have
examined obstacles to be removed in the way of a political settlement between
Nationalists and Unionists.

The forum is attended by all the political parties in the Republic as well as
the Alliance Party in Northern Ireland, but the Unionists refused to take part.

The Dail, the Irish Parliament, will today extend its debate on the peace
process for a third session. Justice Minister Nora Owen warned yesterday that it
was urgent to restore the IRA ceasefire because further delays could undermine
confidence in rebuilding the peace process.

However, there was further hope for the peace process last night when SDLP
leader John Hume and Democratic Unionist head, the Rev Ian Paisley, announced
they would lead talks by their respective parties in Northern Ireland next week
to discuss the changed situation in the wake of the bombing.

They met privately in Mr Paisley's office in the European Parliament in
Strasbourg.

There was speculation that Mr Hume might be preparing to soften his outright
opposition to Mr Major's election plan for Ulster.

Armed protection for former Prime Minister Baroness Thatcher is said to have
been stepped up after the discovery of bullets near her home a few days after
the bombing.

q An inquest heard the two victims of the Docklands bomb blast had to be
identified by their fingerprints. Police also said the bomb had exploded after a
number of coded warnings which did not give an exact location.

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: The barriers return: a soldier guards a vehicle checkpoint at the South
Armagh border.  Picture: PACEMAKER

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1996 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              213 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                          February 15, 1996, Thursday

TERROR BOMBERS RETURN TO LONDON'S WEST END

BYLINE:  PA News Reporters

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 1114 words


The IRA struck again today, planting a bomb in the centre of London's
Theatreland just hours after warning that their terror campaign will continue.
Scotland Yard tonight said the device "bore all the hallmarks of the Provisional
IRA" and criticised the imprecise locations given by the bombers in two coded
warnings.  The bomb, left in a holdall in a telephone box in Charring Cross
Road, sparked a major security alert bringing chaos to the heart of London as a
square mile of city streets were cordoned off.  It was discovered and made safe
as the IRA vowed to continue its campaign "as long as necessary".  Scotland Yard
refused to confirm reports that the device contained a pound of Semtex high
explosive, enough to cause carnage had it exploded in streets crowded with city
traffic, shoppers and tourists.

Scotland Yard would say only that the bomb was "small" and was being examined by
forensic experts tonight.  In a statement, anti-terrorist officers explained:
"The device was in a sports bag found in a phone box outside 67 Charing Cross
Road.  "Two coded calls to different locations were received. We are unaware of
any claim of responsibility so far.  "Preliminary forensic examination suggests
this bears all the hallmarks of the Provisional IRA.  "The device was
successfully located despite receiving imprecise information on its location."
The discovery combined with the IRA's defiant statement printed today in
Republican News, appeared to lay to rest hopes that last Friday's Docklands
bombing might be a one-off attack.  The West End alert came on the same day 500
troop reinforcements arrived in Ulster and Irish premier John Bruton said the
whole future of the Ulster peace process had been brought into question by the
ending of the IRA ceasefire.  Mr Bruton insisted that the "key challenge" facing
Sinn Fein was to secure the return of their IRA allies' cessation of violence.

The device was found close to the scene of the October 1992 bomb attack on the
Sussex public house just off Long Acre, Covent Garden, in which a customer died.
Today, emergency services moved into the area soon after 12.30 pm when police
sealed off a square mile of the West End, clearing cars and pedestrians from the
streets.  News that a device had been found came shortly before 3 pm.  Police
channelled cars and pedestrians off the streets and several major roads
including New Oxford Street, The Strand, Duncannon Street, Trafalgar Square
(north side), Pall Mall, Haymarket, Piccadilly Circus and Oxford Street were
closed off.  Piccadilly Circus, Leicester Square, Covent Garden, Charing Cross
and Totttenham Court Road Tube stations were also sealed and police appealed to
motorists and pedestrians to avoid central London.  Searching of the area
continued after the bomb was found as police made sure there were no secondary
devices.  The two coded calls appeared to have been timed to cause maximum
disruption in streets packed with workers on lunchbreaks.  The intention may
also have been to try to keep Northern Ireland on the front pages despite this
afternoon's publication of the Scott report.  Many people had to sit out the
alert in pubs, shops and restaurants while surrounding streets were searched.
An assistant at Shipley art bookshop in Charing Cross Road, almost opposite the
telephone box, said: "We were told to go to the back of the shop and I thought
we would be safer in the cellar." The 42-year-old man, who did not wish to give
his name, added: "We could see a holdall on the ground in the phone box.  "We
were downstairs when we heard a bang, and when we came back up, the bag appeared
to have been split. I was told they had used a robot system ... in retrospect,
it was quite frightening." Inside the Shaftesbury Theatre, actors were still
rehearsing for Tommy, the musical, which is to open on Tuesday.  Dafydd Rogers,
the theatre manager, said: "We can't cancel the rehearsals, because we open so
soon. But we have moved to a different rehearsal room; one which is slightly
further from the road and safer. The show has to go on." Today's drama comes the
day after it emerged that senior police officers from across Britain are to meet
to discuss how to meet the threat of further IRA bombs.  The conference is
expected to consider warnings that it is not just London that is in danger from
possible further terrorist attacks.  The meeting, which senior officers hope
will be held next week, will draw together the country's security chiefs,
including the head of Scotland Yard's anti-terrorism branch Commander John
Grieve.

Ulster loyalists were outraged by the incident.  East Belfast MP Peter Robinson
said its discovery confirmed there had never been a real peace process. He said
it was all part of the IRA's war strategy.  The Democratic Unionist told PA
News: "A temporary and tactical cessation of violence has reaped greater rewards
for those continuing their campaign.  "They milked every concession available by
a cessation of violence and are now seeking to extract more concessions by
continuing their bombing.  "People have tasted peace for a short period of time
but they are now having to pay the IRA's price for it." Ulster Unionist MP the
Rev Martin Smyth said the planting of the latest device was "something we are
going to have to live with for some time until the terrorists realise they
cannot depart from the path of democracy." Meanwhile, Lord Holme, Liberal
Democrat spokesman on Northern Ireland said the planting of the device was
"another slap in the face for the peacemakers".  He said: "They will not find
their strategy of death and destruction deflects the determination of all
British parties to find a way forward to a political settlement."

The Irish government tonight described the latest London bomb incident as
"designed to frighten people", and said it should be condemned.  A spokesman
said it was "another attempt to put pressure on people to do what they would
otherwise not do".
    Normal activity in thousands of workplaces and schools throughout the Irish
Republic will be halted tomorrow afternoon during a minute's silence called to
urge the restoration of the IRA ceasefire.  The demonstration is being
orchestrated by the Irish Congress of Trade Unions to co-incide with a Belfast
peace rally.  Ireland's largest union, the Services, Industrial, Professional
Technical Union, tonight recommended its 200,000 members to back the call for
peace.  And the Irish state-backed RTE broadcasting network said they would
facilitiate anyone wanting to take part by televising the Belfast event and
stopping radio programmes for one minute at 12.30pm tomorrow.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1996 The Press Association Limited

                              214 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               February 16, 1996

DEFUSED BOMB UNDERSCORES END OF CEASEFIRE

BYLINE: Duncan Campbell And David Sharrock

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1054 words


THE West End of London was brought to a standstill yesterday afternoon after an
IRA bomb was planted in a telephone booth in an area crowded with office workers
and tourists.

The device, understood to be one pound of Semtex, was found and disabled after
two coded warnings were delivered.

In a further confirmation that the ceasefire has ended, a senior member of the
IRA told the Sinn Fein newspaper An Phoblacht (Republican News) that the
ceasefire was over. He blamed John Major for its breakdown.

The second device has also brought the prospect of loyalist retaliation closer,
it emerged yesterday. The former Irish prime minister, Albert Reynolds, told the
Dail in Dublin that he had been informed by loyalists that a second London bomb
would not go unanswered, because it would be seen as an attack on the British
ethos.

But in Belfast, senior loyalists maintained that there would be no "knee-jerk
reactions".

The device was found in a sports bag in a telephone booth outside 67 Charing
Cross Road after warnings were received shortly after 12.30pm yesterday. It was
made safe by explosives experts from the anti -terrorist branch. A Scotland Yard
spokeswoman said that no claim had been made but it bore all the hallmarks of
the Provisional IRA.

Coming just six days after the Docklands bomb, which killed two and caused up to
pounds 100 million damage, the device is seen as an indication that the first
bomb was not a one-off shot across the bows.

The IRA yesterday confirmed unequivocally that its ceasefire was over and
offered only the most oblique prospect of a resumption in the event of progress
towards talks.

A "spokesperson for the general headquarters staff" of the IRA told An Phoblacht
that the decision to end the ceasefire was taken because of "John Major's
cynical misuse and betrayal of the historic opportunity" it had offered.

In its first detailed explanation of the background to the Canary Wharf bomb in
London last Friday, the IRA claimed that Mr Major had reneged on his commitments
in order to keep himself in power.

Suggestions that the bomb had been a one-off action were rejected when an IRA
spokesperson said: "We in Oglaigh na hEireann will continue to assert Irish
national rights in the face of British denial for as long as is necessary."

In the two-page interview, the spokesperson stated: "There is only one place for
all the political representatives of the Irish people to go and that is to the
negotiating table. Current British policy prevents all those with a democratic
mandate from sitting around that table."

There was also criticism of John Bruton, the Irish premier, who this week
claimed he had been betrayed by the bombing. The IRA said he well knew the basis
of the ceasefire.

The spokesperson denied there was any split in the IRA and said it had no
problem with Sinn Fein continuing its peace strategy.

Meanwhile, Michael Ancram, the Northern Ireland political development minister,
said yesterday that an election could be held without a ceasefire, but he
refused to be drawn when asked if Sinn Fein could take part in such
circumstances.

The Government came in for further criticism yesterday from Albert Reynolds, who
said that Britain's response to the Mitchell report on illegally held weapons
was the straw that broke the camel's back.

He said that Mr Major's reaction to the report was "the greatest challenge that
goaded them (the IRA) into proving they were back in existence".

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              215 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               February 17, 1996

FEAR AND LOATHING ON THE STREETS OF BELFAST

BYLINE: Martin Kettle

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGE; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1707 words


YOU COULD hear the fear in her voice. Something about it made you stop what you
were doing and listen. She was a Belfast woman, a Roman Catholic, interviewed on
the Today programme one morning this week. She lives on the so-called peace line
between Catholic and Protestant Belfast, and she told the programme that, as a
result of the Canary Wharf bombing, she was now afraid again. It was a tone of
fear I had last heard in the Balkans.

She said it in a way that made sure you believed her. She told how she now
thinks twice before answering the door-bell again.  When she walks up the
street, she finds herself watching all the cars again, in case they contain a
gunman, just as she used to watch them in the bad old days before the ceasefire.
Since last Friday she has wrapped herself once more in the physical and mental
precautions of contemporary urban siege.

Logically, this is a nonsense. Nothing has actually changed in Northern Ireland
since last weekend. The IRA set off its bomb in London's financial district, not
in the back streets of Belfast. It is trying to put pressure on the British
government, not the people of the six counties. It has no rational political
interest in killing in Ulster at the moment, let alone in killing this woman,
though this is not to say it won't in the future.

But logic often misses the point where people's fears take root. The trouble
with logical analysis is that it may sound good in a briefing paper but it gets
messed up in the real world. People have a way of not responding in the way that
politicians, including IRA politicians, would like them to. People have their
own cultures, their own habits and their own ways of dealing with the world. The
textbooks on political strategy don't contain many chapters on how people feel.

A bomb goes off in London. People in Belfast respond with fear. Almost certainly
not what the IRA intended. Meanwhile people in London don't seem afraid at all,
which is not what the IRA wanted either.  This does not mean that people in
London are braver than those in Belfast, just that they have a different set of
expectations. I don't know whether this occurs to the IRA army council or
whoever thinks about strategy in high republican circles. I rather doubt it. But
I also think that this omission is a rather large part of their problem.

Britain is a country full of its own fears, but it is an observable fact that
instead of getting angry, Londoners just put up with the IRA bombings. I'm not
saying they wouldn't tear a bomber in two if they caught one in the act. But if
they have to evacuate their offices, then that's what they do. If they are
delayed on the tube, then that's what happens. They just get on with it and hope
for the best. And after all, what is the alternative?

Intending no particular harm to others, they are untroubled by the thought that
anyone might want to murder them. It is like the wartime mood described by
George Orwell in England Your England. "As I write, highly civilised human
beings are flying overhead trying to kill me. They do not feel any emnity
against me as an individual, nor I against them."

This is not to sentimentalise the English. Those phlegmatic, tolerant, pragmatic
virtues on which the English pride themselves, have become very frayed at the
edges in the post-war years. We remain in some respects a very violent people.
And in many others this is a fearful society in a fearful world, more similar to
others than we might suppose.

Strip away the politics, and the fears of a woman in Belfast's streets will be
strikingly similar to the fears of a woman in London's. For historical reasons,
the Belfast woman will worry about paramilitary gunmen, but the fear that she
shares with a woman in London is a fear of open places, especially at night and,
above all, when she is alone.

Real fear of this kind is potent and universal. For years, criminologists have
tried to prove that the fear of crime is not related to the likelihood of it.
They can prove beyond doubt that a given lone women walking along the streets at
night is not in danger of being raped. The statistics prove it conclusively. But
the fear swamps the facts. People do not want to risk being the exception. No
matter how irrational it may be, most people prefer to trust their instincts
rather than the figures.

I had some neighbours in London a few years back. They were an old couple,
retired, their children had long since moved away.  She was Welsh, he was a
Londoner. Nice people, always helpful, kind to the children in a friendly
multi-racial street. One day I went round to their house for some reason. The
Welsh woman shouted from inside to know who I was. She opened the door on a
chain. Then she apologised. She was worried that I might have been a black man.
In that case, she said, she would have been too frightened to open the door.

Many people would say she was a racist, and in a way obviously she was. But my
neighbour's real problem was her fear. She was afraid of young black men
knocking at her door. Rational? Irrational? That was not the point. She was a
good woman and genuinely frightened. Putting labels on her would not have been
any solution.  It certainly would not have made her less fearful about black men
knocking on her door.

Fear is not something which politicians can operate like supply and demand in
the economy. There is no policy mechanism like a tax shift or an interest rate
change that can raise or lower the level of public fear, though it is
demonstrably easier to create fear than to diminish it. It stands to reason that
people in Northern Ireland are likely to be more fearful than people in London
about terrorism, just as it stands to reason that the reverse is the case with
the fear of racial violence.

But this does not mean that public policy should not be much more concerned
about fear than it is. When politicians talk about the feel-good factor they
always concentrate on a limited material calculus. "Will I be better or worse
off financially this year than last?" is the only question that counts. They
never talk about the other things, often much more prominent in people's
self-perceptions, which go to make them feel good and bad. Are any of these more
potent than people's fears?

There is no more important task for any government than to address people's
fears constructively. Government itself exists because of fear. If they fail to
reduce it, governments fail in their principal responsibility to the people's
agenda. That is why it is so important for the British government not to stand
aside from its duty in Northern Ireland. That is why they must continue to talk
to Sinn Fein. They must do it for the sake of the woman in the street.

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              216 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               February 17, 1996

£1m on bombers' heads;Scots link in the IRA terror trail

BYLINE: By James Mckillop;And James Freeman;

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1118 words


THE IRA bombers responsible for last week's blast in London's Docklands, which
killed two and left more than 100 wounded, used Scotland as their gateway.

Yesterday, rewards of up to £1m were placed on their capture and conviction as
police raided premises in various locations in England.

The reward is believed to be the highest offered in a criminal investigation in
the United Kingdom.

Police would not reveal who was putting up the money but insurance companies
seemed the most likely.

Following dawn raids yesterday on about 40 homes, mostly in the London area but
some in the West Midlands, several people were still being detained last night
as investigations continued into the bomb attack. Other areas targeted by the
police included Kent and Essex.

Police hunting the Docklands bombers are concentrating efforts on the movements
of a flat-back vehicle that travelled from Larne to Stranraer.  Without doubt,
the explosives were in place on the vehicle as it crossed the Irish Sea and was
driven off into Scotland.

Police believe the lorry disembarked at Stranraer, probably on February 7, two
days before the outrage. The vehicle was next spotted in Carlisle.

Officers are anxious to trace its movements on February 8 in that or other areas
before it was next seen in the South of England.

"We know the vehicle was at South Mimms, Hertfordshire, a week ago today, the
day of the explosion at South Quay, at 8am," Commander John Grieve, the new head
of Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist branch said yesterday.

The vehicle had travelled from Ireland with a trailer. That trailer was unloaded
in Barking, East London, he said.

It is suspected that it was at this stage the bomb was primed.

"We know the vehicle travelled to waste land in Barking, where the trailer was
unloaded, and from there it was moved to South Quay," said Commander Grieve.
"But it went somewhere else between South Mimms and Barking on Friday, February
9."

Police were particularly anxious to trace its movements during the period and
time it was in the Carlisle area.

The police have been able to pinpoint the vehicle's movements following
information provided by the public. Commander Grieve believes that further
publicity might encourage others to fill in the

gaps. The hotline number to call is 0800 789321.

Although traffic at Stranraer is monitored 24 hours a day as part of the
mainland's anti-terrorist watch, there are a host of problems. Around 800,000
vehicles cross from Larne a year, the majority of them belonging to tourists but
a significant proportion connected to trade, commerce, and agriculture.

Many of the lorries using the ferries are regulars, belonging to haulage
contractors and making runs to the mainland with refrigerated meat, fish or
dairy produce.

If every lorry were stopped and searched, commerce between Northern Ireland and
the mainland would become impossible within days.

Uniformed officers, civilian searchers, and Special Branch officers all take
part in the operation, which has for a number of years been the sole
responsibility of Dumfries and Galloway Constabulary.

The officers keep a particular watch for known players in the terrorist game
attempting to slip in and out of the mainland and each year a number of people
are detained under the Prevention of Terrorism Act for questioning.

Loyalist paramilitaries have also traditionally used the weekly traffic of
Rangers supporters as a concealment to move personnel and small arms between the
two parts of the UK.

Dumfries and Galloway Police made it clear yesterday that the monitoring of

Stranraer ferry traffic had carried on at the same level during the months of
the ceasefire in terms of numbers of officers deployed.

As things became quieter, they acknowledged, the emphasis of their role had
shifted to some degree from monitoring for potential terrorists towards looking
at more run-of-the-mill crime issues.

Meanwhile, it appeared the security forces were involved in supplying
intelligence that led to yesterday's dawn raids on up to 40 addresses in
England.

It was, said Commander Grieve, a "pro-active, intelligence-driven operation,
using information provided by the security services and Special Branch."

Commenting on the £1m reward, Commander Grieve declared that the police would
use every weapon in its armoury to ensure criminals were brought to justice.

As the hunt for the bombers intensified with such rewards, the IRA itself was
under mounting public pressure on both sides of the Irish border to call off the
renewed campaign.

Thousands attended anti-terror demonstrations in Northern Ireland, while in the
republic, Foreign Minister Dick Spring launched a nationwide white ribbons for
peace campaign.

At the same time, Sinn Fein representatives had two hours of private talks with
officials of the Irish Government, and afterwards Sinn Fein president Gerry
Adams said the peace process could be restored but only if Britain called for
the start of substantive dialogue involving all sides.

He said he was not reluctant to go back to the IRA and give his evaluation and
assessment of the situation. He said: "I think the process has to be restored.
It is a matter of how and when."

Mr Adams said: "There is a challenge for political leaders to restore the peace
process and, as part of all of that, then let IRA face up to its
responsibilities. If they were persuaded to do so 18 months ago, then I think
that's the challenge for all politicans at this time."

Both the British and Irish Governments have made it clear there will be no
ministerial contact with the republican leadership until the ceasefire is
restored but the lines of communication with Dublin are open and more talks
between the two sides are expected to be held next week.

Britain's trade union chiefs, including Scottish TUC general secretary Campbell
Christie, were among thousands who gathered for a rally in Belfast.  Others were
staged in Armagh City and Enniskillen, County Fermanagh. More are planned for
next week.

Loyalist representatives and a small group of Sinn Fein supporters attended the
Belfast demonstration where the TUC leadership pledged full backing for demands
to restore the IRA ceasefire.

The Dublin Government's white-ribbon-for-peace campaign will spread to Paris
today when the Irish rugby team meet France. Each player will wear the peace
emblem.

The ribbons are being distributed throughout the Republic. Mr Spring said: "We
have all been shattered by what has happened in the past week. Last Friday, was
one of the darkest days we had for a long, long time."

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1996 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              217 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          February 17, 1996, Saturday

Police track IRA bombers

BYLINE: JASON BENNETTO Crime Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Page  2

LENGTH: 236 words


JASON BENNETTO

Crime Correspondent

The terrorists responsible for the bomb in Docklands, east London, spent several
days travelling down from Scotland to London on a carefully planned route, it
was disclosed yesterday.

Anti-terrorist officers, using information provided by the public and
intelligence sources, have been piecing together the movements of the IRA
bombers.

The blue flat-bed lorry with false number plates, which was used to carry the
explosive device, was brought over to the mainland by ferry from the Co Antrim
port of Larne, and landed in Stranraer on the west coast of Scotland.

On 7 and 8 February, it was taken from Stranraer to Carlisle and then to South
Mimms, Hertfordshire. At some time, a red trailer with the Irish registration
5157B1, which is believed to have come from a cut- down Ford cargo truck, was
loaded on to it. The trailer was in Britain from January.

On Friday, the day of the explosion, the truck was at South Mimms at 8am, before
travelling to wasteland at River Road, Barking, Essex. Here, the trailer was
unloaded and at about 4pm, the bomb was primed and the truck driven to South
Quay where it was abandoned on a road close to the light railway station. At
7.01pm it exploded.

Police are appealing for any further information about the route of the vehicles
and the drivers. The police hotline for information is on 0800 789321.


LOAD-DATE: February 19, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1996 Independent Print Ltd

                              218 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               February 19, 1996

Fears rise of backlash by loyalists

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 750 words


CONCERN was expressed last night that the Aldwych explosion could shatter the
fragile loyalist ceasefire.

Mr Gary McMichael, leader of the fringe loyalist Ulster Democratic Party,
expressed worry about a backlash.

"I would imagine they are looking at the situation very closely," he said of the
loyalist paramilitary leaders.

He said that every IRA explosion "has implications for the strength of the
loyalist ceasefire and it plunges us deeper into the prospect of a full-scale
resumption of violence".

The Prime Minister was last night briefed by officials on the explosion and
there was no immediate reaction from No 10.

However, there was outrage from Unionists and senior MPs.

Mr Andrew Hunter, chairman of the Tory Northern Ireland committee, said: "On the
assumption that this is another IRA bomb then our worst fears are fulfilled.

"It is another horrific outrage. It is sickening and there is no justification.
The IRA will win no concessions by this course of action."

Mr Ken Maginnis, security spokesman for the Ulster Unionists, had little
hesitation in pinning the blame on the IRA.

"Until we face up to the reality of what the IRA really are we are going to
suffer this type of tragedy again and again.

"From much of the media reaction to the Canary Wharf blast one would have
thought that the Unionists had brought the bomb across into Great Britain and
John Major had personally planted it.

"In the meantime Gerry Adams can get away unquestioned with contradictory
statements which suggest at one moment he is holding out the hand of friendship
and in the next that he supports the bombers and people must do nothing to
hinder them.

"His refusal to condemn these outrages has to be seen for what it is - part of a
terrorist campaign intended to enable less than 5% of the electorate in Northern
Ireland to dominate by violence the other 95%."

Former Northern Ireland Minister Peter Bottomley said of the IRA: "We may have
under-estimated how badly they feared they would do in elections for people to
participate in all party talks.

"Their fear is democracy.

"In elections for the all-party talks, they must have expected to receive less
than their past share of the vote in Northern Ireland.

"That is the only rational explanation for the Sinn Fein/IRA return to violence.

"They know that bombs and bullets prevent them becoming ordinary members of the
democratic process," he said.

The explosion came on the eve of a Commons debate on the Northern Ireland
Emergency Provisions Bill.

The measure was intended to renew emergency powers for a two-year period from
April instead of the previous five years, which was reduced as part of a review
of the situation in Northern Ireland.

Tory MP David Wilshire, vice-chairman of his party's Northern Ireland committee,
had already tabled two amendments to try to extend the limit beyond two years
with a view to getting a full debate on the issue.

He said last night: "It will be interesting to see whether there is a hardening
of opinion. I very much hope there will be.

"On the assumption it is another IRA bomb, we have definite proof now of an
ongoing campaign.

"It is not a warning shot across the bows, it would appear to have been planned
for some time.

"It has nothing to do with planned elections in Ulster and everything to do with
the conclusion that the IRA has come to that it is not going to get a united
Ireland through talks and will only do so through bombing the English into
submission.

"These are evil people for whom death and destruction mean nothing."

Ulster Unionist MP John Taylor said: "We are in the midst of a very serious IRA
campaign on the mainland and everyone must now be on the alert and the
Government must take a much firmer line against terrorism.

"If people are letting off bombs in buses, as the IRA have apparently done
tonight, then the peace process is over in the meantime.

"We have to concentrate on saving people's lives."

Mr Peter Robinson, Democratic Unionist Party MP for East Belfast, called for a
return to internment.

"I think that the time has come that the whole international community must be
prepared to crush the Provisional IRA," he said.

Dr Ian Paisley of the DUP said: "I think it was to be expected. The IRA/Sinn
Fein have been threatening that they were going to do this and they are now
carrying out their threats. I think it was to be expected."

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1996 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              219 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           February 19, 1996, Monday

'It's a funny way to put out a hand of friendship'

BYLINE: JOHN McKIE

SECTION: NEWS; Page  2

LENGTH: 415 words


Although John Major refused to react immediately to the bomb, there was
widespread condemnation from Unionists and senior MPs.

Andrew Hunter, chairman of the Tory backbench Northern Ireland committee, said:
"On the assumption that this is another IRA bomb then our worst fears are
fulfilled.

"It is another horrific outrage. It is sickening and there is no justification.
The IRA will win no concessions by this course of action."

Ken Maginnis, security spokesman for the Ulster Unionists, also immediately
identified the bomb as the work of the IRA. He said: "Until we face up to the
reality of what the IRA really are we are going to suffer this type of tragedy
again and again.

"From much of the media reaction to the Canary Wharf blast one would have
thought that the Unionists had brought the bomb across into Great Britain and
John Major had personally planted it.

The Rev Ian Paisley of the Democratic Unionist Party said: "This is a funny way
to put out the hand of friendship by murdering people.

"You can't negotiate with people who who are prepared to take up weapons and
take lives."

Peter Robinson, DUP MP for East Belfast, said: "I think that the time has come
that the whole international community must be prepared to crush the Provisional
IRA."

The Ulster Unionist MP John Taylor told BBC Radio Five Live: "If people are
letting off bombs in buses as the IRA have apparently done tonight, then the
peace process is over in the meantime.

"We have to concentrate on saving people's lives."

The former Northern Ireland minister Peter Bottomley said that the IRA feared
democracy. "In elections for the all- party talks, they must have expected to
receive less than their past share of the vote in Northern Ireland.

"That is the only rational explanation for the Sinn Fein/IRA return to
violence."

The bomb occurred on the eve of today's Commons debate on the Northern Ireland
Emergency Provisions Bill.

The Tory MP David Wilshire, vice-chairman of his party's backbench Northern
Ireland Committee, said: "On the assumption it is another IRA bomb, we have
definite proof now of an ongoing campaign.

"The IRA has come to the conclusion that it is not going to get a united Ireland
through talks and will only do so through bombing the English into submission.

Gary McMichael, leader of the fringe loyalist Ulster Democratic Party, expressed
concern about the "prospect of a full scale resumption of violence."


LOAD-DATE: February 20, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1996 Independent Print Ltd

                              220 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                           February 19, 1996, Monday

White House reconsiders its cosy relationship with Adams

BYLINE: Tom Rhodes in Washington and Nicholas Watt

SECTION: Overseas news

LENGTH: 755 words


New visa in doubt as Administration fears Sinn Fein leader has lost control.
THE White House was calculating its future relationship with Gerry Adams last
night after the latest bombing in threw into doubt a visa for the Sinn Fein
leader to enter the United States next month.

Earlier in the day, the Administration had denied reports that President Clinton
was refusing entry to Mr Adams, who is eager to join St Patrick's Day
celebrations and was said to want an invitation to the annual White House
celebrations. The bomb blast in Aldwych is likely to affect the status of his
application. The White House had no immediate reaction to the latest bombing but
opinion is growing in Washington that Mr Adams is either untrustworthy or not in
control of IRA hardliners and should therefore no longer enjoy cosy relations
with the American Administration.

Dublin last night condemned the bombing. In a statement, the Irish Government
said John Bruton, the Prime Minister, and his deputy, Dick Spring, were deeply
shocked by the ''appalling outrage''. Bertie Ahern, the leader of the main
opposition Fianna Fail party, condemned ''this wanton act of terrorism'' and
extended his sympathies to the victims.

The bombing, nine days after the Docklands attack, will have a catastrophic
impact on Anglo-Irish attempts to rebuild the peace process. Both London and
Dublin, which have cut off ministerial contact with Sinn Fein, last week pressed
the organisation to put pressure on the IRA to restore the ceasefire.  Mr Spring
called on Britain earlier yesterday to help Sinn Fein by fixing a timetable for
all-party talks.

Mr Bruton had appealed yesterday to the IRA to end its violent campaign.
Interviewed on BBC1's Breakfast With Frost, he said: ''I presume the members of
the IRA army council are listening to you and I discussing this matter. I say to
them directly: your way of killing people has only divided people on the island
of Ireland over the last 25 years; your strategy didn't work for 25 years, why
should it work for another 25 years?''

After last night's bomb, Unionists called for the Government to take a much
tougher line against the terrorists. ''There is no choice in the matter,'' John
Taylor, deputy leader of the Ulster Unionists, said. He was pessimistic about
the future of the peace process and believed violence would now spread to other
parts of Britain and Northern Ireland.

Peter Robinson, deputy leader of the Democratic Unionist Party, told Sky News:
''I think that the time has come that the international community must be
prepared to crush the Provisional IRA.'' He adding: ''That undoubtedly requires
something in the nature of internment.''

Referring to a speech earlier in the day made by Gerry Adams, in which the Sinn
Fein president had said he was offering a hand of friendship to John Major, Mr
Robinson said: ''People throughout the United Kingdom will now see what is in
Adams's hand when he stretches it out and calls for the Prime Minister to grasp
it. This again shows that the IRA have no interest in peace and cannot be
allowed into a negotiating process.''

The bombing came hours after Sinn Fein said it would do all it could to restore
the IRA ceasefire if the two Governments spelt out a timetable for all-party
talks. Speaking at a rally in west Belfast, Mr Adams said: ''At this very
dangerous and this very risky stage in our struggle we offer the hand of
friendship to John Major. We say to John Major: pull back from the abyss. We
want to talk and we want peace. But we must have justice and freedom and be
treated as equals in this.''

There was no comment last night from Sinn Fein on the latest bombing.

Gary McMichael, leader of the fringe loyalist Ulster Democratic Party, said that
the IRA should not be allowed to wreck the peace process but expressed concern
about the fragility of the loyalist ceasefire. Mr McMichael believed that
''every explosion that the IRA do, then it has implications for the strength of
the loyalist ceasefire and it plunges us deeper into the prospect of a
full-scale resumption of violence''.

Andrew Hunter, chairman of the Tory backbench committee on Northern Ireland,
predicted further violence in the Province as well as in Britain, but said the
second bomb did not mean a return to violence on the scale that Ulster had seen
before the ceasefire. Attitudes had changed and there remained a ''yearning for
permanent peace'' in Northern Ireland.

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1996 Times Newspapers Limited

                              221 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                           February 19, 1996, Monday

End of ceasefire hits forecasts for Ulster economy

BYLINE: Philip Bassett, Industrial Editor

SECTION: Business

LENGTH: 351 words


ECONOMIC growth in Northern Ireland is set to fall back sharply with the ending
of the ceasefire, according to an analysis unveiled today on the industrial
prospects of Britain's regions.

Suggesting that for Britain as a whole the traditional idea of a north-south
divide is a thing of the past, an independent economic forecast says that
instead of heading the regional growth league for Britain over the next year,
the ending of the ceasfire means that Northern Ireland is now towards the
bottom.

In its latest regional outlook report, Business Strategies a regional
consultancy with close links to the CBI puts forward one of the first considered
studies of the effect of the end of the ceasefire on Northern Ireland's economy.

Looking back over the past year, BS says that Northern Ireland's economy sharply
outperformed the rest of the UK, with estimated growth of 3.6 per cent, compared
with 2.6 per cent nationally, in a region that normally performs worse than the
UK overall. BS suggests the improvement was mostly due to the peace process.
While growth was expected to slow in Northern Ireland this year as a result of a
clampdown on public spending, it was still forecast to be heading the regional
growth table over the three years to 2000, with average growth of 2.1 per cent,
compared with 1.7 per cent for mainland UK.

Such forecasts are based on assumptions about increased inward investment and
potential for growth of the tourism industry. But in an updated analysis today,
BS says: ''If there is a return to armed conflict, this optimism will no longer
be justified.''

Revised forecasts suggest that with the ceasfire ending, growth will continue in
Northern Ireland, but unemployment will be higher. GDP growth for the region is
revised downwards in the years to 2000 from 2.3 to 2 per cent, and job growth
from 1.4 to 1 per cent. Consumer spending growth falls back from 3.4 to 3 per
cent, while unemployment rises from 10.2 to 11.2 per cent.

London's economy may also be affected if tourists are deterred by terrorist
attacks.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1996 Times Newspapers Limited

                              222 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                           February 20, 1996, Tuesday

SHAME OF THE IRISH;
LONDON IRISH FEEL SHAME OF IRA BOMB ATTACKS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 174 words


AN Irishman who runs a pub close to the scene of the blast spoke today of his
"embarrassment" at being Irish.

Jim Ryan, landlord of the Coach and Horses bar, said that for the last 17 months
it had been great to be Irish in Britain.

But Mr Ryan, from Urlingford, Co Tipperary, told Irish radio: "We had been proud
to be Irish, but I suppose this is going to set it all back.

"You feel so embarrassed about it really. We never really got a backlash from
the English over 25 years, but I suppose people can only take so much."

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1996 MGN Ltd.

                              223 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                           February 20, 1996, Tuesday

FRONT SEAT BOMBERS;
THEY SAT BEHIND DRIVER..ONE WITH THE SEMTEX,THE OTHER HIS MINDER;
THE IRA OPERATION TO TRANSPORT BOMB ON LONDON BUS

BYLINE: Don Mackay

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1, 2

LENGTH: 1774 words


THE two-man IRA bomb team who brought terror to the West End were only minutes
from their target as they sat at the front of the No 171 bus with their package
of death.

Seated behind the driver, one cradled a briefcase holding the Semtex bomb in his
lap.

Blown

The other was his "minder," there to ensure their deadly operation - probably to
bomb the High Court - ran smoothly.

That sick hope was blown sky high at 10.38pm when the red double-decker is
believed to have hit a pothole at roadworks in Aldwych. The jolt triggered a
time-switch which fired the bomb, ripping the bus apart like a tin can.

The Semtex terrorist died. His minder is seriously ill in hospital. Seven
others, including bus driver Bob Newitt - a "quiet, popular chap" - were hurt.

Now police are studying the bus's ticket machine and roadside video film in a
bid to track down the terrorists' London base.

The machine, which is believed to have been salvaged, automatically records
where passengers boarded the bus, what fare they paid and whether they used a
pass.

Close-circuit TV cameras are also in operation along the bus's route.

The bomb vehicle left its depot in Catford, South London, at 9.48 on Sunday
night, due to arrive at Holborn in the West End just under an hour later.

Driver Bob's route took him through Brockley, New Cross, Camberwell, Elephant
and Castle and over Waterloo Bridge to the Strand. Somewhere en route, probably
in South London, the two bombers boarded with their lethal cargo.

Their likely target was the Royal Courts of Justice - the High Court - in
Aldwych.

The bus would have stopped almost immediately outside and two phone boxes near
the judges' car park would have provided a perfect site for the bomb.

Coutts, the Queen's bank, and St Catherine's House - the official registry of
births, deaths and marriages - could also have been on the hit list.

Once at the scene, the bombers had only to trigger a time switch.

It could have been a device similar to a clock. A nail or rivet is stuck in the
face and when a dial is set to a selected time it carries the nail to a metal
post which detonates the blast.

The terrorists would have had about 10 minutes to flee to either nearby Temple,
Blackfriars or Embankment Tube stations before the bomb went up.

Device

But less than 200 yards from the High Court the bus is believed to have hit the
pothole.

The explosion came only 10 yards from the four-star Waldorf Hotel, where a black
tie occasion was being held.

There had been no warning and the belief that it was an IRA "own goal" was
strengthened by an announcement from the terrorists yesterday that they were
sorry for the blast death.

A spokesman using a recognised codeword said: "The bomb which exploded last
night was one of our devices.

"We can say at this stage that we regret the loss of life and injuries which
occurred."

Anti-Terrorist chief Commander John Grieve confirmed: "The bus was not the
intended trarget.

"This incident doesn't match the normal pattern of events surrounding this kind
of attack."

A spokesman for the squad added: "Who in their right mind would want to blow a
bus apart?

"Once you have figured out the potential escape routes then you look within that
circle to try to guess where the target would be.

"In this case, that would mean the Royal Courts."

Another expert said: "The IRA does not go in for suicide bombers so we are sure
the bus itself was not the target.

"The IRA may have thought that bombing the High Court would win support in
Ireland after the cases of the Birmingham Six and Guildford Four.

"But it was absolute madness to be carrying a bomb on a bus with innocent
people." Bomb disposal expert Kevin Callaghan said: "If you put explosive, an
electrical circuit, batteries and a detonator in a bag, it's very easy for two
wires to come together and the bomb to go off."

Mr Callaghan, holder of the George Medal and Queen's Gallantry Medal, once
headed the IRA's wanted list for his skill at defusing bombs.

He added that police would probably recover about 95 per cent of the device, and
said: "They get an awful lot of information from the tiniest scrap." Yesterday,
the tattered wreckage of the bus flat on its axles scarred the normally busy
road.

Engine parts and the remains of its roof were strewn about. Double bench seats
from the lower deck were hurled on to the pavement.

Blood

An advertising poster on the vehicle's upper deck could still be seen plugging
the hit musical "Buddy" showing at the Strand Theatre 10 yards away.

It was the third time in nine days that the men of blood had struck at the
capital.

A device at Canary Wharf in the Docklands killed two, injured scores more and
caused hundreds of millions of pounds damage. Six days later, an 11lb Semtex
bomb left in a phone box in the heart of theatreland was defused.

About 30 undercover IRA terrorists are in place in mainland Britain, the Mirror
has revealed.

One theory being investigated last night was that the injured terrororist may be
part of an Irish-based brigade and not a "sleeper cell" on the mainland.

The Canary Wharf bomb is known to have been carried out by the hardline Armagh
Brigade.

If the bus bombers DID operate direct out of Ireland it could mean the cells in
Britain are being saved for even bigger atrocities.

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ESCAPE: The blitzed driver's cabin - somehow he lived;; ROUTE TO
DISASTER: The normal Sunday journey taken by the doomed 171 bus;; JOURNEY'S END:
Surrounded by debris, one of London's world-famous double- deckers is a
horrific, bombed-out wreck yesterday

                            Copyright 1996 MGN Ltd.

                              224 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               February 20, 1996

CITY COUNTS THE COST OF TERRORISM;
Notebook:

BYLINE: Alex Brummer

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN CITY PAGE; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1440 words


CONFIDENCE plays an important part in economic success and there can be little
doubt that the London bombing campaign will deal blows to commerce in all of
Ireland as well as the British capital.

The ceasefire and peace talks offered the first chance in 70 years of an opening
in intra-Ireland trade and inward investment in much the same way as the peace
accords in the Middle East have brought inflows of foreign capital to Israel,
Jordan and the West Bank. The capital inflows to the whole of Ireland will no
doubt now be on hold.

The immediate reaction in Britain is for leaders in tourism and the financial
community to adopt the spirit of the Blitz and work on as normal.

However, the realities are different. London's hotels, for instance, have been
in recession since the Gulf war of 1991 and it was only last year that they
started to head back to the record occupancy levels seen in the mid-1980s. The
upswing in that cycle made the Forte hotels such an attractive target for
Granada.

It was not that surprising, therefore, that Granada shares were among those to
be hit by the London bombings, with a drop of 2.8 per cent. The IRA disruption
has put the price paid for Forte into a more realistic light, underlined by the
reported coolness of Marriott about a Granada-Forte hotels deal.

As for the City, the "ring of steel", erected after the last IRA bombing
campaign aimed at financial targets, is known to have been as successful in
preventing petty crime and reducing traffic as in deterring terrorism.

The past couple of years have seen some notable triumphs for the City, including
the decision by Deutsche Bank to move its investment banking operations to
London and the arrival of the Dutch group, ING. It is inconceivable, however,
that a financial institution in Amsterdam or Frankfurt would choose now to shift
staff to the City, when most transactions can be done electronically.
Unfortunately, terrorism is a deterrent to commerce.

Funding growth

NATWEST'S decision to extend its reach in fund management through the purchase
of Gartmore - even if the price is a trifle toppy - looks sensible enough. There
have been enough examples of British banks using surplus cash injudiciously for
shareholders to be grateful that pounds 466 million is to be spent on moving
NatWest up the league of fund managers to fourth in the UK.

This, for the moment, appears a much better place for NatWest to have its funds
invested than in the notoriously volatile US banking market from which it
extricated itself close to the top of the cycle.

The advantage of fund management is the quality of the earnings. Even in
difficult markets when the funds perform below par, the fund managers can be
assured of a regular flow of commissions which will keep revenues and profits
stable.

Moreover, the changing shape of the global savings markets makes fund management
a relatively attractive business. In an era of low interest rates, mutual
fundsand unit trusts have become relatively attractive and Gartmore is directly
linked into the huge US retail market through NationsBank, one of the fastest
growing and exciting of US banking franchises.

Gradually, the UK's independent fund management groups are being swallowed by
bigger partners with larger distribution networks: in recent times both Jupiter
Tyndall and John Govett have been swallowed by Commerzbank and Allied Irish
Banks.

This leaves a shrinking sector led by Mercury Asset Management, where ironically
the shares fell because of the loss of one potential buyer in NatWest. Given
MAM's reputation and the likely growth in private sector pensions it is hard to
believe that MAM will retain its new found independence for that long.

Not so lordly

LORD Young's chances of getting princely compensation from Cable and Wireless
don't look so bright. James Ross, the chief executive sacked at the same time as
chairman Lord Young, has accepted just pounds 100,000 as compensation for loss
of office.

Mr Ross is getting the equivalent of three months' salary. On this basis Lord
Young would get about pounds 120,000 rather than the multi-million deal widely
rumoured in the market.

One thing is certain. Both Lord Young and Mr Ross, sacked by fellow directors in
November last year, will have profited greatly from their spell at C&W.

Mr Ross stands to make a profit of around pounds 950,000 on share options
already due, even though options on two other blocks of shares exercisable in
1998 and 1999 have lapsed. He will get pension costs and health insurance worth
about pounds 25,000 and a bonus around pounds 180,000 if the company's 1995-96
performance lives up to analysts' expectations.

Lord Young should do even better. He has options due on twice as many shares as
Mr Ross and at more favourable terms. The group has offered him a compensation
deal in the spirit of that made to Mr Ross and is awaiting a reply. However,
there can be no guarantee that Lord Young, a formidable and tenacious
negotiator, will accept terms just because his boardroom foe has done so.

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              225 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               February 20, 1996

BOUND TO END IN TEARS;
Northern Ireland's peace process can move on only, Robert McCartney argues, if
the IRA is seen as a fascist evil

BYLINE: Robert Mccartney

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGE; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1147 words


THE political goals of Sinn Fein/IRA are relatively simple. They demand Irish
unity, and the removal of the British presence from Northern Ireland.  Even if
all UK citizens with a Great Britain residence left the province, there would
still remain one million British citizens of an indigenous variety strongly
opposed to incorporation into an all-Ireland state.

Constitutional nationalists, wedded to the procedures of democracy, long since
accepted that a united Ireland, an aspiration they share with Sinn Fein/IRA, can
only be realised if the majority in Northern Ireland (constituted by those
indigenous British, otherwise unionists) consent to it.

For over 25 years, the IRA has murdered, maimed and wrought destruction on the
basis that, if democratic principles cannot meet their demands, violence and
terror may. They share with constitutional nationalists the idea that the
geographical island incorporates a single nation, entitled to a single
government as a single state.  The Irish Republic, under Articles 2 and 3 of its
constitution, claims de jure entitlement to the territory of Northern Ireland -
interpreted by its Supreme Court as imposing upon successive Irish governments a
constitutional imperative to translate the claim into de facto reality.
Pro-union people see the articles giving a political if not moral justification
for Sinn Fein/IRA demands and actions.

Non-violent nationalists have, therefore, committed themselves to the
achievement of Irish unity by political means, but the effectiveness of this
programme has been enhanced by a parallel campaign of violence. Constitutional
nationalists, led by John Hume, believed that a position had been reached where
Sinn Fein/IRA violence had created the optimum platform for a political assault
on the British political and media establishment. He considered that, in return
for a cessation of terrorist violence, political concessions of a degree
sufficient to satisfy Sinn Fein/IRA demands might be obtained. The political
leaders of Sinn Fein/ IRA were persuaded to form a pan-nationalist front.  It
was at all times an uneasy alliance between democracy and fascism.

Constitutional nationalists were always going to be at the mercy of Gerry Adams
and Martin McGuinness. Albert Reynolds, John Hume, Dick Spring, even John
Bruton, persuaded themselves the ceasefire was permanent, for McGuinness had
assured them it would hold in all circumstances. The Army Council, however,
never permitted their political front men to say "permanent"; the more sceptical
British only "assumed" it to be so. The British, softened up by the Baltic
Exchange and Bishopsgate bombs, simply made down payments on the deal by stating
in the Downing Street Declaration that they had no selfish, economic or
strategic interest in Northern Ireland and would facilitate any deal the warring
tribes might make.

Reynolds and Hume sold the ceasefire and the peace process to democratic opinion
on the basis that fascist vultures could be transformed into democratic swans;
while to Sinn Fein/IRA they oversold the idea that the package would guarantee
Irish unity by breaking the unionist veto. It was all bound to end in tears.
Committed to their only weapon of violence in the absence of a mandate, the IRA
could not decommission. Welded to their all-Ireland right to self-determination,
they could not accept the principle of consent. Conscious that the maximum
advantage in terms of publicity, political profile and negotiating position had
been achieved, and faced with the potential exposure of a shrinking electoral
mandate, the IRA activated the Canary Wharf "spectacular" to demonstrate its
capacity for destruction; an event planned long before the announcement of the
Mitchell principles or the suggestion of elections.

The cement of the pan-nationalist front was its common commitment to Irish
unity. That cement, which bound constitutional nationalists to terrorism, has
failed. There is, however, a superior bond and a higher unity. It is the bond
and unity of those dedicated to democratic principles. If civilised democracy is
to be preserved, then those who have refused to be members in order to destroy
it must now be dealt with.

Peace, as John Ruskin said, may either be won or bought. Won by resistance to
evil, bought by compromise with it. Having tried to buy it and failed, both
governments must take all steps to win peace by resisting the evil that is the
IRA, and by utilising all measures to do so that the protection of their
citizens demands.

Robert McCartney is UK Unionist MP for North Down

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              226 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               February 20, 1996

ECONOMY: BOMB FANS TOURIST FEARS;
Jobs are likely to be hit as visitors shun London and Ulster

BYLINE: Sarah Ryle And David Sharrock

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 734 words


HOPES of tourists flocking to London this summer and of booming economic growth
in Northern Ireland after 17 months of ceasefire have been shattered by the
IRA's second fatal bomb attack.

Hotels and retailers in London are bracing themselves for a tourist downturn
this Easter, fearing that the shift of terrorist attacks from commercial centres
to the West End will make a crucial difference to foreigners' perceptions of the
city.

An estimated 24.4 million visitors were expected in Britain this year, 21
million in London alone spending some pounds 7 billion, according to the London
Tourist Board - up from 1991 when the Gulf War sent London tourism down to a
record low of 15 million. But international chains with luxury hotels in the
capital now say there is little they can do to reassure potential holidaymakers.
Daytrippers are expected to be particulary deterred, although tourist
authorities are hoping long distance travellers will hold to pre-arranged plans.

In the City, many of the bigger leisure groups saw their share values
deteriorate during yesterday's trading. Holiday Inn's vice-president of
marketing, Arie van der Spek, said: "There is a particular problem with
Americans. They ask why they should take the risk of visiting a city where
events like this happen. This is a critical period when people are making plans
for the spring and summer and we may see a delayed affect then."

The London Tourist Board said it would not revise its forecasts yet, but added:
"The difference with the last two incidents is that they have affected the West
End rather than the City and commercial centres. We have to wait and see."

In Northern Ireland, where tourism had been up 56 per cent, recent economic
growth is likely to fall back with the ending of the IRA ceasfire, according to
a survey published yesterday. Business Strategies, a regional consultancy with
close links to the CBI, found the region had sharply outperformed the rest of
Britain, showing estimated growth of 3.6 per cent against 2.6 per cent
nationally.

During the ceasefire, savings of pounds 286 million in the security budget were
allotted to social and educational programmes. The economy minister, Baroness
Denton, has now been told that pounds 3 million for the new Community Work
Programme - intended to help 1,000 long-term unemployed in predominently
republican west Belfast, Strabane and Fermanagh - may have to be clawed back.

Unemployment is half what it was a decade ago and out-migration has recently
reversed. But the biggest changes are in the service sector, where the removal
of the fear of being maimed or murdered has brought shoppers and fun-seekers
flocking back to Belfast and other big towns.

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              227 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               February 20, 1996

Terrorists warn bomb campaign may spread as Major bids to salvage peace
initiative;IRA to target other cities

BYLINE: By James Mckillop;

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 935 words


A CHILLING warning that the IRA could extend its campaign of terror to other
cities in Britain was made last night.

The threat was made as police arrested two people after the bus explosion in
Aldwych, London, on Sunday night in which one person - believed to be an IRA
member - was killed.

A republican source told Reuters: "If what is happening in London doesn't get
the message home, the same signal will be sent by activity in other major
British cities."

Heavily armed police were surrounding the hospital bed of one of the survivors
last night.

The bomb that prematurely exploded on board the bus was almost certainly
intended to be an attack on British Justice.

Security forces believe the bomb was meant to have been planted outside the High
Court of Justice in the Strand and should have gone off 12 hours later.

However, one IRA bomber died in Sunday's "own goal" blast and another suspect
was badly injured as a device was primed.

Last night, the survivor was under heavy guard and was waiting to be questioned
by officers at his bedside.

In other parts of London, police pulled in other suspects.

The bomb that went off prematurely on Sunday was intended to be yet another
"spectacular".

Police believe the bombers were attempting to prime the bomb before stepping off
the bus when it exploded on their laps.

One bomber was blown to pieces. His accomplice survived and was taken to St
Thomas' Hospital in central London .

The survivor, aged in his 20s or 30s, has not been named and is said to be
conscious but in pain and suffering from shock.

He is being treated in a 12th floor room. No members of his family had yet
contacted the hospital.

Ms Wilma MacPherson, acting chief executive at St Thomas' Hospital, said: "It is
appropriate that he be kept as quiet as possible.

"Everything is being determined by his condition," she added.

Meanwhile, it emerged that a weapon, as yet unspecified, was recovered from the
scene of the explosion which killed one and injured eight.

Scotland Yard also confirmed that the two men arrested after the blast were
being held under the Prevention of Terrorism Act. It is thought they were held
after a raid in Walworth, south London, and are being held at Paddington Green
police station.

A Scotland Yard spokesman refused to comment on speculation that the arrests
were linked to letters found on the body in the wreckage of the bus.

The miracle was that anybody could walk out alive from this bus, according to
those close to the scene.

The driver of the bus, Mr Bob Newitt, described by his boss as "a quiet, popular
chap", survived the explosion without suffering a single broken bone.

He was being treated at University College Hospital, central London, for
injuries to his back and chest.

A Torquay couple on a weekend break were also badly hurt and were receiving
treatment at St Thomas' Hospital.

Businessman Rolf Hobart, 38, was still in intensive care after suffering
extensive cuts to the face while his girlfriend Denise Hall, 30, was in a stable
condition after undergoing surgery also for facial injuries.

Police and security forces have concluded this was a failed attack at the heart
of British justice.

Intelligence experts have examined all likely targets in the area - including
Coutts, the Queen's bank - but have concluded it could only be the High Court of
Justice.

Police believe it was intended that the bomb should have been detonated outside
the High Court - probably when lawyers, journalists, and members of the public
were milling outside.

Detectives believe the device was being transported in the middle of the bus -
which was

nearing the end of its journey from Catford, south London, to Holborn.

Police are hoping to salvage video footage from on-board cameras which could
contain images of the bombers.

The bus carried two cameras, one filming passengers as they entered and another
upstairs on the front bulkhead, covering the whole of the top deck.

The electronic ticket machine could also offer police important evidence.

The IRA admitted responsibility for the explosion and expressed regret at the
loss of life and injury.

A spokesman, using a recognised code word, said: "The bomb which exploded last
night was one of our devices. We can say at this stage that we regret the loss
of life and injuries which occurred."

Security sources have said that the IRA were using the ceasefire to recruit,
train, and put in place new recruits - faces that could not be known to British
intelligence.

"In these circumstances," said an intelligence source, "the best we could hope
for is if they make a mistake."

That mistake may have come by the "own goal".

Commander John Grieve, head of the anti-terrorist branch, yesterday would not
discuss the security cordon thrown round the survivor but he did say he believed
the detonation of Sunday's bomb was unintentional.

He said: "The bus was not the intended target, we believe. It doesn't quite
match the normal pattern of events surrounding this kind of attack."

It is the third time in nine days the terrorists have struck the capital
following the ending of the IRA ceasefire.

One device at Canary Wharf killed two while another planted in the heart of the
West End was made safe by bomb disposal experts.

In Dublin, Irish Cabinet Ministers discussed the security situation for two
hours in the light of growing fears that Ulster loyalists may seek "revenge
strikes" in the republic for the London bomb incidents.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: The end of the road: cold daylight reveals the stark horror of the
damage to the number 171 bus after the bomb explosion in Aldwych.  Picture: SEAN
DEMPSEY/PA

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1996 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              228 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           February 20, 1996, Tuesday

Peace search goes on, Major pledges

BYLINE: COLIN BROWN Chief Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Page  2

LENGTH: 816 words


POLITICAL MOVES

The Prime Minister yesterday underlined his determination to press on with the
peace process, in spite of the London bombing campaign by the IRA. Downing
Street said there would be "no end to the search for peace in Northern Ireland".

John Major and the Irish Prime Minister, John Bruton, yesterday were working on
a formula to produce a firm date for all-party negotiations, with the hope of
persuading the IRA to resume the ceasefire.

Sir Patrick Mayhew, the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland, also appealed
to loyalist paramilitaries not to retaliate. Unionist MPs in London privately
warned that if they relaunched their own terrorist campaign, the loyalists would
strike in Dublin. "They probably already have people in Dublin. The quietest
place is going to be Belfast," said one MP.

Condemning the "disgraceful" acts of terrorism in London, the Prime Minister's
office said: "We want an immediate restoration of the ceasefire. We have made it
clear if we are pushed back, we will start again. There will be no end to the
search for peace."

After talks lasting almost two hours with Mr Major, John Hume, leader of the
nationalist SDLP, said one of the most crucial ways to achieve a return to the
ceasefire was "a fixed date for all-party talks".

The formula being thrashed out between London and Dublin could give Gerry Adams,
the Sinn Fein president, a date for all-party negotiations to take back to the
IRA to call off the return to violence.

It is likely to involve three stages: ground-setting talks between the
governments and the parties; elections in Northern Ireland to appoint
negotiating teams; and negotiations between the parties by a fixed date after
the elections.

The Prime Minister and Mr Bruton would expect all parties taking part in the
elections to support the six principles in the Mitchell report on
decommissioning, including renouncing violence. Ulster Unionist sources said the
elections could take place in April, with all-party talks a few days later.

Sinn Fein has refused to back the six principles. The Ulster Unionists, led by
David Trimble, and the Democratic Unionist Party, led by Ian Paisley, are likely
to refuse direct talks with Sinn Fein.

Mr Hume told Mr Major he did not support the plan for elections, and is holding
out for a referendum on the need for a peaceful all-party settlement. "The
objective must be a comprehensive settlement, involving all the parties," said
Mr Hume, who met Mr Adams at the weekend to discuss the chances of producing a
fresh peace initiative.

However, it was unclear last night whether Sinn Fein would accept the formula.
Mr Major will meet Mr Trimble today amid growing pessimism at Westminster over
the chances of reviving the peace process.

Some Tory MPs believe the ceasefire is now history, and are preparing again for
a long, hard slog to produce a Northern Ireland agreement, which Sinn Fein may
boycott. There are also doubts about the ability of Mr Adams to deliver another
IRA ceasefire.

The IRA bomb blasts in London are likely to delay the ending of special
procedures for interviewing terrorist suspects in Northern Ireland, the
Government made clear last night.

As the Commons debated moves to introduce silent video recordings of such
interviews in the province's holding centres, the Northern Ireland minister, Sir
John Wheeler, said the Government hoped soon to see an end to the centres. But,
referring to the Docklands bombing and last night's explosion on a London bus,
he told MPs: "Alas, I wish I could be sure that would be so in the current
circumstances."

Sir John said: "The Government looks forward to a time when all suspects will be
interviewed under normal criminal procedures. I say this despite the Provisional
IRA's announcement of 9 February ending the ceasefire , although I acknowledge
that, in the light of that announcement and the events that have followed, we
may not move to that position quite as soon as we might have hoped."

Meanwhile in WashingtonPresident Bill Clinton condemned the IRA bombing andurged
the people of Britain and Ireland to press for peace. "I condemn these acts of
violence in the strongest possible terms and hope those responsible are brought
swiftly to justice," he said.

"It is with great sadness that I once again express my condolences to the
victims of an IRA bomb in London.

"These cowardly acts of terrorism are the work of individuals determined to
thwart the will of the people of Northern Ireland."

The President had already condemned the IRA bomb attack on 9 February, which
broke a 17-month truce. Administration officials said Mr Clinton will not decide
soon whether to grant a US visa to Mr Adams, who wants to visit the US for St
Patrick's Day, but will delay a decision until the last minute, to see if the
violence continues.


LOAD-DATE: February 20, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1996 Independent Print Ltd

                              229 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           February 20, 1996, Tuesday

Clinton attacks terror 'cowards' attacked by Clint

SECTION: NEWS; Page  2

LENGTH: 241 words


Washington (AP) - President Bill Clinton yesterday condemned the IRA bus bombing
in London and urged the people of Britain and Ireland to press for peace despite
"these cowardly acts of terrorism".

"I condemn these acts of violence in the strongest possible terms and hope those
responsible are brought swiftly to justice," Mr Clinton said in a statement
issued by the White House.

"It is with great sadness that I once again express my condolences to the
victims of an IRA bomb in London," Mr Clinton said. "These cowardly acts of
terrorism are the work of individuals determined to thwart the will of the
people of Northern Ireland."

The President had condemned the IRA's bomb attack on 9 February in Docklands,
east London, which broke a 17-month truce.

"We must not let the men of the past ruin the future of the children in Northern
Ireland," Mr Clinton said in a written statement.

Meanwhile, administration officials said that Mr Clinton would not decide in the
immediate future whether to grant a United States visa to Gerry Adams, president
of the Sinn Fein. Mr Adams wants to visit the US for St Patrick's Day on 18
March, but Mr Clinton will delay his decision until the last minute to see if
the violence continues, officials said.

One aide, who did not wish to be identified, said that it would be hard to
imagine Mr Adams being granted a visa if the Northern Ireland ceasefire was
still in shambles.


LOAD-DATE: February 20, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1996 Independent Print Ltd

                              230 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                           February 20, 1996, Tuesday

London aims for business as usual in face of bombings

BYLINE: Philip Bassett, Marianne Curphey and Alasdair Murray

SECTION: Business

LENGTH: 1338 words


Philip Bassett, Marianne Curphey and Alasdair Murray on the implications of

the IRA's renewed campaign in the capital

London's economy vital to Britain's recovery is likely to be hit if there is a
new and protracted wave of terrorism. But in the wake of the Aldwych bus bomb
and the Docklands explosion, companies in the capital are determined it should
be business as usual. As police confirmed yesterday that Sunday night's bomb was
not intended to detonate on the bus, business was starting to adjust after the
third bomb attack in nine days to the return of terrorism to the capital after
the ending of the IRA's ceasefire.

Tourism in London has been hit hard by the South Quay bomb, just as it was when
the IRA bombed Heathrow airport in 1994 and during the Gulf War.  Richard Cail,
operations director of JAC Travel, one of the UK's biggest incoming tour
operators, says Americans are cancelling en masse: ''The US market is the most
volatile. Europeans have their own problems with Basque terrorists, and bombs in
city centres and on the Paris Metro. They are used to security measures and take
a visit to London in their stride. However, visits to Paris by US travellers
dipped deeply after reports of terrorist attacks there.''

He gives as an example the fact that yesterday a group of Americans on a study
tour asked to be transferred from London to Oxford for safety reasons.
Hoteliers are worried about trade. London has been enjoying some of the best
room occupancy rates for several years, but shares in Granada fell 20p to 718p
yesterday and those of Groupe Chez Gerard, the restaurant group, 11p to 217p
after analysts feared further bomb blasts might cause disruption to tourism.
London's retailers are loath to admit publicly that the bombing campaign is
hurting trade. Selfridges said: ''In the interests of security, we say as little
as possible about any effect on our numbers.'' But privately, stores admit that
the capital's most popular shopping areas were noticeably quieter last week
after the Docklands and Shaftesbury Avenue bombs, although they accept too that
the real test is yet to come. One retail analyst said: ''Tourists who are
already here will probably stay, but overseas and domestic visitors who had
planned a shopping and sightseeing trip to London will now be having second
thoughts.'' Economically, the South East is vital to Britain's overall
performance and London is the linchpin of the region. Looking at Britain's total
output, the South East's share of GDP amounts to more than a third. Within that,
London accounts for about 15 per cent of the UK total, almost as much of the
rest of the South East put together, and more than any other UK region. If
London's economy suffers a blow, so does Britain's.

Jane Calvert-Lee, director of the Confederation of British Industry's South East
region, said: ''This is not going to destroy business. Business will be
determined to get back up and running and keep back up and running, as normal.''
Such determination and confidence is widespread, and is likely to be voiced
strongly tomorrow when Tim Eggar, Industry Minister, and key business figures
address a government conference on manufacturing in London.  But widespread too
is a pragmatic assessment that a return of violence is bound to have an impact.
''I'm afraid it is,'' Neil Blake, research director of Business Strategies (BS),
the regional economic analyst, said. ''London is very important that's no
secret. The IRA have worked that out as well, and that's the reason for their
attacks.'' In the wake of the end of the ceasefire, BS yesterday substantially
revised downwards its forecasts for the Northern Ireland economy. The end of the
peace changed its ranking from heading the regional growth league table to
languishing towards its bottom.  London's economy will not be affected as
directly. But the markdown of Northern Ireland is mostly down to the impact of
the end of the ceasefire on tourism and inward investment both central to
business in London too and both highly sensitive to disruption of any kind,
particularly terrorism.

Even so, BS suggests that London's history since the mid-1970s of
underperforming the UK overall is likely to be reversed. Though its well
above-average growth in 1994 is unlikely to be sustained, the capital is set to
match the UK's overall growth levels, provided its peace is not shattered
permanently.

Fears are growing that London may lose business if it remains under terrorist
siege, but it is too early to judge what the full implications of the renewed
bombing campaign will be to the financial centre. The City of London Corporation
and London Docklands Development Corporation (LDDC) deny businesses are getting
cold feet. Eric Sorensen, chief executive of LLDC, said: ''Bombing is random and
there is no more reason to believe that Docklands is any more a target than
elsewhere in London. Everyone is obviously worried, but there are no signs that
any businesses are looking to relocate.''

While the psychological fear of bombing is important, the daily difficulties of
increased security are having a more immediate economic effect. Since the
reintroduction of the full City security cordon, traffic frequently comes to
standstill in much of the Square Mile. A precautionary cordon has also been set
up around the Docklands. The cost of insurance against bomb damage is also set
to rise. The South Quay attack caused damage above the Pounds 75 million level.
Businesses also face the increased expense of establishing contingency plans to
deal with an emergency. Many put arrangements in place for emergency relocation
after attacks in the 1990s. But the ending of the ceasefire has forced many
businesses to review and update arrangements.

The ultimate cost to London is not the effects of damage or transport chaos.  It
is the blow to the City's credibility as a secure financial centre.  Businesses
without a London presence will need a lot of persuading that the City's benefits
outweigh the threat to life and property and other difficulties of relocating to
a place once more suffering a terrorist campaign.

Inward investment is not as central to London as it is to other regions. In
1994-95, according to the Government's Invest in Britain Bureau, the South East
overall accounted for about 9 per cent of the inward investment projects though
the economic importance of the area is underlined by the fact that of the jobs
created and safeguarded by such new inward investment, the region accounted for
a fifth of the total.

Unlike, say the North East, London is not a key location for incoming
manufacturers. Banks flooded into the City in the 1980s, but technological
change means that backroom bank jobs are disappearing while specialised bank
service jobs are increasing, though these are more likely to be hit by a rise in
terrorism.

The London First Centre, London's inward investment agency, said that most
inquiries were now coming from companies looking to set up world or European
headquarters in London. Sixty per cent of inquiries are from the US, 25 per cent
from the Far East, and 15 per cent from the rest of Europe.

John Cox, the centre's chief executive, said that if terrorist attacks became
frequent, investment plans might have to be reassessed. But he said there was no
sign of that yet. Investors are also comforted by London's long experience in
dealing with security issues.

Business leaders in London are working hard to reassure tourists, shoppers and
companies thinking of setting up in London, or of moving from it. They do not
want to give in to IRA pressure and are sceptical about even discussing it much,
for fear of helping to achieve the effects the terrorists are seeking. As Mr Cox
puts it: ''Nothing of this kind helps. But on this occasion, the business
community remains very positive, and very confident and very determined.''

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1996 Times Newspapers Limited

                              231 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                          February 21, 1996, Wednesday

LONELIEST WALK IN THE WORLD;
100YDS AWAY . . IF BOMB GOES OFF NOW I'M IN TROUBLE. 25YDS AND IT'S NASTY . .
5YDS I'M DEAD;
PETER GURNEY'S LIFE AS A BOMB DISPOSAL EXPERT

BYLINE: Don Mackay

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1387 words


IT'S the most dangerous walk on the planet - with disaster lurking at every
step.

All you can hear is your own pounding heart as you inch forward, struggling to
master your fear of being maimed or killed.

You need nerves of steel and an ice-cool head to deal with a suspected IRA bomb.

Peter Gurney has both - and he knows exactly what the bomb-disposal experts
faced when a carrier-bag device was planted in London's Covent Garden a few days
ago.

Peter is one of Britain's most highly-decorated bomb-fixers. He was head of
Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist explosives section until 1991 and won the George
Medal twice. But death is not the biggest fear of the UXB man - or Explosive
Ordnance Disposal Officer, to give him his official name. It is being left with
crippling injuries.

"What worries you is the long walk from the cordon - about 150 yards normally,"
says Peter. "As you walk, you calculate your injuries: '125 yards - no problem;
100 yards - I'll be blown off my feet; 75 yards - I'll have some nasty cuts; 50
yards - it's not so good; 25 yards - it's nasty.'

BUT once you are on top of the bomb, it doesn't matter. Because you know you'll
be killed outright."

Peter first took that walk when he donned his heavy protective suit to disarm a
bomb at the Greek embassy in London. In his biography, Braver Men Walk Away, he
says: "The closing of the helmet's visor is like the shutting of a door on the
familiar, everyday world.

"You are in an altogether different environment, a place where you can only see
straight ahead, and only hear muffled noises from the world beyond.  The sense
of isolation is acute.

"As you draw nearer to the bomb or suspect device, thoughts begin to churn.  You
find yourself calculating the effects of the explosion, subconsciously mapping
out imaginary boundary lines between zones of relative safety, medium risk, high
risk and probable fatality.

"You can never know the precise nature of the threat until you are on top of the
bomb - at which point there's no sense in bothering anyway.

"To be close enough to be maimed, but too far away to be killed, is the most
deeply-rooted horror of all. You know what a bomb can do - how its blast can
blind, deafen and tear away human limbs.

"To me, death is infinitely preferable to being stretchered away to hospital ...
there to waken in permanent darkness, knowing I will never walk, hear or see
again.

"You know what is going through your mind ... but what was in the mind of the
bomb-maker and the bomber? Is it all it seems, or does a secret trap await?

"But finally you are there. You stop, compose yourself, steady your breathing.
You gather all the information the bomb will yield up without touching it.  Then
you make the decision on your line of attack."

PETER adds: "Somebody once said the first cut is the deepest. A bomb disposal
operative could also add the first cut is sometimes the last."

He once had to choke back his own fears as the dangers were hammered home
personally. His close pal Ken Howarth was killed in 1981 as he tried to defuse a
bomb in London's Oxford Street. Peter had to put aside his own emotions to get
to a second bomb and disarm several other IRA devices.

Luckily, the recent Covent Garden bomb could be defused using a remote
-controlled tractor device known as The Disruptor.

But some bombs are so tricky that only the human hand is sensitive enough to
disarm them.

Ex-Army bomb expert Kevin Callaghan says: "You know that lives may be at stake.
But you are the only one inside that safety cordon. You are on your own."

Kevin - who won the George Medal after defusing 33 bombs in Ulster in one tour
of duty and has also been awarded the Queen's Gallantry Medal - knows the
responsibility weighs a lot more on the bomb-fixer's shoulders than the heavy
steel-plated suit he wears.

The bulky suit is made from reinforced Kevlar protective material and weighs
120lbs.

But Kevin, 52, says: "It is only after the bomb has been made safe that the
weight of the suit hits you.

"That's because your adrenalin drops so quickly. You feel totally washed out.

"That protective suit might be heavy, but I have learnt to run pretty quickly in
it.

"With its back plate flapping, I looked like a turtle on its hind legs.

"But I was the fastest turtle in the world."

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FEARS: Peter Gurney

                            Copyright 1996 MGN Ltd.

                              232 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               February 21, 1996

NEW QUESTIONS OVER PM'S IRELAND PLOYS;
End of ceasefire prompts second look at Mitchell report tactics * Dublin, SDLP
and IRA believe Britain should have leaned on Unionists

BYLINE: Michael White And Patrick Wintour

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1134 words


WHEN John Hume, the Social Democratic and Labour Party leader, accused John
Major of playing politics with the Northern Ireland peace process as the Commons
discussed the Mitchell commission's report, there were angry cries of
disapproval.

Four weeks and three IRA bombs later the question is being asked again in a much
harsher political climate among policy makers in London, Dublin and Washington
who do not share Sinn Fein's charges of British duplicity to justify the
resumption of the IRA's bloody bombing campaign. Most of the "if only"
speculation focuses on Mr Major's sharp change of emphasis on January 24 when he
stressed elections rather than Senator George Mitchell's "six principles" as the
key to all-party talks.

Downing Street's tactics infuriated nationalists like Mr Hume and caught Dublin
off guard. When RTE's London correspondent predicted the tactic on Dublin's
lunchtime TV news the foreign minister Dick Spring had appeared on the programme
to deny it.

At 1.20pm Mr Major's press secretary Chris Meyer took another call from his
Dublin counterpart, Sean Kenny, and, Irish sources say, assured him Mr Major
would make no proposals on elections. Just before Mr Bruton was due to go to the
Dail at 2.20 the Major text arrived. Mr Bruton's people rang to tell Downing
Street it was unacceptable. The British said it was too late.

Real signs of irreconcilable differences emerged soon after the IRA ceasefire of
August 1994. In a speech in Belfast on October 21 Mr Major said: "Peace cannot
be assured finally until the paramilitaries on both sides hand in their
weapons."

But there was no mention of decommissioning in 1993 - not even the Unionists had
been that emphatic. Dublin increasingly distanced itself from the demand.
Meanwhile security restrictions were scaled down, the broadcasting ban lifted.
In December NIO officials met Sinn Fein at Stormont.

Yet the British position on a start to the handover of arms hardened to what, by
May 1995, became the "Washington three" conditions - agreement in principle on
methods for a handover, plus a token start. British ministers met the Sinn Fein
leaders Gerry Adams and Martin McGuinness in the summer, but after a year of
peace all-party talks had not started.

If NIO ministers and officials doubted the tactics they gave no signal. "We are
not seeking the surrender of the IRA, we are not looking for victory or defeat.
We are looking for the strategy of a credible and verifiable process," NIO
minister Michael Ancram said in September. Sinn Fein warned John Bruton's
emissaries there would be "blood on the streets" if he met John Major at their
scheduled summit and agreed a "twin-track" process: decommissioning and talks.

He cancelled, and London gritted its teeth and did not complain. It took the
deadline of Bill Clinton's visit to put the twin-track back on course with the
help of Senator Mitchell's three-man team.

But time was running out. In September a Conservative ex-minister was told by
Sinn Fein sources: "We're going back to bombing the mainland." Days before the
prophecy finally came true, senior British ministers were insisting the peace
would hold. Privately at least, one senior Tory was warning that the IRA would
find itself quickly isolated if it bombed again.  "We must call their bluff."

In December Sinn Fein's president, Mitchell McLoughlin, accused Britain of
spoiling for a fight.

What unites Dublin, the SDLP and the IRA is the belief that "the Brits" can
deliver the Unionists.

It is one of several fundamental misconceptions which may have doomed the peace
process from the start. But tactics and misjudgment have also played their part.

* Bernard Devlin - A Correction: Bernard Devlin, aged 40, a barrister who was
working in the Inner Temple when the IRA bomb exploded on Sunday night, had
comments incorrectly attributed to him in Monday's issue. He said only: "It was
like loud thunder and at first I thought that's all it was." Two other sentences
attributed to him on pages one and three were those of other bystanders. The
Guardian apologises for its errors.

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              233 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               February 21, 1996

COMMENTARY: ELEMENTS OF RISK YOU CAN BANK ON

BYLINE: Francine Stock

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGE; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1600 words


WHAT is an acceptable risk? The man who supervises Britain's banks from
Threadneedle Street, Brian Quinn, retires next week.  On the anniversary of the
collapse of Barings, after a career that also spanned Johnson Matthey and BCCI,
his valedictory message is that there is no guarantee it won't happen again. A
guarantee is not something a regulator can offer. Indeed, he says it is an
"absolutely fundamental part of an open, free-market economy that people are
free to make choices as to where they put their money . . . with the possibility
that it might lead to the risk of loss". The kind of deposit insurance that
Britain and other developed economies have is "an explicit recognition that
banks will go bust".

Explicit to the regulators maybe, but to most investors that risk appears as
remote as the high-rolling speculation of Gordon Gekko in the film Wall Street.
Is it acceptable that a regulator says, "Look, the system's not perfect but our
track record is a lot better than those of the Germans, or the Japanese"?
Quinn's answer is direct. It is, he says, fundamentally a political question.
You can have a system with more of the risk taken out of it - but the consumer,
whether institution or individual, will not have the choice of financial
products. In other words, the personal-finance sections of the weekend
newspapers would not be popping with funds and mortgages and savings plans of
baroque complexity.

Choice and risk are inevitable bedfellows. What is difficult for late-20th
-century man and woman is that, as we make choices, we have both the illusion of
control and the fear of losing it. The consideration of risk is, in many ways, a
symptom of a society's success in overcoming hazards. Some years ago, the
British Medical Association published a guide, Living With Risk, which set out a
series of league tables of various threats. It identified the increasing popular
nervousness caused by scientific progress, and the paradox that as scientists
make more discoveries that may prolong and enhance our lives, so we fear the
mysterious toll that science may take on our wellbeing. The Enlightenment's
legacy is a belief in progress, but a resentment of the cost of progress.

The BMA guide is studded with comparisons. A worker in the radiation industry
has a 1 in 57,000 chance of dying from it in any one year. But by the same
calculation, the death rate from all natural causes at age 40 is 1 in 850. For
anyone of any age who smokes 30 cigarettes a day, the risk rises to 1 in 200. It
isn't difficult to read in many of these catalogues a sturdy defence of the
world of science and an implicit shifting of responsibility to the individual.
But it does make compelling reading. Fatal accidents? Nearly twice as likely in
the home as at work. Death from violence or poisoning? Twice as likely as a
fatal road accident, 33 times more probable than murder.

But even with those odds, it could be you, or me. What affects the way we live
our lives is the perception of risk, and, in the 1990s, risk seems particularly
alarming, whether to health or freedom. In some cases, the fear is
straightforward, visceral, the immediate preservation of life. Over the past 10
days, since the IRA blast at South Quay, many people have begun their journey
into work with a video loop of imagined panic and horror running in their
brains. With each successive package defused or detonated, the loop speeds up.
The prospect of a terrorist attack on a Tube, a train or a bus may not drive
individuals to put their jobs in jeopardy by shunning public places; but it may
deter them from window-shopping on a Saturday afternoon or a trip up West in the
evening. For the vast majority who will never come close to a terrorist
incident, the quality of their lives is a little changed, as they plug this new
co -ordinate into the daily computations of which actions to take and when.

We can now expect the seasonal flight of American tourists from Europe at the
first rumble of a Semtex explosion. It might be uncharitable to imagine many of
them racing, for consolation over the cancelled trip, to the freezer and the
quart pot of fudge-ripple cookie-dough heart-stopper ice-cream. But the risks of
obesity are seen, rightly or wrongly, as those that the individual can control.
The relatively small risk of terrorism is not.

Like those images of old ladies eloquently unconscious on kitchen floors that
people the back pages of colour supplements, many companies play, through
advertising, on our insecurities and misconceptions about risk. They foster the
illusion that it is possible entirely to control life's more unpleasant events
by the purchase of an alarm or an income-protection policy or a school-fees
plan.

The desire for control fuels the much-remarked flight of the middle classes from
the welfare state and into the private sector. For some, the greater risk is now
perceived as lying within a state system that is under-funded and
over-stretched.  Better, they conclude, to put their trust in a straightforward
money-for -product deal, whether for pension or education or health, since he or
she who pays the piper calls the tune. Or thinks that they do. It brings the
argument full circle to say if the level of risk in a situation appears
unacceptable, choosing an alternative also carries the not inconsiderable risk
that the choice is the wrong one. But only the very small print will say so.

There are no guarantees. You cannot always buy your way out of trouble. You can
do everything "right" and still be unlucky.  There is no government that can
deliver security and prosperity to all. There will always be a risk. But the
recognition of all this need not mean grim acceptance, like a Thomas Hardy
character persecuted by malign Fates.

Risk is an unavoidable facet of modern life, but it's a luxury that we can
ponder it. The irony is that those things over which we already have most
control because we make choices - diet, smoking, drugs and alcohol, use of cars,
savings and investments - appear the least threatening, but carry the most risk.

For decades, politicians have known that these risks were acceptable to the
electorate. Now, with the battle over road developments, with the food lobby,
with the environmental debate, and with the antagonism towards the City, they
may not be so sure.

Will Hutton is away

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              234 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               February 21, 1996

Police uncover IRA bomb factory

BYLINE: By James Mckillop

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 486 words


DETECTIVES yesterday uncovered an IRA bomb-making factory in south London as the
hunt to identify terrorist cells in mainland Britain intensified.

Sources in Ireland, meanwhile, said the "own goal" bomber who died in the
Aldwych bus blast on Sunday was Edward O'Brien from Gorey, Wexford, who was in
his early 20s.

O'Brien, once a noted Gaelic football player, left the town about two years ago
after losing his job. Reports said he once worked in Glasgow.

In London, a series of dawn raids on addresses followed the blast in which the
bomber died on a bus approaching the Royal Courts of Justice in the Strand.

A large amount of Semtex explosive and other bomb-making materials were
uncovered in the raids which are understood to follow investigations into the
bank accounts of O'Brien.

Security forces and the police have united in the biggest operation seen in this
country to weed out IRA terrorist cells that may have been planted in Britain
over the past 17 months. It has been suggested there could be six IRA sleeper
cells awaiting orders.

Yesterday's raids were concentrated on addresses just off the M25 motorway in
south London. Bomb-making equipment uncovered included wiring, batteries, and
timers were found at one location.

The "own goal" bombing has provided police with the breakthrough they were
looking for in the search for what they now consider to be a new generation of
IRA bombers.

Their orders are believed to come from the IRA's southern

command based in the Republic of Ireland.

Two people, who had been arrested in the wake of Sunday's bombing and held at
Paddington Green, were released yesterday. No proceedings will be taken against
them.

Nevertheless, police believe that the dead bomber did have accomplices who fled
the scene.

The discovery of the bomb-making equipment has left Scotland Yard detectives in
little doubt that London would have faced a series of attacks had the bomb
carrier not died in the bus blast.

Sources also made it clear that this particular cell was not involved in the
Canary Wharf explosion which broke the IRA ceasefire.

The dead bomber had travelled from south London on board a 171 London Transport
bus. Another Irishman on board the vehicle was immediately suspected as being an
accomplice but further investigations revealed that Brendan Woolhead, 33,
suffering from a fractured skull and pelvic injuries in St Thomas' Hospital,
London, was an innocent man who happened to be on a bus at the wrong time.

A nurse from the Western Isles told last night how she tried to board the bus in
Aldwych seconds before it was destroyed in the explosion. Betty Martin, who is
from Tarbert, Harris, was slightly injured by the flying debris.

She said of the bomb's aftermath: "All my years of nursing did not prepare me
for that. I realised I had almost died and I went to bits. I was a mess."

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: An Aldywch bomb victim, identified by his girlfriend as Dubliner
Brendan Woolhead, arrives at St Thomas's Hospital.  Picture: SIMON
KREITEM/Reuter

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1996 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              235 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Standard (London)

                               February 22, 1996

BRICKBATS FOR MAJOR AS US PRESS BACKS THE SINN FEIN

BYLINE: Laurette Ziemer

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1000 words



MANY Americans are being led to believe the latest round of IRA atrocities is
John Major's fault, by newspaper editorials biased towards the terrorists'
"cause".

The attacks on Mr Major are particularly strong in New York, Boston and
Philadelphia, the heartland of Irish-America where most IRA fund-raising takes
place, though, since the bombings in Oklahoma and at New York's World Trade
Centre, editorials and columnists have felt obliged to condemn the violence.

The New York Times, widely considered a bastion of qality journalism, said:
"Prime Minister John Major of Britain should reconsider his approach to
arranging all-party peace talks. He has been playing a dangerous game of
brinkmanship with the paramilitary groups, gambling that they would not return
to violence and insisting unrealistically that the IRA hand over some of its
weapons before such talks could begin.

"Mr Major allowed the ceasefire to continue for 18 months with no further
progress toward the talks. He seemed not to understand that Mr Adams offered a
hope for peace, and needed to be able to show his followers some concrete
advantage in putting down their guns."

The Nation, a weekly similar to The Economist, said: "The bombing was an
indefensible military response to the corruption and recklessness of a
politician who was willing to torpedo peace to keep his job."

A report in the New York Post said: "Many Irish-Americans blamed British Prime
Minister John Major for refusing to drop his long-standing objection to the
participation of the IRA's political wing, Sinn Fein, in peace talks.

'It was wrong to break the ceasefire, but it was also wrong of the British
Government to play with fire for so long,' said Representative Peter King of
Long Island. 'It is time for the British Government to realise that their
inaction is making this kind of tragedy inevitable. Gerry Adams is not
Superman.'"

New York Daily News columnist John Dearie said: "Prime Minister John Major
should stop talking about peace talks and start talking peace.

Irish-Americans should give their vocal support to Sinn Fein's Gerry Adams for
his continued pursuit of a peaceful, democratic policy, an act of great
courage."

The Philadelphia Inquirer laid the blame squarely at Mr Major's door:
"Unfortunately, Mr Major has played a significant role in squandering the
precious peace ... he cynically stepped away from peace by imposing a new
precondition to talks - elections.

"This, in a province where the Protestant unionists (who first touted the idea)
have long used their numericl advantage over the Catholic minority. Mr Major
thus sent a powerful message that he cared less about peace than he did about
political survival ... His scant three-member majority in Parliament would
vanish without support from nine unionist deputies. The IRA sent back a strong
message that its quarrel was with him by bombing a target in England."

The Washington Post said: "If the bombing was indeed the work of the IRA, it
would reinforce the growing impression in Washington and Dublin that Major, by
insisting that peace negotiators be elected in Northern Ireland, had sabotaged
two years of intense effort with a huge political miscalculation that could
result in a return to the violence that plagued the United Kingdom for a
quarter-century."

The San Francisco Chronicle said: "It is a testament to tragic political
irresponsibility, especially on the part of British Prime Minister John Major,
who has put one obstacle after another in the way of progress.

"Major's latest demand, that elections be held in Northern Ireland to create an
assembly that would determine who participates in the talks, is a sure-fire
recipe for political chaos and a republican boycott."


LOAD-DATE: February 26, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: (1)HOME FROM HOME: SUPPORTERS OF THE IRA MARCH IN NEW YORK (2)A

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1996 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              236 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               February 22, 1996

NEWS IN BRIEF: FIRE CUTS 'POSE BOMB RISK'

BYLINE: Seumas Milne

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 214 words


CUTS in the fire service at a time when the IRA has renewed its bombing campaign
in Britain will put lives at risk, a union leader warned yesterday, as it
emerged that the London Fire Authority is likely to scale back its cost-saving
programme today.

The authority's controlling Labour group is to propose cutting up to 350 jobs
and 12 engines instead of the 650 jobs and 22 appliances first suggested. Four
threatened stations will now be retained. Ken Cameron, general secretary of the
Fire Brigades Union, said that six of the 10 appliances first on the scene of
the Canary Wharf bomb attack would still be earmarked to be scrapped. Cuts are
being made because of the local authority grant settlement last November.
Scotland, Tyne and Wear, Surrey and Essex face severe reductions. - Seumas Milne

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              237 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               February 22, 1996

EU SEVEN DEFUSE EXTRADITION ROW

BYLINE: John Palmer In Brussels

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FOREIGN PAGE; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 827 words


SEVEN European Union countries defused a crisis yesterday which had threatened
their plans to abolish internal border controls.

An emergency meeting of justice ministers from the seven Schengen countries -
France, Germany, Belgium, Holland, Luxembourg, Portugal and Spain - agreed to
press the EU to improve co-operation among its member states on extradition,
following a Belgian court's refusal last week to extradite two suspected Basque
terrorists to Spain.

The court's decision to free the two led to a diplomatic row between Brussels
and Madrid and came within days of the assassination by the Basque terrorist
organisation ETA of a leading Spanish constitutional court judge.

The Belgian court ruled that the Spanish authorities had not proved any direct
connection between the two suspects and terrorism. Madrid responded by
threatening to suspend all judicial co-operation with Belgium, although both
countries are members of the Schengen agreement and there are about 80 other
extradition cases under consideration.

After yesterday's meeting of the justice ministers in The Hague, the Spanish
secretary for justice, Teresa Fernandez, said Spain would not now block
co-operation with Belgium on extradition. She also dismissed suggestions that
Spain would quit the Schengen pact.

The Dutch justice secretary, Michiel Patijn, told a press conference: "We have
agreed to intensify co-operation between the seven Schengen partners . . . on
extradition. We have also agreed to press the European Union as a whole to adopt
a convention tightening extradition procedures."

The row was the latest in a succession of problems frustrating attempts to sweep
away frontier controls among the Schengen countries. France is refusing to lift
some remaining border controls, because it is dissatisfied with liberal Dutch
regulations governing traffic in soft drugs.

Last summer France delayed the scrapping of land border controls after terrorist
incidents attributed to Algerian Islamic fundamentalists. However the seven
countries have now all dropped passport checks on internal flights within the
Schengen area.

Only last week a "drugs summit" between five of the Schengen states was called
off because of disagreements over whether further measures were needed to stem
cross-border traffic.  Although Italy, Greece and the Nordic countries plan to
join the Schengen agreement, Britain and Ireland insist on retaining border
controls.

The European Commission has warned that until the EU's internal borders are
swept away, its citizens will not enjoy the full benefits of the single market.
However, it will not be easy to harmonise rules governing extradition in
politically sensitive cases, as a series of rows in the past 25 years between
Britain and Ireland over cases involving alleged IRA members has shown.

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              238 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               February 23, 1996

Passport anachronism EU crosses Rubicon of border-free travel

SECTION: Pg. 24

LENGTH: 597 words


SOON it will be a year since the European Union got serious about removing
internal borders and the need for its citizens to carry passports. To say that
this radical and perhaps over-ambitious exercise has been troubled is to put it
mildly.

The workings of the Schengen Accord, named after the Luxembourg town in which it
was drawn up, have proved an embarrassment to the EU by causing more internal
division than almost any other practical demonstration of the new European
comity in recent times.

No-one disputes the ideal is noble. Those who cherish the right of the
individual to free movement and salute the principles of internationalism as a
force for good have never accepted the indispensability of a passport.

Even the British in their great days of Empire, when foreign jobsworths were
commanded in imperious terms to remove all let and hindrance to the bearer on
his travels, enjoyed the fun of those rather ridiculous documents.

Nowadays the passport, long reduced to a humble permit, is often abused as a
substitute identity card. It causes tedious queues at border posts.

In the wrong hands it causes crime. Even its worth as a sentimental record of
almost-forgotten journeys to far-off places is devalued because immigration
officers never seem to want to stamp the thing any more.

No, the passport is an anachronism and the sooner it is gone for ever the
happier and more efficient the world will be. After all, we are all citizens of
that world, are we not, who should be entitled to move freely - except, of
course, when we are Basque terrorists in Belgium, or IRA active service units in
London, or drug smugglers from Netherlands bound for Paris, or the Mafia
spreading east from Italy.

The EU is to be commended for its boldness in easing the workings of the single
market and pursuing the goal of a border-free Europe. But its ability to live up
to the ideal has brought it, sadly, back into the real world where governments
bicker when freedom is abused or authority defied.

Most recently the Spanish watched in fury as Belgium failed to grant a request
for the extradition to Madrid of Basque terrorists. The French reimposed
controls at their borders with the Netherlands in protest at the advantage taken
by drug pushers whose trade has prospered because of the liberal Dutch attitude
to narcotics.

France, like the UK, has also had to worry about terrorism, as the recent
attacks by religious fanatics in French cities have testified.

The Belgians, being Belgian, were slow to dismantle the bureaucracy which
passports encouraged, not least because jobs were at stake. Britain, ever out of
step in Europe, threw up its hands in horror at the whole idea as the Government
seized on Schengen as a useful means of whipping up Euroscepticism.

The hypocrisy of this can be seen daily at British airports where it is common
for the only request for a passenger's passport to come from an airline
stewardess while immigration desks go unmanned.

Those who support the idea of a Europe without internal borders can take heart.
For all its birth pangs and inevitable disputes the work of making travel easier
for Europeans is succeeding.

Most of the seven Schengen founder states are slowly resolving their
differences, especially in the matter of resisting terrorism, although there are
still obstacles much more awkward than immigration booths to be removed.

Eventually, other states will sign Schengen and, with luck, the Europe of the
third millennium will be a better, closer, and happier place.

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1996 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              239 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          February 24, 1996, Saturday

'Ring of steel' around City set to tighten; Security zone: Potential IRA targets
given added protection as peace efforts stall again

BYLINE: JASON BENNETTO and JOHN RENTOUL

SECTION: NEWS; Page  4

LENGTH: 490 words


JASON BENNETTO

and JOHN RENTOUL

The City of London is planning to enlarge its "ring of steel" security zone to
include the Old Bailey and St Paul's Cathedral, in response to the new IRA
bombing campaign, it emerged yesterday.

Security is also being stepped up at the Canary Wharf tower, Britain's tallest
building, after the massive Docklands explosion which first shattered the
ceasefire.

The security cordon around the heart of the city's financial heart could be
enlarged within weeks to take in another 40,000 workers if proposals by the City
Corporation, the local authority, are backed by businesses, London Transport and
neighbouring boroughs.

The Corporation's pounds 1m proposal to extend traffic restrictions to the west
and north-west is backed by the City of London Police. Under the scheme, which
was first proposed a year ago, routes will be restricted and diverted into two
roads with police checkpoints.

The cordon was established in 1993, after the Bishopsgate bombing and, since the
South Quay blast two weeks ago, City police have been manning checkpoints 24
hours a day. Armed police officers have also been on patrol.

The plan would extend the cordon to cover 75 per cent of the City, including
Bart's hospital and the Barbican. The Old Bailey, which was the target of an IRA
bomb in the early 1970s, will also come into the security zone for the first
time.

Its perimeter would run along Farringdon and New Bridge streets in the west, and
West Smithfield, Beech and Chiswell streets in the north, with entry points at
Queen Victoria Street, Holborn Viaduct, Aldersgate Street, Moorgate, and - for
buses, coaches, taxis and bicycles - Ludgate Hill.

Meanwhile, government efforts to get the Northern Ireland peace process back on
track suffered a setback during a day of "talks about talks" yesterday, when
John Hume, leader of the Nationalist SDLP, emphatically ruled out any plan which
included proposals for elections.

John Major and the Irish Prime Minister, John Bruton, are believed to be
discussing the possibility of combining several ideas for breaking the deadlock,
including the Unionist plan for Northern Ireland elections to a peace
convention, the SDLP idea for a referendum and the Irish proposal for
preliminary all-party talks.

Mr Major talked on the telephone to Mr Bruton yesterday, and intends to have a
summit meeting with him next week. He also spoke to the US President, Bill
Clinton, and a spokeswoman said the President had expressed his "support for the
efforts of the British and Irish governments to move through elections to
all-party talks". She would not confirm that they discussed the question of a US
visa for the Sinn Fein President, Gerry Adams.

The former US Senator, George Mitchell, who led an international mediation
effort, said the question of the renewal of Mr Adams's visa would probably not
be decided until next month.


LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1996 Independent Print Ltd

                              240 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           February 25, 1996, Sunday

Clinton puts St Patrick's Day party on hold

BYLINE: John Carlin in Washington

SECTION: NEWS; Page  TI

LENGTH: 332 words


THE Clinton administration has suspended plans for a St Patrick's Day
celebration at the White House next month, following the resumption of the IRA
bombing campaign in Britain.

It has long been traditional for the US President to receive the Irish prime
minister in Washington on 17 March, but under President Clinton the event has
been upgraded to reflect the strong Irish-American role in promoting the
Northern Ireland peace process.

Last year Clinton hosted a "peace" party attended not only by John Bruton, the
Irish prime minister, but also by John Hume, the SDLP leader, Gary McMichael of
the loyalist Ulster Democratic Party and Gerry Adams, Sinn Fein's president.

This year, according to diplomatic sources, plans for a repeat performance have
been put on hold pending the outcome of efforts to restore the ceasefire.

A White House spokesman confirmed on Friday that whereas traditionally such an
event would be expected to go ahead, nothing had been scheduled.  The doubts
over the party are linked to the broader question of whether the White House
will grant Mr Adams's request, made on 7 February, for the renewal of his
America visa. This is now opposed by leading Irish- American senators, even
though the Sinn Fein leader still commands strong respect among the 40 million
Irish-American community.

The White House spokesman, Mike McCurry, said: "We hope the peace process will
be on track at the time Mr Adams proposes to visit." But he added that this was
not necessarily a precondition of renewing the visa.

n The head of Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist squad last night warned of the
"imminent" danger of further IRA attacks.

Commander John Grieve said: "Following the discovery of significant quantities
of bomb-making material and detailed documentation at George Lane, Lewisham, we
are warning of the possibility of imminent attacks by the provisional IRA on the
mainland."

Further report, page 2

What next for Ulster, page 10


LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1996 Independent Print Ltd

                              241 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                           February 25, 1996, Sunday

N IRELAND REVIVAL HANGS IN BALANCE

BYLINE: Joanna Walters

SECTION: THE OBSERVER BUSINESS PAGE; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 747 words


THE IRA's return to violence threatens thousands of new jobs and inward
investment in Northern Ireland and could reverse its status as the UK's fastest-
growing economic region.

Northern Ireland Economy Minister Baroness Denton of Wakefield said the
terrorist incidents in London, which this month ended the 17-month ceasefire,
had not killed business optimism in the region.

But she admitted that the prospect of sustaining rapid economic development and
fresh investment was 'in the balance'.

'Not one' of the inward investment projects, which hold the prospect of 2,000
new jobs over the next two years, has been lost since the ceasefire ended, the
Minister told the Observer.  'We have not lost any inward investment. It has not
quite put things in limbo.  Right now if you asked for a bottom-line signature
you would not get it - but it is still there to be got,' she said. Details of
projects are not released until they are confirmed.

But the pounds 280m of inward investment projects, which will create 4,000 jobs,
that have been confirmed since last April are 'signed, sealed, delivered',
according to the Northern Ireland Office.  These include a pounds 142m expansion
by French car accessories company Montupet in its factory at the old DeLorean
premises in west Belfast.

And a new investor, Stream International of the US, is bringing a computer
services set-up and 500 new jobs to Londonderry.  Sainsbury and Tesco, not
subject to the same planning restrictions as on mainland Britain, plan
out-of-town superstore investments of more than pounds 100m. But with 10,000
people off the dole in the province since the ceasefire and hopes for more this
year, the Minister said she felt revival efforts had taken 'two steps forward
and one step back'.

Even during the ceasefire, investment did not flood into Northern Ireland
because the cautious international businesses community wanted to see a
permanent peace settlement. While that was still uncertain, companies such as
Siemens and Samsung preferred to take the grants in the north-east of England.
What inward investment plans there are have been hard won and under discussion
since before the ceasefire began - and, therefore, do not shy at the first bomb.
How many bombs it takes to scare off an investor is the multi-million-pound
question for the Northern Ireland economy.

Just three days before the Docklands bomb, a Confederation of British Industry
survey showed Northern Ireland with declining unemployment, increased
manufacturing output, export orders and general business optimism.

A significant strengthening of the economy had already begun well before the
ceasefire was declared in August 1994.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              242 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                           February 25, 1996, Sunday

MORE BOMBS ON THE WAY, YARD WARNS;
SCOTLAND YARD WARN OF MORE IRA BOMBS

BYLINE: Chris Murphy

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 707 words


BRITAIN was put on a major terrorist alert yesterday as fears grew that IRA
bombers are searching for more targets.

The grim warning came from John Grieve, commander of Scotland Yard's Anti -
Terrorist Squad.

He said further IRA attacks on the mainland are likely after it was revealed
that the house in Lewisham, South-East London, used by bus bomber Edward O'Brien
was a nightmare waiting to happen.

Bomb-making equipment was found buried in the garden and under floorboards.

"Following the discovery, we are warning of the possibility of imminent attacks
by the Provisional IRA on the mainland," said Mr Grieve.

David Venness, the Yard's Assistant Commissioner for Special Operations, said:
"Despite the recent activity of the anti-terrorist branch we would encourage
communities to remain watchful for further criminal outrages which may happen
without warning."

The end of the ceasefire was marked by the London Docklands bomb two weeks ago.
Then boy-bomber O'Brien was killed last week when his device exploded on a bus
in London's Aldwych as he travelled to a mystery target.

There was a chilling warning that top British politicians will become IRA
targets if the ceasefire is not quickly restored.

A death list was drawn up last week by Provo chiefs. But gunmen in London and
Belfast have been ordered to hold fire pending moves to revive the peace
process.

Ulster Secretary Sir Patrick Mayhew hinted yesterday that Government talks with
Sinn Fein could be resumed shortly.

In a morale-boosting visit to Belfast, he said the two sides could meet again
quickly if the IRA called off its attacks.

"Yes, the peace process can be salvaged. I can't be sure but I believe it can,"
he said.

It was revealed last night that IRA bomb victim Denise Hall is a former beauty
queen.

The 30-year-old, who was scarred for life in the Aldwych bus blast, was a
finalist in the Miss Torbay contest.

One of the judges said yesterday: "She was a lovely girl. It's awful to think
she suffered injuries to that pretty face."

Denise, from Torquay, is still recovering in hospital where her fiance Rolf
Hobart, 30, is in a serious condition.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SCARRED: Ex-beauty queen Denise

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 1996 MGN Ltd.

                              243 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                           February 26, 1996, Monday

ARMED GUARD ORDER FOR DI;
IRA THREAT TO ROYALS;
PRINCESS DIANA AND FERGIE PLACED UNDER ARMED GUARD

BYLINE: Jeff Edwards Chief Crime Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1, 2

LENGTH: 654 words


PRINCESS Diana and Fergie have been told they must have armed police bodyguards
to shield them from IRA attack.  They will now be protected around the clock by
plainclothes officers.  Targets And Scotland Yard has warned the pair that the
renewed terrorist campaign means they must change their lifestyles.  Security
for the Queen has also been stepped up after an IRA hit list was found at the
home of bus bomber Ed O'Brien.  The Royal Family was included among potential
targets in its new terror campaign.  Diana, who has become used to going out in
public without police protection, will be shadowed by officers whether she likes
it or not.  Yesterday she and the Duchess of York were accompanied by armed
detectives when they had lunch at Fergie's rented home in Surrey.  Soldiers with
machine guns were also on patrol outside Windsor Castle and armed policemen
stood guard at Buckingham Palace.  Diana is understood to have reluctantly
accepted the security crackdown.  Police want her to stop her regular visits to
the gym at the Harbour Club in west London and vary her shopping and eating-out
routines.  If she insists on going out alone she must give the details to
officers.  One Royal Protection Group man said: "The shadowing will be close but
discreet.  "In the last couple of years Princess Diana has become increasingly
cavalier about her security, and with the reduction in threat from Ulster we
have all taken a more relaxed stance. "However, we have told her that the threat
of an attack or kidnap attempt remains real. Her visits to certain places have
become well -publicised to the point where we have had to intervene against
persistent but harmless well-wishers.  "Our worst nightmare is not knowing when
this could all change.  "We have asked the princess to vary the times she goes
to these places or go to different places.  "If she wants to conduct her life as
she wishes, then she must have us present to shield her." Split Following her
marriage split, Diana told police chiefs she did not want officers tailing her.
She complained that they "cramped her style" and increased her public profile
when she was trying to live a more private life.  Police reluctantly gave way
and the princess stepped up her unescorted trips to shops, restaurants, parties
and the gym.  Scotland Yard chiefs now fear a change in IRA tactics or action by
the ultra hard-line INLA.  A list of "vulnerable" RAF bases was also found in
bus bomber O'Brien's lair.  The Queen yesterday made a detour on her way to
church because of the new security measures.  Prince Charles travels in an
armour-plated car and his sons Harry and William - and Fergie's daughters
Eugenie and Beatrice - have armed bodyguards 24 hours a day.  Members of the
Royal Family have never been attacked by the IRA on mainland Britain.  But in
1979, a bomb killed Prince Charles's great uncle, the Earl Mountbatten, and
three others on a boat in Donegal Bay, north-west Ireland.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ALERT: Princess Diana

                            Copyright 1996 MGN Ltd.

                              244 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                           February 26, 1996, Monday

POSTCARD BOMBERS;
IRA PLANNING 12 MONTHS OF TERROR AT OUR TOURIST SITES;
IRA PLANNING TO TARGET BRITAIN'S TOP TOURIST SPOTS

BYLINE: Don Mackay

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 814 words


IRA bombers are planning to target top tourist spots in a year- long campaign of
violence, terror experts fear.

As thousands of people throughout Ireland gathered to call for peace, Scotland
Yard yesterday said it believed the IRA was plotting a series of spectacular
"postcard bombings", particularly in London.

They also fear the terrorists have drawn up a list of VIPs to assassinate and
are planning another mortar attack, similar to the 1991 attempt on Downing
Street.

One security source said: "The people who have taken over in the IRA's high
command are not interested in politics.

"They are just serial killers out to murder for the sake of it. They are
centering the campaign on London because of the industrial, economic and media
significance."

In Ireland yesterday, tens of thousands of people - young and old, Catholic and
Protestant - took to the streets on both sides of the border to demand peace.

In Dublin, 40,000 people attended a city-centre demonstration at the spot where
Bill Clinton addressed a huge crowd last December.

Screams

And in Belfast a crowd of up to 30,000 gathered outside the city hall - where
the US President had also spoken of peace.

The crowd chanted: "Ceasefire now. Give us back our peace". After a solemn 10
-minute silence - described by organisers as "silent screams for peace" - the
crowd broke into a deafening cheer, waving white paper doves above their heads.

There were scores of other rallies, vigils and marches all over Ireland.

Ulster-born TV presenter Gordon Burns, host of the Krypton Factor, helped
organise the day.

He said: "The overwhelming majority are saying 'no' to violence, 'no' to people
dying.

"It is a very powerful message - it is for other people to listen."

In London, MPs joined a crowd of about 60 at a peace vigil. Other gatherings
were scheduled to take place in New York.

Bill Clinton issued a message of support from the White House.

"My hopes and prayers are with those standing up for an end to violence and
their right to a normal life," he said.

Today government officials and Sinn Fein leaders are to meet face-to- face for
the first time since the London bombing.

Martin McGuinness, who will lead the Sinn Fein team to Stormont, said the
meeting, at Sinn Fein's request, would "examine how the peace process can be
rebuilt".

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TARGET ON LONDON: Familiar tourist scenes may be the focus of terror
attacks, says Scotland Yard

                            Copyright 1996 MGN Ltd.

                              245 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               February 27, 1996

New peace talks end in deadlock;Security shield surrounds royals as hopes fade
for IRA bomb truce

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 716 words


THE Northern Ireland peace process was still deadlocked last night after new
talks between Sinn Fein and senior British civil servants failed to make
headway.

Following a meeting in Belfast, Sinn Fein's Martin McGuinness said he was "very
disappointed" that British officials were not prepared to give a specific date
for the start of all-party dialogue.

He claimed Britain still wasn't prepared to take risks for peace.

Mr McGuinness said: "The situation is very grave indeed but, at the same time,
Sinn Fein is very conscious of the responsibilities we have along with others -
we can't do it on our own - to rebuild the process which was destroyed by the
refusal of John Major and his Government to enter into negotiations which we all
know are required to tackle all of the very difficult issues which are at the
heart of this conflict."

It was the first meeting between the two sides since the collapse of the IRA
ceasefire and the Docklands bombing a fortnight ago.

Senior civil servants, headed by Mr Quintin Thomas, spent most of the two hours
listening to the Sinn Fein delegation after making it clear that talks were not
negotiations.

They also insisted that ministerial contact would not resume until the IRA
ceasefire was reinstated.

There was no official comment from the British side.

Mr Major and Irish Premier John Bruton are due to have a summit in London on
Wednesday in an effort to get the peace process back on track - but it still was
not clear last night if that meeting would definitely go ahead.

The mood in Belfast last night was far from optimistic. However, it appears that
nothing less than an unambiguous public assurance for a specific date for
all-party talks to begin without preconditions will be enough to satisfy the IRA
to agree to a resumption of their ceasefire.

Mr Bruton and Mr Major are believed to be moving towards agreement on some form
of elections which it is hoped could lead to full negotiations involving all
sides.

However, Mr McGuinness made it clear last night that British and Unionist
demands for a new elective body was a major stumbling block to progress.

He said: "It has little to do with establishing electoral mandates and more to
do with the British Government and Unionist attempts to predetermine the outcome
of negotiations and detach the Dublin Government from those negotiations."

q.BRIXTON escaper Pearse McAuley was one of five men released without charges by
Irish police last night after being interrogated under the republic's anti
-terrorist emergency legislation.

The suspects were arrested by armed special branch detectives in Dublin city
centre on Sunday.

McAuley, a member of the IRA, escaped from Brixton jail in London, where he was
being held on terrorist charges, four years ago.

He was among 36 Republican prisoners granted early release by the Irish
Government last November during the ceasefire.

He faces extradition to Britain but has appealed.

Back on mainland Britain, maximum security yesterday surrounded the royal family
as fears over their safety grew following the discovery of an IRA hit -list.

A personal bodyguard escorted the Princess of Wales to her regular work-out at
London's Chelsea Harbour Club andIrish Guards wearing combat fatigues and
carrying automatic assault rifles were on patrol outside the royal residence at
Buckingham Palace.

None of the royal family's public engagements has yet been cancelled - but
litter bins were removed from outside Windsor Castle, which is also being
guarded by soldiers in fatigues.

Armed troops have also been on patrol at St James's Palace - the Prince of
Wales's London home.

The security shield was ordered after maps and security plans were found hidden
in the London home of bus bomber Ed O'Brien.

The documents are reported to include details of royal homes and notes on Prime
Minister John Major and his family.

Anti-terrorist Commander John Grieve warned at the weekend that more IRA
bombings could be imminent. Officers fear it could mount a "spectacular" in a
bid to dictate the agenda over Northern Ireland.

Security at military establishments across Britain has also been stepped up in
the aftermath of the renewed IRA bombing campaign.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Martin McGuinness and republican strategist Gerry Kelly leaving
Stormont after last night's talks.  Picture: CRISPIN RODWELL/Reuter

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1996 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              246 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               February 27, 1996

Security problems cause a right royal headache

BYLINE: James Mckillop

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1022 words


THE adage that to be forewarned is to be forearmed might mean nothing when
dealing with an IRA active service unit determined to take out a senior royal in
a "spectacular" that would make headlines around the world.

As anybody who has the slightest connection with personal protection knows, no
matter what precautions are put in place a determined assassin can always get
through. The Pope and former American President Ronald Reagan are among those on
the receiving end who still live to tell the tale.

Today, more than ever before, the Queen, in particular, and members of the royal
family in general have never looked so vulnerable to terrorist threat.

The Southern Command of the IRA unquestionably regret that their plan to make
the Queen a main target of a hit team has been blown. This follows the "own
-goal'' scored by 21-year-old Edward O'Brien when he was ripped apart by his own
bomb on board the Aldwych double-decker bus on February 18.

An element of surprise has gone, but that in itself is unikely to have forced
the IRA to abandon plans to take out a senior royal, preferably the Queen.
Nevertheless, through her determination that she be given space, the Princess of
Wales might be the easiest royal target. It is only because of the seriousness
of the current threat that Diana has reluctantly bowed to pressure and agreed to
the re-introduction of armed protection. For the first time in two years, she
was accompanied by a close-protection officer from Scotland Yard as she made her
customary visit to a London gym yesterday.

Over the two-year period Diana has accepted protection only on those occasions
she has been with her sons. To accept protection now is a wise decision on her
part. She would be ill-advised to attempt to sneak out a side door at Kensington
Palace to give her bodyguard the slip.

It is not true, as some have suggested, that because of world-wide revulsion and
a threat to fundraising - particularly in the United States - the IRA have
steered clear of the royal family since blowing up Lord Mountbatten.

Most have forgotten that in 1981 the IRA targeted the Queen herself as she
inaugurated the Sullom Voe oil terminal. A bomb exploded at precisely the time
she would have been making her speech, had her programme not been running late.

Since then IRA weaponry and techniques have become increasingly refined and
those responsible for the Queen's security are only too aware that she has
become even more vulnerable.

Nobody knows what weapons the IRA may have smuggled into the United Kingdom for
the current campaign, nor how many sleepers are being brought into front -line
action. However unlikely it might be, the worst fear is that the IRA may have
smuggled an American Barrett Light 50 sniper rifle into Britain. This can
accurately take out a target more than a mile away.

Since the ceasefire was broken, bullets that could be used in close-combat
weapons such as an Uzi automatic and the Heckler and Koch MP5 sub-machineguns
have been found near the home of Margaret Thatcher, who clearly remains an IRA
target.

Those planning the current attempt upon the Queen and royal family knew that
security surrounding them would be intensified dramatically following the first
explosion in London's Docklands.

In these circumstances the fact that drawings and maps of royal palaces have
been found during the forensic search of O'Brien's Lewisham lodgings need not
necessarily have forced them to alter plans. They know only too well that the
Queen will not change public engagements in the face of the threat. To do so
would acknowledge a victory to the IRA.

Nevertheless, the Queen is unquestionably taking this new threat extremely
seriously. That was evident from the long deviation from her normal route to
attend Church at Windsor on Sunday.

The sight of troops in combat fatigues and toting SA80s as they patrolled the
forecourt of Buckingham Palace, nearby St James's, and Windsor Castle yesterday
was purely for public consumption and was intended as a message to the IRA. It
was the same Irish guardsmen who would have been on duty anyway.

Certainly it was disappointing to tourists that the Irish Guards had swapped
their red tunics and bearskins for combat outfits, but the public relations
exercise was immense.

As far as anybody can remember this was the first time that the royal palaces
have been patrolled by guardsmen wearing camouflage during daylight hours. In
recent years it was normal for the guard at the palace to change into this kit
at night after the tourists and their cameras disappeared.

The recent IRA attacks in London ensure security surrounding the Queen, the
Prince of Wales, the Duke of York, and the Princess Royal tomorrow, when they
attend a service at St Paul's Cathedral for the unveiling of a memorial to the
47 British servicemen who died in the Gulf War, will be the toughest seen in the
capital since the ceasefire was first declared.

Every manhole on the royal routes to the cathedral will be explored before being
sealed. Buildings overlooking the routes will be scrutinised for sniper
opportunities. Apart from officers in close-support of the royal family and the
scores of police - visible on rooftops with high-powered rifles - many other
armed officers in plain clothes will mix with the crowds. Many of the officers
on duty will have undergone training sessions with the SAS and the SBS.

Members of the royal family may think they have been here before.

n.In 1974 an attempt was made to kidnap the Princess Royal as she and her then
husband, Captain Mark Phillips, were being driven along The Mall.

n.In 1981 it appeared The Queen was the target of a teenage assassin during
Trooping of the Colour when six shots were fired in her direction. It turned out
the disturbed youth was firing blanks.

n.Prince Charles on a visit to Australia was also at the centre of a feared
assassination attempt.

Intelligence experts and the police take an entirely different view. Never
before have members of the royal family been in such danger.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: On guard: an armed soldier in battle fatigues stands watch yesterday
near St James's Palace where Prince Charles resides as authorities stepped up
security.

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1996 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              247 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               February 28, 1996

PUBLIC BACKS COMPROMISE

BYLINE: Martin Linton

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 387 words


THE British government can rely on strong public support if it takes a more
flexible approach to the IRA in the Irish peace talks, according to a joint
Guardian-Irish Times poll published today, writes Martin Linton.

Although most people blame the IRA for the breakdown of the peace process, many
of them think the British government should make the first move towards its
resumption by setting an early date for all -party talks.

Only one precondition - the resumption of the IRA ceasefire - would be demanded
by a majority in Britain, Northern Ireland and the Irish Republic, which were
polled simultaneously over the weekend.

Most British voters would also insist on an IRA commitment to the gradual
decommissioning of weapons as the talks progressed.  But even Northern Irish
Protestants do not think the British government need demand the total
decommissioning of all IRA weapons before talks start.

British voters are also surprisingly upbeat about the peace process. Despite the
resumption of IRA violence, only 10 per cent of British voters think the peace
process is "finished for good", a third think it is "stalled" but nearly half
say it is "still continuing".

Details, page 5

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              248 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               February 29, 1996

TIME OFF: TOURISTS SNIFF AT DANGER;
Bombs have not deterred our visitors.  Nicky Holford reports

BYLINE: Nicky Holford

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGE; Pg. T17

LENGTH: 960 words


VISITORS to Britain may find that their welcome to the country is in the shape
of a sniffer dog, trained to find explosives, and that there are armed guards at
Buckingham Palace in camouflage fatigues, but the threat of terrorism is
unlikely to deter most of the estimated 24 million tourists coming to London
this year.

The collapse of the IRA ceasefire on February 9 sent a shockwave through the
British tourist industry, whose worst fear is a prolonged campaign by the IRA,
but neither Americans or other visitors have shown signs of cancelling their
trips to Britain.

"Unfortunately, international terrorism is something that people are living
with," said Philippa Swain at the British Tourist Authority. "We are concerned
about our American visitors as they are our biggest market but our offices in
New York, which track all the calls throughout the States, report very few
inquiries about the bombs. On one day last week out of 1,521 calls, only 25 were
about the bombs. They've had the World Trade Centre bomb and Oklahoma, they know
it's a fact of life so people are being fairly realistic."

The hotel industry, which has enjoyed a steadily increasing occupancy rate, is
wary that while cancellations since the Docklands and Aldwych bombs were
"marginal" they may feel the pinch later.

"If the campaign were to continue, we would expect that people who come on
business would spend less nights and try to squeeze the business into fewer
days," said Ramon Parjares, managing director of the Savoy Group which owns
Claridges, the Savoy, the Berkeley and several restaurants. "People are booking
their holidays later and later and what could happen is that they may decide to
go somewhere other than London for their summer holidays."

An even greater threat for hotels and other businesses is the rise in premiums
for insurance against terrorism. "Depending on the cost of the damage of the
Docklands bomb, hoteliers across the country could face increased terrorism
insurance premiums which will probably cost much more than cancelled bookings,"
said Martin Couchman of the British Hospitality Association, a trade association
representing hoteliers, restauranteurs and caterers.

For most Londoners, it is business as usual but with additional inconveniences
such as increased security, searches in theatres, restaurants, evacuated tube
stations and transport delays. The show still goes on at West End theatres and
only group bookings show a slight tail-off. "It goes very quiet after a bomb has
gone off," said one taxi driver. "I must have lost pounds 100 the night after
Docklands. No one went out." Similarly restaurants report a fall in business for
24 hours after an incident or bomb scare.

"Nothing has changed at all since the bombing," a Tate Gallery spokesman said.
Some 4,500 visitors are coming daily to its Cezanne exhibition.

But British museums paint a different picture. The Aldwych bomb was just before
half-term, which together with cold temperatures contributed to many parents
deciding not to make a trip to London. The British Museum, Victoria and Albert
and Science Museum were disappointed by low attendances and several group visits
were cancelled.

Economic factors such as exchange rates are more likely to affect tourism than
terrorism, says Anthony Sell, chief executive at the BTA. Visitor numbers have
been affected by international conflicts such as the Libyan crisis and the Gulf
War. The BTA expects 24 million people to visit Britain this year with a
spending power of pounds 12 billion.

LOAD-DATE: February 29, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              249 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               February 29, 1996

BLAIR SACRIFICES LIBERTY IN SEARCH OF POWER;
Commentary

BYLINE: Hugo Young

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGE; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1627 words


HARD cases are the test of libertarian principles. It's pretty easy for a
British politician to speak and vote in favour of free speech. Almost as
axiomatic, or so one would hope, is the case against imprisonment without trial.
Defence of the free judiciary is another uncontested platitude. Thus described,
all three propositions attract the massive public support with which political
banalities effortlessly make common cause. But what happens to liberty when it
is threatened with obliteration by popular demand?

The Prevention of Terrorism Act is undoubtedly a popular measure: ie, if asked
to support it, few people would say no. Its title brooks no contest. First
passed in 1974, after 21 people died when a Birmingham pub was bombed by the
IRA, it has been renewed each year as the repository of abnormal, but allegedly
essential, police and ministerial powers against the terrorist. These powers are
draconian. Terrorist suspects can be held for seven days without a court
hearing, and excluded from transit between Northern Ireland and the mainland
simply on the say-so of the Home Secretary. Not only are the courts kept out of
the process, the most basic requirement of natural justice is extinguished:
internal exile is imposed, and its stigma planted, without the victim knowing
the specific reason why.

Under recent pressure from the European Court of Justice, which protects EU
rules of free movement, the process has been slightly modified, but not so far
as to diminish the ultimate and arbitrary power of the Home Secretary.

All this, as I say, raises few eyebrows. In Britain, the culture of liberty is a
poor match for the discipline of security.  One group that objected, however,
was the Labour Party. Year after year, it opposed renewal of the PTA powers,
arguing, with much statistical evidence, that they did not actually produce
prosecutions which couldn't have been brought under other statutes, and that
such unique breaches of the norms of executive restraint were unacceptable.

For this admirable stance, successive shadow home secretaries endured crude
accusations of sleeping with the enemy.  Politically there was nothing in it for
them, but they persisted. In 1993, when Tony Blair was making the case, he faced
the scornful charge from Kenneth Clarke that Labour's line gave "great
encouragement to the IRA" and that he himself was "burned up about civil
liberties".

Yesterday, the fire went out. Jack Straw advised the shadow cabinet that the
party should no longer oppose the PTA. For more than a decade, through many
waves of IRA bombing, it resisted the blackmail cry that called it soft on
terrorism. Now, when terrorism is at least no worse and may be waning, and when
British and Irish governments were on the same day reassembling their belief in
the politics of peace, Labour exchanged libertarian principle for authoritarian
consent. Seldom has the clammy hand of power - the fear of it being denied, the
smell of it being exercised - more obviously throttled the decencies that
principled opposition kept alive.

What Old Labour wanted was rule by law, not by politicians. Blair spoke for it.
They weren't against an anti-terrorist law as such, but Blair argued eloquently
for "judicial intervention" before a detainee under the PTA was kept inside for
more than four days. Along with exclusion orders, here were "serious and
fundamental departures from the normal processes of British law . . . contrary
to the principles of British justice . . . virtually unique in the western
world".

He accused Clarke of cancelling the separation of powers between the executive
and the judiciary, and ridiculed the need to "cravenly accept" any act just
because the Government called it prevention of terrorism. Last year, in his
turn, Jack Straw talked about "our opposition to exclusion orders" and said no
new ones should be issued. The detention law was "inherently unsatisfactory",
and there must be "a judicial element".

None of this has happened. But Labour, in its new-found sapience, will now
courageously abstain. How this is supposed to assist it against charges of being
soft on terrorism, without conceding that it has been soft on terrorism for the
past decade, is not clear. Are we for or against exclusion orders and detention?
We've now decided we don't know. Nor is the statesmanlike talk-out any more
convincing.

This rests on the fact that the Government has set up an inquiry, under Lord
Lloyd of Berwick. Blair and Straw both asked for a "bi-partisan" inquiry, but
have now got one on the Government's terms, with an unpromising remit (and under
a law lord, incidentally, who couldn't restrain himself from the plain
irregularity of writing to the Daily Telegraph to defend the Attorney-General
against the Scott report).

Lloyd was asked to "consider the future need for specific counter-terrorism
legislation in the UK", assuming peace in Northern Ireland. The job is to look
at terrorism as a whole in post-IRA mode, not at what the Irish question itself
- the source of these perversions of law - is doing to British justice. What can
we expect of Lloyd on exclusion orders if Irish terrorism turns out not to be
dead?

And what, more pressingly, of a Labour Home Secretary if it falls to him to
receive the Lloyd report? The omens are telling.  If, pending Lloyd, the party's
official line is that it will now countenance both exclusion orders and
judge-free seven-day detentions, thus swallowing the principles of outrage it
enunciated so many times, how can it be relied on, when in office, not to be
seduced by the case made by its new friends in the security services? When
you're running the state, raisons d'etat take on new allure.

Maybe we should not be so pessimistic. Perhaps this retrenchment has a less
durable purpose, and is all about something ephemeral like an election, rather
than durable like the exercise of power. The trouble is that so much of what
Labour says, especially in the vast fields for which Straw is responsible, could
be classified in the same way. He can hardly see a penal cul-de-sac without
racing Michael Howard to the end. On the whole, if the principles of liberty
cannot be sustained in opposition, it would be unusual to find them better
defended in power: especially by politicians who had spent the last year
succumbing to the belief that hard cases are not, after all, worth defending.

LOAD-DATE: February 29, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              250 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                             March 1, 1996, Friday

BUS BOY 'A HARDENED TERRORIST';
BUS BOMBER ED O'BRIEN HAD TAKEN PART IN OTHER IRA ATTACKS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 174 words


BOY bomber Ed O'Brien had already taken part in several IRA attacks in Britain
before he was blown up by his own bomb, it was revealed yesterday.

He joined the IRA in 1992 and is said to have worked closely with Brixton
jailbreakers Nessan Quinlivan and Pearse McCauley - Britain's most wanted men.

A chilling portrait of the committed terrorist was published in a glowing
tribute in the Provo newspaper Republican News.

O'Brien, 21, died earlier this month when a bomb exploded on a bus in central
London.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: O'BRIEN: Provo tribute

                            Copyright 1996 MGN Ltd.

                              251 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                            March 2, 1996, Saturday

FURY AS ADAMS GETS VISA;
UNIONISTS SLAM CLINTON;
GERRY ADAMS IS GRANTED NEW VISITORS VISA FOR THE UNITED STATES

BYLINE: Mark Dowdney

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 334 words


FURY erupted last night after Gerry Adams was granted a new visa to visit
America.

President Clinton, who at first blocked the application following renewed IRA
bombing in London, gave in yesterday to pressure from the powerful Irish
-American lobby led by Senator Ted Kennedy. The Sinn Fein boss has been given a
three-month visa which will let him attend the St Patrick's Day celebrations on
March 17.

But he has been banned from fund-raising during his visit.

The decision angered Unionists. The DUP's Nigel Dodds called it a deplorable
gesture while "the IRA is bombing the heart out of the capital of one of
America's closest allies."

And Unionist MP William Ross demanded: "What would America think if Britain gave
a visa to friends of the Oklahoma bombers?"

Clinton spokesman Mike McCurry said: "There will be no meetings at the White
House or at other government departments until the ceasefire is restored."

The president believed granting the visa would help to advance the peace
process.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ADAMS: Banned from fund raising

                            Copyright 1996 MGN Ltd.

                              252 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                             March 3, 1996, Sunday

BRITISH JEWS CONDEMN 'COLD-BLOODED MURDER'

BYLINE:  Philip Thornton, PA News

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 658 words


the suicide bus bombing in Israel which left at least 19 people dead and dealt
another blow to the Middle East peace process.  Messages of sympathy for
families of those killed or injured by the blast were led by the Chief Rabbi, Dr
Jonathan Sacks.  "This despicable crime offends the civilised nations of the
world. The State of Israel will be supported in taking all the necessary steps
to put an end to these murderous outrages," he said.  The Board of Deputies of
British Jews condemned the atrocity as the "cold-blooded murder of innocent
civilians" and sent a message of condolence to the Mayor of Jerusalem, where the
bombing took place.  One of its leaders hinted it would bring pressure on the
British Government to see if anyone linked with terrorists linked to atrocities
was being harboured in this country.  The Foreign Office also condemned the
attack as "outrageous and cowardly".  A spokesman said: "Senseless incidents
like this can only serve to strengthen the will of those committed to the peace
process." The bomb exploded on a number 18 bus at 6.25am - exactly a week after
a suicide bomber struck on the same bus route.  The Muslim fundamentalist group
Hamas admitted it carried out the rush-hour attack in the heart of Jerusalem.
Security forces identified the bomber as 24-year-old university student Islam
Mohammad.  In a statement issued through PA News, Eldred Tabachnik QC, President
of the Board of Deputies, expressed "great sorrow at the cold-blooded murder of
civilian men, women and children who were going about their normal peaceful
lives". He said: "The people of Israel have shown their support for peace and
their willingness to take risks for peace.  "It is all the more tragic that
their efforts are repaid by a ruthless campaign of terror aimed at destroying
not only the precious lives of individuals but the entire Middle East peace
settlement."

In a message to Ehud Olmert, the Mayor of Jerusalem, Mr Tabachnik added: "The
Jewish community of Great Britain, together with people of peace and goodwill
and all faiths and communities, mourn with you today.  "We know that to the
terrorists, unarmed innocent civilians are seen simply as easy targets." It is
understood one family lost two children in the bus bombings - a daughter in the
Jerusalem bus bomb last Sunday and a son in today's atrocity.  Aubrey Rose,
senior vice-president of the Board, reacted with horror at the "latest act of
barbarism".  He told PA News: "Those who destroy innocent human life in such a
wanton and brutal manner and those who finance and support them are the enemies
of God and of the qualities of peace and compassion, which are the marks of all
civilised societies.  "I think the British Government should look very closely
at those who are living here under the protection of British law and who support
and finance and aid those who would try to destroy peace and civilisation."
Labour MP Greville Janner, vice-chairman of the British-Israeli Parliamentary
Group, supported the call for tougher action by the Government against
terrorists living in this country.  He said: "This is brutal savagery of the
most uncivilised kind. It is deliberate murder designed to stop the peace
process." He said the British Government should do "everything in its power" to
support the Israeli government in its efforts to carry on with the peace
process.  But he warned: "The Government is very busy looking for terrorists who
attack targets in Britain but it should also have some care about those from
other lands who find havens here.  "We have been a haven for terrorists for far
too long," he said.  Flo Kaufmann, chairman of the Board of Deputies' Israel
Committee, said she had spoken to friends in Jerusalem who were shocked by the
second bomb in the city in a week.  "People are in a state of high emotion at
the moment. They are shocked. We all know people who go on the No 18 bus every
day," she said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1996 The Press Association Limited

                              253 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 March 5, 1996

MP tackles Howard on Hamas

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 219 words


HOME Secretary Michael Howard was urged yesterday to investigate possible misuse
of Britain's immigration laws amid fears that terrorists linked to suicide
bombing in Israel were living in London.

Labour MP Greville Janner, who called on Mr John Major to look at the question
of terrorists working out of Britain after last year's Oklahoma bombing,
yesterday wrote to Mr Howard, asking him to investigate whether terrorists were
gaining entry to Britain to use it as a base to organise their activities
abroad.

Mr Janner, vice-chairman of the British-Israeli Parliamentary Group, said: "I
have been concerned about this for months and the latest outrage has simply
heightened the concern."

Reports yesterday said known Hamas terrorists were living in London and a Hamas
cell could be operating from the capital.

One newspaper claimed that, only days ago, the Israelis protested about Islamic
groups raising £7m in donations in Britain and using the London money markets to
launder the cash.

However, a Foreign Office spokesman said: "We have seen no proof to support
allegations that funds raised by Hamas in the UK are used directly in support of
terrorist acts elsewhere. Nor have we received any evidence to prove that Hamas
have planned or ordered terrorist operations from the UK."

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1996 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              254 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             March 5, 1996, Tuesday

Howard urged to investigate terror link

BYLINE: JASON BENNETTO

SECTION: TITLE; Page  1

LENGTH: 292 words


JASON BENNETTO

Crime Correspondent

Michael Howard, the Home Secretary, was yesterday urged to investigate whether
members of the terrorist group responsible for the latest bombing in Israel is
using Britain as a base to organise its activities and raise funds.

Anti-terrorist officers and the security service have long been aware of groups
of Islamic West Bank Palestinians based in London who carry out fund-raising.
This is understood to include supporters of Hamas, the group which claimed
responsibility for the two suicide bombs in Israel in the past two days.

Last year it emerged that Ramadan Shallah, the new head of Islamic Jihad, a
Damascus branch of Hamas, spent three years doing a PhD in economics at Durham
University. He left in 1990.

Greville Janner, the Labour MP, said yesterday that he is writing to Mr Howard
asking him to investigate whether supporters of terrorists are abusing
immigration laws to gain entry to Britain to use it as a base to organise their
activities abroad.

Mr Janner, vice-chairman of the British-Israeli Parliamentary Group, said: "The
latest outrage has simply heightened the concern that has been felt by a lot of
MPs on both sides of the House for years." He said he would also be seeking
assurances that Mr Howard was satisfied with the levels of co-operation with
foreign intelligence services.

A Foreign Office spokesman played down reports of a Hamas cell in Britain.  "We
have seen no proof to support allegations that funds raised by Hamas in the UK
are used directly in support of terrorist acts elsewhere," he said.

The Home Office said the Government was determined the UK should not be used as
a base for any terrorists to raise funds or plan operations.


LOAD-DATE: March 05, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1996 Independent Print Ltd

                              255 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            March 7, 1996, Thursday

Tourism pays for return of terror; IRA bombings: Hotels hit by cancellations as
Americans stay clear of danger

BYLINE: CLARE GARNER

SECTION: NEWS; Page  2

LENGTH: 308 words


CLARE GARNER

The resumption of IRA violence has hit hotel bookings in London, casting a
shadow over the British Tourist Authority's disclosure yesterday that a record
number of overseas visitors came to Britain last year.

A total of 23.6 million tourists - 12 per cent more than the previous high of 21
million set in 1994 - came to Britain in 1995 and spent a record pounds 11.7bn,
up 18 per cent on 1994. These figures were boosted by a big rise in visitors
from North American - up by 10 per cent to a record 3.9 million.

The collapse of the ceasefire, however, throws doubt on whether these trends are
set to continue. Many London hotels suffered cancellations during the recent
spate of bombings and some say they have yet to recover business.

Bookings at the Britannia International, close to last month's IRA bomb in
Docklands, are down. General manager Eric Lucht said: "We had a 20- 25 per cent
cancellation rate at the time of the bombings, particularly from the American
market. Now we have a 30 per cent reduction in bookings."

Gillian McLorlan, reservations supervisor for the Grosvenor House Hotel, said:
"At the time we had cancellations and didn't pick up ad hoc bookings as we
usually would. We are not as busy as we would expect for April."

The Forte Crest Hotel, in Regents Park, central London, had 10 cancellations
after the first bomb. "Funnily enough it mostly seems to be the Americans and
Britons," a spokeswoman said.

The London Tourist Board admitted that if the bombing campaign was kept up it
would damage the market. "We know that tourism was up during the ceasefire,"
said LTB press officer Louise Wood.

"We've recently had three incidents. If that happened again it certainly
wouldn't be good for tourism but it's difficult to put a price on it and assess
what it might do."


LOAD-DATE: March 07, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1996 Independent Print Ltd

                              256 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                            March 7, 1996, Thursday

IRANIAN DIPLOMAT SUMMONED OVER ISRAEL BLASTS

BYLINE:  Charles Miller, Defence and Diplomatic Correspondent, PA News

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 269 words


The Foreign Office summoned Iran's top diplomat in London today to protest at
Teheran's support for the recent terrorist attacks in Israel.  There is
widespread distaste in the West at Iran's support for terrorism and its remarks
following the assassination of Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin and the four
latest bomb attacks which have killed 57 people. Iranian Charge d'Affaires Mr
Gholamzera Ansari was to meet the Foreign Office's Middle East Director John
Shepherd.  A Foreign Office official said Mr Shepherd would "make our concerns
crystal clear".  "Iranian actions, particularly opposition to the Middle East
peace process, their support for terrorism and the highly-distasteful remarks
after the assassination of Prime Minister Rabin and the latest bombs are a cause
for grave concern," the official said.  "We are, in addition, consulting
urgently with our EU partners with a view to an expression of our joint concern
to the Iranian authorities in Teheran." The British move came after France
called in the ambassadors of Iran and Libya to lodge similar protests.  The
Foreign Office stressed there was "no daylight at all" between Britain's
analysis of the Iranian stance and that of the United States.  Washington is
pressing the EU to drop its policy of "critical dialogue" with Iran and move
towards total isolation and sanctions against a country it sees as a sponsor of
terrorism.  Following the declaration of the Iranian "Fatwa" instruction to kill
author Salman Rushdie because of his book The Satanic Verses, Britain and Iran
have no ambassadors in each others' countries.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1996 The Press Association Limited

                              257 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 8, 1996

EUROPE AND US DIVIDED ON IRAN

BYLINE: Richard Norton-Taylor, And Kathy Evans In Tehran

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FOREIGN PAGE; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 894 words


BRITAIN formally protested to Iran last night about its support for Hamas
terrorist attacks in Israel, apparently prompted by United States pressure on
its European allies to take tougher action against Tehran.

But the US and the European Union remain divided on how to respond to Iran's
latest outbursts against Israel, and EU members differ on how to pursue contacts
with Tehran.

Gholamzera Ansari, the Iranian charge d'affaires, was summoned last night to the
Foreign Office where the Middle East director, John Shepherd, was said to have
made the Government's concern "crystal clear".

"Iranian actions, particularly opposition to the Middle East peace process,
their support for terrorism and the highly distasteful remarks after the
assassination of Prime Minister (Yitzhak) Rabin, and the latest bombs are a
cause for grave concern," an official said.

Whitehall has made it plain, however, that Britain and its EU partners are not
prepared to bow to US pressure to abandon their policy of "criticial dialogue"
with Iran, though this position could change if there is hard evidence - which
the US claims to have - of direct Iranian involvement in the Hamas bombing
campaign.

The EU has no intention of following the US policy of completely isolating Iran
by a trade and investment embargo, but is far from united on what stance to
adopt. The issue will be a test of its ability to speak with a single voice when
foreign ministers meet in Palermo, Sicily, this weekend.

Though the ministers are likely to agree to some kind of joint EU approach to
Tehran, this will not disguise differences between them. Germany, Italy and
Greece favour closer ties with Iran than Britain and France. The latter place
more emphasis on the "critical", the former on "dialogue", British sources said
yesterday.

The German foreign minister, Klaus Kinkel, on a visit to Israel, rejected a call
by the prime minister, Shimon Peres, to stop Germany's dialogue with Iran. He
said he told Mr Peres there was no evidence so far that Iran was involved. But,
he assured Mr Peres: "Such evidence would force us to reconsider."

In Tehran, Iranian foreign ministry officials summoned Western ambassadors
yesterday to distance the government from statements carried on its official
news agency, Irna, supporting the bomb attacks in Israel.

Three days ago an agency commentary referred to the suicide bomb attacks as
"divine retribution".

Iran's deputy foreign minister, Mohammed Javed Zafeer told the Western envoys
yesterday: "The commentary does not reflect the views of the Iranian
government." He said Iran had only political links with Hamas and other
resistance groups and did not arm or fund them.

"Iran condemns any violent action against innocent people wherever it occurs,
regardless of the identity of the victims or the culprits. It denies any link
whatsoever with recent events in Palestine," Mr Zafeer said.

The incident has again demonstrated the struggle between moderate and radical
factions in the government.

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              258 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 March 8, 1996

LEISURE Ladbroke plays safe after troubled year

SECTION: Pg. 27

LENGTH: 498 words


By ANDREW WILSON

LADBROKE has lost about £25m in profit since the introduction of the National
Lottery, before allowing for the £8.7m reorganisation at Vernons following the
decision to halve the staff at Britain's second biggest football pools company.

At the same time there has been a major fall in the profitability of the credit
betting activities, from £26.2m to £5.6m in a year when international sporting
events such as the football World Cup and major betting opportunities were
noticeably absent.

Retail betting profits tumbled from £52.3m to £34.1m with the scratchcard the
major concern, although Ladbroke chief executive Peter George is demonstrably
cheered by their decline from a peak £45m a week to under £20m at present. But
the betting setback was compounded by the increasing number of race meeting
cancellations with the highly important post Christmas week meetings wiped out
by frost and snow.

The hot summer also meant that there were many more favourites winning on the
hard ground. There was an estimated £4.4m fall in the expected betting profit.

The return to owning casinos after a 16 year gap - with the purchase of three in
1994 for £47.2m - has contributed £8.3m so far in the current year.  Ladbroke
has also recently acquired the Barracuda from Stakis for £27.5m.

The company is now looking to acquire casinos overseas, particularly in the US.

However, the hotels side proved to be a strong winner.

The Hilton International marque which raised its contribution by 18% to £150m
benefited from a surge in occupancy and revenue per room particularly in London.
The outlook seems promising, despite cancellations following two recent
terrorist bombings.

Ladbroke is in talks with Stephen Bollenbach, the newly appointed executive of
the Hilton Hotels Corporation which owns the marque in the US and whose
profitability is much in line with Hilton International.

Mr George was saying little on future developments, but Mr Bollenbach - with a $
1m salary and $ 110m of share options - is certain to bring about major changes
in the relationship between the two companies.

Ladbroke chairman John Jackson emphatically denied there had been any bid
approaches. Ladbroke is most unlikely to make any hotel acquisitions, preferring
to have management contracts instead.

Helped by lower interest charges as the property port-folio is run down, group
pre- tax profits before exceptionals slipped 5% to £121m. The dividend total has
been main- tained at 6p with a 3.6p final for a 4% yield with Ladbroke shares.

Profits in the current year will benefit from the reduction in betting duty to
9%,expected to add about £3m to Ladbroke profits while a similar sum should
accrue once additional gaming machines are allowed in casinos as from July.

A total profit of perhaps £160m is on the cards which would leave the stock
trading at 20 times likely earnings, which would seem a fair valuation.

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Peter George

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1996 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              259 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             March 8, 1996, Friday

Hamas link rejected

SECTION: NEWS; Page  2

LENGTH: 61 words


Michael Howard, the Home Secretary, said there was no evidence to support claims
that funds raised in the UK by supporters of Hamas, responsible for the recent
suicide bombings in Israel, are used for terrorist acts. In response to a letter
from Greville Janner, the Labour MP, he also said there was no proof the group
had planned operations from Britain.


LOAD-DATE: March 08, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1996 Independent Print Ltd

                              260 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                             March 10, 1996, Sunday

HAMAS: 'WE USE LONDON AS BASE FOR TERRORISM AND SOURCE OF FUNDS'

BYLINE: David Rose Chief Reporter

SECTION: THE OBSERVER NEWS PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1054 words

HIGHLIGHT: EXCLUSIVE


THE LEADER of Britain's fastest-growing Islamic party last night urged his
followers to offer 'financial and physical support' to Hamas, the Palestinian
terrorist group responsible for murdering scores of Israelis and jeopardising
the Middle East peace process.

Omar Bakri Mohammed, the London-based leader of al-Muhajiroun (the Emigrants),
told the Observer that it was the sacred duty of all Muslims to back the jihad
(holy war) against Israel and other 'occupied territories', such as the Indian
state of Kashmir.

He said secret organisations to tap funds and recruit fighters for
'international brigades' were already well established in Britain, and one of
his party's principal aims was to garner further support.

He declined to name such organisations, saying: 'It would not be wise to give
details. My party is trying to achieve an intellectual revolution: so we must
work overground. Their work is underground.'

The job of al-Muhajiroun was to raise Muslim conciousness 'and to be the eyes
and ears and tongue of Hamas, which wants to establish an Islamic state'.

Mr Mohammed, 37, was born in Syria and has lived in London for many years. A
distinguished Islamic scholar who runs the fundamentalist School of Sharia
(Islamic law) in Tottenham, north London, he has applied for British
citizenship.

Mr Mohammed's campaigning is certain to provoke a political storm. Last
Thursday, after Israel claimed Britain had become a 'focal point' for Hamas
military fund-raising, most of it carried out under the guise of charitable
relief, Home Secretary Michael Howard said there was 'no proof' that any British
organisation had sent money for terrorist attacks. The following day, the
Charity Commissioners froze the assets of the Palestinian charity Interpal,
pending an investigation. Yesterday, British security sources said MI5 and the
Special Branch were investigating the 'penumbra of support' for Hamas and other
Muslim terrorist groups.

Al-Muhajiroun is part of a broad pro-Hamas network that stretches from London to
Leeds. One focal point is Cricklewood, in north-west London, the base for both
Interpal and Mashreq Media Services, which publishes two pro-Hamas journals -
Filistine al-Muslima in Arabic, and the English-language Palestine Times.

Mr Mohammed was formerly the UK leader of Hizb ut-Tahrir, a barely less militant
organisation, which he left after policy disagreements at the end of January. It
is clear that many of his followers have gone with him, especially from Hizb
ut-Tahrir's traditional wellsprings of support in colleges and universities. A
local meeting at Greenwhich mosque last week was attended by more than 300
people, while Mr Mohammed is planning a conference at Wembley for 4,000 in
August.

He was prominent in the campaign against the deportation of the Saudi dissident
Mohammed al-Masari. He told the Observer: 'In Bosnia, Kashmir, Palestine and
Chechenya, all those areas occupied by non -Muslim powers, we will support the
struggle verbally, financially, physically if we can. Muslims must know their
duty: to support the jihad.'

He said to describe Hamas as terrorists was 'an insult to Muslims who are
struggling for a good cause'. While the suicide bombs that have killed 58 in the
past fortnight would be murder under Islamic law if deliberately aimed at
civilians, Mr Mohammed said, he had only the word of the Western media that this
was so, and he did not believe it.

* Yasser Arafat last night came under pressure from the US Central Intelligence
Agency to arrest more members of Hamas before Wednesday's summit in Egypt on how
to combat terrorism. A delegation gave him the names of five key figures in
Hamas's military wing.

Master of murder, page 20

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              261 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 11, 1996

HOWARD SAYS BRITAIN IS PREPARED TO BRING IN NEW CONSPIRACY LAW

BYLINE: Alan Travis Home Affairs Editor

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FOREIGN PAGE; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 374 words


THE Government is prepared to introduce a new conspiracy law to deal with
Islamic militants who use London as a base to launch operations abroad, the Home
Secretary, Michael Howard, said yesterday.

Israeli intelligence said last week that Britain was now the prime source of
funds for Hamas. The security services have stepped up their surveillance of
British-based Hamas members and the Charity Commissioners have frozen the
accounts of Interpal, a London-based Palestianian fund-raising organisation.

Mr Howard said on the BBC Frost on Sunday programme: "We have been looking at
that (the law) for some time to see to what extent we need to change our law to
deal with those who might be conspiring here to commit certain crimes abroad.

"We already have some powers and where we have evidence, particulary in relation
to terrorism, that people are plotting terrorism or planning terrorist acts we
can take action now to bring them before the courts, and take action to use
immigration powers."

Meanwhile the leader of al-Muhajiroun - said to be the fastest growing Islamic
party in Britain - urged his supporters to help Hamas.  Omar Bakri Mohammed said
in the Observer that there were already organisations raising funds and
recruiting fighters for Islamic "international brigades".

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              262 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 March 11, 1996

Howard to prevent terrorists from using Britain as haven

SECTION: Pg. 9

LENGTH: 294 words


MINISTERS are considering tightening up the conspiracy laws to combat Islamic
terror groups operating out of Britain, Home Secretary Michael Howard said
yesterday.

The Government is facing pressure from Israel to clampdown on known Hamas
activists in the country following the latest wave of suicide bombings in Israel
which have left almost 60 dead.

"We've been looking for some time to see what extent we need to change our law
to enable us to have more powers to deal with those who might be conspiring here
to commit certain crimes abroad," Mr Howard told BBC1's Breakfast with Frost
programme.

He said the Government already had some powers, particularly when terrorist acts
were being plotted overseas. However, the authorities needed proof before they
could act.

"We co-operate very closely with other governments, including the Israeli
government. We need the evidence and the information and the material. When we
have it, we act," he said.

So far Ministers have insisted there is no evidence to support allegations that
funds are being raised in Britain to support Hamas's terrorist activities or
that attacks are being planned from this country.

However, in an interview with The Observer, the leader of al-Muhajiroun,
Britain's fastest-growing Islamic party, urged his followers to offer "financial
and physical support" to Hamas.

Omar Bakri Muhammed claimed there were already secret organisations in Britain
raising funds and recruiting fighters for Islamic "international brigades" and
he said his party aimed to gain further support.

The Government has said that surveillance is being stepped up of known activists
and last week the Charity Commissioners froze the assets of the Palestinian
charity Interpal.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1996 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              263 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 12, 1996

FACTBANK

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGE; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 720 words


Week by week Commons written answers supply a wealth of statistics about life in
Britain. Some of the most intriguing come in tables too big to reproduce on this
page. On Tuesday, for instance, 11 columns of Hansard were taken up with an
answer to Terry Rooney (Lab Bradford N) listing more than 180 terrorist
incidents on the mainland since 1980 ascribed to the IRA.

Here is a brief selection of some of the week's more succinct disclosures.

In 1990, 10,256 public appointments out of a total of 44,057 were held by women
(23 per cent). In 1995, 11,898 out of 40,170 were held by women (30 per cent). -
Prime Minister, Wednesday.

The provisional count of the number of live births registered in England and
Wales in 1995 is 646,511. - Department of Health, Wednesday.

The mid-1994 estimate of the resident population of England and Wales is pounds
51,620,500 (sic). - Department of Health, Wednesday.

The local prison in England and Wales with the highest assault rate in the
period April to September 1995 was the female section of Risley prison,
Warrington, at 48 per 100 population. - Home Office, Wednesday.

The cost of compensation for late running and cancelled trains under the British
Rail passenger charter between April 1994 and February 1996 amounted to pounds
7.9 million. - Department of Transport, Wednesday.

The total average usual weekly hours worked by those in full time employment in
Great Britain (not seasonally adjusted) in the spring of 1984 was 44.8. In the
spring of 1995 it was 44.9. - Treasury, Tuesday.

The average conviction rate for indictable offences in England and Wales in 1994
was 63 per cent, compared with 64 per cent in 1993, 66 per cent in 1992, 69 per
cent in 1991 and 73 per cent in 1990. The police forces with the highest rates
were Norfolk (86), Kent (77) and Lincolnshire (74). The forces with the lowest
were Dyfed Powys (55), Leicestershire (56) and Avon & Somerset, Nottinghamshire
and Northamptonshire (57). - Home Office, Thursday.

There were 21,933 bankruptcy orders made in England and Wales in 1995. Figures
for previous years were: 1994, 25,634; 1993, 31,016; 1991, 22,632; 1990, 12,058.
- Trade and Industry, Thursday.

There are no grammar schools in Wales. - Welsh Office, Friday March 1.

There are 105 lighthouse keepers in Great Britain and six in Northern Ireland.
- Department of Transport, Wednesday.

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              264 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Standard (London)

                                 March 13, 1996

IRA will restore the ceasefire, say loyalists

BYLINE: Charles Reiss

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 587 words



THE IRA will reinstate its ceasefire before the start of the Northern Ireland
all-party talks on 10 June, it was claimed today.

The prediction came from loyalist sources as the Government's consultative
process ended in disagreement over what type of elections should take place in
the run-up to negotiations.

Billy Hutchinson, of the Progressive Unionist Party, said there needed to be a
positive statement from the IRA as soon as possible to calm fears of renewed
violence in the province.

He said: 'I believe that by 10 June the IRA will have reinstated their ceasefire
and we will all be in talks. If they want to go back, then let them go all out,
but at the moment I have to have some sort of hope they are going to reinstate
it.'

His remarks followed yesterday's threat by loyalist paramilitaries to strike
back if the IRA's bombing campaign in Britain continued. Mr Hutchinson's party
is closely associated to the UVF, one of the Protestant paramilitary
organisations holding fire.

Pressure on the provisionals to declare a fresh truce intensified in the US
today as Sinn Fein president Gerry Adams had a series of meetings in New York
before travelling on to Washington.

But while the Ulster Unionist leader David Trimble and the SDLP leader John Hume
prepared to visit the White House for the St Patrick's Day celebrations on
Friday, President Bill Clinton has refused to talk to Mr Adams. Loyalist
paramilitary leaders said they were prepared to stick to the democratic process,
but warned the IRA they would match them "blow for blow' if republican attacks
continued.

Mr Hutchinson told BBC Radio Ulster that a devolved government with shared
responsibility involving all sides was the best way forward for Northern
Ireland. He added: 'We believe Sinn Fein should sit across the table from
Unionists and we argue about what it is we can have."

The fresh hopes came as Mr Major was meeting Mr Clinton at a world summit on
terrorism in an effort to launch a new attempt to curb IRA bombers.


LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1996 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              265 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                           March 13, 1996, Wednesday

Loyalists pledge to match IRA blow for blow

BYLINE: Nicholas Watt, Ireland Correspondent

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 575 words


LOYALIST terrorists warned the IRA last night that they would match its violence
''blow for blow'' if republicans refused to restore their ceasefire.

As the IRA said that it planted last Friday's bomb in Fulham, west London, the
Combined Loyalist Military Command said it would not allow continued attacks on
the mainland to go unanswered.

In its first important statement since the IRA ceasefire ended, the loyalist
terrorist leadership said it had ''withstood the recent provocation of IRA bombs
on the mainland which have killed our innocent British fellow citizens''. But it
added: ''We are poised and ready to strike to effect. We will give blow for
blow. As in the past, whatever the cost, we will gladly pay it.''

The loyalists said they had taken ''careful note'' of last week's threat from
the IRA to maintain its campaign for another 25 years if Britain refused to
convene unconditional all-party talks. The command, which is the umbrella group
for the the Ulster Volunteer Force, the Ulster Defence Association and the Red
Hand Commando, said: ''Threats of war, or war itself, will not lessen our
resolve for Northern Ireland to remain part of the United Kingdom so long as the
greater number of our citizens require it ... The IRA must come to terms with
the indisputable fact that we, the Unionist people, are the British presence in
Northern Ireland.''

The loyalists coupled their threats with an appeal for peace. They called on the
IRA to ''draw back from the brink'' by restoring its ceasefire, adding: ''The
IRA and Sinn Fein must choose and choose well.''

The command insisted that democracy was the only way forward. It added: ''We are
convinced that sufficient political agreement can be reached to allow all of our
citizens to have an equal and meaningful stake in the new society that is
coming.''

The statement does not represent the end of the loyalist ceasefire, which was
declared by the command in October 1994. However, it is a clear warning to the
IRA that its renewed campaign will prompt loyalists to retaliate even if
republicans restrict their violence to the mainland.

The command was also reasserting its leadership after a splinter group claimed
earlier this month that it would attack Sinn Fein and IRA members after the
mainland bombings.

Gary McMichael, the leader of the Ulster Democratic Party, the political wing of
the UDA, said that the statement showed that the IRA had put tremendous pressure
on the peace process. ''This statement is saying that the road the IRA is
travelling is a very dangerous road. It will inevitably lead to confrontation
between the two communities.'' Mr McMichael said that loyalists would not ''lie
down'' in the face of IRA violence. He added: ''They are going to give as good
as they get.''

Jurors in Northern Ireland will no longer be required to refer to the Sovereign
when taking the oath, Lord Mackay of Clashfern, the Lord Chancellor, disclosed
last night. He told peers: ''The retention of the reference to the Sovereign is
not thought to be an essential part of the jury process elsewhere in the UK, and
the Government does not see that there can be any reasonable objection to
aligning Northern Ireland.'' The change was part of a modernisation of the oath
in the Province. Modernisation on the mainland had, he said, resulted in an oath
that was ''concise, appropriate and intelligible''.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1996 Times Newspapers Limited

                              266 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Standard (London)

                                 March 14, 1996

30 rebel MPs set to defy Blair in vote on anti-terror law

BYLINE: Patrick Hennessy

SECTION: Pg. 17

LENGTH: 734 words



TONY BLAIR faces a backbench revolt today after telling his MPs not to oppose
the renewal of anti-terrorism laws for the first time in 14 years. In a
significant policy shift, the shadow cabinet has ordered Labour MPs to abstain
in a vote on a Government move to rubber stamp the Prevention of Terrorism Act
for another year.

But some 30 Labour backbenchers are expected to defy Mr Blair and follow the
path their party has taken since 1982 by voting against the renewal.

The party leadership claims that abstention is the best course of action because
the Act is currently being reviewed by a group led by Lord Lloyd, a High Court
judge. It would also lessen the force of Tory claims that Labour was 'soft on
terrorism'.

Labour frontbench spokesman on Northern Ireland Jim Dowd said today the party
stil opposed certain parts of the Act - which allows terrorism suspects to be
held for up to seven days without access to a court and is also used to exclude
certain individuals from the British mainland - but would not be voting against
it tonight.

However, former shadow Northern Ireland minister Roger Stott said that, even
with the review, he would oppose moves to renew the Act, which was introduced by
a Labour government after the 1974 Birmingham pub bombings.

'I don't know how long the review is going to take,' he told Radio 5 Live.

'In the meantime, this Act will still be on the statute book, and the security
services and the Home Secretary will still be able to operate in the cavalier
manner that they have been doing over the last 20 years.

'The PTA is perceived as an anti-Irish piece of legislation. Whether you like it
or not, it is, and, therefore, I shall not be voting for its renewal.'

Former shadow Northern Ireland secretary Kevin McNamara has always opposed the
Act, believing it to infringe civil liberties.

He said: 'I think it will cause a great deal of confusion to people who are
fundamentally opposed to all forms of terrorism but believe that a right balance
has to be struck between the manner in which we fight terrorism and the creation
of essential civil liberties".

Home Secretary Michael Howard, who was opening the debate for the Government,
was expected to rule out any lowering of the anti-terror guard in Britain until
a lasting peace is restored in Northern Ireland.

He was also set to make clear that the bombs in London after the end of the IRA
ceasefire have set back hopes of any significant changes in the law.


LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: TONY BLAIR: ORDERED LABOUR MPS TO ABSTAIN IN VOTE

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1996 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              267 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 14, 1996

FRENCH TERRORIST SUSPECT ARRESTED;
Man wanted for Paris attacks seized in London

BYLINE: Barbie Dutter And Alex Duval Smith In Paris

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 787 words


A MAN suspected of being involved in a wave of bomb attacks which killed eight
people in France last year will appear in court in London today on an
extradition warrant.

Mustapha Boutarfa, aged 21 and unemployed, was arrested in north-west London
yesterday by officers from the Metropolitan police anti-terrorist branch.

The warrant alleges that between July 25 and October 17 last year, Mr Boutarfa
conspired with others to "unlawfully and maliciously" cause explosions likely to
endanger life or seriously damage property in France.

"He was arrested at his address in north-west London after French authorities
asked the branch for their assistance in this regard," said a Scotland Yard
spokesman last night.

The Home Office said the man would appear before Bow Street magistrates today.
"If the court decides there is a case to answer, France will submit extradition
papers," a spokesman said.

The French interior ministry indicated last night that Mr Boutarfa was suspected
of having provided "direct help" to Boualem Ben Said, who has been named in
France as the mastermind behind a series of terrorist attacks which began last
July with the assassination on a Paris street of a moderate Muslim clergyman.

It is believed that Mr Boutarfa provided Ben Said with accommodation in France.

The attacks, including a bomb explosion on July 25 which killed eight people on
an underground train in central Paris, have been linked to the Algerian Groupes
Islamiques Armees (GIA).

The GIA's fundamentalist Muslim guerrillas oppose the French government's
support for the ruling Algerian junta. The junta was installed in 1992 after
cancellation of an election expected to bring Muslim fundamentalists to power.
Mr Boutarfa is believed to have been arrested after a French investigating
magistrate issued an international warrant. He had been wanted by French police
since November last year - the last time he was seen at his flat in Evry, south
of Paris.

Police sources said they had traced Mr Boutarfa to Britain because he had
transferred his bank account there. Ben Said was arrested in Paris in November,
after which British police arrested Rachid Ramda, alias Abou Fares, on suspicion
of being involved in the attacks. Ramda, aged 26 and unemployed, is still being
held in custody in London awaiting extradition proceedings.

France has long alleged that lax British financial controls make it a likely
money-laundering base for Islamic fundamentalists.

President Chirac said that France remained on the alert against possible
guerrilla attacks although there was no sign at the moment that the bombings
could resume.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              268 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 March 14, 1996

Turning up the heat in battle for the peace

BYLINE: Russell Edmunds

SECTION: Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1185 words


Russell Edmunds on Bill Clinton's crucial Irish role

JUST as Ulster was coming to terms with the IRA's abandoned ceasefire, loyalists
have further chilled the public mood and dampened hopes for peace.

The statement from the so-called Combined Loyalist Military Command warning that
it is ready to match the IRA "blow for blow" is a reminder to everyone that the
peace process now hangs by a very slender thread that could break at any moment.

If the statement is taken at face value, then another IRA bomb, whether in
Britain or Northern Ireland, will mean retaliatory action from the loyalists and
no-one knows where such a tit-for-tat strategy could lead other than into a new
and bloody spiral of violence.

The warning of a loyalist backlash has raised most security concern in the Irish
Republic, considered the most likely target for a reprisal attack if the IRA
strikes again. Irish police and troops are now on alert, particularly along the
border. What is often forgotten is that the blackest day for violence during the
past 15 years was May 17, 1974, when loyalist no-warning car bombs in Dublin and
Monaghan caused 33 deaths.

The threat of any renewed violence is enough to send shockwaves across Ireland
north and south. Both parts of the island have seen tourism blossom in the past
18 months of peace and are looking forward to another lucrative season ahead.
The investment and commercial promise from the ceasefire periods is also
starting to turn into welcome reality but now the sense of apprehension which
the IRA and loyalist threats have stirred could lead to economic developments
being put on hold, if not withdrawn altogether.

Unionists and nationalist leaders in Ulster have united in calling on the
loyalists not to end their ceasefire, as the IRA has done. The Ulster Unionist
deputy leader John Taylor said yesterday that a resumption of loyalist violence
"would play into the hands of the IRA". He added that it would undermine the
unionist cause and damage efforts to marginalise the IRA and its political wing,
Sinn Fein.

Taylor and the unionist leader David Trimble have good reason to be annoyed.
Both left for Washington yesterday to join President Bill Clinton in his St
Patrick's Day celebrations at the White House. With Sinn Fein president Gerry
Adams also in America but debarred from the White House gathering, the unionists
had hoped to capitalise on the IRA's Canary Wharf image. Now the new loyalist
threat has embarrassed the unionists who see it as an untimely intervention at
this high-profile period for Irish-American relations.

Certainly, the loyalists have given Adams a much needed opportunity to
demonstrate that it is not only the IRA which threatens the peace process. And
the television images crossing the Atlantic from the Irish Republic yesterday -
of security forces taking guard on border roads in the face of the loyalist
threat - also serve to, as one leading unionist says, "let the IRA off the hook
before the Americans".

The Combined Loyalist Military Command represents the three main terrorist
groups which have sprung from the Protestant community in the past 25 years.
They are the Ulster Defence Association/ Ulster Freedom Fighters, which is the
strongest in Belfast; the Ulster Volunteer Force, which gained most notoriety
for its murderous activities in Mid-Ulster; and the small Red Hand Commandos.

All three, like the IRA, are outlawed organisations and there is another
similarity. The UDA/UFF and UVF have political front organisations, the former
represented by the Ulster Democratic Party and the latter by the Progressive
Unionist Party.

Spokesmen for both parties have been at pains to play down any imminent end to
the loyalist ceasefire, despite the statement. They point to what they claim are
positive elements in the statement, including a plea to the IRA to pull back
from the brink and strong emphasis on the use of the democratic process as "the
only way forward".

But all this was cold comfort yesterday to many people in Belfast and Dublin who
now await the next move from the IRA. According to loyalists, they will
retaliate whether any further IRA violence occurs in London, or elsewhere in
Britain, or in Northern Ireland. That is taken as a warning to the IRA not to
believe that it can contain its violence outside Ulster and so avoid any
loyalist response.

So as St Patrick's Day and the focus in Washington turns to the Ulster peace
process, its future centres very much on what, if anything, the IRA will do
next. President Clinton is saying he believes a new IRA ceasefire can be
brokered and if there is to be any hope of this happening, then the next few
days will be crucial. The fact that Adams has been cold-shouldered by Clinton
and that unionists are in the White House for the first time to join in the
celebrations places more pressure on Sinn Fein and, so British and Irish
Governments hope, on the IRA.

Security forces in Ulster and the Republic are in close touch these days and
neither doubts the ability of the loyalists to carry out their new threat.
Ironically, the peace process itself poses a major security headache for it has
led to such a general relaxation of precautions. Cross-border roads are now more
accessible than ever. The Irish authorities have been at pains to establish an
air of normality with the removal of permanent checkpoints and virtual
elimination of border patrols.

Now, as has already happened in some of the more vulnerable Ulster towns,
especially in the border counties, the defences against terrorism are springing
up again, such as the re-introduction of barriers to seal off town centres from
the threat of car bombs.

Before the ceasefires, the loyalists showed they could meet the IRA's terror
with a ruthless vengeance. Their favourite tactic was to use guns rather than
bombs, and this led to multiple murders of Catholics in places such as bars at
Loughinisland, County Down, and Greysteel, and at a bookmaker's shop in south
Belfast. If the IRA campaign is sustained, police fear the loyalists will seek
to strike fresh terror into the Catholic community in Ulster with more attacks.

Targets in the Irish Republic are more difficult for the loyalists despite the
horror they inflicted in 1974. Just as the IRA has rarely been able to sustain a
campaign on the British mainland without its units being caught eventually, so
loyalist groups have problems straying too far from the Protestant heartlands of
north and east Belfast. That is not to say they would not attempt to attack as
far away as Dublin as they have in the past.

As of now, where any attack may come must be merely conjecture but no-one in
Ulster doubts the capacity of either the IRA or the loyalists to cause appalling
death and destruction. Whether they feel the need to do so depends on events
this weekend across the Atlantic and the capacity of the American president to
help broker a new IRA ceasefire. More and more, St Patrick's Day 1996 looks like
being a make or break time for peace in Ireland.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1996 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              269 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 March 14, 1996

Police arrest suspect in French blasts

SECTION: Pg. 13

LENGTH: 402 words


Paris, Wednesday

ANTI-TERRORIST police in London today arrested a 21-year-old man on an
international warrant relating to alleged terrorist offences in France.

Mustapha Boutarfa was detained at an address in north-west London on an
extradition warrant alleging conspiracy to cause an explosion. He will appear at
Bow Street magistrates' court tomorrow.

The warrant alleges that between July 25 and October 17 last year he conspired
with others to cause an explosion of a nature likely to endanger life or cause
serious damage to property in France.

Boutarfa, who was suspected of sheltering the detained mastermind behind the
attacks, Algerian Boualem Ben Said, had disappeared from his home in Evry near
Paris after transferring his bank account to Britain, the French Interior
Ministry said.

The Home Office said that the French Interior Minister, Jean-Louis Debre, had
thanked the Metropolitan Police for their assistance.

In November Scotland Yard arrested a number of Algerians in a series of raids
linked to Islamic fundamentalist bombings in France. They included Rachid Ramda,
who is suspected of playing a central role in financing the attacks.

The Foreign Office has been warned on a number of occasions about the presence
in Britain of Algerian dissidents with alleged links to terrorist activities.

The terrorists have waged a bloody campaign to try to force the French, the
former colonial power, to cease supporting Algeria's military-backed
authorities.

The military cancelled the 1992 elections, which Muslim fundamentalists looked
poised to win.

French President Jacques Chirac said France remained on the alert against
possible guerrilla attacks although there was no sign at the moment that the
bombings could resume.

"Experienced people are weary and the French government remains as watchful as
when we were facing terrorist attacks," he told French television in an
interview from the peacemakers' summit in Egypt.

"You never know what may happen. One must never lower the guard.''

Seven people were killed and around 170 injured in last summer's bombings.

France has eased a security crackdown imposed during the campaign, but still has
armed troops patrolling some train stations and airports.

Mr Debre said this week that 112 of 390 people arrested in connection with the
bombings were still being detained.  -Reuter.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1996 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              270 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 March 14, 1996

Red Sea summit offers solidarity with terror-stricken Israel after suicide
bombings;Leaders prop up peace in Middle East

BYLINE: From Robert Mahoney;Sharm El-Sheikh, Wednesday ;

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 772 words


WORLD leaders agreed today to combat violence threatening Middle East peace and
send the message that "Israel is not alone".

US President Bill Clinton declared the "Summit of Peacemakers" at the Red Sea
resort of Sharm el-Sheikh a success.

However differences surfaced on how best to wage the war on terrorism and how to
deal with countries like Iran, which Israel accused of sponsoring violence.

Mr Clinton told a news conference after the four-hour meeting that this "amazing
group of people" had provided "a historic showing of the strength of peace in
the Middle East today".

Yet the meeting was hastily convened because a spate of Hamas Islamic
fundamentalist bombs that killed 58 people in Israel has shown how fragile the
five-year-old Madrid peace process is.

Mr Clinton said the gathering of 27 countries, including Israel's former Arab
enemies, achieved the concrete results he and Israeli Prime Minister Shimon
Peres had demanded. He said funding for radical groups would be blocked.

His joint news conference with co-host Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak was
short on details, but Mr Clinton said a forum on co-ordinating the fight against
terrorism would be set up and report back to summit members within a month.

In his speech to the summit, Prime Minister John Major said the Government was
looking at ways of curbing the entry of international terrorists to the UK amid
increasing fears that Islamic militant groups like Hamas may find a haven in
Britain.

Anti-terrorist laws currently in force are aimed at halting the activities of
the IRA and are not designed to beat other foreign terror groups.

However Mr Major is determined to halt any threat to the Middle East peace
process. Heads of state agreed that nations offering safe havens to terrorists
will not be tolerated.

Mr Major told the summit the time had come "to look together, as part of the
follow-up to this meeting, at the activities not just of those who actively
conspire to commit terrorist acts but also of those who abuse the hospitality
and protection available in some of our countries to create a climate in which
terrorism can flourish.

"We need the right tools to tackle the terrorist fundraisers and planners.  This
is something we must examine together or they will move to new safe havens
tomorrow," he said.

Mr Clinton warned: "Words and symbols are not enough and the world looks to us
for action."

Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat, while making no mention in his speech of the
Hamas outrages, made an impassioned condemnation of terrorism which he said had
taken the lives of Palestinians, Israelis, and Americans in a "whirlpool of
violence and terrorism".

"We will confront terror and uproot it from our land," he pledged.

The final communique, agreed by all the leaders, fell short of Israel's demands
for a stronger international anti-terrorism mechanism. Also absent was Israel's
requested denunciation of Iran.

However Mr Peres used his opening address to do just that.

"Tehran has become the capital of terror. A conclusion must be drawn on how to
contain it," he told the meeting.

His audience included German Chancellor Helmut Kohl and French President Jacques
Chirac, whose countries advocate dialogue with Iran.

Iran supports Hizbollah guerrillas fighting to drive Israeli troops from a
self-declared security zone in southern Lebanon. However Iranian leaders, while
supporting Palestinians' right to struggle, distanced themselves from an initial
Iranian media commentary calling a Jerusalem bus bombing divine retribution.

Mr Clinton called the summit to shore up Mr Peres, whose opinion poll lead in
May 29 elections was wiped out by the bombings. Mr Peres and Mr Clinton tonight
travelled together in Air Force One to Israel after the summit.

The American president said the participants from Russia, the European Union,
North Africa, and the Middle East had "sent a message that Israel is not alone .
. . there are peacemakers who stand together against terror."

Hamas, which calls Palestinian President Yasser Arafat's self-rule deal with
Israel a sell-out, defended its use of armed attacks in a leaflet sent to the
summit.

"(Our) armed action . . . had been used after exhausting all the political and
peaceful means which did not allow the Palestinian people to achieve any
tangible results of their national rights," Hamas said.

Iran and other regional states accused of supporting terrorism were not invited
to the summit. Syria, which is holding out against making peace with Israel,
turned down an invitation.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Shake on it: In a gesture evoking the famous handshake at the White
House that sealed the Middle East peace process, Israeli Prime Minister Shimon
Peres, left, links hands with Presidents Bill Clinton, Hosni Mubarak, Boris
Yeltsin, and Yasser Arafat.  Picture: REUTER.

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1996 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              271 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            March 14, 1996, Thursday

Ministers set to extend laws on terrorism

BYLINE: COLIN BROWN, Chief Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Page  8

LENGTH: 438 words


COLIN BROWN

Chief Political Correspondent

Michael Howard is expected today to underline Britain's readiness to extend
anti-terrorist legislation following the review called for yesterday by the
Prime Minister at the Middle East peace conference in Egypt.

A Private Members' Bill which would allow those accused of "sex tourism" crimes
abroad to be prosecuted in this country is already going through the Commons,
and ministers support the extension of the law to cover terrorism.

The Home Secretary will also rule out any lowering of the anti-terrorism guard
in Britain unless a lasting peace is restored in Northern Ireland, when MPs
renew the Prevention of Terrorism Act in the Commons.

Lord Lloyd, a High Court judge, was appointed in January to review the
anti-terrorism legislation to see which parts of the law could be dropped in the
light of the reduced threat from Ulster following the ceasefire.

However, Mr Howard will make it clear that the bomb in Docklands, east London,
last month has set back the hopes of any significant reduction in such
legislation, unless there is a lasting cessation of violence.

In his speech to the summit the Prime Minister said that Britain was already
co-operating with both Israeli and Palestinian authorities on counter-terrorism
and was urgently looking at what further practical help Britain might offer.

He called for a follow-up meeting to look at those who actively conspired to
commit terrorist acts and those who abused the hospitality and protection
available in some countries to create a climate in which terrorism could
flourish.

Meanwhile, the Government appeared ready to give in to demands by the Ulster
Unionists, led by David Trimble, for the next stage in the peace process.

The Ulster Unionists, whose votes in the Commons could be crucial to Mr Major's
hopes of avoiding a general election until May 1997, have insisted that the
elections in Northern Ireland to appoint negotiating teams should be held in the
18 parliamentary constituencies.

Ian Paisley's Democratic Unionist Party and the nationalist SDLP led by John
Hume feared that basing the elections on 18 constituencies would hand a majority
to the Ulster Unionists and united in calling for the elections to be based on a
single constituency for the whole of Northern Ireland.

Ministers failed to reach agreement with the parties by the end of the
consultation period yesterday. Sir Patrick Mayhew, Secretary of State for
Northern Ireland, is expected will announce the Government's conclusions early
next week, broadly accepting Mr Trimble's case.


LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1996 Independent Print Ltd

                              272 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 March 15, 1996

Libya denounces attack by Major

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 326 words


Tunis, Thursday

LIBYA today denounced Prime Minister John Major's speech at the Middle East
peace summit in which he accused Tripoli of promoting terrorism.

"The mention of Libya's name by the named John Major, Prime Minister of the
minority in Britain, is untrue," said Libya's Foreign Affairs Minister Omar al
-Montasser.

Mr Major, in a speech at the Sharm el-Sheikh summit yesterday, took aim at Libya
and Iran as promoters of terrorism.

"Don't let us forget where the core of this problem lies," he told the
conference, held in response to Muslim militant bomb attacks on Israel.

"I hope we will send from this conference a very clear call to those countries
to abandon those vicious policies.......We spelled it out to Iran, we spelled it
out to Libya," the Prime Minister said.

However Libyan Foreign Affairs Minister Omar al-Montasser said the mention of
Libya was "untrue".

Al-Montasser said he was convinced that Britain would not change its stance
towards Libya whatever it does.

"The fact that Libya stopped its support to the Irish Republican Army and that
it offered all the information and turned over the page did not affect the
sublime historical (British) stance," he said.

"Christianity is against Islam and Europeans are against Arabs. Crusades are
crusades. Racism is racism," he added.

In recent years, Libya has answered questions about its links with the IRA in
what Britain called a positive step towards complying with United Nations
resolutions to renounce terrorism.

Despite international sanctions, Libya has refused to hand over two Libyan
suspects to Britain or the United States to stand trial for the 1988 Lockerbie
bombing that killed 270 people.

Al-Montasser said: "It has become very clear that even if Libya surrended its
sons for trial in Britain, Britain's position would not change. (Major's)
statement makes any rational person in the world wonder in surprise."

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1996 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              273 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                            March 21, 1996, Thursday

IRA BOMB ALERT;
IRA BOMB THREAT OVER DYING REPUBLICAN PRISONER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 214 words


FAILURE to move a dying republican prisoner from jail in Northern Ireland to one
in the south could unleash another IRA bomb on London.

The warning was given last night by nationalists who say cancer victim Patrick
Kelly must be moved from Maghaberry Prison without delay.

They are calling for his release or a move to Portloaise to be near his family
who live close to the prison.

Kelly, 43, was jailed in Britain in 1993 for 25 years on attempted murder and
bomb conspiracy charges.

Progressive Democrat leader Mary Harney said: "The most extreme regime in the
world could not justify his treatment."

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ;

                            Copyright 1996 MGN Ltd.

                              274 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                             March 25, 1996, Monday

Republicans cheer as Labour MP attacks peace process

BYLINE: Nicholas Watt, Ireland Correspondent

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 568 words


A LEFT-WING Labour MP won applause at Sinn Fein's annual conference yesterday
for a stinging attack on John Major's handling of the peace process.

John Austin-Walker, MP for Woolwich and chairman of the Campaign Group of Labour
MPs, praised Gerry Adams and said that Mr Major's plan for elections in Northern
Ireland showed that the Prime Minister had eaten too much beef.  Mr
Austin-Walker, who said he disagreed with Labour's bipartisan approach over
Northern Ireland, told the conference in Dublin that Mr Major had repeatedly
frustrated the start of all-party talks. Standing on a platform within yards of
leading republicans, the MP said: ''I understand the anger and frustration felt
by the nationalist community in the face of delay after delay as a weak British
Prime Minister has prevaricated and placed obstacles in the way of talks while
pandering to the Unionists to keep his Westminster majority.''

Praising Sinn Fein as a ''genuine political party'', Mr Austin-Walker said it
was wrong of the British Government to exclude the party from talks. He added:
''Those citizens who voted for Sinn Fein had no part in Canary Wharf, and yet
they are disenfranchised and not allowed a voice in the peace talks.''

After the speech Mr Austin-Walker said he agreed with Sinn Fein's accusation
that the British Government was to blame for the collapse of the peace process.
He added, however: ''That does not justify the action taken by the IRA.'' He
condemned IRA violence and called on the terrorist leadership to restore its
ceasefire.

His speech was an embarrassment to the Labour leadership, which has pursued a
bipartisan approach with the Government over Northern Ireland. Some Labour
backbenchers have criticised Mr Blair's handling of the issue and a group
rebelled earlier this month when Labour abstained over the renewal of the
Prevention of Terrorism Act.

A spokesman for Tony Blair said last night that Mr Austin-Walker's decision to
speak at the conference was ''wrong and foolish''. He said: ''Mr Austin-Walker
was not there in his capacity as a party member and certainly not representing
the frontbench.''

The speech came as the Sinn Fein leadership toughened its opposition to Mr
Major's election plan. Martin McGuinness, a leading member of Sinn Fein,
indicated at the conference that there was no prospect of an imminent IRA
ceasefire unless Britain gave ''absolute guarantees'' that it would convene
unconditional all-party talks.

He called on London to abandon its plans for elections and its demands that the
IRA must disarm. Mr McGuinness said: ''Sinn Fein wants Britain to make it quite
clear that there are guarantees that meaningful and real negotiations without
preconditions will take place. There is no guarantee that that will secure an
IRA ceasefire but if people like us can be assured, it gives us something to
work on.'' He insisted, however, that it would be ''ridiculous'' for him to go
to the IRA to call for another ceasefire in the immediate future.

However, Mr McGuinness indicated that Sinn Fein was likely to agree eventually
to stand in the elections when he said: ''This party has no fear whatsoever of
elections. We have consistently established ... a very substantial electoral
mandate which has made Sinn Fein one of the most important political parties in
the north of our country.''

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1996 Times Newspapers Limited

                              275 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                            March 30, 1996, Saturday

THE EASY LIFE;
KILLER SQUADDIES JAILED.. IN THE NICOSIA 'HILTON';
BRITISH SOLDIERS GET LIFE FOR MURDER IN CYPRUS

BYLINE: Jeremy Armstrong In Larnaca, Cyprus

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8, 9

LENGTH: 1374 words


THE British squaddies who savagely killed Danish tour girl Louise Jensen were
last night jailed for the rest of their natural lives.

A Cyprus court told Riflemen Justin Fowler, 28, Allan Ford, 27, and Geoff
Pernell, 23, their crime was "so horrendous it excludes any leniency".

They will also serve five years on each count of abduction and attempted rape,
the sentences to run concurrently.

But they will do their time in luxury...in a jail so cushy it is known as the
Nicosia Hilton.

Tears

Judge Takis Eliades gave them the maximum sentence for manslaughter because
"they acted completely unprovoked in one of the most horrific crimes in recent
years".

Ford and Fowler broke down in tears as the sentences were announced.

Louise's family hugged and cried in silence.

But the squaddies will have it easy in the Nicosia jail. Governor George
Anastasides boasts it is the best in Europe.

Prisoners can sunbathe, play soccer or exercise in the courtyard of the
beautiful main building.

There are single rooms for all 200 inmates and local television shows football
matches.

Prisoners become pals with their guards and they enjoy three meals a day.

Breakfast is served after the warm Mediterranean sun wakes them in their cells.
It includes a choice of breads with local fruits, tea or coffee.

Lunch and dinner typically include dishes like moussaka, fresh vegetables and a
sweet.

At bedtime Pernell, Ford and Fowler can take hot drinks to their rooms in a
flask.

Treats

They also get special treats at holidays like Christmas.

The squaddies know they are on to a good thing.

Fowler has already told newsmen: "There is no way I am spending 23 hours slammed
up behind bars back in Britain. We're much better off here."

Ford half-agreed: "It's become our home. But if the prison governor says it's
the Hilton, you can't have stayed at a Hilton very much.""

Governor Anastasides admits: ""It's like a little village here. The inmates
enjoy a better quality of life than they would in Britain.""

The last British lifer held in the jail was South Shields-born PLO fighter Ian
Davison, who took part in a terrorist attack in Larnaca in the mid- 80s.

Prison officer Pabos Loenidou told the Mirror: "There's no doubt conditions here
for the British soldiers are much better than they get at home.

"We had Davison for nine years. He had a good education and went out a better
person.

"He's a good friend of mine now and he always said how this place improved him."

The prisoners can take courses on building, technical skills and electronics.

Fowler is enjoying a computer course and learning Greek while Pernell has become
a crossword freak.

The squaddies didn't like the jail at first. They complained about the cold in
winter, the Greek TV and the local food. Ford and Pernell even complained about
being caged with a murderer when they were put in a high security wing after a
fight with Fowler.

But they are now said to be settling in.

The soldiers can apply to be repatriated to a British jail but they will not be
moved unless the decision is ratified by both the Cypriot and British
authorities.

The Cypriots have made it very clear they want the killers to spend their entire
sentences in Nicosia.

Gallows

In nearby Larnaca, part of the state prison is now a museum with its own set of
gallows.

Ironically, the last time it was used was by the British on a group of Cypriot
freedom fighters in the 1950s.

Now many of the locals think they should be used again on the squaddies.

LOUISE'S father Poul Jensen threatened to sue the British government for what
the squaddies had done to his daughter.

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: JAILED: Pernell, Ford and Fowler in court; VICTIM: Louise, right, and
yesterday's Mirror; CUSHY: A typical cell at the Nicosia Hilton; BEHIND BARS:;
Ford has a smoke with Pernell Pictures: CHRIS GRIEVE

                            Copyright 1996 MGN Ltd.

                              276 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                             April 1, 1996, Monday

SDLP ATTACKS RUSH MOVE ON ANTI-TERROR LAWS

BYLINE:  Sian Clare, Political Correspondent, PA News.

SECTION: PARLIMENTARY NEWS

LENGTH: 237 words


Government plans to rush new anti-terrorism powers through Parliament were today
denounced by Seamus Mallon, deputy leader of Northern Ireland's nationalist
SDLP, as "underhand in the extreme".  He said, in a statement issued at
Westminster, that ministers had not mentioned proposals to "railroad" new
measures through the Commons when the Prevention of Terrorism Act was renewed
last month. "It shows complete contempt for parliamentary procedure, for the
right to consultation and the need to allow detailed scrutiny of the Bill by
political parties, legal watchdogs and objective observers." Mr Mallon also
attacked the Government for not announcing its plans last week as part of the
weekly statement of forthcoming parliamentary business.  "They have engineered a
situation where important and far reaching powers will be introduced, affecting
the communities in Britain as much as Northern Ireland, without any notice,
analysis, consultation or amendment.  "It is a shoddy piece of deception," he
said.  Mr Mallon said he would be complaining about the move at a pre-arranged
meeting with Mr Howard this afternoon. Party leader John Hume would protest when
he met Irish Deputy Prime Minister Dick Spring tomorrow.  "I will be making
known to both the Irish and British Governments the depth of my party's feeling
regarding what is effectively an act of contempt and sharp practice," Mr Mallon
declared.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1996 The Press Association Limited

                              277 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 April 2, 1996

Powers to combat terrorists widened;Laws race through

BYLINE: By Stephen Mcgregor;Parliamentary Correspondent;And James Mckillop;;

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 846 words


A RANGE of powers aimed at containing the IRA terrorist threat were announced by
the Government last night.

Five new steps will be taken, including the introduction of new stop and search
powers in designated areas on the mainland.

An emergency Bill is being introduced today and is expected to be made law
before the Easter recess, which starts tomorrow.

Home Secretary Michael Howard told MPs the steps were a result of the recent
London bombings.

Labour expressed concern at the speed of the legislation, but will not stand in
the way although some back benchers could vote against.

Civil rights campaigners warned that the new powers were open to abuse by the
police, recalling the rioting they say was provoked by the old "sus laws" in
London in the seventies.

The advantages to the police would be slight while the abuses to civil rights
would be great, they warned.

Mr Howard, however, said: "These proposals arise from police experience during
the last IRA campaign, as well as the more recent attacks on London. It is clear
these powers are needed, if the police are to combat terrorism as effectively as
possible and prevent and disrupt the plans of the terrorists. I am confident
they will add to and improve the protection of the public."

The Government insists that the power to stop and search pedestrians is a vital
security requirement. Until now police could look into bags and briefcases, but
were unable to search clothing for devices that could easily be carried in a
pocket, but could cause devastation.

Earlier in the Home Office Mr Howard brandished a small device in his hand.
"This could be carried in anyone's pocket, but it could destroy this building."

He held up another small device. "This could burn it to the ground."

The new legislation will cover Scotland. However, apart from Stranraer, most of
the new searches are likely to take place in England, especially London.

The other new powers will be:

q To search non-residential premises. Until now police could search an
individual building such as a lock-up where they suspected bomb-making material
(it could even be a lorry) was housed. Now they will be able to search a whole
list of unspecified premises in specific areas. Any application for a warrant
would have to be made by an officer of superintendent rank or above, and the
search would have to be completed within 24 hours.

q To search unaccompanied goods at ports - a direct result of information that
the recent bomb in London docklands came into Britain through Stranraer. The
present law allows Customs officers to search freight in order to seize

Continued from Page 1

contraband, but does not allow the police to search freight for anti-terrorist
purposes. Mr Howard said this was plainly an anomaly which needed to be
remedied.

q.There will be a new authorisation to cordon off an area while police look for
a bomb, or collect forensic evidence. The current powers are said to be
"uncertain", and Mr Howard said uncertainty should be removed.

q.Finally, there will be a new power for police to impose temporary parking
restrictions in response to a general threat to targets such as government
buildings or royal residences.

Rushing such a Bill through Parliament in the space of 48 hours is almost
unprecedented, but Mr Howard said yesterday he believed the need for the new
measures was urgent.

He told the House: "We face a real threat of a continuing IRA campaign of
murder. No-one should be deceived by the fact that for a few weeks we have had a
lull. The IRA ceasefire ended with the South Quay bomb."

Shadow Home Secretary Jack Straw said there were bound to be anxieties about how
the new pedestrian stop and search powers might be used, and urged full
monitoring, but he told the House: "We are satisfied, from the security briefing
we have received, about the case which is made for this Bill."

Mr Alan Beith, for the Liberal Democrats, called for the House to sit on
Thursday to consider the proposals. "In rushing such a complicated Bill through
in one day, you will almost certainly bring about defective and ineffective
law," he claimed.

However, Mr Howard told him the law had to be on the Statute Book before Easter.
"My responsibility is to ensure that, if these powers have the potential to save
one life during the Easter recess, the police have them," he said.

The new moves were welcomed by the Association of Chief Police Officers of
England, Wales, and Northern Ireland.

Chief Constable Ben Gunn, of Cambridgeshire Constabulary, said on the
association's behalf: "Terrorists move vehicles, explosives, and other equipment
to this country by various means and store them here in a variety of different
locations whilst they plan their attack.

"They have also demonstrated their willingness to leave vehicles parked in
public streets, packed with explosives, which detonate sometimes with little or
no warning, thereby placing the public in great danger and causing enormous
damage to property."

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1996 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              278 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             April 2, 1996, Tuesday

Police get new anti- terrorist powers

BYLINE: HEATHER MILLS Home Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Page  2

LENGTH: 518 words


Emergency legislation to meet police demands for greater powers to stop and
search terrorist suspects is to be rushed on to the statute books by Wednesday.

Michael Howard, the Home Secretary, yesterday told the Commons that the measures
- to be introduced through amendments to the 1974 Prevention of Terrorism Act -
were urgently needed to counter the renewed IRA threat, following the Docklands
bombing, which ended the ceasefire.

But the announcement was immediately condemned by some Labour and Liberal
Democrat MPs, while justice and human rights groups warned against the dangers
of sweeping through "ill-thought through" legislation. Parts of the 1974 Act
have already been found to be in breach of human rights by the European Court of
Human Rights in Strasbourg.

And Seamus Mallon, deputy leader of Northern Ireland's nationalist SDLP,
described the move as "underhand in the extreme".

He said ministers had not mentioned proposals to "railroad" new measures through
the Commons when the Prevention of Terrorism Act was renewed last month.

"It shows complete contempt for parliamentary procedure . . . They have
engineered a situation where important and far-reaching powers will be
introduced, affecting the communities in Britain as much as Northern Ireland,
without any notice, analysis, consultation or amendment."

But Labour's front bench - anxious to avoid attacks from Mr Howard that it is
soft on crime or terrorists - has already made clear it will not obstruct the
Government's counter-terrorism proposals.

The new measures will enable police to stop and search pedestrians for terrorist
items. They will do away with the need for a search warrant if they have
intelligence which suggests weapons or terrorist paraphernalia are stored inside
a building and give increased powers to search vehicles and goods coming into
the country.

They will also place on a formal footing, measures officers already take in the
face of a bomb or terrorist threat - to cordon off areas where there is a
terrorist threat and to impose parking restrictions.

The most controversial of the new measures are the stop-and-search powers.  Mr
Howard said they would end an anomaly which meant police could currently search
people's luggage or vehicles but not their outer clothing.

But civil liberty groups maintained police already had sufficient powers under
other legislation. John Wadham, director of Liberty, said: "Six hundred people
were arrested under the PTA last year and not one of them was convicted of any
offence. Without a Bill of Rights, it is appallingly easy for the Government to
rush through such ill-thought out emergency legislation which is far more likely
to be used to harass the innocent than to catch the guilty. The new powers will
undoubtedly lead to an even greater number of people being stopped and searched
for no good reason, when their only 'crime' is to be Irish."

Mr Howard said: "We face a real threat of a continuing IRA campaign of murder.
No one should be deceived by the fact that for a few weeks we have had a lull."


LOAD-DATE: April 02, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1996 Independent Print Ltd

                              279 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 April 3, 1996

IRA Easter bombing fears put security services on full alert

BYLINE: By Ian Bruce;Defence Correspondent;;

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 641 words


BRITAIN'S security services have been placed on full alert in anticipation of an
IRA bomb attack "spectacular" to mark the official 80th anniversary of the 1916
Easter uprising this weekend.

Intelligence sources think an attack will be directed at a prestige government
or military target on the mainland to reinforce the organisation's proven
ability to strike at will in defiance of moves towards a political settlement in
Northern Ireland.

They also fear that loyalist extremists, who have so far refrained from
retaliation for the IRA's bomb blasts in London since the end of the 17-month
ceasefire, may be preparing a tit-for-tat explosion in Dublin.

Last night 30 Labour back benchers delivered an embarrassing blow to leader Tony
Blair by joining the Liberal Democrats in opposing Government moves to rush
through the Commons emergency powers to combat this renewed terrorist threat.

The rebels opposing the clampdown demanded more time for debate, while Ministers
stressed the need to get the powers in place before the Easter recess.

Sources claim that an attack in the UK would avoid the previous pattern of
random bombing of public areas. It is believed that the IRA's Army Council is
anxious to prevent the "Dunblane factor" of worldwide sympathy for innocent
victims by focusing the assault on what might be regarded as a legitimate
target.

There is also the possibility that the terrorists may delay an outrage until the
end of the month to take advantage of a relaxation of the alert status.  The
original uprising took place on April 24, 1916.

Meanwhile, military bases around the country are beefing up security and many
service personnel have had leave cancelled. The men of F Company, Scots Guards,
have been deployed to protect Buckingham Palace.

Ireland's Garda special branch are on watch for the movement of Protestant
extremists from Northern Ireland. It is thought that the UDA may already have
infiltrated a bombing team into the republic to plant a retaliatory device for
any IRA explosion on the mainland.

The major loyalist groups have so far maintained their own belated ceasefire
while condemning republican terrorism in London. But it is unlikely that this
will continue if the Provisionals stage a headline-grabbing atrocity.

It is still believed that neither side is prepared to reopen hostilities within
Northern Ireland in the immediate future because of the impact of bad publicity
on inward investment. But both are prepared and equipped to conduct a proxy war
in England and Eire.

The emergency police powers rushed through Parliament yesterday to increase the
right of random search and the imposition of temporary parking bans near
potentially prime target areas is a measure of the Government's fear of renewed
bombing.

The IRA is known to have infiltrated up to eight active service units into
Britain in the two years before the ceasefire was announced.

These teams, consisting of three to four trained bombers and gunmen, have been
living and working throughout the country as "sleepers" and blending in with
local communities to allay suspicion.

The problem for the security services is that none has a previous connection
with terrorism or any traceable family history of republican allegiance. Some
may even have been recruited from Irish communities already established in
London, Liverpool, or Glasgow.

As revealed exclusively by The Herald, the security services were on alert for a
bomb a week before the IRA announced the resumption of hostilities on February
9. But the location and timing of the Docklands blast, which killed two men and
caused millions of pounds worth of damage in London's key commercial centre,
took them by surprise.

It was carried out by first-timers.  Two bombs later, there are still no
arrests.

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1996 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              280 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 5, 1996

IRA 'COULD STRIKE AGAIN AT ANY TIME'
Adams issues warning of fresh bomb attacks

BYLINE: David Sharrock Ireland Correspondent

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 800 words


A NEW IRA attack could come at any moment, the Sinn Fein president, Gerry Adams,
warned yesterday as tension mounted in Northern Ireland over its Easter
statement.

Asked about IRA intentions, following its annual Easter message which sought to
justify a return to "armed struggle", Mr Adams said: "We all live with the
reality of an end to a cessation. Therefore one could hear in the next news
broadcast reports of some IRA operation."

Mr Adams, who claimed that the IRA's Easter message was not "all doom and
gloom", went on: "The IRA ended its cessation regrettably on February 9. There
is nothing to suggest that it is just going to do an about face." And he branded
the Northern Ireland Secretary Sir Patrick Mayhew's contention that Sinn Fein
was excluding itself from the June 10 all-party talks as "absurd and plainly
untrue".

Britain had turned the process of substantive negotiations into "an obstacle
course involving at least four pre-conditions", he said, and had "surrounded the
June 10 date with a barbed wire entanglement". He condemned the forthcoming
Northern Ireland elections as "unnecessary" and the proposed forum as an
"embryonic Stormont".

The Mitchell report on decommissioning paramilitary weapons had been turned into
a precondition, Mr Adams said.  He repeated IRA demands that if the Government
was serious about negotiations it had to give "clear, specific and unambiguous
assurances" that these would be inclusive and that no item on the agenda would
be allowed to become an insurmountable obstacle to progress.

The principal block for Sinn Fein entering talks is the Mitchell report's call
for a process of decommissioning to begin as the talks progress, which the IRA
rejects.

The Social Democratic and Labour Party leader, John Hume, said he discerned a
chink of light in the IRA statement because of the recognition that negotiation
was the only solution.

But the Ulster Unionist leader, David Trimble, said Mr Hume was clutching at
straws.  The IRA would find itself "isolated and left behind" if it did not call
a genuine ceasefire, he said.

The IRA's message, published in the republican movement's weekly newspaper An
Phoblacht yesterday, said the IRA remained ready to assist moves towards a
"meaningful negotiating process".

It insisted that its "mandate for armed struggle derives from Britain's denial
of the fundamental right of the Irish people to national self-determination and
sovereignty".

The Northern Ireland economy minister, Baroness Denton, condemned the IRA
statement and urged republican leaders to there was a different way.

Leader comment, page 18

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              281 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 5, 1996

LEADING ARTICLE: WILL THEY, WON'T THEY?
The IRA can't stop the talks - but others may

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGE; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 894 words


WITH the 80th anniversary of the 1916 Rising looming, it was not surprising that
the IRA again seized the Northern Ireland headlines yesterday with its militant
Easter statement. The combination of this year's resumed bombing campaign and
the IRA's fondness for anniversaries, freshly spiced by Michael Howard's latest
anti -terrorism legislation, all conspire to foster a tense new atmosphere in
Britain this weekend. Once again, the prospects for Northern Ireland and the
actions of the IRA seem to be indissolubly bound together. If a bomb goes off
today, tomorrow or indeed at any time, then that link will of course seem
stronger than ever.

This is exactly the situation that the IRA seeks to encourage. But it cannot be
right that Anglo-Irish policy should hinge entirely on their actions. And we
would also be deluding ourselves if we believed that it does. A fresh IRA
bombing would naturally be an indefensible and provocative act of destruction
with political consequences. But what would it tell us that we don't already
know well? Nothing. We know that the IRA is committed to the so-called armed
struggle in pursuit of its republican objectives. We also know that it wants to
take part in negotiations towards those ends. But it is not true that the
Northern Ireland political process depends on whether there is a bombing or not.
The IRA ceasefire is over anyway, and the political process goes on more or less
regardless.

Another meeting between Sir Patrick Mayhew and Dick Spring merits few headlines
these days, especially by comparison with a bit of IRA sabre-rattling. Yet this
week in Dublin, the two ministers again got down to the detailed preparations
for all-party talks. The reality is that the IRA's actions and Northern Ireland
political developments are parallel rather than opposed. On the surface, the
British and Irish governments naturally hope for an IRA ceasefire to ease the
next phase of negotiations. Underneath, however, they work on the assumption
that there will be no such thing. The best expectation is that nothing will
happen to make things worse. The elections scheduled for the end of next month
will go ahead, whether Sinn Fein decides to participate in them or not. The June
10 talks will start as appointed, regardless of whether Sinn Fein takes part.

This week's byelections in the Irish Republic make it more likely that this
untidy but realistic state of affairs will continue. The Dublin government
parties, particularly Mr Spring's Labour Party, took a hammering from the
opposition Fianna Fail, thus increasing the pressure for results and for a less
exclusionary approach to Sinn Fein. Meanwhile Sinn Fein's own modestly improved
showing, doubling its share of the poll in both byelections (while still
remaining firmly in single figures), makes it more of a stakeholder in the
process. These results will strengthen the pressures on the IRA not to proceed
with fresh bombings.

None of this means that the Northern Ireland elections, when they take place,
will feed seamlessly into the talks process as optimistically intended in London
and Dublin. Nor does it mean that the all -party talks, when they begin, will be
in any way straightforward. The British government has already begun trying to
alter the mechanics of the talks to make the procedure more acceptable to the
Ulster Unionists. There is also a real danger that the talks will immediately
collapse on June 10 over the decommissioning question. In some respects the
biggest unsolved problem is not how to stop Sinn Fein dictating the agenda and
destroying the process, but how to stop the Unionists from doing the same thing.

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              282 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 8, 1996

IRA 'IN A WAR SITUATION'

BYLINE: David Sharrock Ireland Correspondent

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1040 words


A KEY figure in the talks that led to the IRA ceasefire told fellow republicans
they were once more "in a war situation" as they commemorated the 80th
anniversary of the Irish Easter rising yesterday.

Gerry Kelly, a convicted IRA bomber who partnered Martin McGuinness of Sinn Fein
in the secret talks with British representatives which preceded the Downing
Street Declaration, delivered a gloomy speech to more than a thousand supporters
in Drumboe, Co Donegal, offering no hint of another IRA ceasefire.

His comments came as the Sinn Fein president, Gerry Adams, accused the Irish
prime minister, John Bruton, of caving in to London and failing to provide the
right leadership.

Mr Adams told supporters in Londonderry: "Mr Bruton has not so far risen to the
challenge presented by British duplicity and bad faith."

British policy in Northern Ireland was clearly rooted in a Unionist agenda.  The
proposal for a Northern Ireland election to precede talks was Unionist, he
claimed. "That the Irish government permitted the British government to promote
a Unionist agenda and proposals is not encouraging."

The Sinn Fein vice-president, Pat Doherty, also told a rally in West Belfast
that few nationalists and republicans had any confidence in the Irish premier.
"These elections have nothing to do with the search for peace. They are a ploy
to divert it."

Mr Bruton last night responded by accusing Mr Adams of being "stuck in a groove"
with repetitive criticism of the Dublin government. He urged him to "stop
recriminating about the past and start spelling out in some detail a realist
outcome that he expects to come from the all-party talks, now starting on June
10. There has been a notable absence of detail from Sinn Fein, so far, on what
they actually expect the peace talks to deliver."

The IRA should call off violence forever, and there should be a majority in both
North and South for any settlement. Sinn Fein and the IRA, and no one else, were
standing outside the Irish democratic consensus on those two fundamental points.

Mr Kelly's speech was given at the graveside of four IRA volunteers shot dead by
the Free State army during the Irish civil war. He said: "The sad fact is that
we are all again in a war situation.

"Sadder than that still is that if the British government had not squandered the
year and a half of IRA cessation for selfish party political reasons, we might
have been well on the way to the resolution of the age-old conflict between
Britain and Ireland."

He accepted there was confusion in republican ranks about what the next steps
should be, a remark that indicates the debate over whether to return to a
full-scale campaign of violence or to take the political route is still
continuing.

Mr Kelly rarely speaks in public and became known during the Stormont talks as
"the silent one". His audience yesterday was not full of the usual Sinn Fein
faces, and an IRA representative was shielded from view by comrades as he read
out the organisation's annual Easter message.

Mr Kelly was introduced as "one of that intrepid band who took the war to
England". He was convicted of being among the first Provisional IRA bombers to
target London in the early 1970s. After many years in prison, escape and
recapture in Holland, extradition and completion of his sentence, he was
"released and took up the battle where he left off", the crowd was told.

Mr Kelly told the crowd the ceasefire had lasted "an incredible 18 months".  For
it to work again, there had to be unambiguous assurances that all-party talks
would begin without any preconditions.

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              283 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 April 8, 1996

Support is not passed over

BYLINE: Victoria Freedman

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1154 words


VICTORIA FREEDMAN explains why recent bombings in Israel have produced a sense
of disillusionment in Glasgow

THERE is a prayer during the traditional Passover celebration, which began last
week, that expresses the hope "next year in Jerusalem". For many that desire has
been realised as thousands of British Jewish families do now celebrate Passover
if not in Jerusalem, at least elsewhere in Israel. And few, it appears, have
cancelled their week-long visit, despite the recent suicide bombings that killed
58 civilians in two weeks.

While the Federation of Tour Operators, which controls 90% of the British
holiday package market, has banned the sale of package holidays to Israel
involving visits to Jerusalem or Tel Aviv, northern tour operators specialising
in Israel have had virtually no cancellations.

Michael Grunsfeld of Goodmos says: "In fact bookings increased. I was working a
12-hour day to cope with the demand."

According to the Israeli Government Tourist Office, security measures are being
taken to ensure the safety of the 40,000 travellers expected for Passover (and
indeed Easter) although "no British tourist has ever been harmed by terrorism in
Israel", while Israeli Ambassador, Moshe Raviv, told church leaders a few weeks
ago, ''Jerusalem is as safe as New York, London, and Chicago".

Indeed, apparently more Israelis are killed annually in car accidents than in
all the wars and terrorist incidents in the 48 years since the State was
founded.

Yet while the Hamas bombings may not have scared members of the Glasgow Jewish
community from travelling to Israel, they have had a profound effect,
intensified by the close links between Glasgow and Israel.

"Glasgow has always had a reputation of having a high percentage of its former
Jewish citizens living in Israel in comparison to other cities in Britain,
Western Europe, and North America," explains Dr Kenneth Collins, president of
the Glasgow Jewish Representative Council, the representative body of the Jewish
community in Glasgow and the West of Scotland, "therefore many people here have
family in Israel".

There has also been a particularly strong tradition of Zionism in Glasgow, going
back to the very early 1900s, while before the First World War there was an
organised group here promoting Jewish Settlement on land in Palestine, which was
extremely rare in western Jewish community.

Presently, there are organisational links between Scotland and Israel with
usually at least one Israeli community worker, sometimes a youth worker,
teachers of Hebrew from Israel, and because it is a relatively small Jewish
community of about 7000, it looks to Israel for help in training specialised
community professionals.

Events in Israel, then, are naturally felt very deeply by Glasgow's Jewish
community. On the day after the assassination of the former Prime Minister
Yitzhak Rabin, 600 people attended a memorial service in Glasgow.

"There was a remarkable outpouring of grief and emotion," says Collins, who
witnessed profound shock within the community, heightened likely by the fact
that it was an Israeli who carried out the murder.

While the initial effect of Rabin's assassination seemed, paradoxically, to
ensure that the peace process continued in the following weeks, possibly as
those in opposition were too shocked to mount much protest, it appeared that the
Hamas bombings might succeed in its derailment.

Collins, who is a GP and the author of Second City Jewry, a history of the Jews
in Glasgow from the eighteenth to the twentieth century, could be dismayed by
such an outcome.

"I hope the bombings will have no effect whatsoever," he says.

''The opportunity to have partnership not only with the PLO but also with all
the Arab countries around Israel is too great a prize to be cast aside just
because some people are against it.'' However, he does agree the bombings have
produced a sense of disillusionment both in Israel and in Glasgow.

"I think there was a feeling that the peace process was going to bring complete
cessation of every kind of hostility and now people are a bit sadder and a bit
wiser. They realise that while there will be peace, there will also be crazy
people about, whose hatred is at the top of their political agenda."

Although in Israel, there is clearly opposition by some to the peace process, Dr
Collins believes that there is no alternative but to continue negotiations, a
view shared, he says, by almost the whole community here.

The Muslim community here, which numbers about 25,000, is equally undivided.
While elsewhere in Britain there have been some reports of overt support for
Hamas, the bombings are firmly denounced by spokesman Councillor Bashir Maan,
chairman of Strathclyde Community Relations Council.

"What is happening there has nothing to do with Islam," he says.

"The Koran specifically prohibits innocent citizens being hurt even in war. If
people are doing that, they are doing wrong. It's nothing to do with Islam.
It's all politics. It's two nations at war, but the Palestinians just happen to
be Muslims and the Israelis happen to be Jews."

Councillor Maan says the two communities in Glasgow continue to enjoy excellent
relations after the bombings, which is supported by Judith Tankel, former
President of the Glasgow Jewish Representative Council and a member of the
executive committee of the Community Relations Council.

Both communities, she points out, have many common areas of concern. They work
together on the provision of Kosher and Halal meals in hospitals and schools, on
the religious requirements when someone dies in hospital and the obligation for
speedy burials. They share common concerns in religious, educational,
employment, and welfare matters, such as the need for time off work for
religious observances and for housing. Both communities also share in the
efforts for religious equality and in opposing racism, anti-semitism and
fascism.

"We work together on all those issues and we sit round the table in total
harmony," says Tankel. "And while tacitly understanding that our viewpoint
differs about the Middle East, we all strongly believe that the conflict should
not be imported to Glasgow, that our concern as citizens of multicultural
Glasgow is to live together in peace and harmony. It's not platitudinous. That's
the way it really is."

Collins believes Scottish Jewry has a positive impact in Middle Eastern affairs.
"We are letting it be known that we are strongly supportive of the Israeli
government. After the bombings we had representatives from Glasgow among a
delegation that went to Israel to show the government that Jews from this
country support their efforts.

"But above all, we're still visiting Israel, still having holidays, still
visiting friends and relatives."

And for some, still celebrating Passover there.

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Kenneth Collins: continue talks.

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1996 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              284 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                            April 13, 1996, Saturday

COPS QUIZ IRA BOMB SUSPECT;
POLICE QUIZ IRA BOMB SUSPECT IN DUBLIN

BYLINE: John Kierans And Liam Kelly

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1, 2

LENGTH: 547 words


POLICE were last night quizzing a suspect about a series of IRA bombings on the
British mainland.

The 26-year-old - said to have no convictions - was arrested when police swooped
on a house in Finglas, a working class area of Dublin, following a

major surveillance operation by Anti-Terrorist Squad detectives.

Scotland Yard said they would be keen to extradite the man in the wake of the
blasts at London's Docklands and Aldwych.

The man is due to appear in court in Dublin today.

It is understood detectives on both sides of the Irish Sea had watched him for
weeks. He is being questioned about two bike bombs in Brighton and Bognor Regis,
Sussex, in 1994.

Shops were wrecked by two pounds of Semtex packed into bicycles.

Detectives were also quizzing the man over the bomb at South Quay in London's
Docklands in February - which left two people dead and 100 injured.  And they
are understood to be probing possible links with IRA man Ed O'Brien, killed by
his own bomb on a bus in London's Aldwych.

Arrest

British police are expected to seek the man's extradition - but this could take
up to a year.

It is understood a large team from the Irish Special Branch and the Gardai
Surveillance Unit had the man under 24 hour watch recently as he travelled
between London and Dublin.

He was arrested with his girlfriend at his home in Finglas.

A senior Irish police source told the Mirror: "This man is a 'lilywhite'.  He's
got no previous convictions whatsoever. He is being questioned about Docklands
and other bombings in Britain."

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1996 MGN Ltd.

                              285 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 April 13, 1996

No Headline Present

BYLINE: By James Mckillop;;

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 290 words


Suspect arrested

over IRA bombs

A 26-YEAR-old man was being detained by Irish police last night on suspicion of
IRA bomb attacks in Britain.

He was being regarded as a "key player" in the campaign against mainland
Britain.

The suspect, a single man, was taken into custody in a dawn raid on a working
-class suburb of Dublin.

Police suspect he could be one of the persons at the heart of a 1994 campaign
which saw bicycle frames in Brighton and Bognor Regis that had been packed with
explosive devices being used as terrorist weapons.

The suspect was being detained under the Irish Offences Against the State Act.
This law allows a person to be held for up to 48 hours.

The Irish police said he would appear in court today. The proceedings were
expected to be in connection with a Scotland Yard extradition application.

The IRA attacks on Brighton and Bognor Regis were regarded as unique.

Several pounds of Semtex explosives were packed into pannier bags on the
bicyles. A 5lb bomb was left at Palace Pier, Brighton, until police made it
safe.

Previously that weekend, a similar bomb did explode in Bognor Regis.

It is believed that both attacks were intended to commemorate the 25th
anniversary of the deployment of British troops to Northern Ireland.

It is understood that the arrest of the 26-year-old followed a cross-border
inquiry that involved a major surveillance operation. Last night, Scotland Yard
officers confirmed that the arrested man was believed to be a main player.

The suspect is not believed to be involved in London's South Quay bombing which
broke the IRA ceasefire. Nevertheless, it is understood that Irish police were
questioning him on this last night.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1996 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              286 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            April 13, 1996, Saturday

IRA terror suspect questioned by Garda

BYLINE: JASON BENNETTO and ALAN MURDOCH

SECTION: NEWS; Page  2

LENGTH: 531 words


JASON BENNETTO and ALAN MURDOCH in Dublin

A 27-year-old man was being held in Dublin yesterday in connection with IRA
activities in mainland Britain, including the recent London bombing campaign
that shattered the ceasefire.

Anti-terrorist police are expected to apply for the man's extradition, although
it is understood he is not being linked to the Docklands bomb in which two
people died.

His arrest on Thursday morning followed a surveillance operation launched by the
Irish Garda's Special Branch when the 17-month IRA ceasefire ended in February.

It is believed the incidents the man will be questioned over include the three
Semtex "bag bombs" that exploded in central London, one of which accidentally
detonated on a double decker bus killing the IRA terrorist Edward O'Brien.

It is understood he was quizzed by the Garda yesterday about 1994 bombs in
Brighton and Bognor Regis, which involved bicycle frames packed with explosives.

The man, from the north Dublin suburb of Finglas, was detained under the terms
of Irish anti-terrorist legislation. This permits suspects to be held for up to
48 hours, meaning he has to be charged or released by this morning.

British anti-terrorist sources yesterday confirmed their interest in the
suspect. Scotland Yard declined to confirm that they would make an early
application for his extradition, but it is understood this will happen shortly.

The IRA brought the ceasefire to an abrupt end with a 1,000lb fertiliser bomb
planted in a truck that was left at South Quay in London's Docklands on 9
February. On 15 February, a 5lb Semtex bomb was left in a holdall inside a
telephone box in Charing Cross Road, central London. That device was made safe
and no-one was injured.

On the evening of 18 February, O'Brien killed by his own bomb when it ripped
apart the bus he was on as it passed along Aldwych, also in central London.
Enough Semtex and bomb making equipment for a further 20 bombs were found later
at O'Brien's flat in Lewisham, south east London, with numerous documents.

In the early hours of 9 March, another small Semtex bag bomb exploded in Old
Brompton Road, Fulham, west London, causing minor damage. The IRA later
acknowledged the device was one of theirs.

The suspect has also been questioned about the bicycle bombs used in August
1994. The terrorists packed several pounds of Semtex into the pannier bags of
two hire bicycles.

A bike with a 5lb bomb exploded in the main shopping precinct at Bognor Regis,
West Sussex, badly damaging 15 shops. In Brighton, a mountain bike carrying a
similar device was left at the Palace Pier, but was made safe.

Bicycle bombs had been used before in Northern Ireland, but these were thought
to be the first attacks of this kind on the mainland.

Meanwhile, it has emerged that Garda patrols discovered a 20-foot crater earlier
this week at a remote spot in the Ox Mountains, County Sligo, near the village
of Coolaney. Twisted metal wreckage at the site suggested that explosive devices
were being tested there.

Last month, it was indicated that the IRA had developed a powerful new
"barracks-buster" mortar.


LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1996 Independent Print Ltd

                              287 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                            April 13, 1996, Saturday

MIX-UPS, MISTAKES AND A CATALOGUE OF CONTROVERSY

BYLINE:  Andrew Woodcock, PA News

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 746 words


Today's Dublin court fiasco is the latest in a long string of mix-ups, mistakes
and failures of co-operation to dog extradition proceedings between Britain and
the Irish Republic.  Since 1965, about 900 people have been extradited from the
republic to the UK but almost all have been ordinary criminal suspects, with
only a handful of terrorist suspects returned.  For years, the 1965 Irish
Extradition Act allowed terrorists to defeat extradition demands by claiming
that they were accused of "political offences".  On several occasions, defective
arrest warrants and improper arrest procedures were blamed for allowing IRA
suspects to walk free, but UK authorities frequently suspected that the Irish
courts simply lacked the will to extradite.  In 1982, Dominic McGlinchey became
the first terrorist to be extradited to Northern Ireland from the republic for
trial.  But it was not until 1994, amid an atmosphere of improving Anglo-Irish
relationships and under pressure from the EU to harmonise arrangements with the
rest of Europe, that the Dublin cabinet approved a bill to strike the
"political" defence off the books.  Recent extradition controversies include the
following:
    In June last year, Angelo Fusco, an IRA man sentenced to life imprisonment
for murdering an SAS captain, walked free after a Dublin High Court upheld his
appeal against extradition to Northern Ireland.  Fusco, 38, had spent 10 years
in a republic jail for escaping from the Crumlin Road prison in Belfast, and the
court ruled that it would be unjust to extradite him after such a delay.
    Brixton jail escapers Nessan Quinlivan and Pearse McCauley are free on bail
in the Irish Republic, awaiting an appeal against extradition, three years after
being rearrested.  They had taken part in an armed breakout from Brixton while
awaiting trial on charges of conspiracy to murder and conspiracy to cause
explosions.
    In 1994, extradition requests for Anthony Gorman and Joseph Magee, who were
suspected of involvement in the INLA murder of an army recruiting sergeant in
Derby, were rejected by a Dublin court.  No evidence was offered by the Irish
prosecutors after it was ruled that the murder was a political offence and that
"lurid and sensational" press reports would prevent a fair trial.
    In 1990, an application for the extradition of Maze escapers Dermot Finucane
and James Pius-Clarke fell through because the Dublin Supreme Court ruled their
offences were political and that they might be ill-treated by Maze prison
officers.
    In 1988, former priest Patrick Ryan was freed by the Irish Attorney-General.
He had been arrested in Belgium but was sent to Ireland after starting a hunger
and thirst strike.  Britain demanded his extradition for trial in connection
with IRA terrorist attacks in the early 1970s, but the Irish Attorney-General
ruled he would not receive a fair trial because of massive publicity. Mrs
Thatcher branded the decision "an insult to all of the people of this country".
    In 1988 Patrick McVeigh, 37, wanted in connection with bombings in Britain,
was released on the grounds that no Scotland Yard officer was in court at his
extradition hearing to identify him.
    There was fury in 1986 when John O'Reilly was freed because warrants for his
extradition issued in Belfast were signed by a court official, not a judge. He
was wanted for conspiracy to murder and conspiracy to cause an explosion.
    In the same year, Evelyn Glenholmes, suspected of triple IRA murder, was
released because of defective extradition warrants.
    In 1985, Brendan Burns, wanted to stand trial in Northern Ireland on charges
relating to the murders of British soldiers, was released after extradition
warrants were declared invalid. By the time replacement warrants were delivered
to the Irish police, Burns had gone into hiding.


    Owen Carron, former Sinn Fein MP for Fermanagh South Tyrone, escaped
extradition to Northern Ireland in 1990 after five Irish judges ruled that the
charge he was facing was political.  Carron was accused of possession of an
assault rifle allegedly found in his car.


    In 1991, an Irish court turned down an extradition application for Anthony
Sloan, 37, one of eight convicted IRA terrorists who shot their way out of
Crumlin Road jail in 1981.  Sloan had been convicted of possession of a machine
gun, which was ruled to be a political offence.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1996 The Press Association Limited

                              288 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             April 14, 1996, Sunday

'Underworld' witnesses saw IRA bombers

BYLINE: Jason Bennetto Crime Correspondent

SECTION: TITLE; Page  1

LENGTH: 493 words


SEVERAL witnesses who can identify the terrorists responsible for the Docklands
bomb that shattered the IRA ceasefire have been found by Scotland Yard.

Some are from the fringes of the underworld in London's East End, and at least
one of the witnesses had thought the suspected IRA men were undercover police
officers.

They spotted the bombers in the final stages of their bomb run while the lorry
used in the attack was parked on waste ground at River Road in Barking, east
London. It was during the stop in Barking that the vehicle and its drivers
aroused suspicion in an area where shady deals are commonplace.

The Yard's Anti-Terrorist Branch believes the finds are an important
break-through in the hunt for the bombers, whose 1,000lb fertiliser bomb killed
two people and caused widespread destruction when it was detonated near the
South Quay station of the Docklands Light Railway at 7.01pm on 9 February.

The witnesses, whom an anti-terrorist source described as "not the type of
people who usually help out the police" are involved in second-hand car sales
and scrap metal. They have provided detailed descriptions of the bombers'
clothes and physical features, all of which match. This also tallies with images
from surveillance cameras.

The Anti-Terrorist Branch now has a large wealth of material on the bombers,
most as a result of a public appeal, including the offer of up to pounds 1m
reward, by the head of the branch, Commander John Grieve.

It has also recovered important new evidence from more than 600 video
surveillance cameras, although so far only blurred images of two terrorists
planting the bomb have been found. The branch may yet decide to circulate
descriptions or photographs of the suspects, but fears this could tip off the
terrorists and cause them to flee to America.

nAn attempt to extradite an alleged IRA member wanted over 1994 bicycle bombs in
British seaside resorts failed yesterday because supporting British legal
documents provided to Irish authorities were "fatally flawed", Alan Murdoch
writes from Dublin.

Violent scenes followed as Tony Duncan, 26, from Finglas in north Dublin, was
released then re-arrested on a different charge.

Duncan, wanted in Britain over the planting of bicycle bombs in Brighton and
Bognor Regis in 1994, had reportedly been under surveillance in Ireland since
before Christmas.

Judge Timothy Crowley said it was "at least the second or third time" he had had
to deal with incorrect British extradition documents. "I take grave exception to
the time of this court being taken up with flawed British documents," he said.

Republican demonstrators shouting "No British justice" and "No extradition"
tried to force their way past uniformed police to free Duncan as he was
immediately re-arrested.

Soon after, Duncan was remanded in custody for a week by the same court, charged
with IRA membership within the Irish Republic.


LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1996 Independent Print Ltd

                              289 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                             April 14, 1996, Sunday

UK BUNGLES IRA MAN'S EXTRADITION

BYLINE: Mary Holland, Dublin

SECTION: THE OBSERVER NEWS PAGE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 360 words


THE FIRST attempt to extradite a terrorist suspect from the Irish Republic to
Britain since the end of the IRA ceasefire collapsed yesterday when Scotland
Yard documents were declared 'fatally flawed'.

Anthony Duncan, 27, from Dublin, wanted in connection with a 1994 IRA bombing
campaign, was released by a district court after the judge rebuked the British
authorities. He was immediately re-arrested and remanded in custody on a charge
of being a member of the IRA.

Anti-terrorist squad officers had wanted to question Duncan in connection with
'bicycle bombs' placed in Brighton and Bognor Regis in 1994. However, the court
was forced to adjourn when it was found that one document was missing.

The decision led District Justice Crowley to direct strongly worded criticism
over extradition procedures.  'In my personal experience it is the second or
third time that documents from England have been fatally flawed. I object to
this and I take great exception to the time of this court being taken up in this
way.'

The episode will embarrass police on both sides of the Irish Sea who have been
co-operating on the investigation into the IRA bombing campaign in Britain
before and after the August 1994 ceasefire.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              290 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                             April 14, 1996, Sunday

YARD BUNGLE BID TO NAB 'BOMBER';
POLICE PAPERS WERE 'FATALLY FLAWED'; JUDGE HITS OUT OVER COURT BLUNDER;
EXTRADITION BLUNDER BLASTED BY JUDGE

BYLINE: Declan White

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 587 words


A BID to extradite a suspected IRA bomber failed yesterday because of bungled
documents.

The 26-year old man was freed by a Dublin court after Scotland Yard anti-
terrorist officers dropped their application. Mistakes in the court papers had
left them "fatally flawed". And the blunder sparked a furious blast from the
judge.

District Justice Crowley said: "In my personal experience, it is the second or
third time that documents from England have been fatally flawed.

"I object to this and I take very great exception to the time of this court
being taken up in this way.

"It should not happen."

The man, suspected of being involved in a "bike bombing" campaign in Sussex, was
re-arrested when he left court.

He was later charged with IRA membership and held in custody.

The case sparked a clash outside the court between police and anti-British
protesters.

And a furious row erupted behind closed doors between the governments of Britain
and Ireland.

The man was arrested at his Dublin home on Thursday morning.

British officers flew to the city and served him with an extradition warrant 20
minutes before the end of the 48-hour detention period allowed under anti
-terrorist laws.

Yard men wanted to quiz the suspect about bike frames stuffed with explosives.

One went off in Bognor in 1994 but another in Brighton failed.

Officers also wanted to question him about the London Docklands blast, although
they do not believe he was directly involved.

Last night, a spokesman for Scotland Yard said: "We are not discussing the
extradition matter at all."

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FREED: The suspected IRA bomber is surrounded by crowds outside the
court in Dublin yesterday

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 1996 MGN Ltd.

                              291 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                             April 14, 1996, Sunday

RIOTS AS COURT FREES IRA BOMBING SUSPECT;
CPS BLAMED FOR EXTRADITION FIASCO;
BRITISH AUTHORITIES FAIL TO EXTRADITE IRA SUSPECT TONY DUNCAN FROM DUBLIN

BYLINE: John Kierans In Dublin

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 840 words


From JOHN KIERANS in Dublin

A BUNGLED attempt to extradite a suspected IRA bomber ended in chaos yesterday.
Fighting broke out on the streets of Dublin as Republicans tried to stop police
re-arresting 27-year-old Tony Duncan wanted for questioning over the London
Docklands blast in which two people died.

Punches were thrown in angry exchanges outside a police station when furious
cops whisked him back into custody.

Duncan, arrested in Dublin on Thursday under the Republic anti-terrorist laws,
is also wanted in Britain over bombings in Brighton and Bognor Regis in 1991.

Flawed

Police on both sides of the Irish sea also claim he was an associate of Ed
O'Brien, 21, who blew himself up in the London bus blast.

But Irish judge Tim Crowley ruled Duncan couldn't be sent for trial to Britain
because the extradition papers were flawed.

Bungling British officials in the Crown Prosecution Service had failed to send a
vital document to Dublin that was legally essential for his extradition.

Red-faced law chiefs were last night holding an inquiry into the blunder.

A Crown Prosecution Service spokesman claimed any discrepancies in the warrant
were "purely technical." But as terror suspect Duncan sat grinning in the dock,
Judge Crowley launched a scathing attack on the British authorities and angrily
blamed them for the fiasco.

He said: "Twice in my court extradition documents from England have been flawed.
I take grave exception. I have no choice but to order a discharge."

Within minutes, jubilant sympathisers tried to organise a getaway for Duncan.
Police officers surrounded a motor bike that pulled up outside and others
stalked Duncan as he walked near the courthouse with relatives.

He was then brought into the adjoining Bridewell police station and let out to
the front door - where he was immediately re-arrested.

Duncan is now likely to be charged with membership of the IRA. He had been put
under surveillance by Irish Special Branch following the breakdown of the Ulster
ceasefire.

Officers had been studying journeys he made to both the mainland and Northern
Ireland.

The British bungle brought immediate reaction last night. Tory backbencher,
Jerry Hayes, a member of the British-Irish parliamentary group said : "It is
absolutely appaling that our side of the water cannot get their act together
when peace has broken down with the IRA."

"We are usually the first country to criticise the Irish. Now we are left with
egg on our face. We really must get out act together.

This sort of incident does not help Anglo-Irish co-operation which is crucial in
these turbulent times."

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FURY: Scuffles broke out yesterday after suspect bomber Duncan, left,
was re-arrested

                            Copyright 1996 MGN Ltd.

                              292 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                             April 14, 1996, Sunday

RIOTS AS COURT FREES IRA BOMBING SUSPECT;
CPS BLAMED FOR BUNGLED EXTRADITION;
RIOT FOLLOWS FAILED ATTEMPT BY BRITISH AUTHORITIES TO EXTRADITE IRA SUSPECT TONY
DUNCAN

BYLINE: John Kierans In Dublin

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 734 words


A FAILED British attempt to extradite a suspected IRA bomber ended in chaos
yesterday.

Fighting broke out on the streets of Dublin as Republicans tried to stop police
re-arresting the 27-year-old city man wanted for questioning over the London
Docklands blast in which two people died.

Punches were thrown in angry exchanges outside a police station when furious
cops whisked him back into custody minutes after he was freed by a judge.

Flawed

The man had been arrested in the city on Thursday under the Republic's anti
-terrorist laws and is wanted for questioning in Britain over bombings in
Brighton and Bognor Regis in 1991 - and the recent Canary Wharf blast.

Police on both sides of the Irish sea also claim the man was an associate of
terrorist Ed O'Brien, 21, who blew himself up in the London bus blast.

But judge Tim Crowley ruled he couldn't be sent for trial to Britain because the
extradition papers were flawed.

British officials in the Crown Prosecution Service had failed to send a vital
document to Dublin that was legally essential for his extradition.

Red-faced British law chiefs were last night holding an inquiry into the bungle.
A Crown Prosecution Service spokesman claimed any discrepancies in the warrant
were "purely technical." But Judge Crowley had in court launched a scathing
attack on the British authorities and angrily blamed them for the fiasco. He
said: "Twice in my court extradition documents from England have been flawed. I
take grave exception.  I have no choice but to order a discharge."

Within minutes, jubilant sympathisers tried to organise a getaway. for the man.
But police officers surrounded a motorbike that pulled up outside. Others
stalked the man as he walked near the court house with relatives. He was then
taken into the adjoining Bridewell police station and let out of the front door
- where he was immediately re-arrested. He is now likely to be charged with
membership of the IRA.

The man had been put under surveillance by Irish Special Branch following the
breakdown of the Ulster ceasefire.

Officers had been studying journeys he made to both the mainland and Northern
Ireland. The British bungle brought immediate reaction last night.

Tory backbencher, Jerry Hayes, a member of the British-Irish parliamentary group
said: "It is appalling that our side of the water cannot get their act together
when peace has broken down with the IRA.

"We are usually the first country to criticise the Irish. Now we are left with
egg on our face."

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ARREST FURY: Scuffles broke out outside the court after the 27-
year-old was taken back into custody

                            Copyright 1996 MGN Ltd.

                              293 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                           April 17, 1996, Wednesday

IRA'S BOMB BOY PLOTTED 'CEASEFIRE' BLOODBATH;
ACCIDENTAL DEATH VERDICT PASSED ON IRA BOMBER ED O'BRIEN

BYLINE: David Pilditch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 400 words


Boy bomber Ed O'Brien spent the IRA ceasefire plotting a terror campaign in
Britain, an inquest heard yesterday.

O'Brien, 21, worked undercover in London making bombs and collecting information
on targets.

But his murderous mission ended when he accidentally blew himself up on a bus in
London's Aldwych on February 18.

Three days earlier, O'Brien had planted Semtex explosives in a phone box in
Charing Cross Road. That device was found and defused after a coded warning.

Following the Aldwych outrage more than 33lbs of Semtex - enough to make six
huge bombs - was found at his flat in Lewisham, south London.

Detective Superintendent William Emerton told the London inquest: ""It was a
complete find of bomb-making equipment which could have sustained a significant
bombing attack on the citizens of London."

O'Brien, a former altar boy from Gorey, Co Wexford, worked for the IRA in London
as early as August 1994. He was busy making lists of bombing targets during US
President Bill Clinton's peace visit to Britain and Ireland at the end of last
year.

The bus bomb went off early, possibly because of his lack of experience or
faulty equipment.

Verdict: Accidental death.

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: KILLED: O'Brien was blown up on a bus; HIT: The wrecked bus

                            Copyright 1996 MGN Ltd.

                              294 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           April 17, 1996, Wednesday

Network franchise plan shelved

BYLINE: CHRISTIAN WOLMAR Transport correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Page  4

LENGTH: 294 words


Northern Ireland Railways only has 206 route miles, much of it single track,
which is why little attention has been paid to its fate, until today's rail
debate.

In a series of Parliamentary answers earlier this year, Junior Northern Ireland
minister Malcolm Moss admitted that the Government was looking at privatising
the non-core activities, but stressed that a plan to franchise the whole network
had been shelved. Although Stagecoach, the acquisitive bus company, has had two
meetings with ministers on plans to take over the service, the Government denied
there were any firm plans for a takeover.

Northern Ireland benefits from an integrated transport policy that would not be
allowed by Tory dogma in Great Britain.

A single company, Northern Ireland Transport Holdings, owns both the railways
and the two main bus companies, Ulsterbus and Citybus and therefore runs the
services in co-operation with each other.

The lines were nationalised in the late 1940s. Last year, there were 6.14
million passenger journeys for the railways, an increase of over 7 per cent on
the previous year. The railways, which are all diesel operated as there are no
electrified lines, receive a subsidy of pounds 7.3m, but this amount is
declining each year under Government spending restrictions, which is why
privatisation is seen as a long-term option.

As in Great Britain many branch lines were closed in the 1950s and 1960s leaving
a truncated network.

The main line between Belfast and Dublin was also the subject of regular
terrorist attacks which further added to the decline in the infrastructure.  The
sale would be fiercely opposed by Ulster Unionists through fear that the lines
would eventually be taken over by Irish Railways.


LOAD-DATE: April 17, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1996 Independent Print Ltd

                              295 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Standard (London)

                                 April 18, 1996

A BOLD CAMPAIGN THAT DARE NOT FAIL

BYLINE: Anne Applebaum

SECTION: Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1507 words



CLOSED shops, shuttered windows, empty streets, a handful of children in bomb
shelters, army lorries distributing food: the town of Kiryat Shemona was
deserted yesterday, as might have been expected. During the past week, Hezbollah
guerrillas in southern Lebanon have fired more than 70 Katyusha rockets at
northern Israel, most of them aimed (to the extent that they are aimed at all)
at this town of 22,000 which, in happier times, served as a sort of tourist
lunch stop: the snowy heights of Mt Hermon, Israel's one and only ski resort,
can be seen from the main road.

What one wouldn't expect, given the number of rockets and the persistence of
those firing them, is how limited the damage has been. There are hardly any bomb
craters, almost no pockmarks in the walls of the empty houses, very little
broken glass in Kiryat Shemona. On close examination, the rockets do not, in
fact, appear to have damaged the town very effectively at all. They are
frightening enough close to schools, frightening enough to prsuade three
quarters of the population to leave the town and frightening enough to convince
those remaining to sleep underground. Yet the most important damage they do is
not to buildings. Far more important is what they are doing to popular morale:
not since 1948 have Israeli citizens been asked to leave their homes during a
war.

IT IS a genuine dilemma. High-tech Israeli weaponry might make Katyusha rockets
look stone age; the Israeli air force, which has flown nearly 1,100 bombing
raids in the past week, might make the guerrilla opponents seem like rank
amateurs. Nevertheless, the Israeli army, for political, diplomatic and military
reasons, has been unable to prevent Hezbollah from lobbing them over the border.
This is true not only of the past week's sustained attack, but of the 100-odd
scattered attacks over the past several months as well.

Even yesterday morning, as a raft of ceasefire proposals was being debated in
Jerusalem, Washington, Beirut and Damascus - three more Katyushas fell on Kiryat
Shemona. Before leaving London, I would have guessed that the Lebanon bombings
were a pre-electoral political ploy, the peace-making Israeli Labour Party's
attempt to look tough. From London, it probably still looks that way. But it is
much more than that. This week's fighting clearly illustrates the peculiar
security dilemma in which Israel - like Egypt, which also suffered a terrorist
attack today - now finds itself.

Terrorists - whether suicide bus bombers in Tel Aviv, Hezbollah guerrillas in
Lebanon, or fundamentalists in Cairo - cannot be ignored: in recent months that
has been tried. Overruling the desires of the army, hoping for a diplomatic
solution, Israeli politicians have not responded to the long series of border
attacks. But the failure to respond only emboldened Hezbollah, and infuriated
Israeli voters (as it would any voters: imagine if IRA bombs were raining down
daily on western Scotland).

Terrorists cannot be defeated by brute force either, although some here would
like to try it they live and operate among civilians whom Israel no longer
believes to be its sworn enemies, people who, as one defence ministry official
put it to me, 'will be our neighbours for the next 2,000 years'.

Given that Hezbollah is controlled and supplied through Syria, it also seems
particularly unfair to attack the Lebanese. But should Syrian civilians, who
don't have much to say about their government's support for terrorism, therefore
suffer instead? Would the bombing of Damascus achieve more than the bombing of
Hezbollah targets in any case?

Nor, for all of their technological shortcomings, can terrorists be completely
destroyed from the air, without a ground invasion, using 'smart weapons' of the
sort the Israeli army has been showing off this week: it is all very well to
fire a rocket through the window of a Hezbollah commander's house, but someone
else will always get away and set up operations elsewhere. And while the army is
under strict instructions to avoid all civilian casualties, even smart weapons
make mistakes.

CHAIRMAN Mao (to quote him out of context) once said that 'guerrillas swim among
civilians like fish - so to get rid of them you have to empty the pond'. This
week, the Israeli army is giving that approach a try as well: the 400,000
Lebanese civilians who fled the region for Beirut did so after extensive Israeli
radio warnings. 'We want to express our sorrow about that,' said one of the
generals leading the operation, somewhat awkwardly.

'We are not happy with this operation.' That apology is unlikely to fall on
grateful ears - and the emptying of the pond may not help much in the end
anyway. Continued the general: 'We are not so naive to think that tomorrow they
(the guerrillas) will be gone.'

What war, and particularly an air war, can achieve are partial solutions.

The situation must simply be altered. 'Things cannot go back to the way they
were,' says the general. 'We want to change the rules of the game,' says another
official. War might help persuade Lebanese civilians not to upport Hezbollah.
War might force Hezbollah, the Lebanese and especially the Syrians to sign some
form of permanent ceasefire.

War might provoke the United States, the only country whose diplomacy appears to
matter much to anyone in the Middle East, to put real pressure on Syria. War
might make Hezbollah think twice before trying an attack like this again. Then
again, it might not. Diplomacy alone, however, was not enough.

But the dilemma is not Israel's alone. For the past 100 years or so, we in the
West also became used to the idea that wars were only fought in order to achieve
absolute victory, and only conducted for the most exalted moral reasons. What we
are now watching in the Middle East is a return to an earlier type of battle:
war as only one of many methods used to achieve a limited set of goals, war as a
supplementary to the diplomatic process. For an example closer to home, look at
the use of Nato air bombings in Bosnia.

They didn't achieve absolute victory either, but they 'changed the rules of the
game', pushing the conflict in a direction that Nato preferred. The days of
'total war' are over.

Which is why both the United States and Britain have been right to express
'understanding' of Israel's behaviour this week, rather than condemnation.
Whether or not you approve of the means and the methods, the Israeli army's
attack on Lebanon represents the most sophisticated attempt to fight a crude but
effective form of terrorism to date.


LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: TERRORISTS CANNOT BE DEFEATED BY BRUTE FORCE: EVEN THE ISRAELIS' HIGH
-TECH WEAPONRY (ABOVE) HASN'T QUELLED HEZBOLLAH (BELOW)

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1996 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              296 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 April 19, 1996

As the IRA again threatens London, men of the cloth stand accused of aiding the
men of the Armalite in Ireland ;Earl's Court shrapnel hits Sinn Fein hopes

BYLINE: Russell Edmunds

SECTION: Pg. 15

LENGTH: 791 words


The latest IRA bomb may jeopardise Sinn Fein's position at the talks table, says
Russell Edmunds

aANOTHER bomb in London raises once again the issue of the IRA's commitment to
the Ulster peace process. Although Sinn Fein president Gerry Adams said
yesterday that his party would work towards a peaceful solution, the signs
remain ominous and the prospect of an election on May 30 is no help.

Observers of the Irish republican movement and, indeed, of the general
nationalist position in Northern Ireland now seriously question whether any
agreement can be achieved during the lifetime of the current Government.

Not only does Sinn Fein see too many "obstacles" still in the path of it being
accepted at the negotiating table but the IRA bomb in London is a reminder that
its ceasefire is definitely off.

The problem for Sinn Fein is that it is having to deal with an Irish Prime
Minister in John Bruton whose moderacy is not to its liking. At the same time,
John Major's Government, with a majority of one, remains dependent on unionist
support and is seen by nationalists as having to lean in that direction whether
Major likes it or not.

In the face of Bruton's support for London's strategy, his relationship with
northern nationalists is not what his predecessor, Albert Reynolds, enjoyed.

Bruton argues that he should not represent any factional interest and appears to
be in a moderately nationalist position, perceived by some unionists in Belfast
as constructively more neutral.

The first hurdle the nationalists in Ulster must cross is whether to participate
in the election. Neither Sinn Fein nor the Social Democratic Labour Party favour
the election but both are expected to participate reluctantly. After that it
appears anybody's guess as to what happens next.  Will they take part in the
negotiations due to begin on June 10? Indeed, as far as Sinn Fein is concerned,
will it be allowed to take part? And if it was, what could it achieve?

There have now been five bomb attacks since the IRA ceasefire broke down and the
latest in London has quickly dampened earlier speculation that the terrorists
would announce a new truce in the light of the elections in May.  They may still
do so but Sinn Fein activists believe too much is being asked of their movement
for it to reach the talks table in June.

Even after the election, its negotiating team will not be allowed to join the
other parties on June 10 unless the IRA has declared a new ceasefire.

As if all this was not enough, another major hurdle centres on one phrase: "The
principle of consent". The Government insists that parties involved in the
Ulster negotiations must subscribe to the principle which means they must accept
that whatever is finally agreed will not be overturned by violence.

The strategy of Sinn Fein at the moment is to paint a picture of an obstinate
British Government, supporting the intransigent unionists with the help of an
Irish leader in Dublin who is not adopting a tough enough stance with London.
But while its supporters are not bowled over by the pace of the peace process,
neither are they or people in Ireland, North and South, wishing to experience
the violence of the past nor to incur the real possibility of loyalist
retaliation.

The fact that Wednesday's bomb caused more mystery than injuries means that
loyalists in Belfast are unlikely to carry out the threat which they made
recently, to respond to the new IRA campaign. Whether the IRA took this into
account is not clear but they must know that an attack in Britain which causes
injuries or deaths will be enough to provoke the loyalists.

A likely plan is to continue with a lower level of violence, occasionally
reminding the authorities that the IRA remains in the terror business. The
loyalists, for their part, are keen to be involved in forthcoming negotiations
and the renewal of violence from that quarter would rule them out and, possibly,
lose their political representatives what little support they're likely to get
on May 30.

Meanwhile, in the House of Commons, the Government and the parties involved are
frantically dealing with what looks like imperfect election legislation, in the
hope that it can be agreed and finalised by May 7. The election that follows
will focus on the peace process but the language of the hustings is likely to be
as passionate and divisive as ever.

As time runs out for Major and his Government, so the opportunity for the peace
process to achieve that compromise, slips away, no settlement can really be
achieved without an IRA ceasefire and Sinn Fein's commitment to talks on the
terms which London and Dublin have proposed. As of now, no settlement looks
likely.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1996 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              297 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             April 19, 1996, Friday

How to tackle the murder and mayhem; Bruce Hoffman explains what governments can
do to fight terrorism

BYLINE: Bruce Hoffman

SECTION: COMMENT; Page  19

LENGTH: 1071 words


Events this past week have again demonstrated the continuing threat posed by
terrorism to peace processes in both Northern Ireland and the Middle East, and
even more so the difficulties governments everywhere face in effectively
countering this menace.

The murder of 17 Greek tourists in Cairo yesterday morning is the latest and
most lethal in a series of more than 30 attacks against foreign travellers that
have occurred in Egypt since 1992. Only hours earlier a bomb had exploded in
London, shattering any hope that the hiatus in IRA attacks following the Canary
Wharf, Aldwych bus and Brompton cemetery bombings would last until the all-party
talks scheduled to be held in June.

Meanwhile, Lebanon entered a second week of harsh Israeli military reprisals
designed to end Hezbollah's cross-border rocket attacks; while the US Senate, on
Wednesday, enacted sweeping new anti-terrorism legislation in the wake of last
year's bombing in Oklahoma City. Indeed, today marks the first anniversary of
that tragic incident.

Though otherwise unconnected, this series of events inevitably raises the
question of what governments can do to combat so diverse and amorphous a
phenomenon as terrorism - if indeed there is anything that can realistically be
done.

The fundamental problem is that terrorism erupts and flourishes due to an
idiosyncratic combination of factors- historical, ideological, religious, social
and economic to name but a few. Not surprisingly, therefore, the strategies and
tactics used by governments throughout the world to counter terrorism have
varied just as widely, from such highly visible actions as declarations of
states of siege, or martial law, enactment of anti- terrorist legislation, and
strengthening of judicial powers, to less visible measures such as the
establishment of computerised data banks, enhanced intelligence capabilities,
and covert operations.

Some of these countermeasures have been more successful than others, such as
Italy's use of so-called repentant laws, whereby imprisoned terrorists confessed
to their crimes in return for reductions in their sentences.  Some have not only
failed, like Britain's short-lived policy of interning terrorist suspects in
Northern Ireland during the early Seventies, but have proved counterproductive,
alienating the public from the authorities and further polarising an already
fractured political environment. Other government countermeasures have had mixed
results, such as amnesties and offers of cash rewards for information.

What the legacy of nearly three decades of counter-terrorist measures has shown
is that the individual application of selected tactics and policies, outside a
cohesive strategic framework or coherent national plan, can prolong a conflict
or even lead to complete failure. Any plan, for example, must contain at least
these three elements: legitimising measures, co- ordination within and between
national intelligence and security services, and collaboration among
governments.

Legitimising measures are critical to deprive the terrorists of legitimacy,
undermine their claims as a viable alternative to the government, negate popular
support or sympathy for them and redress any popular grievances that may
indirectly fuel unrest, or be exploited for anti-government purposes.  Such
measures can include political concessions to nationalist, ethnic or religious
minorities and defensive steps to protect the public from terrorist reprisals.

At the same time, anti-terrorist legislation must aid the government in the
capture and prosecution of terrorists, but must not alienate the general
population. The role of the civilian population in the success or failure of a
terrorist campaign is key and cannot be underestimated.  Indeed, short of the
complete suppression of civil liberties, a government cannot hope to defeat a
terrorism campaign using coercive measures alone.

Equally vital is co-ordination within and between national intelligence and
security services and with law enforcement agencies. The success of any
counter-terrorist effort will rest not only on the type and quality of
information gathered, but on the timely and effective dissemination of that
information to all relevant branches of a government's counter- terrorism
apparatus. Given the inherently clandestine nature of terrorist organisations,
the emphasis must of course be on the cultivation and exploitation of human
intelligence sources - what is known in the intelligence trade as "humint".

Collaboration between governments is also essential to prevent the trans-
national movement of terrorists, their supporters and increasingly, the finances
supporting their campaigns. Such co-operation will also facilitate the
co-ordination and sharing of intelligence collection and dissemination as well
as the efficacious processing of extradition requests. For example, terrorists
operating in Western Europe during the Seventies and early Eighties were able to
find political refuge in France, East European countries, and the Middle East
and this seriously hampered international counter- terrorist efforts.

Since circumstances that allow implementation of all of these policies are
unlikely to exist, it is critical for governments to devise counter- terrorist
efforts that play to their strengths. Clearly, a democratic government will be
unable to pursue intelligence or counter-terrorist operational activities as
rigorously or repressively as a government less cognisant of civil liberties
would do. On the other hand, without capitulating to terrorists, a democratic
government can, for example, emphasise the development of thoughtful legislation
that reflects popular concerns.

All governments face new problems in developing effective countermeasures, and
these are likely to render combating terrorism even more difficult than it has
been in the past. But while new challenges and threats will ineluctably require
new responses and new approaches, these countermeasures can be effectively
developed and built upon from the lessons from previous experiences. The wheel
should not always have to be re-invented, nor should certain inherent
prerequisites to effective counter-terrorism campaigns based on past experience
be ignored or forgotten.

The writer is Director of the Centre for the Study of Terrorism and Political
Violence at St Andrew's University.


LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1996 Independent Print Ltd

                              298 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                             April 19, 1996, Friday

'Pariahs' have no place at peace table, says Major

BYLINE: Arthur Leathley, Political Correspondent

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 320 words


THE IRA and Sinn Fein will become international pariahs if the campaign of
violence continues, John Major said yesterday after the fifth terrorist attack
since the ceasefire collapsed.

Speaking as Scotland Yard investigated the latest IRA bomb, the Prime Minister
said: ''It seems to have been an exercise for no apparent purpose other than to
remind people that they still have a capacity to mount terrorist exercises.'' He
added: ''Unless there is a ceasefire, a very viable ceasefire, that is
clear-cut, then there will be no part in the peace process for Sinn Fein.''

John Bruton, the Irish Prime Minister, said the terrorists had to choose whether
they were following the path of peaceful politics or violence.  ''One cannot
pursue the two paths simultaneously,'' he told the Dail.

The attack led to cross-party unrest at Westminster last night over plans to
allow Sinn Fein into the proposed all-party talks in Northern Ireland.  Although
the party will not be allowed in unless there is an unequivocal restoration of
the ceasefire, Tory MPs fear that a last-minute declaration could be enough to
bring Sinn Fein to the negotiating table on June 10.

Tory and Unionist politicians told Sir Patrick Mayhew, the Northern Ireland
Secretary, that during the 17-month ceasefire the IRA had been involved in
punishment beatings, extortion, torture and preparation of further bombings in
Britain.

Sir Patrick moved to reassure MPs that Sinn Fein would not be invited to the
talks automatically if there was a ceasefire before June 10. He said Sinn Fein
would have to convince other parties involved in the talks that there was a
lasting ceasefire. He added that the IRA's ''abominable attacks'' had excluded
it from political negotiations.

Marjorie Mowlam, Shadow Northern Ireland Secretary, said: ''There is no way that
parties can bomb their way to the negotiating table.''

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1996 Times Newspapers Limited

                              299 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             April 21, 1996, Sunday

Former police chief blasts 'macho' force

BYLINE: Nick Cohen

SECTION: NEWS; Page  3

LENGTH: 477 words


A former Chief Constable this week describes the British police as a "macho
reactionary force", obsessed with accumulating power and money.

John Alderson, Chief Constable of Devon and Cornwall from 1973 to 1982, has been
a strong critic of the direction policing has taken under the Conservatives. But
the ferocity of this assault and the fact that it has been placed in the May
issue of Red Pepper, a socialist and environmentalist magazine, will infuriate
his old colleagues when the magazine hits the newsstands on Thursday.

Mr Alderson, an adviser on law and order to the Council of Europe which sponsors
the European Court of Human Rights, says that Britain is "locked in a vicious
spiral of building more prisons and incarcerating people who will later come out
and commit more crime".

He accuses Michael Howard, the Home Secretary, of using the language of Hitler,
Mussolini and Franco by proclaiming: "Give me your liberties and I will protect
you." Politicians, he adds, see criminal justice rather than social policy as
the best way to contain the underclass.

Terrorist violence in Northern Ireland and the miners' strike have led to the
police using violence against civilians. The past 20 years have seen long-handed
batons, CS gas, plastic bullets and mounted police charges becoming commonplace
and officers losing touch with ordinary people. Chief constables have done "the
dirty work" of government, instead of protecting the common good and recognising
that people had the right to strike or protest against new roads.

Mr Alderson says: "If the police are not based in the community then their
motivating force is only power. The majority of police much prefer to be part of
a macho reactionary force riding around in cars, sweeping down on victims.  Of
all the policemen I have met across the world, none has ever asked for less
power. Police officers usually ask for three things: more pay, more information
and more power."

He warned that ministers' decision to let MI5 take on policing duties risked
allowing spies to threaten the liberty of the citizen. "It is fatal to let the
secret service into the area of ordinary crime. MI5 is not under the same
restraints as the police. They infiltrate organisations, people's jobs and
lives. They operate almost like a cancer.

"At the moment the acorn of a Stasi the former East German communists' secret
service has been planted. It is there for future governments to build on.

"No government in my lifetime has ever given liberty back. It is not in the
nature of governments to grant liberty."

The European Court of Human rights has passed a string of judgements against
Britain. Mr Alderson said that its convention on human rights should be passed
into British law because neither Labour nor the Conservatives could be trusted
to defend liberty.


LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1996 Independent Print Ltd

                              300 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             April 22, 1996, Monday

Terrorists kill two Britons in hotel bombing

BYLINE: James Cusick/Tim McGirk

SECTION: NEWS; Page  3

LENGTH: 542 words


Viscount Weymouth, son and heir to the Marquess of Bath, was injured and his
girlfriend and business partner both killed in a terrorist bomb attack on a New
Delhi tourist hotel which left 17 dead.

The bomb, which exploded on Saturday night, was planted by Sikh and Kashmiri
separatists. The young Viscount, 21, heir to the pounds 150m Longleat estate was
in hospital yesterday with minor head injuries.

The Viscount's girlfriend, Scarlet Kirby, and Crinan Wilde, a business
associate, both thought to be in their mid-20s, were killed in the explosion
which ripped through the low-budget Arjuna guest house near the city's main
railway station. The hostel was popular with international back-packing
travellers in the region.

The trio had spent most of the winter months in India helping with the creation
of a new ski resort in Manali in the Himalayas. Last night Lord Bath, regarded
as one of Britain's most colourful aristocrats due to his hippy appearance and
lifestyle and the controversy he created by painting sexually explicit frescos
at Longleat, said he was "devastated" by the deaths. He said he was hoping to
get his son back to home to England as soon as possible.

"I feel the right solution is to bring him home," he said . Lord Bath said he
telephoned the Viscount, called Caewlin Thynn, yesterday morning.  "Caewlin is
understandably shocked. He was in the building that was blown up. He is all
right at the moment, not seriously injured, but he has a tragedy on his hands."

When the Marquess initially spoke to his son, the authorities in India had not
yet broken the news to him that his girlfriend and business friend had been
killed. "They were all great friends and extremely fond of each other," said the
Marquess.

The two dead Britons died as the building collapsed following the explosion
which came from a 25kg device. Travellers from France, Nigeria and Holland also
died in the explosion. The bomb is part of the campaign by the separatists to
disrupt forthcoming elections in Kashmir.

Witness who saw the explosion said the four-storey hotel had simply collapsed.
Communiques sent to local newspapers in Kashmir said two previously unknown
groups had claimed responsibility. One message said: "This is a first gift to
India for conducting polls in Kashmir." The separatists' conflict with India is
now in its sixth year and has involved the kidnapping of foreigners, including
Britons and Americans. Police have so far arrested six Kashmiri militants in the
New Delhi area in connection with the explosion.

Last night the Viscount's sister, Lenka, was trying to arrange a flight to be
with her brother. "My brother is OK physically, but not emotionally," she said.
Before he left for India, Viscount Weymouth had been studying economics and
philosophy at University College, London. As a teenager he attended one of the
country's top public schools, Bedales in Wiltshire.  He was expelled from the
school when he was 17 for smoking cannabis.

More concerned with his son's immediate health and plans to get him home, the
Marquess said last night that he had no idea if his son would be returning to
his academic studies or whether the ski and business venture would continue.


LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1996 Independent Print Ltd

                              301 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 23, 1996

THE HUMAN COST OF A MISCARRIAGE OF JUSTICE

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 894 words


THE Birmingham Six were in jail for more than 16 years, convicted of the murder
of 22 people in two pubs in the city back in November, 1974. Another 160 people
were injured in the IRA attack, then the worst case of mass murder in Britain.

They walked free from the Old Bailey in March 1991 after the Court of Appeal
quashed their convictions. The three appeal judges heard that police notes of
interviews with the men had been fabricated.  Evidence had long since been
discredited.

While those freed by Middle Eastern kidnappers received extensive counselling,
they had none. They received interim payments of around pounds 200,000, but
their claims have never been settled. Most have now been interviewed by a
leading forensic psychiatrist. His verdict: all suffered irreversible
psychological damage, comparable to the brain damage and trauma from serious
accidents.

The Birmingham Six . . . then and now:

PADDY JOE HILL, 51, who famously punched the air in a victory salute when he
emerged from the Old Bailey in 1991, has never concealed the trauma of freedom.
He was divorced from his wife Pat in 1983 and she remarried. They had six
children. He still lives in London with his girlfriend. He has been a vociferous
campaigner against injustice, speaking in 15 US states within the first year of
his release.

HUGH CALLAGHAN, at 65 the oldest of the men, remained in London after his
release, struggling to re-establish life with his wife Eileen. Their only
daughter, Geraldine, lost her husband in car crash shortly after his release,
when she was expecting her second child. In 1993 he published his autobiography,
Cruel Fate, in which he says he has no bitterness. "I do feel a great sadness at
the futility of it all," he wrote.

RICHARD McILKENNY, 62, has been married to Kate for 38 years. They first moved
to Dublin and now have a house with two big gardens in a village in Co Kildare.
One of their five children, Ann, moved to the same village with her three
children, and some of their many grandchildren often come to stay over the
holidays. "We live a quiet life, just like pensioners," Kate said yesterday.

GERRY HUNTER, 47, broke up with Sandra, his wife of 25 years, three months after
his release, although they remain close friends. They have three children. He
lives in south-east London but has not worked since he left prison, where he was
the most private and withdrawn of the Six. Freedom transformed him and restored
his humour. He, too, went public, visiting relatives of prisoners on death row
in Jamaica.

BILLY POWER, 49, was amicably divorced by his wife Nora in 1990 after the first,
failed appeal, but she remained one of the most active campaigners and they
remarried after his release. "It was the most natural thing in the world," he
said. They have four children and still live in London. Mr Power has spent much
time campaigning on other miscarriages of justice.

JOHNNY WALKER, 60, had been married to Theresa on his release in 1991. She left
Birmingham shortly after the bombings to live in Derry with their six daughters
and one son. Mr Walker joined them and they bought a new house, but he found it
impossible to fit into family life. The couple separated after a year. Mr Walker
has remarried and lives in Donegal with a new son.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              302 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            April 25, 1996, Thursday

IRA bomb chaos in west London

BYLINE: Decca Aitkenhead / David McKittrick

SECTION: TITLE; Page  1

LENGTH: 552 words


A terrorist explosion rocked a residential area near Hammersmith Bridge in west
London last night. Police explosive experts had already sealed off the area as
they investigated a warning call to a news agency about the device.

Scotland Yard said there were no reports of any injuries, but anti-terrorist
officers were continuing to check the area when there were reports of another
suspect package in the vicinity.

Yesterday senior Sinn Fein negotiator Martin McGuinness had practically ruled
out any early resumption of the IRA ceasefire, in terms which appeared to
preclude the inclusion of his party in the coming political negotiations.

Last night a police spokesman said: "Police received a coded warning at 22.22
this evening 24 April, stating there was a device on the south side of
Hammersmith Bridge. Police immediately evacuated and cordoned off the area and
began a search.

"At 22.54 a small explosion occurred in the vicinity of the south side of
Hammersmith Bridge."

The London office of Associated Press (AP) received two telephone warning calls
from a caller claiming to represent the IRA. Local residents said what sounded
like two blasts close together followed more than 30 minutes later, after the
bridge had been cleared and blocked off.

Staff and customers at the Blue Anchor pub in Hammersmith, near the bridge,
reported hearing "two loud bangs". Pub manager Kevin Martin, 23, said: "There
were two really loud bangs so I went outside to go and have a look."

Mr Martin said the explosions went off shortly after 11pm as staff were clearing
customers from the pub on Lower Mall in Hammersmith. "Everyone in the pub was
talking about the bangs but there was no panic, people were pretty calm about
it."

London has seen a series of relatively small-scale IRA bomb strikes over recent
weeks, in the wake of the massive blast at South Quay in Docklands, east London
on 9 February. That explosion, which killed two people and caused many injuries,
signalled the end of the IRA ceasefire. It had been formally announced minutes
before.

Last night's incident came almost exactly a week after the last explosion in
London, at The Boltons near Earl's Court in west London. It went off just before
10pm on 17 April, just as anti-terrorist police began searching the area after a
coded message, described as vague, was again telephoned to AP. Only minor damage
was caused to the house, which was empty and undergoing building works, and no
one was hurt.

Bombings such as those in Hammersmith appear to be designed as little more than
nuisance explosions to remind the authorities of the IRA's violent capabilities
in Britain. The intention seems to be to avoid civilian casualties, but to
deliver the message that the IRA can strike at will in the capital.

Scotland Yard said last night's blast was not a controlled explosion: "We
believe at the moment it was just one blast. Possibly an echo would account for
reports of a second explosion."

The blast followed a warning earlier in the day from Sinn Fein that no early
resumption of the IRA's ceasefire was to be expected.

Although last night's incident was the latest in a series in London, Northern
Ireland has itself been free of IRA attacks since the ceasefire broke down in
February.


LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1996 Independent Print Ltd

                              303 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                            April 25, 1996, Thursday

IRA BOMB ALERT AFTER 'BIGGEST DEVICE YET' FAILS TO BLOW UP BRIDGE

BYLINE:  John Deane, Chris Parkin and Shenai Raif, PA News

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 1548 words


Scotland Yard flashed an urgent bomb warning to the public today after
disclosing that probably the biggest high explosive device planted by IRA
terrorists in mainland Britain was designed to kill, maim and cause massive
structural damage and transport chaos.  The bomb, left on Hammersmith Bridge
over the Thames in west London last night, was found after an IRA warning. One
explosives expert said it could have brought the bridge down if planted in the
right spot.  Scotland Yard said it was made up of two separate devices
containing upwards of 30lbs of sophisticated high explosives, almost certainly
Semtex.  Although there were two small explosions, the bomb itself failed to
detonate. It is thought the detonators may have gone off but failed to explode
the main devices. There were no injuries and no damage was caused.  Successful
detonation would have wreaked massive destruction and been a high-profile
"spectacular" attack by the terrorists coinciding with the 80th anniversary of
the Easter Rising in Dublin of April 24, 1916 - a key date in the Republican
calendar.  A Scotland Yard spokeswoman said the devices were each contained in a
box the size of a briefcase. They were being examined by forensic experts.  She
said: "The devices are believed to have contained upwards of 30lbs of high
explosive. This is probably the biggest amount of high explosive ever to be
placed on the mainland." She added: "This highlights the need for the public to
remain vigilant and continue to report their suspicions to police. "These
devices would have caused a very large explosion and there's no doubt that they
were made to kill, cause injury and major structural damage to Hammersmith
Bridge as well as enormous disruption to London and its community." Much larger
devices have been planted and exploded on the mainland, such as the massive
devices in Docklands in February and at Bishopsgate in the City in 1993, but
they were largely constructed from home-made, fertiliser-based explosives,
rather than high-explosive.

Explosives expert Dr Sidney Alford told PA News: "If the plastic explosives were
placed in the right spot, and if they had been detonated properly, they would
have brought the bridge down.  "The factory manufactured explosives are easier
to transport and hide than the fertilizer bombs used to bomb the City of London.
"Placed close to their target, it is very powerful and can cut through metal and
kill.  "It is relatively safe until it is detonated. It may be, in this case,
that the detonators were not fitted properly and there was not enough contact
with the explosive.  "It is also possible that this was a warning of what might
have happened and the bombs were never intended to go off." Semtex is the IRA's
favourite bomb-making material. The terrorists are believed to have a stockpile
from shipments made from the former Czechoslovakia. It can be moulded into
various shapes, is not picked up by X-ray and cannot be detected by sniffer
dogs.  The Hammersmith incident prompted renewed calls in the Irish parliament
for a restoration of the IRA ceasefire.  Government and opposition parties also
united in the Dail to condemn the attempt to bomb the bridge.  Health Minister
Michael Noonan - speaking for the Irish government in the absence of premier
John Bruton - said the bomb did not improve the situation in the lead-up to
all-party talks on the future of Northern Ireland, due to begin on June 10.  He
added: "The only thing that will prevent Sinn Fein from attending those talks is
the fact that the ceasefire has not been reinstated." Progressive Democrats
opposition party leader Mary Harney called the Hammersmith incident "a cynical
exercise".  She said: "The absence of an IRA ceasefire remains the greatest
obstacle in the way of meaningful negotiations on June 10. Sinn Fein must use
the enormous influence they have, as the political wing of the IRA, to get the
ceasefire restored."

The two small explosions came just over half-an-hour after the London office of
the Associated Press news agency received two telephone warning calls from a
caller claiming to represent the IRA.  Residents said officers swept through the
area, warning people to stay indoors and away from windows.  Anti-terrorist
officers appealed for anyone who was in the area last night between 8.30pm and
10pm and who saw anything suspicious to contact police.  They are particularly
anxious to learn of sightings of anyone carrying briefcase-like objects.  As
well as passers-by, it is believed that some members of the capital's gay
community frequent the area under the bridge and may have vital clues.  The Yard
said that the first of two telephone warnings calls was received at 10.22pm,
indicating that a bomb had been placed at the south side of the bridge. Police
swiftly cordoned off the area, action which the Yard said ensured no-one was
injured, and a search started.  The second call indicated that the bomb had been
placed under the bridge.  Police located two devices and were withdrawing to a
safe position when there were two small explosions at around 10.50pm. The bombs
proper were made safe by bomb disposal experts.  Anyone with information can
contact the anti-terrorist hotline on 0800 789321.  As well as being the
anniversary of the Easter Rising, yesterday was also the third anniversary of
the massive Bishopsgate bombing in the City of London, which killed one man,
injured many more and caused many millions of pounds worth of damage.  Last
night's attempt to bomb the bridge was the sixth IRA incident in London since
the terrorists ended their ceasefire with the massive Docklands bombing which
killed two men on February 9.  The incident came almost exactly a week after the
last explosion in London, at The Boltons, a so-called "millionaires' row" near
Earl's Court in west London.  Paul Wilkinson, professor of international
relations at the University of St Andrews and an authority on security and
terrorism, said after The Boltons attack that recent small-scale strikes could
have two purposes.  They may be intended to remind the British Government of the
terrorists' potential for wreaking havoc, but could also be practice runs for a
much more spectacular and deadly attack.  He pointed then to the importance for
the IRA of such anniversaries as the Easter Rising, which lasted from April 24
to April 29.  The rebellion was forcibly suppressed and the leaders were
executed - soon to become legendary heroes to generations of IRA sympathisers.

The Scotland Yard spokeswoman said police action in swiftly cordoning off the
area ensured there were no casualties.  Anti-terrorist officers are appealing
for anyone who was in the area last night between 8.30pm and 10pm and who saw
anything suspicious to contact police.  They are particularly anxious to learn
of sightings of anyone carrying briefcase-like objects.  As well as passersby,
it is believed that some members of the capital's gay community frequent the
area under the bridge and may have vital clues.  Anyone with information can
contact the anti-terrorist hotline on 0800 789321.  The Yard said that the first
of two telephone calls was received at 10.22pm, indicating that a bomb had been
placed at the south side of the bridge.  The area was immediately cordoned off
by police and a search started.  The second call indicated that the bomb had
been placed under the bridge.  Police located two devices and were withdrawing
to a safe position when at around 10.50pm there were two small explosions.  Bomb
disposal experts made safe the two devices.

Chief Superintendent John Hirsh said: "The situation is that the police received
a warning of a device on the south side of Hammersmith Bridge and it was found
that there was indeed a device there.  "Road closures were put in place and
residents alerted to the presence of this device and it has since been made
safe.  "Prior to the device being made safe there was a small explosion. There
has been no damage caused.  "The area is being kept sterile because it is a
scene of crime. We will reopen Hammersmith Bridge as soon as possible.  "The
device is an explosive device in several parts. It was one complete device with
a number of components. There has been no controlled explosion." Resident
Christine Albrow, 44, said: "It's a terrible shock to think they are targeting
the bridge. I walk over it every day with my son. It is our lifeline to London.
"It's just been repainted and it's a lovely bridge. I find it extraordinary that
these people should target it.  "It is right next to the St Paul's school and
it's terrible to think of them planting a bomb right by a school."

One theory is that the blast may have been caused by a detonator going off,
which failed to explode the main device.

Refurbishment work on Hammersmith Bridge had only recently been completed after
a year-long clean-up.  The surrounding area is a popular leisure destination for
Londoners, with riverside bars, restaurants and water sports clubs lining the
banks.  Hammersmith Bridge is perhaps most famous as a favoured vantage point
for spectators of the annual Oxford v Cambridge Boat Race.  But the bridge is a
vital link in the capital's transport system, serving west and south London.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1996 The Press Association Limited

                              304 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             April 26, 1996, Friday

IRA bomb signals no peace before general election

BYLINE: DAVID MCKITTRICK and JOJO MOYES

SECTION: TITLE; Page  1

LENGTH: 653 words


The IRA attempt to explode a large bomb under Hammersmith bridge in west London
is being seen by informed sources in Belfast as final confirmation that
terrorist have given up on the Irish peace process this side of the next British
general election.

All the signs are that the republican analysis is that the Major government,
with its slender majority in the Commons, has neither the inclination nor the
strength to make any bold moves on Ireland.

The bomb which partially exploded at Hammersmith bridge on Wednesday night
contained more than 30lbs of high explosive, making it the biggest high
explosive bomb planted in Britain, Scotland Yard said.

It underlined the republican determination to pursue the post-ceasefire campaign
with vigour, rather than plant small devices as reminders of their presence.

No one in the republican camp views the election of a new Labour government as a
panacea, since they regard previous Labour administrations as having had a
Unionist tinge. But the sense is that the present situation is without the
potential for movement.

Republicans are also hopeful that the next Dublin general election will see the
removal from government of the present Taoiseach, John Bruton, whom they regard
as hostile to republicanism. Most would wish to see the return to power of the
Fianna Fail party, which they consider to have made a valuable contribution to
the peace process.

The logic of this is that no new ceasefire is to be expected to allow Sinn Fein
entry into the inter-party talks which are due to begin on 10 June .

The Hammersmith bomb is seen as confirming that republicans are intent on
stepping up their violence, particularly in Britain.

An indication of republican thinking was given by Martin McGuinness, a key
figure in Sinn Fein, when he said this week: "I don't believe that John Major is
the British prime minister who will move decisively to resolve this conflict. I
think that in reality we're actually sitting here hoping that the quicker
there's a British general election the better, so that we can then move on and
deal with whoever else comes into power."

In London, anti-terrorist police issued an urgent call for vigilance after the
Hammersmith device went off on a towpath under the bridge.

The bomb was clearly an attempt at an IRA "spectacular" by staging an attack on
a high-profile target which would cause major damage and widespread traffic
disruption.

It came on the 80th anniversary of the Easter Rising against British rule in
Ireland in Dublin on 24 April 1916, a key date in the Irish republican calendar.

Scotland Yard said there was no doubt that the bomb, made up of two devices
thought to contain Semtex, was designed to kill, cause serious injury and major
structural damage. Although there were two small explosions, the bomb did not
detonate. It is thought the detonator may have gone off but failed to set off
the main device.

A Scotland Yard spokeswoman said yesterday that the devices were each contained
in a briefcase-sized box. They were being examined by forensic experts. "The
devices are believed to have contained upwards of 30lbs of high explosive. This
is probably the biggest amount of high explosive ever to be placed on the
mainland," she said.

Larger devices have been exploded on the mainland, such as those in Docklands in
east London in February and at Bishopsgate in the City in 1993, but they were
constructed from fertiliser-based explosives. Semtex is the most powerful
explosive in the IRA armoury.

The spokeswoman said: "These devices would have caused a very large explosion
and there's no doubt that they were made to kill, cause injury and major
structural damage to Hammersmith bridge as well as enormous disruption to London
and its community."

In March 1939, an attempt was made to destroy the bridge using a bomb planted in
a suitcase.


LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1996 Independent Print Ltd

                              305 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                             April 26, 1996, Friday

WE PLANTED BRIDGE BOMB - IRA

BYLINE:  PA News Reporters

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 908 words


The IRA tonight admitted planting the bomb beneath Hammersmith Bridge which
failed to detonate properly two days ago.  A statement issued to Ireland's RTE
television and radio network said: "The substantial explosive device, which
unfortunately failed to detonate, at Hammersmith Bridge in London, was placed by
one of our active service units." The claim, accompanied by a recognised
codeword, was made after anti-terrorist police investigating the IRA's renewed
campaign in the capital arrested several people in dawn raids today.  Armed
officers swooped on addresses in Fulham, west London, and Essex shortly after
day-break.  The arrests were made under the Prevention of Terrorism Act and
those detained were taken to a central London police station.  They were being
questioned about the three most recent terrorist incidents in the capital - the
Hammersmith bomb and the small explosions on April 17 at The Boltons in Earl's
Court and on March 9 in Old Brompton Road, Fulham.  Police sources were
cautioning against interpreting the operation as a major breakthrough in the
hunt for the IRA bombers responsible for the renewed mainland campaign.  Those
arrested were not thought to be strong suspects, they stressed.  Scotland Yard
did not specify how many people were detained, but the number is thought to be
small - no more than five.

During the swoop, police sealed off Britannia Road, which links Kings Road with
Fulham Road and is made up of smart terraced houses.  Officers moved in just
after 6.30am and forensic experts searched a white terraced house at the Kings
Road end of Britannia Road.  Mick Root, 59, who lives in a flat on the corner of
the road, said: "I asked the police officer what was going on and he said 'We
think there are IRA bombers around here. Everyone must stay in and not leave
their homes'." Mr Root said he had not seen anybody enter or leave the house in
the past few weeks.  In Wednesday's incident at Hammersmith two small
explosions, thought to have been caused when detonators went off, followed an
IRA warning call to a news agency.  The two devices they were meant to detonate
failed to explode and there were no injuries or damage.  Scotland Yard later
revealed the twin devices, placed at the south side of the bridge, together
contained upwards of 30lbs of sophisticated high explosives, almost certainly
Semtex - probably the biggest high-explosive bomb planted by the IRA on mainland
Britain.  Successful detonation would have wreaked massive destruction and been
a high-profile "spectacular" attack by the terrorists coinciding with the 80th
anniversary of the Easter Rising in Dublin of April 24, 1916 - a key date in the
Republican calendar.  On Wednesday last week, a small explosion rocked an empty
house at The Boltons moments after a coded message was passed to a news agency.
Again there were no injuries.  In the early hours of March 9 what was described
as a "small, improvised device" exploded in Old Brompton Road, Fulham, causing
minor damage. The IRA later acknowledged the device was one of theirs.  The
Hammersmith incident was the sixth IRA attack in the capital since the
terrorists signalled the end of their ceasefire with the massive Docklands
bombing on February 9.

Scotland Yard later said that the operation had also involved addresses in
Essex, but would not be more specific about the locations.  The number of
arrests is thought to be small - no more than five.  In Wednesday night's
incident at Hammersmith Bridge two small explosions, thought to have been caused
when detonators went off, followed an IRA warning call to a news agency.
However, the two devices they were meant to detonate failed to explode and there
were no injuries and no damage was caused.  Scotland Yard revealed that the twin
devices, placed at the south side of the bridge, together contained upwards of
30lbs of sophisticated high explosives, almost certainly Semtex - probably the
biggest high-explosive bomb planted by the IRA on mainland Britain.  Successful
detonation would have wreaked massive destruction and been a high-profile
"spectacular" attack by the terrorists coinciding with the 80th anniversary of
the Easter Rising in Dublin of April 24, 1916 - a key date in the Republican
calendar.  On Wednesday last week a small explosion rocked an empty house at The
Boltons moments after a coded message was passed to a news agency. Again there
were no injuries.  In the early hours of March 9 what was described as a "small,
improvised device" exploded in Old Brompton Road, Fulham, west London, causing
minor damage. The IRA later acknowledged the device was one of theirs.

Northern Ireland minister Michael Ancram said later that the IRA terrorists
could not bomb their way to the peace table.  "There is no way that they are
going to, through bombs and bullets, achieve a path into the democratic process,
nor is the democratic process going to be diverted by this type of action," he
said.  "They are bombing themselves away from the democratic process in this
way."

The IRA tonight claimed responsibility for the attempted bombing of Hammersmith
Bridge.  The claim was made in a call to the Dublin newsroom of RTE, Ireland's
television and radio network.  A caller using a recognised codeword said: "The
substantial explosive device, which unfortunately failed to detonate, at
Hammersmith Bridge in London, was placed by one of our active service units."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1996 The Press Association Limited

                              306 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 April 27, 1996

IRA admit to failed London bombing

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 691 words


THE IRA last night admitted planting the bomb beneath Hammersmith Bridge which
failed to detonate properly three days ago.

A statement issued to Ireland's RTE television and radio network said: "The
substantial explosive device, which unfortunately failed to detonate, at
Hammersmith Bridge in London, was placed by one of our active service units."

The claim, accompanied by a recognised code word, was made after anti -terrorist
police investigating the IRA's renewed campaign in the capital arrested several
people in dawn raids yesterday.

Armed officers swooped on addresses in Fulham, west London, and Essex shortly
after day-break.

The arrests were made under the Prevention of Terrorism Act and those detained
were taken to a central London police station.

They were being questioned about the three most recent terrorist incidents in
the capital - the Hammersmith bomb and the small explosions on April 17 at The
Boltons in Earl's Court and on March 9 in Old Brompton Road, Fulham.

Police sources were cautioning against interpreting the operation as a major
breakthrough in the hunt for the IRA bombers responsible for the renewed
mainland campaign.

Those arrested were not thought to be strong suspects, they stressed.

Scotland Yard did not specify how many people were detained but there are
believed to be no more than five.

During the raid, police sealed off Britannia Road and officers moved in just
after 6.30am. Forensic experts searched a white terraced house at the Kings Road
end of Britannia Road.

In Wednesday's incident at Hammersmith, two small explosions, thought to have
been caused when detonators went off, followed an IRA warning call to a news
agency.

The two devices failed to explode and there were no injuries or damage.

Scotland Yard later revealed the twin devices, placed at the south side of the
bridge, together contained upwards of 30lbs of sophisticated explosives, almost
certainly Semtex - probably the biggest high-explosive bomb planted by the IRA
on mainland Britain.

Successful detonation would have caused massive destruction on the 80th
anniversary of the Easter Rising in Dublin of April 24, 1916 - a key date in the
Republican calendar.

On Wednesday last week, a small explosion rocked an empty house at The Boltons
moments after a coded message was passed to a news agency. Again there were no
injuries.

In the early hours of March 9, a "small, improvised device" exploded in Old
Brompton Road, Fulham, causing minor damage. The IRA later claimed
responsibility for the device.

The Hammersmith incident was the sixth IRA attack in the capital since the
terrorists signalled the end of their ceasefire with the massive Docklands
bombing on February 9.

Meanwhile, a hoax bomber, who telephoned a series of warnings claiming a theatre
was about to be destroyed by a massive IRA device, was jailed yesterday for four
years.

Christopher Harrison, 33, pretended he had planted 100lb of Semtex in a bin at
the side of the capital's Coliseum - just a day after a terrorist explosion
ripped apart a bus in London's Aldwych, killing the bomber.

During his final call, staff kept him talking long enough for him to be traced
to a nearby phone box.

Passing sentence at Southwark Crown Court, Judge Gerald Butler QC, who jailed
Harrison for 27 months for a similar offence in 1992, said conduct such as his
caused "great inconvenience, anxiety, and distress to the public".

Mr Andrew Colman, prosecuting, said Harrison's first phoned warning on February
19 claimed a device had been left in a black bag next to the building in St
Martin's Lane.

The barrister said Harrison, of Cheltenham Place, Acton, west London, phoned
four times, insisting a bomb would explode.

However, in his final call, he "rambled" on for 15 minutes, while staff and
police searched the area.

Interviewed by police, he claimed he was schizophrenic, and that "voices" told
him to make the calls after he stopped taking his medication.

The court was told a psychiatrist who examined Harrison could find no trace of
mental illness.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Forensic officers enter the house in Britannia Road in west London
which was raided yesterday in connection with the recent IRA bombings in the
capital. Several people are being held for questioning under the Prevention of
Terrorism Act.  Picture: STEFAN ROUSSEAU/PA

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1996 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              307 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                            April 27, 1996, Saturday

WE PLANTED BRIDGE BOMB - IRA

BYLINE:  PA News Reporters

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 517 words


The IRA has admitted planting a bomb beneath Hammersmith Bridge which failed to
detonate properly.  A statement issued last night to Ireland's RTE television
and radio network said of Wednesday's attack: "The substantial explosive device,
which unfortunately failed to detonate, at Hammersmith Bridge in London, was
placed by one of our active service units." The claim, accompanied by a
recognised codeword, was made after anti-terrorist police investigating the
IRA's renewed campaign in the capital arrested several people in dawn raids
yesterday.  Police sources were cautioning against interpreting the operation as
a major breakthrough in the hunt for the IRA bombers responsible for the renewed
mainland campaign.  Armed officers swooped on addresses in Fulham, west London,
and Essex shortly after day-break.  The arrests were made under the Prevention
of Terrorism Act and those detained were taken to a central London police
station.  They were being questioned about the three most recent terrorist
incidents in the capital - the Hammersmith bomb and the small explosions on
April 17 at The Boltons in Earl's Court and on March 9 in Old Brompton Road,
Fulham.  Those arrested were not thought to be strong suspects, they stressed.
Scotland Yard did not specify how many people were detained, but the number is
thought to be small - no more than five.  During the swoop, police sealed off
Britannia Road, which links Kings Road with Fulham Road and is made up of smart
terrace houses.  Officers moved in just after 6.30am and forensic experts
searched a white terrace house at the Kings Road end of Britannia Road. Mick
Root, 59, who lives in a flat on the corner of the road, said he had not seen
anyone enter or leave the house in the past few weeks.  In the incident at
Hammersmith two small explosions, thought to have been caused when detonators
went off, followed an IRA warning call to a news agency.  The two devices they
were meant to detonate failed to explode and there were no injuries or damage.
Scotland Yard later revealed the twin devices, placed at the south side of the
bridge, together contained upwards of 30lbs of sophisticated high explosives,
almost certainly Semtex - probably the biggest high-explosive bomb planted by
the IRA on mainland Britain.  Successful detonation would have caused massive
destruction and been a high-profile "spectacular" attack by the terrorists
coinciding with the 80th anniversary of the Easter Rising in Dublin of April 24,
1916 - a key date in the Republican calendar.
    On Wednesday last week, a small explosion rocked an empty house at The
Boltons moments after a coded message was passed to a news agency. Again there
were no injuries.  In the early hours of March 9 what was described as a "small,
improvised device" exploded in Old Brompton Road, Fulham, causing minor damage.
The IRA later acknowledged the device was one of theirs.  The Hammersmith
incident was the sixth IRA attack in the capital since the terrorists signalled
the end of their ceasefire with the massive Docklands bombing on February 9.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1996 The Press Association Limited

                              308 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                             April 28, 1996, Sunday

ADAMS' TALKS WARNING;
GERRY ADAMS WARNING ON FUTURE OF PEACE TALKS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 360 words


SINN Fein president Gerry Adams warned Britain yesterday that planned Northern
Ireland peace talks are doomed if his party is refused a place at the table.

In a defiant speech to supporters in Dublin, Mr Adams vowed to challenge the
bar.

"If Sinn Fein is excluded, there can be no substantive negotiations, no progress
and no agreement which can last," he told a rally commemorating the IRA's 1916
Easter Rising against British rule which led to a partition of Ireland.

"There can be no partial solutions - partition has convinced us all of that -
and there can be no partial negotiations about the future of this island," said
Adams.

But Britain, braced for further IRA bombs after Wednesday's failed bid to blow
up a bridge over the Thames, insist the guerrillas must end violence before Sinn
Fein is admitted to the June 10 talks.

Northern Ireland Minister Michael Ancram, in a BBC radio interview in Belfast,
said all negotiators must sign up to democratic principles and he pledged the
talks would not be "held to ransom" by Sinn Fein, the IRA or anyone else.

"If there is no ceasefire, they will not get an invitation to come to the
negotiations," said Mr Ancram.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 1996 MGN Ltd.

                              309 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                             April 28, 1996, Sunday

IRA'S DIRTY DOZEN 'TO BOMB LONDON';
IRA BOMBERS TO BLITZ LONDON

BYLINE: John Ryan

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 400 words


Twelve provisional IRA bombers are ready to blitz London, it was revealed
yesterday.

Public buildings will be blasted by "the dirty dozen" between now and the June
peace talks, according to IRA sources.

The bombers - ten men and two women - have stashed a substantial quantity of
deadly semtex in city bedsits.

Security chiefs fear it will be the most devastating explosives spree ever
unleashed by terrorist bombers on Britain.

Despite the bungled Hammersmith bomb, an IRA source issued a chilling warning:
"We are poised to wreak havoc in London."

Meanwhile, a notorious contract killer in the Republic is set to strike again,
police warned yesterday.

The hired gun, sus- pected of being a former member of the IRA, is thought to
have been responsible for most of the 11 gangland murders in Dublin in the past
year.

The man, paid pounds 5,000 a hit, has been hired by one of the city's two
fueding drugs gangs. Detectives suspect there are at least three more names on
his list.

FOUR people were injured and four others arrested yesterday when fighting broke
out in a pub as Ulster loyalists marched in London.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1996 MGN Ltd.

                              310 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 April 29, 1996

Clergyman's call for apology to the Irish

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 261 words


A SENIOR clergyman says the IRA attack on Warrington inspired him to call on
Britain to apologise for its "misuse" of Ireland and its people.

Anglican Rector of Liverpool Nicholas Frayling says in a new book to be launched
in Dublin today that he has been profoundly struck by the depth of feelings of
injustice and betrayal shown by unionists and nationalists in Ireland.

Canon Frayling says his book Pardon and Peace is a personal account of his
"journey of discovery" following the Warrington outrage on March 20, 1993, in
which children Tim Parry and Jonathan Ball were killed and more than 50 people
were injured.

Nine days after the attack, he wrote to the Independent newspaper calling for
sorrow and penitence to be shown by the British people towards Ireland. He says
his letter received an overwhelming response from the public.

Canon Frayling has visited Ireland since the 1970s and returned for three months
after Warrington "to listen and learn".

"As I have become more and more involved in dialogue with people in Ireland, I
have become convinced that Britain must acknowledge its responsibility for the
agony there, and apologise to the Irish people," he said.

"Without sorrow and penitence, there can be no lasting reconciliation.......I
write as a Christian but what I have to say should also help people who do not
share my faith to understand what is happening in Northern Ireland, and
Britain's responsibility to bring healing."

Archbishop of Canterbury George Carey is among those who have endorsed the book.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1996 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              311 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                  May 10, 1996

No Headline Present

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 449 words


Broker shot

SOFIA: Two gunmen shot dead a Bulgarian broker at his Sofia office in full view
of his colleagues, police said. Banking sources said the dead man, who was 29,
was believed to have lost a large sum of money in the international foreign
exchange market.

Planning to stay

HONG KONG: Most British companies in Hong Kong intend to remain after the colony
reverts to China in 1997, despite concern that the legal system, press freedom
and social stability may deteriorate, according to a survey organised by the
British Chamber of Commerce.

Hard line

KUALA LUMPUR: Malaysia Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad has rejected suggestions
to repeal the mandatory death penalty for drug traffickers, saying he considers
them murderers. Malaysia has hanged about 215 people since 1975 when the death
penalty was made mandatory for drug trafficking. More than 200 are on death row,
awaiting dates for hanging or results of appeals.

Opera charges

PARIS: A former director of the Bastille opera in Paris will be tried for
manslaughter over the 1992 death of a member of the chorus when a set collapsed
in Seville, judicial sources said. A magistrate ruled that Pierre Berge should
go on trial along with the Bastille opera's former general manager,
Georges-Francois Hirsch, over the death of the woman and injuries to 39 singers
and technicians at Seville's Maestranza opera house.

Subs in Gulf

DUBAI: Britain and the US have held their first joint exercises in the Gulf with
nuclear-powered submarines, aimed at coordinating their forces in the strategic
oil-rich region, officers said. Commander Peter Hinchliffe, on board the Royal
Navy submarine HMS Spartan, said the use of strategic attack submarines was
increasingly vital. The 10-day exercises included US planes, ships and US
nuclear-powered submarine Scranton.

Hamas ruling

NEW YORK: A Hamas leader accused of funding and ordering terrorist attacks in
Israel can be extradited to that country, a New York judge ruled. Judge Kevin
Duffy said that Israel had established probable cause that Mousa Mohammed Abu
Marzook knew of Hamas plan to carry out attacks, chose the leaders and supplied
the money. Abu Marzook's lawyer, Stanley Cohen, said he would appeal against the
decision, delaying any extradition.

Mac for adults

NEW YORK: McDonald's has introduced a new "Arch Deluxe'' burger to target the
adult market. "There's a $ 5 billion adult market for lettuce, tomato and bacon
hamburgers and we're going after it in a big way," chairman Michael Quinlan said
in a statement. "It's the start of a whole new era for grown-ups at McDonald's
with a hamburger made just for them," he said.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1996 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              312 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 14, 1996

'DAMNATION DAY' PLOT;
Ian Katz in New York

BYLINE: Ian Katz

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FOREIGN PAGE; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 694 words


RAMZI Ahmed Yousef has been accused of many things but a lack of ambition is not
one of them. If US prosecutors are to be believed, the British-educated
explosives expert planned to blow up 11 American airliners on a single,
apocalyptic day last year.

The 29-year-old Muslim extremist, dubbed "the new Jackal" because of his
suspected involvement in a string of terror plots from Manhattan to Manila, went
on trial in New York yesterday for allegedly masterminding the simultaneous
bombings on American jets flying from Asia to the US.

Mr Yousef, who studied engineering at Swansea University, is also charged with a
bomb attack on a Philippines Airlines flight in December 1994 that killed a
Japanese passenger and wounded 10 others.  Prosecutors claim it was a dry run
for the onslaught he planned the following year.

US authorities are also convinced that Mr Yousef was the "evil genius" behind
the World Trade Centre blast, though the authorities have opted to try him
separately for the February 1993 attack.

Vince Cannistaro, a former top CIA official and security expert, said yesterday
that Mr Yousef was a master bomb-maker who had perfected a technique for
smuggling liquid explosives on to aircraft. "I don't think we've ever seen
someone as capable as this."

Mr Yousef has denied all charges against him but told an Arab newspaper last
year that he believed Palestinians and Lebanese had "the full right to attack
any US targets, military or non-military" because of US support for Israel.

According to one source, he has boasted of his exploits to FBI interviewers.
"This guy has got some ego and it's almost like he can't help himself," the
un-named source told the Associated Press. "He's just so proud of what he's done
and thinks he should be revered throughout the Muslim world."

Though much of his past remains shrouded in mystery, Mr Yousef is thought to
have grown up in Kuwait, the son of Pakistani and Palestinian parents, before
moving to Britain to study. He and two alleged accomplices on trial with him
face life imprisonment if convicted.

The FBI believes Mr Yousef slipped out of the US even as emergency vehicles were
racing to the scene of the World Trade Centre blast that killed six people,
injured more than 1,000 and rudely awoke the country to the threat of terrorism
on its own soil.

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              313 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                            May 15, 1996, Wednesday

BOFFINS' TERROR WAR;
HISTORY OF FORT HALSTEAD

BYLINE: Peter Allen

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 494 words


Fort Halstead is Britain's principal outpost in the never-ending war against
terrorists.

Since 1945, the centre - part of the Royal Armament Research Defence
Establishment - has built up a reputation as one of the country's premier
ballistics and forensic laboratories.

It is the place anti-terror experts turn to after bomb outrages.

The centrifuge machine at the heart of the evidence scandal is one of the most
important pieces of technology used by its staff.

It is about the size and shape of a microwave oven and has been used for 500
tests after almost all terrorist bombings since 1989.

It spins test tubes of liquid samples taken from suspects, getting rid of dirt
so the specimens can be probed in detail.

The Fort's top scientists examined the London bus destroyed in the Aldwych
bombing.

And the wreckage of the Pan Am 747 which crashed on Lockerbie in 1988 was taken
there to be pieced together.

Set high on the North Downs near Sevenoaks, Kent, the establishment's outer
buildings and chimneys can be seen miles away.

But what happens behind the high barbed-wire fences is top secret.

Its numerous workers - the Fort is one of the area's major employers - are
strictly governed by the Official Secrets Act.

Thirty-one scientists investigate and develop weapons round the clock.

The Fort was at the forefront of Britain's nuclear arms programme.

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: LAB: Fort Halstead traces minute clues to bombings

                            Copyright 1996 MGN Ltd.

                              314 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                            May 15, 1996, Wednesday

Send in the Marines' civvy replacements

BYLINE: Rachel Kelly

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 660 words


The Royal Marines' site at Deal is for sale.

The Royal Naval College at Greenwich it is of Music at Deal is still of
considerable architectural and historic interest.

It was here that in 1989 an IRA bomb killed 11 bandsmen. For two centuries
military music was taught to members of the Armed Forces at the school. There
are three listed buildings among the 69 on the site, including the very fine
naval hospital on the East Barracks, and the officers' mess on the South
Barracks.

Now the site is up for sale for an undisclosed price through the agent Hillier
Parker. The school was closed this March despite an emotional campaign to
prevent it moving lock, stock and big bass drum to new quarters at HMS Nelson,
Portsmouth. The decision caused an outcry from people in the Kent town, which
has had a Royal Marines presence for 200 years.

The sale is unlikely to provoke criticism along the lines of that which greeted
the sale of the Royal Naval College, the future of which has now been secured by
the setting-up of an architectural trust. The conservationist group Save
Britain's Heritage is pleased the site is being sold in that there is hope that
a new use will be secured for the buildings.

Emma Phillips, from Save Britain's Heritage, said: This is a very sensitive site
with a number of listed buildings and rare open spaces. The reuse of these rare
Georgian buildings will allow the public to appreciate and view them. The
buildings are in a good state and the site can provide good views, as at Eastney
and Winchester.''

Consumers can expect that at least some of the site is likely to be redeveloped
for residential use. Other former military and naval sites have been
successfully redeveloped.

Take Try Homes' redevelopment of Peninsula Barracks in Winchester, for example.
More than 60 flats have already been sold at the redevelopment through Hamptons,
the agent which has recently merged with Cluttons London Residential.

Such sites combine central locations and historic buildings. The School of Music
sits on 45 acres in the centre of Deal. Nicola Maxted, from Hillier Parker,
emphasises that it is unlikely that the whole site would be redeveloped for
residential use, but that a variety of users, some institutional, some
educational, some leisure, have already expressed interest. She is confident of
a successful sale which will profit the taxpayer.

David Shaw, the Tory MP for Dover, however, cautions that developers may not be
tempted by the three separate sites and barrack complexes, given the cost of
redeveloping the 69 buildings. There is also insufficent road access. Miss
Maxted claims that planners have addressed the road access problem.

Mr Shaw says that parts of the site are unlikely to be sold for a profit. Last
year Cluttons, the agent, valued the three sites at minus Pounds 5 million. It
would cost Pounds 5 million more to maintain the buildings than a developer
could make by building houses, the survey found. A spokesman for the MoD
rejected the figures.

Mr Shaw said: Some of the buildings would be unsuitable for conversion into
offices, because you couldn't get the computer networking installed. It was
obviously a great tragedy that the school closed. Now the people of Deal want a
use for the buildings which ideally would create jobs. What is particularly
upsetting is the uncertaity surrounding these buildings. There is a fear they
could stay empty for a while.''

Local people are keen to see a new resource provided for the town. Audrey
Elliott, the former Mayor of Deal, said people accepted the need to sell the
site. She would like to see the South Barracks turned into a sports complex.

The buildings date in part from the late 18th century when a cavalry barracks
was established in Deal, with subsequent extensions. The Marines took over the
old Navy barracks and hospital in 1860. Later, Deal became one of the main bases
of the Marines.


LOAD-DATE: August 14, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1996 Times Newspapers Limited

                              315 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 20, 1996

WHEN MOURNING BREAKS;
For some time now, television executives have had their eye on the Queen
Mother's health. Her death has been the subject of regular rehearsals for years.
The BBC even has a codename for it "Operation Lion". As the Guardian has
discovered,her demise and the broadcasting response to it - will mark a hugely
significant moment in the histories of monarchy andtelevision and the
relationship between them. Will the presenters wear black ties? Will One Foot In
The Grave be cancelled?And what will happen to Ian Hislop?

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGE; Pg. T2

LENGTH: 4147 words


THE news and current affairs department of the BBC periodically holds "war game"
sessions in which executives discuss how their programmes might deal with some
hypothetical huge news story: the assassination of a prime minister or
president; the leak of a Health Department document estimating eventual human
fatalities from BSE at half of the adult population; a terrorist attack during a
major sporting event being broadcast live; the resignation of a senior
Conservative minister over Europe; or, in a popular baroque variation, the
simultaneous occurence of two of these stories on the same day. When would
scheduled programmes be interrupted or suspended? When would bulletins be
extended? When might a rolling news service be instituted? When should
surrounding programmes be edited or jettisoned as a mark of respect?

These exercises are an attempt to prepare the BBC's journalism division for an
unforeseen calamity. However, in recent years, the most frequent and contentious
of the war game scenarios - codename: Operation Lion - has centred on a lone,
foreseen event: the death of Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth The Queen Mother.

There are some in Britain for whom even the appearance in print of those last 10
words ahead of the event will be an outrage of bad taste. Both superstition and
social protocol advise against the prediction of another's death: a precaution
immortalised in the English platitude "if anything were to happen to . . ."

However it surely involves no ill wish or tempting of fate to suggest that
something will happen, one of these days, to a woman already 96 years of age.
Indeed, all media Royal correspondents already possess a Buckingham Palace
document which sets out the schedule of the obsequies and funeral: a nine-day
period of mourning which includes three days lying in state before the
Westminster Abbey funeral service. And the fact is that her death - and the
broadcasting response to it - will mark a hugely significant moment in the
histories of monarchy and television and the relationship between them. The
planned television coverage of the event - and the significant changes to those
plans in recent years - serve as a thermometer of monarchism in Britain.

"What's fascinating about the process of deciding how to cover this event," says
one senior BBC executive, "is that you are trying to assess the British public's
attitude towards the royal family at any time and match the coverage to it. And
that attitude now changes from moment to moment."

From the 1950s until at least as late as 1990, the official BBC policy was that
solemn music and obituaries would be broadcast from the official announcement of
the Queen Mother's death (or that of The Queen) until the live coverage of the
state funeral. The only entertainment material permitted during this period was
performances by the marching bands of regiments of which she is colonel-in-chief
or ballet or opera companies of which she is patron. It was further set down in
the rules for news and current affairs producers that the announcement would be
made by a newsreader (at the time of the guidebook's writing naturally assumed
to be male) wearing a black tie. It was further specified that each reference to
the death must begin with the words: "It is with deepest regret that we announce
.  . ."

This journalistic approach was based on a combination of broadcasting precedent
and the instinctive genuflection of the British establishment towards the
monarchy. In fact, precedence was of little relevance. The last top-level royal
death - that of King George VI in 1952 - took place when there were only around
350,000 sets in Britain and just one channel. It was, famously, the Coronation
of the late King's daughter as Queen Elizabeth II in 1953 - and, incidentally,
the demotion of his widow to the position of Queen Mother - which encouraged the
relatively widespread purchase of sets.

The procedures for royal mourning changed little through the first three decades
of the new Elizabethan age. After the launch of BBC2, it was decreed that, in
the event of a blue blood fatality, both channels would combine to offer a
service of solemn music and obituary material. (The various BBC radio stations
would also contort into a single source.) Around the turn of the last decade, it
was acknowledged that channel controllers might, later in the official period of
mourning, be given leeway to screen "appropriate and non-controversial
material". One BBC source defines this as: "David Attenborough wildlife
programmes and repeats of Dad's Army."

The death from natural causes of the Queen Mother is not the only royal fatality
to be rehearsed, although it is the most problematic. Terrorist assassination,
though terrible, is journalistically an easy story, as the usual who, what, why
and what-now of news gathering apply. All hypotheses have been discussed. "The
really interesting one," says one BBC executive, "is the Duke of Edinburgh. What
would we do if he was killed in a carriage -driving accident tomorrow? There's
someone whose reputation and position in national life are complex and very
fluid." Recently, after the complex and fluid emotions displayed in some
sections of the royal family, the hypothesists have, for the first time, begun
to consider the intricacies of covering a royal death by suicide.

The Queen Mother's status in these war game scenarios is unusual. She is
certainly the first non-Head of State to be accorded such elaborate respect: the
grandmother of all funerals. This follows from her symbolic position as Mother
Of The Nation. To the older generation - a generation very likely to bombard the
BBC or MPs with complaints about any half-heartedness in the coverage - her
constitutional irrelevance is an irrelevance. The BBC is still stung by the
outcry at its decision not to include the wedding of the minor royal, Viscount
Linley, in its evening news.

Despite such fears, a BBC committee has met frequently in the past two years to
revise the Corporation's plans for Operation Lion. Its members include Will
Wyatt, managing director of BBC Television, Alan Yentob, Controller of BBC1,
Michael Jackson, Controller of BBC2, and representatives from the news and
current affairs and scheduling departments. This committee has decided that the
scorched-screen policy which was historically stipulated - no non-mourning
coverage at all - should no longer apply. This results mainly from a perception
that the declining public enthusiasm for the monarchy would no longer justify
blanket black-edge programming, although there may also be a feeling, in
television's newly competitive environment, that it would not be sensible for
the BBC to remove itself entirely from the ratings arena for nearly two weeks.
Even so, republicans should stock up from the video shop now.

One senior BBC news executive says: "The view is that the people you upset by
not going over the top about her death would be upset for longer and with more
consequence than the people you would upset by going over the top about it." The
new arrangements dictate that a BBC newsreader will make the official
announcement while wearing a black tie or, if female, a high-necked black dress.
The opening words "It is with deepest regret . . ." will no longer be spoken,
but will be replaced by standard headline journalese: "Buckingham Palace has
just announced . . ." The central ceremonial parts of the coverage will be
hosted by David Dimbleby, again wearing a black tie.

From the moment of the official announcement, BBC1 and BBC2 will join together,
transmitting throughout the first day a service of news programmes and obituary
documentary material related solely to the Queen Mother. The decision was
recently taken to remove from the main documentary the stentorian voice of Tom
Fleming - the Scottish actor who soppily commentated on the wedding of Diana and
Charles - and replace it with with another: probably Sue Lawley's. On Day 2,
BBC1 will transmit further QM-related programming, while BBC2 will be allowed to
resume a separate, although by no means normal, schedule. "I think," says one
captain in the war game forces, "that you're talking about something like BBC2
in around 1974: gardening and music programmes, a reflection of a gentler and
more innocent world."

From Day 3 to Day 9 (the state funeral), BBC1 will screen an emergency and
restricted schedule, containing "suitable" items. This judgment of "suitability"
rests mainly on content - "I think Ian Hislop and Angus Deayton can safely go
skiing for a week or two after it happens,', says one executive, referring to
BBC2's Have I Got News For You - but sometimes simply on title. One Foot In The
Grave, for example, would certainly not be transmitted during the period of
mourning.

There is also the risk that apparently innocuous programmes may hold hidden
stings. A surprising quantity of English sitcoms include jokes about the
gin-drinking of the Queen Mother: there was one such gag in the first episode of
the revived Liver Birds. One of the fears of BBC schedulers is such a reference
slipping through in a seemingly safe show during the pre-funeral period.

Of all British broadcasters, it is the BBC - which is expected by many to
fulfill "Voice of the Nation" status - for which the event provokes most
tension. "Every time my bleeper went off or my telephone rang late at night in
the last five years, I've thought: this is it," admits one of those involved in
the coverage. "I've thought the rest of my career depends on how we handle
this." A journalist was severely reprimanded for making a flippant remark during
one recent Operation Lion rehearsal.

Though less burdened by cultural expectation, ITV has two main difficulties of
its own. The first is that television history shows that viewers switch
instinctively to the BBC at times of national significance. The second is that
reverence and deference come far more expensively to commercial channels than to
public service ones: disruption of the schedule results in loss of ad revenue.

Even so, Network Centre - which co-ordinates the programming of the regional
third channel companies - has decided that no commercials will be screened on
the first two days of mourning, nor will they be transmitted around the
broadcast of the funeral on the ninth day. The official death announcement will
be made by the duty ITN newscaster, wearing a black tie, while the most
important segments of the coverage will be hosted by Trevor McDonald, also
wearing a black tie throughout.

During the mourning period, the regular schedule will be abandoned and replaced
by what a Network Centre source calls "appropriate programming. Documentaries
about her and about the royal family.  Some family drama repeats and feature
films.  It's not giving away any secrets to say we won't be repeating Edward And
Mrs Simpson."

The perception at the BBC and ITV is that Channel 4 will have it easy when the
sad day comes. "It's all right for them," says one of the Corporation's royal
obit squad. "They can just stick out J'Accuse: The Queen Mother on the first day
and then grab all of BBC2's audience share for a few nights".

In fact, the mood at Channel 4's Horseferry Road headquarters is by no means so
sanguine or irreverent about the impending solemn event. Although it can
plausibly be argued that Channel 4 - charged in its government remit with
reflecting alternative and minority opinion - ought to mock or ignore while the
other channels mourn, it has been decided that its coverage will be more
traditional.

"We have certainly considered the view that our role on this occasion is to
reflect republican sentiment," says a senior Channel 4 source. "But we have
rejected that approach. We certainly won't be getting Tony Parsons or someone
like that to do J'Accuse: The Queen Mother."

Instead, from the time of the announcement, it will screen a rolling news
service, produced by ITN, incorporating prepackaged obituary programmes, and
hosted by Jon Snow, presenter of the nightly Channel 4 News. Famous for vibrant,
often floral ties, Snow has, according to Channel 4, been instructed to wear for
that broadcast "a sober single colour, black or very close to black". His
coverage is expected to be "serious and appropriate, though perhaps with more
analysis and consideration of the royal family's future than you will get from
the BBC."

As a mark of respect, Channel 4 will also drop commercials for at least the
first few hours of post-death programming. The decision about at which point to
restore advertising and something like a normal schedule will be taken on the
day by Michael Grade, Channel 4's chief executive, and John Willis, director of
programmes.

"Obviously", says the source, "it partly depends on what ITV and Sky do. If they
go back to full schedule and adverts, it wouldn't be in our commercial interest
to hold back."

Because of its relatively young and multi-cultural staff and its obligation to
radical programming, Channel 4 has rather more republican or Palace-apathetic
employees than any, other mainstream British broadcaster. Some of them are
disappointed at their bosses' decision to join in the general media prostration
towards the famous lady and connect it with a general nervousness about royal
matters, reflected in Michael Grade's recent decision to cancel a Without Walls
programme featuring a dramatised psychoanalysis of a Princess Diana lookalike.

However, a greater degree of freedom in the coverage may only be a matter of
time. "These arrangements," says the source, "assume that the event would occur
in the next couple of years. Beyond that, who knows what the shift might have
been in general attitude towards the royals. And the coverage would obviously
reflect that."

One significant worry for all of the war game generals has been the possibility
of a second major unexpected news story occurring simultaneously with this
expected one. To some extent, the broadcasters can rely on what one calls the
"white noise effect" of a royal tragedy: parliament and the Stock Exchange would
be suspended and most press conferences cancelled after such an event, so that
the flow of other news would automatically reduce.

"Something like a Dunblane, you would obviously have to cover," says one BBC
executive. "Or a terrorist attack, which might very well, of course, even be
timed to coincide with such an announcement. But the actual architecture of
moving your programme between two such stories would be horrendous."

"The real nightmare one," says an ITV executive, "is if it were to happen during
a General Election campaign. If that happens, we would have to consult with
Downing Street and the Palace about what to do."

Another - statistically more likely - possibility is that the event might
coincide with the day of a major televised sporting event such as a Wimbledon
final or during the Olympics. Again, the BBC would initially hope that the
problem might be eliminated at the supply end: that the Wimbledon committee
would postpone the final or that British competitors might be withdrawn from
competition as a mark of respect, although it must be thought doubtful that such
deference would survive in the now highly commercial world of international
sport. The current thinking is that, if a Wimbledon final were to take place on
a day of official mourning, BBC2 would screen it, leaving BBC1 with the
obsequies.

What is beyond doubt is that the television coverage of this sombre national
event will be far more respectful than that in the print media. After the
publication of the multi-page supplements which the tabloids already have
prepared, discussion will soon turn to whether Diana and Fergie will attend the
funeral and what the future of the monarchy might now be.  Television - although
the recent modernisations of Operation Lion do reflect some of the changes in
the national mood - will still, to a large extent, serve as an echo of an age of
instinctive deference towards the royals.

"The unfortunate thing is," says a senior BBC executive, "that there is a
genuine journalistic job to be done on that life: her position and influence
within the royal family and so on. And you're not going to get it on television
when she goes. That's the big question. Who's going to be first to do a job on
the Queen Mother - BBC2's Reputations or Channel 4's Secret Lives - and how long
afterwards?"

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              316 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 21, 1996

BRITAIN EXPELS THREE SUDANESE DIPLOMATS;
Khartoum has threatened to retaliate for the UN-decreed curbs, writes Ian Black

BYLINE: Ian Black

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 760 words


BRITAIN is expelling three diplomats from the Sudanese embassy in London in line
with new United Nations sanctions designed to pressure the Khartoum regime to
hand over suspected terrorists, it was announced yesterday.

The Foreign Office said the diplomats were being given a month to leave; the
remaining 12 will have to give prior notice of trips outside London while entry
visas will be denied to members of the Sudanese government or military.

The UN Security Council voted on April 26 to impose diplomatic and travel
sanctions on Sudan because of concern over complicity by the Islamist military
regime with what it called acts of terrorism.

It demanded that Sudan extradite to Ethiopia three people suspected of trying to
assassinate the Egyptian President, Hosni Mubarak, during a visit to Addis Ababa
last June. Sudan insists it does not know where the men are. Western
intelligence agencies say this is a lie.

Britain's European Union partners are expected to follow suit with expulsions on
a proportionate basis, though the London embassy is Sudan's biggest in the West.

Sudanese officials, who had been braced for one expulsion following the United
States decision to throw out a diplomat, threatened retaliation. Britain's
embassy in Khartoum has seven staff.

Foreign Office sources said there would be no justification for tit-for-tat
action since the move was the result of a UN resolution.

The sanctions, which took effect on May 10, call on member countries to
"significantly reduce" the number and level of staff at Sudanese diplomatic
missions and restrict or control the movement of those who remain. The measures
can be toughened after 60 days.

Diplomats say Sudan is feeling the pressure and signalling it may act against
fundamentalist militants. The US is especially concerned about Khartoum's links
with Iranian-backed groups.

"They've been squealing about this for some time in Khartoum," a Western
diplomat said. "They're very unhappy and not indifferent to these sort of
restrictions."

President Omar el-Bashir is especially worried by mounting evidence of Eritrean
support for the Sudanese opposition, possibly with covert CIA involvement.

The US said last week it was expelling a Sudanese diplomat. In April, it
expelled a Sudanese official at the United Nations, accusing him of helping
Muslim extremists plot to blow up the UN and other New York landmarks.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              317 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                             May 22, 1996 Wednesday

Concession for an IRA mastermind

SECTION: 1; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 104 words


A MAN once named as the IRA's main organiser in Britain was yesterday
transferred to jail in the Irish Republic.

Brendan Dowd, 47, from County Kerry, who plotted the bombings in Guildford and
Woolwich, was serving life in a British prison for attempted murder.

He is the second IRA man to be moved recently to the top security Portlaoise
prison. Last week Patrick Kelly, 44, was transferred from Northern Ireland where
he was serving 25 years for bomb plots and attempted murder.

It happened as John Major told Gerry Adams that Sinn Fein could only join
all-party talks if there was an `unequivocal ceasefire' by the terrorists.

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 1996 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              318 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                  May 22, 1996

Cliffhanger in quest for peace

BYLINE: Russell Edmunds

SECTION: Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1028 words


Russell Edmunds looks at the softer Sinn Fein line and the timing of a possible
new IRA ceasefire

WILL they or won't they? With only eight days to go to Northern Ireland's
elections, expectations of another IRA ceasefire hang in the balance.

The voices of London, Dublin, and Washington are united in demanding a
declaration of peace yet nobody, not even those in Sinn Fein who are closest to
the IRA's thinking, can first-guess what the terrorist group plans to do.

While all around wait in hope, the IRA maintains its silence and refuses to lift
the threat of violence that has hung over Britain and, possibly, Northern
Ireland since the Canary Wharf bombing in February.

Next Thursday, May 30, Ulster's one million-strong electorate goes to the polls
in what will be a unique election. The voters are not being asked to choose
between individual candidates. Rather they have simply to place an "X" beside
the party of their choice.

When the votes are counted the following day in Belfast all eyes will be on the
level of support given to Sinn Fein and on the number of members it will have in
Ulster's new 110-seat forum.

Over the past 15 years, support for the IRA's political wing has ranged from a
high of more than 100,000 votes in the early 1980s to between 70,000 and 80,000
votes more lately. One significant factor is that all previous elections were
held against a background of terrorist violence in contrast to today's
relatively incident-free atmosphere.

In Belfast yesterday the focus of political attention had turned yet again on
Gerry Adams, the Sinn Fein president. Under seemingly enormous pressure from
Washington and Dublin to respond positively to London, he surprised observers
this week by stating that his party could support proposals from American
Senator George Mitchell for the decommissioning of terrorist weapons.

Mitchell and two other international negotiators were called into Ulster last
December to try to break the deadlock on decommissioning between the British and
Unionists on the one hand, and the IRA, Sinn Fein, and mainstream Irish
nationalist opinion on the other.

In adjudication, Mitchell spelled out six basic principles which he said all
parties in Ulster as well as the British and Irish Governments must support.  In
any future negotiations the parties involved must commit themselves to
"democratic and exclusively peaceful means". They would have to renounce the use
of force or threats to achieve their ends and to take effective steps to prevent
punishment killings and beatings.

Most important of all, perhaps, all parties would have to subscribe to the
decommissioning of terrorist weapons and agree the means for total and variable
disarmament of paramilitary groups such as the IRA and the loyalist Ulster
Volunteer Force.

Until Adams's statement this week, Sinn Fein appeared to equivocate on the
Mitchell principles, refusing to be drawn on the questions of decommissioning or
of promising to abide by the outcome of any negotiations without recourse to
further violence.

Now Adams says: "As far as I am concerned my main concern at this moment is to
try to create the conditions where there are proper peace talks."

His attitude to the Mitchell principles was "quite straightforward".

"We are prepared to sign up. If the British, with their record here, the
Unionists, with their record, and the others in the loyalist camp with their
record, are prepared to sign up to these principles, then we are prepared to do
so also."

The lack of trust between Sinn Fein and the Unionist parties was reflected in
the response to Adams. David Trimble, the Ulster Unionist leader, condemned
Adams for engaging in a pre-election "Sinn Fein/IRA sham". The Rev Ian Paisley
said Adams could not be trusted.

However, government officials in Belfast quietly welcomed what they saw as a
significant move by Sinn Fein, while in Dublin and Washington there was a
feeling that Adams was living up to his promise of last week to "meet John Major
halfway".

The Prime Minister, in an article published in Irish newspapers, had addressed
what Adams and Sinn Fein claim are stumbling-blocks. In particular, Major hinted
that the deadlock over the decommissioning of weapons should be addressed in
ways that would not block political negotiations.

Taken together, Major's article and Adams's response this week are seen as
encouraging steps towards the historic all-party talks, which are planned to
follow next week's election, on June 10. Commitment to the Mitchell principles
is one key requirement of the talks for all parties and Sinn Fein now seems
prepared to cross this hurdle despite the fact that the IRA is still on a
terrorist footing.

It appears the apparent softening in Adams's strategy was agreed last weekend at
a gathering of Sinn Fein's ruling council in Dublin. Sinn Fein, in distancing
itself from the IRA's actions, is claiming that it should be admitted to
all-party talks irrespective of whether there is another ceasefire.

However, as Major stressed at Westminster yesterday, the bottom line is somewhat
different. Without any IRA commitment to end its renewed threat, Sinn Fein will
be locked out of the June 10 talks, though that will hardly stop the party's
newly-elected representatives from striding the political stage that day.

Adams has vowed "to be there" and that probably means that he will lead his
party's delegation to the scene of the talks, thus ensuring the world's cameras
will record his shut-out and embarrass the Government.

However, no-one can be sure that the IRA will not act before then, and
speculation continues to centre on a new ceasefire within the next fortnight.
It could come in the next few days, but most observers believe the IRA is
hedging its bets and waiting for the outcome of the election on May 30 to see
how many votes are counted for Sinn Fein.

Yet another political cliffhanger is being played out in Ulster but, despite the
horror of Canary Wharf, the odds seem more tilted in favour of peace than they
were after that destructive and deadly attack in February.

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Under pressure: Washington and Dublin want Gerry Adams to respond
positively to London.

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1996 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              319 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                             May 23, 1996, Thursday

FARCE OF SHREDDED EXTRADITION PAPERS;
FURY OVER GARDAI BLUNDER;
DAIL FURY OVER ANTHONY DUNCAN EXTRADITION BLUNDER

BYLINE: Liam Kelly

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 627 words


A furious extradition row broke out yesterday when it was revealed gardai
mistakenly shredded a Scotland Yard warrant.

The Dail was twice adjourned after the angriest rows the house has seen for
years, over who was to blame for the Anthony Duncan fiasco.

The first extradition hearing collapsed after a Dublin court heard that
documents were "fundamentally flawed".

Now gardai want warrants from Britain sent on coloured paper to avoid a repeat
mistake.

A garda source said: "It's very hard to make out the difference between the
original and a good photocopy. If the original is on coloured paper it won't be
mistaken for a copy."

Junior Minister Austin Currie insisted the Irish had not tried to blame the
British for the bungled extradition case. He dismissed it as a "storm in a
photocopier".

But Opposition deputies insisted the matter was more serious - and accused
Taoiseach John Bruton of misleading the House.

During heated exchanges, Mr Bruton rejected claims he had misled the House over
the failure to send Duncan back.

In Britain, Tory Northern Ireland committee vice chairman David Wilshire claimed
the errors were deliberate and demanded an apology from the Irish Government,
saying the affair called into question the competence of the "Mickey Mouse"
Dublin courts.

Duncan, 26, from Finglas, Dublin, is wanted for questioning about IRA bomb
attacks in Britain.

Initially, errors in Britain were held responsible by Irish officials for the
courtroom blunder.

But late on Tuesday night, Justice Minister Nora Owen conceded that the fault
had been rooted in Dublin.

Duncan was freed when the initial extradition hearing collapsed, but re
-arrested and is currently in custody on a charge of being a member of the IRA.

New warrants have been issued.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BRUTON: Denied misleading Dail;; FREED: Anthony Duncan was released
after blunder

                            Copyright 1996 MGN Ltd.

                              320 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 23, 1996

IRISH POLICE ADMIT ACCIDENTALLY DESTROYING EXTRADITION WARRANT FOR WANTED IRA
SUSPECT

BYLINE: David Sharrock Ireland Correspondent

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 640 words


IRISH police yesterday asked the Home Office to submit future extradition
warrants to them on coloured paper after admitting that they had mistakenly
shredded documents last month relating to a man wanted for questioning in
connection with the IRA's bombing campaign in England.

The Irish parliament had to be suspended three times yesterday as the row over
the failed extradition to Britain of Dubliner Anthony Duncan raged. Several
opposition MPs were expelled from the chamber, one of whom refused to withdraw a
claim that the prime minister, John Bruton, had misled the house over the case.

Opposition members said Mr Bruton told the Dail last month there was no fault on
the part of Irish authorities in their handling of the case. But Mr Bruton
insisted: "The statement I made was accurate and true, based on information I
had at the time." He said a Garda investigation into the affair had only been
completed two days ago.

The extradition hearing against Mr Duncan - who is wanted for questioning about
IRA bomb attacks in England before the 1994 ceasefire - collapsed last month
after a Dublin court heard that documents were "fundamentally flawed". Mr Duncan
was freed but immediately rearrested and charged with IRA membership. A new
extradition attempt cannot be heard until this charge has been dealt with, which
could take more than a year.

The extradition failure soured Anglo-Irish relations as Dublin government
sources initially tried to pin the blame for the mistake on the British
authorities. But the Irish justice minister, Nora Owen, admitted in a written
parliamentary reply that the original warrant had been "destroyed accidentally"
while copies of it were being made by the Gardai.

In the hope of further extradition documents avoiding a similar fate, Irish
police now want them to be sent on coloured paper to distinguish them from
photocopies. A Garda source said: "It's very hard to make out the difference
between an original and a good photocopy. If the original is on coloured paper
it won't be mistaken for a copy."

The history of extradition between the Irish Republic and Britain is littered
with mistakes, confusion and bitter rows. The lowest point was reached in
December 1988 over the non-extradition of Father Patrick Ryan, when Margaret
Thatcher accused Dublin of a "lack of resolve".

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              321 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 23, 1996

CLINTON IRE RAISED OVER CUBA TRADE;
The US is standing firm in row with western allies over Castro, reports Larry
Elliott in Paris

BYLINE: Larry Elliott In Paris

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN CITY PAGE; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 880 words


THE Clinton administration was last night refusing to back down after the
leading industrial nations united to condemn America's unilateral trade
sanctions against western companies that do business with Cuba.

Washington made only a token effort to defuse the row as it became clear that
some of America's strongest allies - including Britain and Canada - were
prepared to retaliate against US firms and escalate the dispute into a
full-scale trade war.

After protracted behind-the scenes wrangling, the US reluctantly accepted the
inclusion of a clause in the final communique from the two-day meeting of the
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development which called for trade
disputes to be settled by the World Trade Organisation.

However, Joseph Stiglitz, chairman of President Clinton's committee of economic
advisers, stressed that the US was in no mood to retreat.

He said Washington's willingness to discuss the sanctions in a variety of
international forums should help to allay the fears of its allies. "But
terrorism affects all countries. We hope more countries will join in to take
international action against rogue regimes".

The US said that the case made by other OECD nations would have had more force
had it expressed concern at the "heinous actions" of regimes that committed
murder, acts of terrorism and thwarted international justice.

Ministers from other countries were outraged by the terms of the Helms-Burton
law, which was forced on President Clinton by the right-wing Congress after the
downing of a civil US jet by Cuba in March.  The sanctions include the
withdrawal of US visas from foreign businessmen whose companies trade with Cuba
and the right of US firms to sue foreign companies in the American courts if
they occupy buildings in Cuba which are confiscated by the Castro regime.

Canada's trade minister, Art Eggleton, said the American action was a violation
of international law and "unacceptable". He added that

Ottawa had legislation in place which would hit back at the US if Canadian firms
were damaged by the Helms-Burton measures.

Senior British officials in Paris said the Americans had "been left in no doubt"
about the strength of feeling and pledged to use the clause in the OECD
communique to keep up the pressure on the US.

The document said that ministers agreed to work together "to strengthen the
confidence in and credibiity of the multilateral trading system by taking trade
and investment measures that would be in contradiction with World Trade
Organisation rules and OECD codes".

The row over Cuba diverted attention from a rearguard action by the British
delegation, which toned down the commitment to link trade and labour standards
in developing countries.

Washington had been pushing for the OECD to call for the issue to be debated at
this year's first ministerial meeting of the WTO in Singapore, but the UK
refused to agree.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              322 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                             May 23, 1996, Thursday

RIFKIND GIVES ISRAEL PALESTINE WARNING

BYLINE:  Charles Miller, Defence and Diplomatic Correspondent, PA News.

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 377 words


Britain today sent a warning to Israel that the option of a Palestine state must
be kept open.  A lasting peace settlement would only succeed if it respected
basic Palestinian rights, not least the right to self-determination, it said.
Foreign Secretary Malcolm Rifkind will set out Britain's conviction that an
accord cannot be imposed on the Palestine people in a speech tonight.  "To try
and impose it would be short-sighted. To last, the settlement will need to
respect basic Palestinian rights, not least the right to self-determination.
"To close off the option of a state would in my view be a mistake of the first
magnitude." However, Mr Rifkind insists that if the Palestinians wanted a land
to govern as their own, they would have to convince the Israelis that they
"accept the responsibilities that that would entail".  Talks between Israel and
Palestine would need to address a number of other critical areas - the fair
division of water resources, the question of Israeli settlements regarded by
Britain as illegal, and the future of refugees.  "A chance exists for the
children of Palestine to look forward to a life not of fighting and deprivation
but of peace," says Mr Rifkind.  He heaps praise on Palestine leader Yasser
Arafat, who visits Britain next month.

He commends the way President Arafat has maintained the commitment of the
Palestine people and their leaders to peace.  And he adds: "President Arafat has
shown, by his efforts to curb terrorism, his willingness to accept
responsibility." Mr Rifkind warns Israel against "prolonged and stringent
measures" that go beyond what is necessary to prevent terrorism.  He
acknowledges the "ghastly" terrorist attacks of the last months but insists that
extreme measures will damage confidence, increase resentment and breed new
generations that will choose violence rather than peace.  "That is not what we
want for the children of Palestine," he says.  Israel should rebuild confidence
by allowing people to move freely between the Occupied Territories and Israel,
including East Jerusalem and letting people return to their places of work.  Mr
Rifkind pledges Britain's commitment to make an active contribution to help
bring about a lasting peace across the Middle East.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1996 The Press Association Limited

                              323 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                              May 24, 1996, Friday

IRA BLUNDER SERGEANT IS SWITCHED;
GARDA SERGEANT WHO MISTAKENLY SHREDDED EXTRADITION WARRANT FOR IRA SUSPECT MOVED
TO OTHER DUTIES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 254 words


A Garda sergeant who mistakenly shredded a Scotland Yard extradition warrant for
an IRA bomb suspect has been moved to other duties.

The revelation came in the Dail yesterday, 24 hours after a row over the issue
saw three adjournments of the House and two Opposition frontbenchers suspended.

Justice Minister Nora Owen said at no time had she blamed Britain for what
happened when it tried to extradite Anthony Duncan in connection with a l994
bombing campaign. - though the judge in the case did.

She added: "The sergeant who had custody of the warrant was transferred to other
duties five days after the extradition proceedings.

"The Commissioner felt it would be inappropriate for this sergeant to have
responsibility for the handling of extradition papers until the circumstances of
the present case had been cleared up."

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1996 MGN Ltd.

                              324 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                              June 2, 1996, Sunday

Police to make Tube nerve gas patrols

BYLINE: Ros Wynne-Jones

SECTION: NEWS; Page  2

LENGTH: 585 words


A chemical and biological task force charged with minimising the effects of an
IRA nerve gas attack on London Underground is to be launched by British
Transport Police.

A team established in the wake of last year's nerve gas attack on Tokyo
underground is to begin patrolling the Tube network later this month, the
Independent on Sunday learned yesterday.

Equipped with nerve gas detectors and protective clothing similar to the "Noddy"
suits used in the Gulf War, the team of five will make unannounced checks on
stations to get the public used to their presence. Plans are also being drawn up
for a practice mass evacuation of Oxford Circus station, according to a senior
military source.

The move follows a fact-finding mission to Japan last year, after a Sarin gas
attack by the Aum Shinrikyo doomsday sect killed 11 people and injured nearly
4,000 on the Tokyo underground.

Senior officers from the Ministry of Defence, scientists from the Chemical
Defence Establishment at Porton Down and Desmond O'Brien, the British Transport
Police chief constable, visited Tokyo to formulate strategies for protecting
British underground networks, which include Newcastle-upon- Tyne and Glasgow.

Until now, police have stressed there is no specific intelligence of an
impending terrorist attack. Yesterday, however, a senior MoD source said: "It
has been known for some time that certain IRA elements have a contingency plan
to attack the Underground system. We believe that two activists have, in fact,
travelled to Japan in the past year so it was important to be ready for any
eventuality."

The launch of the new measure coincides with this weekend's elections in
Northern Ireland. The source added: "If the peace process goes pear- shaped then
the task force will be up and running."

A spokesman for London Transport Police said: "We have always been aware that we
are a natural target for the IRA. In the light of the Japanese attack we have
had to look carefully at the possibility of a similar attack in London and
officers have been trained to use anti-chemical warfare equipment." A recent
incident when a cable caught fire and parts of the Underground system had to be
evacuated showed emergency procedures were operating effectively, he said.
"London Underground staff are very good.  The Kings Cross fire has shown they
can't afford not to be."

An MoD spokesman said: "A delegation went to Japan to examine the Sarin gas used
in the Tokyo attack. Personnel were there to establish how the illness develops
and what cure for it could be found."

Britain's defence and police services have been concerned about the potentially
devastating effect of a chemical weapons attack on London's underground since
the 1930s, as the threat of an attack from Germany grew.

Documents released in the Public Records Office under the Thirty Year rule have
revealed that a bacterial dispersion test was carried out on the Northern Line
in 1963. One July lunchtime, a scientist dropped a small face-powder tin,
containing 30g of the "non-pathogenic" bacterium Bacillus globigii, from the
window of a train travelling between Collier's Wood and Tooting Broadway
stations, in south London.

Over the next fortnight, London Transport workers collected air and dust samples
throughout the Tube network. The report concluded that "bacterial spores can be
carried for several miles in the Tube system". Spores were found as far north as
Camden Town station, 10 miles from Tooting.


LOAD-DATE: June 03, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1996 Independent Print Ltd

                              325 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  June 3, 1996

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGE; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1267 words


An excellent of bodged intelligence

PEOPLE still say that in the middle of all John Major's disasters, his
"commitment to the peace process in Ireland" stands out like a beacon. So here
are the highlights of that commitment.

When Albert Reynolds, Irish premier, told him in August 1994 that the IRA were
about to announce a ceasefire, Major didn't believe it. Citing "excellent
intelligence", he insisted that the men of violence would never stop the
bombing. When the IRA, a few days later, announced a ceasefire, Major didn't
believe that either. He said the ceasefire must be "permanent" before all-party
talks about a peace settlement could begin. When, several months later, the
ceasefire was still holding, Major decided that talks could not begin until the
IRA handed in their weapons. When Sinn Fein, the SDLP and even the Irish
government denounced this "decommissioning" pre-condition as ridiculous and
urged Major to set a date for all-party peace talks, Major refused. He called up
the Mitchell Commission.

When Mitchell reported, in effect, that the "decommissioning" pre-condition was
ridiculous and urged that peace talks should start at once, Major still refused
to set a date. Instead, he ordered elections, which, he was informed by the same
"excellent intelligence", would consolidate the centre in Northern Ireland
politics and expose Sinn Fein as a party of straw. As for the ceasefire,
"excellent intelligence" informed him it was now permanent.

In February, an IRA bomb went off on the Isle of Dogs Major told the world that
if the men of violence thought they could get him to agree a date for all-party
talks just by letting off a bomb in London, they underestimated the resolve of
the British government and the man of steel who led it. To prove it, he promptly
set a date for all-party talks. Sinn Fein, he insisted, could not take part
unless the IRA declared another ceasefire.

His message to the Northern Ireland voters was clear: a vote for Sinn Fein
without a ceasefire was a wasted vote. When the elections were held, Sinn Fein,
without a ceasefire, won their highest percentage of the poll in the North for
50 years, and everywhere the centre which the elections were intended to
strengthen has been weakened. The only certainty for the future is that if the
remotest opportunity arises for prevarication, procrastination, bungling and
drift, John Major will grasp it with both hands.

NOTHING lights up a charity dinner more than an uncharitable speech. Ian
Gilmour, chairman of Medical Aid for Palestine, delighted the charity's recent
annual dinner with a sharp attack on the British and American governments' open
encouragement of the Israeli offensive in Lebanon. The US government, he said,
had abandoned even the pretence of even-handedness or concern for international
law.

Gilmour is a self-confessed peer and still, just, a Tory, but I am inclined to
forgive him both out of respect for his lifelong campaign against Zionism and
its imperialist horrors. He saw early on that the creation of a homeland for
Jewish people in Palestine was only possible by the forcible expulsion of a
million Palestinian Arabs from their homes - which would lead inevitably to
permanent violence in the region.

Gilmour was followed by Malcolm Rifkind, the Foreign Secretary. Most people at
the dinner applauded Rifkind's faint hostility to Israeli aggrandisement (he
even said "Israel must get out of Southern Lebanon"). But in general, Rifkind's
speech was the usual Foreign Office double-speak. He read an unctuous lecture to
the Palestinians on the importance of democracy, which he said was "the test" of
their success. This from a man who had just proposed the expulsion from Britain
of Mohammed al-Masari - for campaigning for democracy in Saudi Arabia.

A GUARDIAN reader from Glasgow sends me a copy of Martin Walker's report, on May
24, about the declassification of United States National Archives which throw up
"accusations that companies and financial institutions in neutral European
countries worked hand-in-hand with the Nazis to hide their looted millions".
Walker named "the Swiss banks, Credit Suisse and Union Bank". My Glasgow
correspondent noticed an advertisement that day in the Financial Times,
proclaiming: "We have stood by our clients for 134 years and won't change our
ways now". The advertiser? The Union Bank of Switzerland.

"One Third Of Babies Illegitimate" reports a Times headline (May 31). Excuse me.
"Illegitimate?" The first definition in The Shorter Oxford Dictionary is: "Not
legitimate, not in accordance with law, unauthorised, spurious, irregular,
improper". By that (correct) definition, no children can be illegitimate. The
fact that the word carries a second meaning - "not born in lawful wedlock" -
arises from superstition and prejudice, which lingers only in the darkest
recesses of religion - and in Times' headlines.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              326 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  June 5, 1996

THE LYING GAME;
SEAN O'CALLAGHAN is a former head of the IRA's southern command, a double
murderer, and an informer for the British Security Services.  He is serving life
imprisonment in a special unit.  In recent years his attitude towards the
republicanmovement and the IRA has changed, to the point where he maintains they
are unrepresentative and authoritarian and have noplace in negotiations about
the future of Northern Ireland. This is his story of life on both sides during
the Troubles. Itis not pleasant reading: highly opinionated, certainly
contentious. But it is one man's view.

BYLINE: Sean O'Callaghan

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGE; Pg. T2

LENGTH: 6094 words


I WAS born in 1954 in Tralee, County Kerry, in the Irish Republic. It was and
still is an area with a strong republican tradition. After the treaty and the
formation of the Irish Free State in 1922 the IRA and the new Free State Army
fought a bitter civil war. That war was conducted with great savagery in Kerry.
Less than three miles from my parents' house, eight IRA prisoners were blown to
pieces by government forces in an official sanctioned reprisal for the earlier
IRA murder of a Free State Army officer.

Civil war bitterness was still very much alive in parts of Kerry in the 1950s.
My father's side of the family was steeped in that tradition. He and his
brother, active IRA men, were interned without trial in the Curragh military
camp in the early 1940s. My father, several aunts and other family members have
remained lifelong activists and supporters of the republican movement. That was
the tradition and the family background into which I was born.

We were an ordinary working class family. We stood out in no regard other than
that my father was a member of a small, essentially secret organisation which
still harboured dreams of a 32-county republic. They believed that such a
republic would only come about by armed force. Occasionally I came across guns,
and once explosives, hidden in the house. Sometimes there were meetings in the
house or in my grandmother's. We were always sent somewhere else when anything
of that nature was taking place but we had at least a vague idea that something
exciting or dangerous was happening. We knew that nothing of this was ever to be
repeated to our friends.

Like the great mass of Irish people I was educated in my early years at school
by nuns and Christian Brothers. The Brothers had a fierce nationalist ethos.
They saw themselves as the moral guardians of nationalist Ireland. It was a
world of Gaelic games, the Irish language, and endless songs and stories about
noble Irish patriots and treacherous English. The treachery of the English was
at the root of all of Ireland's ills.

The 1916 rebellion was celebrated with great gusto in 1966, when I was 12 years
old. RTE television indulged in an orgy of adulation. Schools had special
screenings of films on the rising. We played mock games of Irish versus the
British. I always w anted to be James Connolly, the republican socialist
executed by the British after the surrender of the rebels. Less than two years
after these celebrations the civil rights movement in Northern Ireland burst on
to our television screens. In reality we understood little about the issues but
our sympathies were firmly with the Catholics in Northern Ireland. When
sectarian violence broke out in Belfast in 1969 there was a huge outpouring of
emotion in the Republic. Soon Catholic refugees were being billeted in local
houses, church property and the army barracks.

The IRA split and the Provisional IRA was formed: an event which I now regard as
the greatest tragedy in modern Irish history. That was not how I felt at the
time of course. I was 15 years old in 1970 and could not wait to enlist. My
political views were certainly to the left of the leadership of the Provisional
movement. Some of the overt militarism, bordering on fascism, did worry me. I
saw the Provisionals as rather like a popular front which would sweep away
partition and the British presence. We would then have a realignment of the left
in Irish politics.  After that it was full steam down the road to the socialist
republic. There you have the sum total of the political literacy of a
15-year-old would-be Irish revolutionary.

Like most others of my age in the Republic I knew nothing of protestants or
unionists other than that they were known as the Ascendancy. They stole the land
from the Catholics and persecuted them. The protestant working class in Northern
Ireland were simply dupes of the unionist ruling classes and the British
government. Our naivety and ignorance was incredible. We would throw the British
out and then the poor stupid prods would see the error of their ways and join us
in a new utopian Ireland.  In truth we gave little or no consideration to the
question of what to do with protestants. We were ready to fight a war against
the British just like our forefathers had. This time we would finish the
business. British rule in Ireland would end for all time.

I joined the IRA in Tralee. My family background was such that I had little
difficulty in joining - it was positively expected. It was not long before young
IRA recruits in Northern Ireland were coming to Kerry for training in the use of
weapons and explosives. Even though I was very young I found myself actively
involved in this part of IRA activity. Needless to say, school appeared pretty
boring by comparison and I soon lost interest in it.

The IRA recruits from Northern Ireland were in the main ordinary young men such
as you would find in any British city, town, or rural area. They wore the same
clothes, listened to the same music and followed the same soccer clubs. They
were more likely to spend their time arguing about the merits of Manchester
United or Liverpool than politics. That came later, after exposure to the
Provisional ideologues in Long Kesh and other prisons.

They saw their duty as protecting their areas - Catholic ghettos in Belfast and
Derry - from attack by protestants. The Provisional IRA was forged out of
inter-communal sectarian warfare. The vast majority of the recruits had no
coherent political outlook. They mainly despised politics. Youthful fascination
with guns and bombs and a desire to get even with prods: that was their
motivation. Ill-educated, ill-equipped, they were easy meat for the simple
answer. The hard leadership of the Provisional IRA, mainly older men who had
waited all their lives for the opportunity, gave them the guns and told them the
Brits and unionists were to blame for all their problems.

The IRA gave these young men a sense of belonging, status in their community,
and a purpose, a cause to believe in and to fight and die for. These were young
men without much hope of employment who had seen their communities devastated in
sectarian attacks. Now they were hitting back their pride and dignity was
restored. It would be utterly wrong to see these young men universally as lurid,
evil psychopaths. That they carried out the most awful acts of violence is
beyond question.  But the real blame lies with their leadership; the old
republican/nationalists who instilled discipline, obedience and a reverence for
republican structures and traditions that allowed young men to kill even former
friends for minor transgressions of the republican code.

On April 20, 1972, I was preparing bomb equipment for a training camp due to
begin within days. In the shed where I had been working seconds before, there
was a major explosion. I escaped from the blast with just a few cuts and minor
bruises but I was arrested and charged with possession of explosives. While I
was on remand in Limerick prison the Dublin government introduced the non-jury
special criminal court, which sentenced me to six months. That was the sort of
sentence IRA prisoners could expect in those days: there was still a lot of
sympathy in the Republic.  The British Embassy had been burned down in Dublin
following Bloody Sunday in Derry.

When I was released I settled back into the same routine. One IRA meeting in
Kerry in that period sticks in my mind. It was attended by a Dominican priest
who came from Northern Ireland. There were perhaps 30 people present. The priest
told us that British soldiers were raping Catholic women in Belfast. I did not
really believe him, reasoning that if such activity was common the huge media
circus then covering Northern Ireland could not miss it.  Such pep talks hyped
up the hate and allowed people to excuse the most awful atrocities committed by
their own side.

In June 1973 I was sent to Donegal to work in an IRA bomb factory. The idea was
for me to get experience and then train others so that more such factories could
be set up further south. Like most IRA schemes in those days it never quite came
to full fruition. I was soon back in Kerry but this time I was working for IRA
General Headquarters Staff, running a training camp. Many IRA men who later
became well known figures passed through that camp. Some are dead, others are in
jail, others, I suppose, have long since left the IRA.

In May 1974 I was sent to the Mid Ulster Brigade of the IRA. On May 2, along
with up to 40 IRA men from the East Tyrone Brigade, I took part in an attack on
an army/UDR base at the Deanery in Clogher, Co Tyrone. There was a heavy gun
battle which lasted up to 20 minutes before we withdrew. We made our way to safe
houses over the border in Monaghan. It was not until we listened to the early
morning radio news that we heard that a UDR Greenfinch named Eva Martin had been
killed. It would be wrong to say that any of us were disappointed at the news.

I stayed in Tyrone until about the August of 1975. During that period I took
part in about 70 attacks, mainly against members of the security forces. In one
of those attacks, I along with two others murdered a detective inspector in the
RUC special branch called Peter Flanagan. We shot him dead in a public house in
Omagh, Co Tyrone. The two people who carried out this murder with me were both
younger than me. Both were from Belfast. The driver was little more than a young
girl. The other was 17 years old and had escaped from youth custody in Belfast
while charged with murdering a soldier. He was later arrested in 1975 and
charged with attempted murder. He was sentenced to life imprisonment and is
still in custody today. He was transferred to Northern Ireland and will probably
be released in the next year or so. He has never been charged with the murder
which he committed with me.

BY THE TIME that I murdered Flanagan doubts were already forming in my mind
about the real nature of the Provisional IRA. IRA volunteers in Tyrone were on
the whole far more sectarian than I was or ever could be. Their catholicism was
of a virulent and hate-filled brand. It is, in retrospect, hard to see how it
could have been otherwise. Militant Irish nationalism and Irish catholicism have
a deep and complex relationship, nowhere more so than in rural areas of Northern
Ireland like Tyrone, Fermanagh and Armagh.

During this period I was involved in recruiting new IRA volunteers. One of our
main safe houses was a parochial house outside Omagh. Sometimes we used that
house to initiate new members. Imagine the effect on a young uneducated country
lad brought to his parochial house under cover of darkness to be inducted into
the IRA. Try telling him that the Church was not on his side.  One of the local
priests usually called to another house in that area where I and other IRA men
often stayed. He took great delight in asking us to relate our latest escapades.
He was also forever passing on information about local protestants: usually
members or ex-members of the UDR or RUC. At least one of these was later
murdered by the Provisional IRA.

This was, in reality, a war against protestants. There was a deep, ugly hatred,
centuries old, behind all of this. The prods had the better farms, the better
jobs that belonged by right to the Catholics, and they wanted them. If I wanted
to attack a British army patrol or barracks, the local Provos wanted to shoot a
part-time UDR or police reservist. They wanted to murder their neighbours. They
wanted to drive the protestants off the land and reclaim what they believed was
their birthright.  Gradually the reality was getting through to me. This was no
romantic struggle against British imperialism but a squalid sectarian war
directed against the protestant people of Northern Ireland.

In March or April of 1975, I was in a flat in Monaghan town. The flat was a base
for IRA men from the East Tyrone Brigade.  That evening there were perhaps eight
people, all full-time IRA activists, all on the run from Northern Ireland. I was
making tea when a news item on the television about the death of an RUC woman in
a bomb explosion was greeted with, "I hope she's pregnant and we get two for the
price of one".

I felt utterly sickened and revolted. More so even when I realised who had
spoken - a Tyrone man who was second in command of the Provisional IRA and a man
I held in the highest regard; a man to whom I had thought seriously about
addressing my doubts and fears. I went to another room where I just wanted to
cry my eyes out. That man later became the chief of staff of the Provisional
IRA. He was chief of staff when the present peace process began.  Small wonder
that I have serious doubts about the Provisional IRA's commitment to peace.

Shortly afterwards I went home to Tralee and resigned quietly from the IRA. I
just cited personal reasons. People probably thought I was just tired and needed
a break. I was not yet 21. Shortly after, I went to London where I started an
office and industrial cleaning business and got married. I kept in touch with
events in Ireland and wondered what to do, if anything, about what I had been
involved in.

The hatred of informers is buried so deep in the Irish nationalist psyche to be
almost incomprehensible to people not from that tradition. Informers had always
betrayed the Irish. Whenever the Irish plotted a rebellion, the English had an
informer to warn them. In my family the postman was regarded as a potential
police informer. The fear, hatred and loathing is impossible to explain. Yet
that is what I decided to become, and I am glad I did.

My wife and I moved to Ireland in 1979 and I quickly rejoined the IRA. As soon
as I had done so I contacted a detective whom I knew to be efficient,
tight-mouthed and opposed politically and morally to the Provisional IRA. I
worked with him for six years. It was a time of often frantic activity for me
and there were few areas of Sinn Fein or IRA activity that I did not gain access
to in those years.

We had many successes against the IRA in that period. Some I can mention now,
others have to wait for another day. My work brought me into contact with almost
every IRA department and most republican leaders. We broke up and captured IRA
training camps, foiled many IRA operations. One was a plot to kill the Prince
and Princess of Wales at a charity concert in the Dominion Theatre in the West
End of London during the British general election in 1983. It was also intended
that I should plant 16 small bombs on beaches. This was based on a similar type
of operation carried out by the Basque separatist group ETA on Spanish beaches.

The plot to murder the prince and princess was intended as retaliation for the
deaths of the hunger strikers of 1981. I was to place a bomb containing roughly
20 pounds of frangex in the toilet at the rear of the royal box. I went into the
theatre and knew the plan was feasible. Buried behind tiles and equipped with a
32-day delay timer it would have killed or injured anybody in the immediate
area. The Garda officer that I worked with came secretly to Liverpool to see me.
We devised a plan which we hoped would foil the attacks and allow me to avoid
IRA suspicion and continue to work against them.

A couple of evenings later Scotland Yard called a late night news conference.
Knowing that it was to take place I left England and went to France the day
before. Commander William Hucklesby, then in charge of the anti-terrorist squad,
named me and said that I was part of an IRA team ready to kill a prominent
politician in the run-up to the election.

In such a manner the attack was averted and I was able to return to Ireland,
reputation enhanced, having escaped the clutches of the enemy. There was so much
activity in that period that I can only give a general account here. Another
event should serve to give some idea of the damage done to the IRA in this
period. In 1984 the Provisional IRA invested a lot of time and money in America.
They conspired with a gang of drug smugglers, pimps and loan sharks from the
Boston area to assemble a large quantity of weapons and smuggle them to Ireland.
They spent about $ 2 million putting the shipment of some seven tons of arms,
ammunition and explosives together. In September a trawler called the Valhalla
sailed from the Boston area heading for Ireland. On board, along with some of
the Boston gang, was a former US marine and now IRA volunteer.

Waiting for the Valhalla off the Kerry coast in an area known as the porcupine
bank was a smaller Kerry-based trawler called the Marita Ann. I kept the Garda
informed of every detail about the operation.  After the weapons were loaded on
to the Marita Ann, an operation mostly overseen by an RAF Nimrod, it headed for
the Kerry coast. It was ambushed by an Irish navy frigate with Garda officers on
board. All the weapons were recovered, and the crew captured. On board was one
of the most senior men in the IRA. Also there was the marine, who had come with
the Valhalla. Its crew were later arrested in America, along with other members
of the gang who had conspired to gather the weapons.

I was particularly pleased to have played a major part in foiling such a
dangerous IRA plot. Irish-American romantic views of Ireland have contributed
greatly to the Provisional IRA's capacity to murder.  I was glad that this time
their bloody and ill-considered plans had come to nothing.

By 1985 I was responsible for the IRA in the south of Ireland. That meant that I
was a member of the IRA's GHQ staff, the grouping that runs the IRA on a daily
basis. This brought me into daily contact with many of the IRA leadership. I was
familiar with most aspects of IRA activity, finance engineering, training, and
the England department in particular. I also met the chief of staff almost
weekly. He was the man from Co Tyrone who had hoped the dead policewoman was
pregnant.

I was also a member of the Sinn Fein national executive. That brought me into
regular contact with people such as Gerry Adams, Martin McGuinness and Pat
Doherty. It is interesting now to recall my impressions of those national
executive meetings and the personalities so prominent in the present peace
process. Everybody knew nothing of any real importance would be decided at those
meetings. Sinn Fein is not like normal democratic parties.  The decisions that
matter are taken elsewhere, by the IRA army council.

What struck me most of all was the degree of control exercised at those meetings
by Adams and McGuinness. The level of political debate was very poor. Imagine a
group of student Trots addicted to romantic nationalism and the whole thing
glued together by the most awful elitism. I sometimes wondered what the reaction
of Labour MPs and supporters in Britain - who seemed to see the Provisionals as
akin to the ANC - would have been to the awful drivel that passed for political
debate among the republican leadership behind closed doors.

EARLY in 1981, my wife and I separated. We remained good friends and divorced
amicably in 1987. In late 1981 I met and fell in love with an English woman who
lived in Kerry. Our daughter was born in June, 1985, one week after I was
elected as a Sinn Fein local councillor in Tralee. Later that year it became
obvious that I was being viewed with a certain amount of suspicion by some local
republicans. I took a backward step but realised that sooner rather than later I
was going to have to answer some very difficult questions: my girlfriend also.
Being English was not going to help her.

I decided that it was time to move. We left Ireland in November of that year and
stayed in England over Christmas. I was introduced by the Metropolitan police to
MI5 in London in January, and moved at their request to Holland. My girlfriend
and daughter joined me a couple of weeks later. I met the MI5 for regular
debriefing sessions until September 1986, and we returned to England in November
of that year.

Two years later I walked into Tunbridge Wells police station in Kent and
admitted my involvement in the two murders committed in Northern Ireland in
1974. Two RUC officers came to the station the next day and I returned to
Northern Ireland with them that evening.

My reasons for giving myself up were fairly straightforward. I wanted to give
evidence against the IRA leadership both in Northern Ireland and the Irish
Republic. I had no doubt that had I been allowed to I could have crippled the
IRA's capacity to murder people. It quickly became apparent to me, if not to the
RUC officers dealing with the case, that I was never going to be allowed to give
evidence. I can only speculate as to the reasons. In May 1990 I pleaded guilty
at Belfast Crown Court to the two murders and 60 or so related terrorist attacks
which I had carried out in Tyrone in 1974-75. I was sentenced to life
imprisonment plus 500 or so years in total. I am now in Maghaberry prison in
Northern Ireland where I am held in a special unit set aside for people at
serious risk from paramilitary organisations. I am not allowed to write or speak
publicly in any detail about this, or indeed about my time in prison in general.
Were I to do so it is possible that I would not be allowed to write publicly
again while in prison.

I now spend my time writing, which is what I have always wanted to do. While
working against the IRA it was not possible for me to say or write what I wanted
to or read the books I wanted to read - that was a hard part of it, spending all
my time in the company of people I either disliked or loathed. I am working on
some poetry, some short stories and a novel, which I hope will shed some light
on the real nature of extreme Irish nationalism. I am also working on a book
about my time in the IRA.

For now, I am frightened about the peace process, about where it is taking us.
I spend my time explaining to people prepared to listen just what it is that the
Provisional IRA are up to. Provisionalism is nothing more than extreme
nationalism, an ugly creation that will not be appeased. The real target is
Irish nationalism, north and south of the border. I remember the days when the
Provisional leadership seriously discussed killing John Hume: regarding him and
the SDLP as the only thing stopping their domination of northern nationalists.

They are a little more sophisticated now. They will kill him instead with
kindness and soft words of ceasefire and compromises. They intend to poison
Irish nationalism until no compromise with unionists is possible. They want to
be the conscience of Irish nationalism, forcing nationalists to move further to
the extreme to keep the nationalist consensus alive.  People in Britain would do
well to remember these words: far from being a democratic socialist
organisation, the Provisionals are a collection of extreme nationalists,
neo-Stalinists and thinly disguised fascists. What holds them together is hatred
of the British and unionists.

Gerry Adams's concept of a pan-nationalist front is the most dangerous strategy
ever devised by the Provisionals and has within it the potential for violence on
a scale at least as bad as anything that has gone before. We are far from peace
and far away from any solution to the problems of Northern Ireland.

Instead of moving forward we are moving back into tribalism. The Provisionals
have no intention of compromising with unionists. They see the problem as the
unionist problem. They want to use a nationalist alliance to force the British
government to abandon unionists. Then they can be dealt with. I wish I could be
confident about the future, but I have sat behind too many closed doors with too
many of the present leadership to be fooled by the smooth presentation.

I would like to finish by paying tribute to Conor Cruise O'Brien. When I found
myself questioning my deeply held beliefs in the mid-1970s, I did not have the
intellectual capacity to formulate my thoughts clearly. His speeches and his
writings were giving form to my questions. Without his unknowing help I could
never have pulled myself away from the fundamentalist slime.  He is also surely
the bravest intellectual in the history of the Irish Republic. Agree or disagree
with him, his courage can surely not be questioned.

Today I am neither nationalist nor unionist. They are essentially tribal terms
and I want no part of tribalism. I am concerned that people should be allowed to
make their choices free from fear and aggression. Therefore I am for peace and
against pan-nationalism.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              327 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                  June 6, 1996

Arms deal and ceasefire rejected;IRA gunmen hold talks to ransom;IRA gunmen hold
talks to ransom

BYLINE: By Stuart Trotter;Political Correspondent;And John Cooney;In Dublin;;

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1114 words


THE IRA last night put the peace process in doubt by insisting it would not hand
over any arms until a final political settlement is reached.

The British and Irish governments faced their own problems, struggling to bridge
the gap on how the peace talks, due to begin in Belfast on Monday, are to be
handled.

In particular the question of who was to chair crucial discussions on North
-South relations had reached an impasse, with dissent over former US Senator
George Mitchell, whose three-man international committee produced the principles
for a decommissioning process.

The IRA statement said the likelihood of a ceasefire by them before Monday's
talks was "remote in the extreme".

A Sinn Fein spokesman refused to comment on the statement.

The IRA stance struck a blow at one of the main themes of the negotiations on
the future of Ulster, which was to discuss how arms held by paramilitary
organisations could be decommissioned while talks on a political settlement
proceeded separately.

The IRA made clear that not a gun nor a bomb would be handed over until the
political talks reached a conclusion it regarded as satisfactory.

Dr John Alderdice, leader of the non-sectarian Alliance Party, said the IRA
statement was a "massive slap in the face" for all those who accepted the peace
process. He added: "It is now clear that all the cautionary advice given . . .
about the trustworthiness of republicans was justified. The IRA never had any
intention of decommissioning."

Ceasefire hopes were false, claimed the Rev Ian Paisley, leader of the
Democratic Unionists. He said: "The IRA has been involved in a ploy. They always
said if they didn't achieve their aims through unarmed action they would return
to the so-called armed struggle."

Meanwhile a 20-minute "good and constructive" telephone conversation between the
two Prime Ministers last night brought the governments to the brink of an
agreement on how the talks should be handled.

A Downing Street statement said there were still loose ends which could be tied
up today at below Prime Ministerial level, presumably by Northern Ireland
Secretary Sir Patrick Mayhew and Irish Foreign Minister Dick Spring resuming
their earlier discussions which had resolved a number of issues.

A sign that the "loose ends" might still cause problems was Downing Street's
unwillingness to promise a Commons statement on the agreement by Sir Patrick
today.

Government sources also declined to reveal the deal during the "warm and
friendly" talk on the role of Mr Mitchell and whether the Irish have gained
their point that he should chair the important "strand" of the negotiations on
future relations between the Republic and Northern Ireland.

Dublin feels he has the confidence of the nationalist parties.

He does not, however, enjoy the same support among the Unionist parties, and
Britain argued that his deputy on the decommissioning committee, Canadian
General Jean de Chastelain, should do the job while Mr Mitchell concentrated on
the decommissioning talks.

Nonetheless the two Governments remain determined to get the talks going on time
and to press ahead with them despite the presumed absence of Sinn Fein, who will
not be admitted unless the IRA announce a ceasefire.

SDLP leader John Hume said last night that negotiations to get the peace
conference going had become "intense" and urged the Governments to press ahead.

Both Governments had hoped that if the talks went well, a hand-over of some
weapons might begin in September in advance of a final political solution.

But that, according to the IRA statement, was an attempt to re-erect a barrier
to progress which rendered Monday's meeting "meaningless".

An IRA spokesman said: "We do not anticipate that what will emerge from the
Prime Ministerial summit will clear the British obstacles which frustrated
progress throughout 18 months (the period of the IRA ceasefire).  If anything
the British Government position has hardened.

"The likelihood of any IRA ceasefire is remote in the extreme. The British
Government position of creating a three-month

Continued from Page 1

fudge, after which time they will re-erect their absolute barrier to progress,
renders June 10 meaningless.

"What is required is immediate entry without preconditions whatsoever into
substantive negotiations involving all parties and with all matters on the
table.

"Let us nail completely the position on decommissioning. The IRA will not be
decommissioning its weapons through either the front or the back doors. We will
never leave nationalist areas defenceless this side of a final settlement."

Despite the problems, Irish Prime Minister John Bruton told Dail MPs that "an
enormous range" of points concerning the talks had been agreed although there
were still some issues outstanding.

However, he failed to allay suspicions among the Opposition parties that he
leans more towards Ulster Unionists than Republicans in Northern Ireland.

This became clear in angry exchanges in the Irish Parliament last night when Mr
Bruton answered questions about his meeting earlier yesterday in London with the
Ulster Unionist leader David Trimble.

Mr Bruton came under attack from Mr Bertie Ahern, the leader of Fianna Fail, and
Ms Mary Harney of the Progressive Democrats, both of whom feared that Mr Trimble
had influenced him about the format for the talks.

Mr Bruton said that Mr Trimble's position and concerns remained those expressed
before their meeting in London and he rebutted any suggestions of changing the
Irish Government's position to suit Mr Trimble.

q Peace campaigners brought to London condolence books bearing the signatures of
10,000 Irish people for the families of the two victims of the Docklands bombing
in February. The chairman of the Irish Peace Train Organisation, Mr Chris
Hudson, used the visit to appeal to the IRA to call a ceasefire.

He stressed that neither loyalist paramilitaries nor the vast majority of
ordinary people committed to peace would tolerate Sinn Fein's presence at the
talks without a ceasefire.

Although from a Republican background, Mr Hudson has acted as an unofficial
intermediary between the loyalist paramilitary group, the Ulster Volunteer Force
and the Dublin government.

He won assurances from Dublin that it would not backslide over the ceasefire
requirement and gained UVF pledges that their ceasefire had now been restored
after a bomb hoax at Dublin airport.

But Mr Hudson said it was now up to Sinn Fein president Gerry Adams to give a
lead, insisting: "He should publicly call for an IRA ceasefire."

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1996 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              328 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                              June 7, 1996, Friday

HOW THE IRA REOPENED ITS TERROR CAMPAIGN

BYLINE:  Mike Harrison, PA News

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 323 words


The bombing of South Quay in London's Docklands on February 9 brought the IRA's
18-month ceasefire to a violent end.  If there was hope that the blast would be
a one-off attack and that the terrorists would step back and gauge the impact on
the political process before launching further operations, it was shattered
within days.
    On February 15 a 5lb Semtex bomb was discovered in a holdall in a telephone
box in Charing Cross Road, central London.  That device was made safe and no one
was injured, although its discovery brought a large part of the capital to a
halt.
    On the evening of February 18, IRA man Edward O'Brien was blown up and
killed by his own bomb when it accidentally detonated and ripped apart the bus
he was travelling on as it passed along Aldwych in central London.
    In the early hours of March 9, what was described as a "small, improvised
device" exploded in Old Brompton Road, Fulham, west London, causing minor
damage. The IRA later acknowledged the device was one of theirs.
    On Wednesday April 17, an explosion rocked an empty house at The Boltons, an
exclusive area of Earl's Court in the capital, moments after a coded message was
passed to a news agency. There were no injuries.
    On the evening of April 24, a pair of devices were placed at the south side
of Hammersmith Bridge in west London and an IRA warning was telephoned to the AP
news agency. There were small explosions when the detonators went off, but the
bombs themselves did not explode. There were no injuries and no damage was
caused.  The following day Scotland Yard flashed an urgent bomb warning to the
public after disclosing that the twin devices represented probably the biggest
high explosive bomb planted by IRA terrorists in mainland Britain.  Scotland
Yard said that together the devices contained upwards of 30lbs of sophisticated
high explosives, almost certainly Semtex.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1996 The Press Association Limited

                              329 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                              June 9, 1996, Sunday

PEACE IN PERIL AS ULSTER FACES ITS LONGEST DAY;
ANXIETY IN NORTHERN IRELAND 24 HOURS BEFORE PEACE TALKS BEGIN

BYLINE: Robert Gibson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 760 words


Peace in Northern Ireland was on a knife-edge last night as the province
prepared for its longest day.

With 24 hours left before crucial peace talks begin in Belfast, no one knew
whether they would herald a new dawn of hope or degenerate into recrimin -ations
and violence.

But there were fears that Britain could be hit by a new wave of IRA bombings, in
revenge for Sinn Fein being excluded from the talks.

IN DUBLIN: Sinn Fein leaders met to plan their next move.

In a largely conciliatory statement, strategist Martin McGuinness said: "The
potentially positive nature of the agreement for talks could provide a useful
framework to settle procedure and agenda matters for all-party talks."

He said Sinn Fein would turn up at the Belfast negotiating venue with or without
a resumed ceasefire, insisting: "If we are locked out, it will not be because of
the IRA, but because of people who have locked us out since August, 1994." The
IRA Army Council meanwhile was in almost constant session amid renewed
speculation that it might yet call a ceasefire.

IN BELFAST: Irish Prime Minister John Bruton made an 11th-hour newspaper plea to
the IRA to call the ceasefire which would let Gerry Adams's Sinn Fein team into
the talks.

He said: ""The demand of the republican movement has been: 'Peace Talks Now'.
'Well, 'now" is Monday! The Irish government wants no empty chairs - we want all
the nationalists and all the Unionists there."

But as Unionist parties met to agree a joint approach, hardliner Peter Robinson
warned of disruption to the talks in a row over the appointment of US Senator
George Mitchell as chairman.

Mr Robinson, deputy leader of the Democratic Unionist Party, said the DUP did
not accept Mr Mitchell. He added: "Some of the players in this process think
they can come along on Monday and impose these decisions on us - they are very
much mistaken.""

IN LONDON: Security chiefs put the country on bomb alert amid fears that,
instead of a ceasefire, the terrorists may mark the start of talks with renewed
violence.

Members of the public were warned that they were in the frontline as prime
targets for IRA hit squads, who may want to exact a terrible price for the talks
snub to Sinn Fein.

City of London security staff were put on "super-alert" following warnings that
the IRA is expected to activate sleeper units in the UK - with orders to target
Britain's financial heartland.

A sixth suspect was arrested in London yesterday by police investigating the IRA
blast in Docklands which killed two people. Two men were released last night.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DEVASTATION: Britain may face new bombings like the one that shook;
London's Docklands

                            Copyright 1996 MGN Ltd.

                              330 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 June 10, 1996

TABLE RAPPING;
Kevin Toolis argues that whether or not the IRA will agree to a ceasefire won't
change the ultimate outcome of today's talks

BYLINE: Kevin Toolis

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGE; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1734 words


WILL they or won't they? Will the IRA bow to last-minute pressure from President
Clinton, John Bruton, John Hume and John Major and transform the present de
facto ceasefire into a verbal promissory note to abstain from future bombing and
thus ensure Sinn Fein has a place at today's talks?

Or will Sinn Fein's news-media soldiers, in the absence of such an IRA ceasefire
declaration, march boldly up to the conference door only to be turned away for
the fruitful benefit of the waiting television cameras?

We are again at another seeming cliffhanger moment in the unfolding political
drama of Northern Ireland. It's like an endless television soap. Is this really
make-or-break time?

Alas, as most soap fans find out, the actual denouement of the plot as written
by the scriptwriters will always be less satisfying than the fans could ever
have imagined for themselves. Sinn Fein might be there and Sinn Fein might not,
but neither outcome will greatly change the nature of the final script.

The Irish peace process has so far survived a big IRA bomb in Britain and a few
deaths and no doubt it will survive a few more days without Gerry Adams and
David Trimble deliberately avoiding each other in the conference-hall corridors.
The key point is, in fact, not when but will the IRA declare a ceasefire.

There is only one constant variable in any assessment of the IRA's intentions:
its unpredictability. As the British government has found to its cost,
second-guessing Republican intentions is a precarious business - despite the
hundreds of millions of pounds MI5 has wasted on its efforts so to do.

The British government's very insistence that the IRA should declare a ceasefire
by June 10 is almost certainly a guarantee that the IRA will not. For its own
internal purposes, the IRA's army council must always be seen to be negotiating
from a position of strength and anything that smacks of a British-dictated
agenda is likely to provoke the very opposite reaction.

But, on the balance of probabilities, there is little doubt that the IRA will
declare a ceasefire sometime in the near future. Almost from the beginning the
Northern Ireland peace process has been marked by two seemingly inconsistent
political truths.

The first is this: the August 1994 IRA ceasefire has been and still is the key
watershed in Ulster's troubles. Since that declaration, all significant
paramilitary activity has stopped. The guns are silent and, with the notable
exception of the Docklands bomb, the explosives remain inert agricultural
fertilisers.

The second is that the negotiations, posturings and manoeuvres by all political
parties that have accompanied this cessation have been marked by ill-temper,
British prevarication, inconsistency, gracelessness and a slow but remorseless
movement towards meaningful political change.

We are too far down the road now to expect any of these elements to change in
the time to come. For the foreseeable future, at least for the next two or three
years, these sullen and petty mini-dramas will afflict both British and Irish
politics.

The cast on the British side might change, with Major and Mayhew giving way to
Tony and Mo, but the core elements of British intransigence, Irish obstinacy and
Unionist refusal will remain essential to the script. Northern Ireland is a very
complex political problem and only a fool, or a British government minister,
would expect 25 years of killing to stop overnight with the unilateral
declaration of an IRA ceasefire.

But that is perhaps the most remarkable thing about the Republican movement's
position. The killing has stopped. The IRA, an inherently unstable fractious
federation of local brigades, has maintained its unity in the face of
considerable provocation for the last two years.

"Dissident" IRA activity has been virtually non-existent. The ceasefire declared
in August 1994 is still actually in force today.

EXAMINING that political fact, one might even declare such discipline to be one
of the few demonstrable acts of good faith in the last two years. Of course, the
ceasefire has held because the IRA's leaders want it to. And when they do not,
as shown in February in Docklands, big bombs go off in London.

The ceasefire will hold not because the mythical IRA spokesman, P O'Neill, faxes
out a new statement to the Irish media, nor because Gerry Adams signs up to the
Mitchell principles, but because the IRA's leaders believe it is in their best
interest - in the Republicans' best interest - for the ceasefire to continue.

The insistence by the British and the Unionists on paper declarations and signed
oaths by the IRA's leaders is ultimately futile. Let's put it another way: in
zones of conflict, verbal declarations of ceasefire - even those supported by
written documents - are not worth the paper they are printed on. How many
"ceasefires" did the United Nations broker to no real effect on the guns firing
in Sarajevo?

From the Republican point of view, its "best interests" lie in furthering
British disengagement from Ireland. It could take a week or it could take a
month, but Sinn Fein /IRA will be there at the negotiating table because the
current Republican strategy is one of negotiation and not one of violence.

It may seem inconceivable to many at the moment but political change must of
necessity bring about a diminution in the British Crown's presence in Ireland.
In contrast to the Republican stance, the British government has not
demonstrated particularly good faith in its handling of the ceasefire.

The Government's long prevarication ended by provoking the Republicans into
another act of terrorism in London; the Government did very badly in reading its
opponent's intentions.

Let us hope it does better next time and also remembers the ultimately simple
rules of the game - if you have a long-running human conflict the way to resolve
it is by negotiating political change.

If you merely pretend to negotiate you will guarantee one thing only: that the
conflict will re-emerge and there will be more bombs and more deaths. Getting
the present IRA army council to sign up to a ceasefire declaration is no
guarantee of the continuation of peace.

Kevin Toolis is author of a book on the IRA, Rebel Hearts

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              331 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 10, 1996, Monday

Talks begin without Sinn Fein; Ulster peace: One of the prime movers for today's
round-table meeting will be conspicuously absent

BYLINE: David McKittrick Ireland Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Page  2

LENGTH: 526 words


Twenty-one months after the IRA ceasefire of August 1994, the British and Irish
governments and most of the Northern Ireland political parties are today due to
assemble in Belfast for what could be historic talks on the future.

One irony is that the Unionist parties, which were most reticent about going to
the table, will be there. Another is that Sinn Fein, which has for years made
the calling of such talks its principal political demand, will not be present.

The two governments judged that Sinn Fein lost its right to a place at the table
when the IRA shattered its ceasefire with the Docklands bomb in east London in
February, in which two people died. Meanwhile, the Unionists were eased towards
talks by last month's election.

Sinn Fein is not yet in the talks, but many factors argue that another IRA
ceasefire may not be long delayed. If so, it could be the first time that all
parties to the conflict are assembled in one place, which would in itself be a
momentous development.

That could in time lead to a historic agreement; equally, it could end up in
fiasco. Too many previous rounds of talks have ended in rancour, walk-outs and
even fisticuffs for anyone to be confident that the negotiations will end in
success.

To point to just one unpromising sign: the Rev Ian Paisley has been dispatched
to the talks, on a ticket of no negotiations with republicans, by almost one
voter in five. He may regard this as a mandate to indulge his penchant for
theatrical gestures during the discussions.

While Sinn Fein and the IRA decide on whether the talks are worth joining, the
world will be pressing them for another ceasefire; and at this moment the logic
points in that direction.

Sinn Fein pushed for talks, and they have now been convened. It wanted
assurances that discussions would not be restricted to a harangue on
decommissioning; and a number of near-guarantees have been built in to help
ensure that political negotiations will take place.

The presence at the talks of the Irish government, the Social Democratic and
Labour Party and, as chairman, George Mitchell, the former American senator,
amount to strong indications that the talks should cover the fundamental issues
the republicans want to raise.

At the same time, an early breakdown in the talks could harden Sinn Fein in its
view that Unionists are not ready for real negotiations, and that the British
government is not ready to push them in that direction.

But the republicans have just received, in their record vote in the election in
Northern Ireland, the strongest and clearest possible message from their own
supporters that they should be attempting to re-build the peace process.

It is technically open to the IRA to walk away from the talks and to stage
another bombing attack, most likely in Britain. But it must know that doing so
would bring upon it the most severe political penalties, not just from outside
opinion but from its own supporters and sympathisers.

This is probably the strongest pointer towards another ceasefire: its timing,
however, will be dictated by detailed tactical considerations.


LOAD-DATE: June 10, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1996 Independent Print Ltd

                              332 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                             June 10, 1996, Monday

Who wants what from Irish peace talks

BYLINE: Nicholas Watt, Chief Ireland Correspondent

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 883 words


(Photograph) - JOHN MAJOR and John Bruton will open the historic all-party talks
on the future of Northern Ireland at Stormont at 2pm today.

Nine political parties excluding Sinn Fein if the IRA refuses to restore its
ceasefire will sit around a table as the two Prime Ministers hand over the
chairmanship to George Mitchell, the former US senator. The Rev Ian Paisley, the
Democratic Unionist leader, is threatening to block Mr Mitchell's appointment at
this point, arguing that he is too sympathetic to the nationalists.

If Mr Mitchell does take over, he will then call on every political party
formally to declare their commitment to the six principles of non-violence
outlined in his commission's report on terrorist arms. The opening session,
which could last weeks, will follow a timetable laid down by Britain and
Ireland:

Appointment of business committee to co-ordinate talks, chaired by General John
de Chastelain, a member of Mr Mitchell's commission.

Political parties will make opening statements setting out their positions on
core issues.

Discussion of comprehensive agenda''.

Mr Mitchell will chair sub-committee on arms while the general chairs committee
on Northern Ireland's relations with the Irish Republic. The British Government
will oversee committee on internal affairs of Northern Ireland, while the two
Governments will chair committee on Anglo-Irish relations.

The main plenary seesion will meet again in September.

Four men were still being held yesterday by police investigating the IRA bomb in
London's Docklands in February. Two men have been freed.

David Trimble, Ulster Unionist Party (which won 24.2 per cent of vote in May 30
election), insists that talks cannot move beyond opening session until IRA and
loyalists begin to disarm. Unhappy with George Mitchell's chairmanship because
he believes him to be sympathetic to nationalists. Rejects 1995 Anglo-Irish
framework document, which would set up power-sharing executive.

John Hume, Social Democratic and Labour Party (21.4 per cent) wants the IRA to
lay down its arms for ever''. Says Unionists wrong to demand decommissioning as
talks begin but republicans equally wrong to say it cannot happen until
conclusion of talks. Believes that framework document provides best hope for
settlement. Unlikely to reach serious agreement with other parties until Sinn
Fein joins.

Ian Paisley, Democratic Unionist Party (18.8 per cent), will not talk to Sinn
Fein until IRA has disbanded. Will reject a snap IRA ceasefire as cynical ploy
to win Sinn Fein a seat at talks. Rejects Mr Mitchell as envoy of a foreign
government''. Rejects framework document. Will resist any attempt to negotiate
Northern Ireland's position within the United Kingdom.

Gerry Adams, Sinn Fein (15.5 per cent). Says party should be admitted to talks
on its share of vote. Rejects demand for IRA ceasefire as unacceptable
precondition. Insists decommissioning can take place only as part of overall
settlement. Accepts six Mitchell principles of non-violence. Welcomed framework
document but sees it as interim settlement on way to united Ireland.

John Alderdice, Alliance (6.5 per cent), supports Mitchell conclusion that
weapons be decommissioned during talks. Encouraged by peace process, but fears
SDLP and Sinn Fein are trying to build nationalist consensus'' to defeat
Unionism. Guarded welcome for framework document. Wants a Bill of Rights and
says RUC should be accountable to a power-sharing executive.

Bob McCartney, United Kingdom Unionists (3.7 per cent). Will not talk to Sinn
Fein or loyalist parties with links to paramilitaries until terrorist groups
have disbanded. Takes similar tough stance on constitutional issues as
Democratic Unionists. Hopes to attract Roman Catholics to party; wants
non-sectarian Union. Rejected framework document.

David Ervine, Progressive Unionist Party (3.5 per cent), has links with Ulster
Volunteer Force. Insists UVF will not decommission until IRA disarms. Says Sinn
Fein can join talks only with IRA ceasefire. Responded positively to framework
document, but believes any weakening of Ulster's position in United Kingdom will
undermine loyalist ceasefire.

Gary McMichael, Ulster Democratic Party (2.2 per cent); links with Ulster
Defence Association. Agrees with Progressive Unionists on decommissioning but
warier of framework document for giving Dublin such a large role in affairs of
Northern Ireland. Has freer hand than PUP because of better relationship with
UDA than PUP has with UVF.

Monica McWilliams, Women's Coalition (1.03 per cent), wants to break from
traditional Orange and Green'' politics and redress low numbers of women in
Northern Ireland politics. Says that best way to achieve reconciliation is to
accept and respect differences. Sees dialogue as only way forward. Believes Sinn
Fein should be admitted to talks regardless of IRA ceasefire.

Malachi Curran, Labour (0.85 per cent). Unofficial Labour; the British Labour
Party does not organise in Northern Ireland. Campaigned in last month's election
for rejection of stale sectarian politics''. Says party is neither nationalist
nor Unionist. Will use publicity at the talks to press the British Labour Party
to organise in Northern Ireland.


LOAD-DATE: July 26, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo. Caption not available

                    Copyright 1996 Times Newspapers Limited

                              333 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                             June 16, 1996, Sunday

'DREADFUL ACT BY A HANDFUL OF FANATICS'

BYLINE: Andy Mcsmith Political Correspondent

SECTION: THE OBSERVER NEWS PAGE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 906 words

HIGHLIGHT: Reaction


CONDEMNATION of the Manchester bombing came instantly from politicians from all
sides. John Major called it a 'dreadful act'.

'I utterly condemn those responsible,' he said. My first thoughts are with the
injured and their families. It is the work of a few fanatics and, as (the Irish
Premier) John Bruton has already made clear, causes absolute revulsion in
Ireland, as it does here.'

Mr Major, who had been watching Trooping the Colour with the Queen, added: 'This
bomb was intended to maim and to kill indiscriminately. It was placed in the
middle of Manchester, in the middle of a shopping centre, on a sunny day in the
middle of summer. There can be no doubt what was intended, and it has eerie
echoes of the Warrington disaster a few years ago.  People will also have
noticed that it was planted on the Queen's official birthday, when the Colour of
the Irish Guards was being trooped in London.

'This act, by a handful of fanatics, will be regarded with contempt and disgust
around the world - in the Irish Republic and in the United Kingdom, and
everywhere else - and I hope the people responsible will realise that every
conceivable effort will be made to catch them, convict them and punish them.'

Labour leader Tony Blair said: 'I utterly condemn this disgraceful, appalling
act of terrorism. All our thoughts are with the victims. If the IRA think they
can shift the resolve of any government with this action, they are cruelly
mistaken.'

Liberal Democrat leader Paddy Ashdown said: 'This act is beyond human
comprehension and beyond tolerance by any civilised person. It takes a terribly
disturbed and warped mind to seek to destroy peace by mutilating innocent
people. It can only have two possible objectives. Either it is intended to
destroy the peace process or it is intended to bomb the IRA's way into the peace
process.  These aims are bound to fail.'

In Northern Ireland unionists renewed their call for Sinn Fein's continued
exclusion from talks. Ulster Unionist Party security spokesman Ken Maginnis
said: 'IRA /Sinn Fein simply do not want to make a commitment to the democratic
process and are prepared to go to whatever lengths are necessary to ensure their
exclusion.'

Democratic Unionist Party deputy leader Peter Robinson said the bombing showed
that Gerry Adams 'does not want, or is not able to, control the IRA' and that
the IRA believed it could 'exert more from the Government by a periodic turning
of the screw'.

West Belfast SDLP MP Dr Joe Hendron said the bombing was 'an absolute outrage,
an attempt at mass murder', but added: 'I still believe there are the doves, and
I believe Gerry Adams is one of them, who are trying to get a ceasefire - but
this makes it more difficult.'

* Police in Manchester and other big cities have been braced for IRA attacks
since the Canary Wharf bomb in London in February, Scotland Yard sources
confirmed yesterday, David Rose writes.

Few parts of Britain have escaped IRA terror since mainland attacks began in
1972 with the bombing of army barracks at Aldershot, but the NorthWest has
suffered some of the worst, including Warrington shopping centre in 1993 and two
Manchester explosions in 1992 less than a mile from yesterday's blast.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              334 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                             June 16, 1996, Sunday

BUSINESSES COUNT THE COST OF BOMBING

BYLINE:  Bob Newton, City Editor, PA News

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 394 words


Businesses in Manchester were today counting the cost of the bomb which blasted
the commercial heart of the city.  Early estimates put the bill for damage to
property alone at more than £100 million, much of which will be passed on to
insurance companies.  Then there is the cost of lost sales, which could mount up
for many weeks until stores can be reopened.  The 112,000 sq ft Marks & Spencer
store, which bore the brunt of the blast, is one of the retail group's biggest
and busiest.  The £200 million Arndale Centre across the road contains most of
the leading High Street names among its 200 shops, including Bhs, Littlewoods, W
H Smith, Argos and Boots.  The centre also includes a 19-floor office block, the
top of which is occupied by the computer giant ICL.  Chain store customers can
go to other branches, but single outlets must wait for repairs to be carried
out.  Office tenants will have to pay for temporary premises and equipment in
order to maintain operations.  Saturday should have been one of the busiest days
of the year for the city centre shops of Manchester, which rank second only to
London's Oxford Street in terms of importance in the retail industry.  The usual
weekend crowds were set to be swelled by children seeking last-minute Father's
Day presents and an influx of 30,000 Euro 96 soccer fans.  Clubs and restaurants
had been granted licences enabling them to stay open until as late as 4am to
cater for the visitors in an early trial run for when Manchester hosts the
Commonwealth Games in 2002. Basic insurance policies for businesses give
buildings and contents cover against terrorist attacks up to £100,000 each, but
they can opt to extend that to cover all costs by paying extra premiums.  The
added cover is insured through a special company, Pool Re, which was set up by
the insurance industry after the spate of costly bombings in the City of London
and underwritten by the Government.  Premiums for the extra cover were halved
after the IRA announced its ceasefire, but this concession was put into question
by the Canary Wharf attack which marked the return of terrorist outrages and the
end of the truce.  Industry sources suggest the Manchester bomb could force
premiums back up to their pre-ceasefire levels as early as next week, adding to
business costs not just in Manchester but throughout Britain.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1996 The Press Association Limited

                              335 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                             June 16, 1996, Sunday

THE VOICE OF THE SUNDAY MIRROR;
SUNDAY MIRROR COMMENT ON THE IRA MANCHESTER BOMB

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 440 words


It should have been a day of national celebration and fun in the sun. The
Trooping The Colour ceremony to salute the Queen's 70th birthday. The Auld
Enemies - England and Scotland - locked in sporting battle on the playing field
of Wembley.

But then, cruelly and cynically, an IRA bomb blast in the heart of Manchester
turned carnival into devastation.

That it should happen on the eve of Father's Day, as innocent children eagerly
shopped for a pair of socks for dad, could only add to the sense of public
outrage - evoking bitter memories of the Mother's Day slaughter of the innocents
at Warrington three years ago.

Another anniversary. Another bloody date on the IRA's warped calendar of shame.
But when the shock waves of yesterday's Father's Day carnage die down, serious
questions must be faced.

What chance now the Northern Ireland peace talks, hanging by a gossamer thread
in Belfast? If the IRA were gambling on bombing Sinn Fein's way to the
negotiating table yesterday, it was a fatal miscalculation.

No one can afford to make further concessions now. There is only one true
concession that can give the kiss of life to what now resembles an empty talking
shop - a genuine and unconditional new ceasefire pledge by the IRA.

But let them be warned: The world is weary of their worthless words of peace .
. . in future their "peaceful" actions must speak louder than their words, or
all hope is lost. That would prove the ultimate tragedy for every decent person
in Britain, Ireland or America who has searched for peace.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1996 MGN Ltd.

                              336 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                             June 16, 1996, Sunday

'WORLD MUST CONDEMN THIS CALLOUS ACT OF TERRORISM';
QUEEN AND PRESIDENT BILL CLINTON CONDEMN IRA MANCHESTER BOMB

BYLINE: Tracy Schaverien

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 440 words


Condemnation of the Arndale atrocity was led by the Queen and President Bill
Clinton last night.

The Queen, told of the blast after the Trooping the Colour in London, said: "I
was shocked and deeply saddened...  convey my deep sympathy to all those who
were injured and to their families."

In Washington Mr Clinton denounced it as a "brutal and cowardly act of
terrorism". He added: "I am deeply outraged. Such viciousness deserves universal
condemnation."

Premier John Major said: "My first thoughts are with the victims. This callous
act of terrorism while the Queen was reviewing the Colour of the Irish Guards is
an insult to both nations.

"If Sinn Fein are really serious about wanting peace, they must condemn this act
and demand an unequivocal IRA ceasefire now."

Labour leader Tony Blair said: "If the IRA think they can shift the resolve of
any Government with this action they are cruelly mistaken."

Irish President Mary Robinson, who visited Britain last week, was "shocked and
numbed".

The Rev Ian Paisley, of Ulster's Democratic Unionists, said it was "devilish
action".

West Belfast SDLP MP Dr Joe Hendron said: "I still believe there are doves-
Gerry Adams is one of them-who are trying to get a ceasefire.'

Manchester Lord Mayor Derek Shaw said it was "a totally mindless action".

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MAJOR: "Insult";; ROBINSON: Visit; BLAIR: "Cruel"

                            Copyright 1996 MGN Ltd.

                              337 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 June 17, 1996

LEADING ARTICLE: VIOLENCE BEYOND BELIEF;
Sinn Fein's credibility shattered

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGE; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1600 words


IRA BOMBS are political acts and a serious attempt must always be made to
examine them as such, especially by those of us for whom such forms of political
violence are tactics beyond belief. This applies just as much to the bomb that
went off in central Manchester on Saturday morning, injuring 200 wholly innocent
people, as to any of its predecessors. But how, even trying to put all
indignation aside, are we to interpret this largest bomb ever to be detonated on
the British mainland as anything other than the deliberate burial of the 1993-96
Northern Ireland peace process?

The bomb in Manchester (a city full of Irish connections) is a classic
republican statement. It was a reassertion that the "armed struggle" (against
Saturday shoppers and their children?) continues to be absolutely central to
republican strategy.  Whether that message was intended for the IRA itself or
for the British government is academic. The IRA may indeed intend such bombings
to reassure its "volunteers" that theirs is a movement which ultimately subsists
upon the cult of blood sacrifice. It may also intend the British government to
understand that it will not be able to guarantee security to its own citizens
for as long as Northern Ireland remains part of the United Kingdom.  But the
principal message is that the republican movement has not renounced the use of
violence and never will.

It is also a broader reminder that the IRA is a law unto itself. In this sense
the bombing is exactly parallel to the murder of Garda detective Jerry McCabe in
County Limerick 10 days ago. Hours before the bomb went off in Manchester, the
IRA finally admitted what it had denied for the previous eight days, that a
seven-man IRA team had killed Det McCabe during an unsuccessful post office van
robbery. Det McCabe was Irish and the weekend's injured Mancunians were mainly
British, but they are all victims of an organisation which operates to its own
rules, outside the laws of all countries, not just those of the "occupying"
British. On one level the IRA may exist to liberate Ireland from the hated
Brits. On another it exists, like Bonnie and Clyde, to rob banks and kill
people.

Yet the Manchester bomb is presumably also an act with intended political
consequences. There is much speculation at the moment that republican
strategists were impressed by the speed with which the Canary Wharf bomb in
February was followed by an announcement of all-party talks for June 10. By that
analogy, the Manchester bomb may also be intended to be both an expression of
displeasure at Sinn Fein's exclusion from the talks and a means of focusing
attention (particularly of the British government, which is axiomatically always
the villain in republican eyes) on the desirability of getting them into the
process that started a week ago this morning.

If so, it is hard to see that happening, not least because the two situations
are very different. The British government mishandled events in January,
especially around the release of the Mitchell Report, and its delaying tactics
forfeited its credibility and allies. When the Canary Wharf bomb exploded, there
was a genuine sense in which British tactics had contributed to the end of the
ceasefire, even if the failure did not excuse it. None of that is remotely true
today. The British government is not isolated; indeed it is more solidly aligned
with the Irish government, the Northern Ireland parties and international
opinion than at any stage in the process. Nobody outside the immediate
republican movement holds John Major even partially responsible for the
Manchester bombing. Nor, after Manchester, is there any discernible feeling in
this country that the ball is in Mr Major's court.

Yet supposing that it was, with whom should Mr Major deal? With Gerry Adams?
Even with the best will in the world, this is not credible at the moment. A lot
of people have stuck their necks out on behalf of Gerry Adams, from Bill Clinton
down to the Northern Ireland people who took the slogan A Vote For Sinn Fein Is
A Vote For Peace at face value less than three weeks ago. The Manchester bomb
has made those sometimes well-intentioned and occasionally brave folk look
stupid. The ending of the ceasefire in February and the renewal of the bombing
campaign this weekend mean that Mr Adams's word is practically worthless. At the
end of last week, Mr Adams denounced the killing of Det McCabe as "totally and
absolutely wrong" and indignantly attacked those who sought to link the killing
to Sinn Fein. Two days later, the IRA admitted responsibility. Did Mr Adams
therefore condemn the IRA as totally and absolutely wrong? Was that a pig flying
past the window?

Take another, even more important, example. Four weeks ago, Mr Adams confirmed
that Sinn Fein was fully signed up for the "Mitchell principles" and was
therefore available for all-party talks. Yet those principles include the
endorsement of exclusively peaceful means of resolving issues, the renunciation
of force and the opposition to its use by others, not to mention the disarmament
of paramilitary organisations and the end to violent punishments. If being
"signed up" to those principles means anything at all, it must mean the direct
denunciation of the Manchester bomb and of the organisation which exploded it.
Mr Adams will not and cannot do that. That is why Sinn Fein could not possibly
be allowed into the talks without an IRA ceasefire.

Some observers speculate that the bombing in Manchester will shortly be followed
by an announcement of a ceasefire. If so, that will no longer be enough to allow
Sinn Fein immediate entry into talks.  Michael Howard was right, for once, to
say that the real world is not like that. If there had been no Manchester
bombing it would have been a different matter. In that case, those who argued
that there was still a ceasefire in Ulster and that there had been a de facto
cessation in Britain since April would have had a right to be listened to with
respect. The breaching of the ceasefire in February and March could have been
treated as an aberration. But the Manchester bombing shows it was not an
aberration but an upfront continuing tactic.  How can anyone, whether disposed
in favour of Irish nationalism, let alone against it, rely on a word that Sinn
Fein now says? There is no evidence that they can deliver for peace, and plenty
of evidence that they intend to continue with war.  Unless and until that
changes, there is no point in talking to them in the current process. Sadly, we
could be waiting a long time. If so, let it be clear that on this occasion the
delay is not our government's fault.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              338 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 17, 1996, Monday

THE MANCHESTER BOMBING: Insurers' bill may top pounds 200m and push up 'pool'
premiums

BYLINE: Nic Cicutti

SECTION: NEWS; Page  3

LENGTH: 662 words


Insurers will face claims of up to pounds 200m to help pay for the damage
inflicted by the bomb blast, a leading insurance assessor claimed yesterday.

Up to one-third of shops and offices affected by the explosion may receive only
limited compensation because they did not have the insurance cover needed in the
event of terrorist attack.

Meanwhile, businesses throughout Britain may be called on to pay a levy of at
least pounds 100m in extra insurance premiums to Pool Re, the Government-backed
re-insurer set up in the aftermath of the 1992 Baltic Exchange bombing in the
City of London.

Alan James, associate director of Harris Claims Group, a firm of assessors,
said: "The effect could be absolutely devastating. It could be disastrous for
the small-business community.  It may indeed force some out of business."

Some of those worst affected by damage and loss of business may never re-open,
while hundreds of jobs may be lost as insurers demand that even shopkeepers with
cover "mitigate their losses".

Details of the heavy costs to be borne by Britain's businesses came as police
investigators and insurance assessors both began their separate tasks of sifting
through the rubble of Saturday's explosion near the Arndale Centre, Manchester's
shopping mall.

More than 400 businesses could be affected in a half-mile radius of the city
centre, while many more outside that area suffered smashed windows and damaged
fittings.

Alan Harris, chief executive of Harris Claims Group, said 20 of his staff were
now in Manchester to assess the damage. "It is hard to say exactly how much the
cost will come to, but it may amount to pounds 100m for rebuilding costs and for
fixtures and fittings," he said. "Business interruption may come to that amount
again.

"You have to remember that a lot of shops, hotels, clubs and restaurants had
been geared up for the Euro 96 games at Old Trafford."

Unlike the most recent large blast, at Docklands in London, where damage is
being estimated at pounds 150m, this time it is mainly shops that have been
affected.

"If you are dealing with offices, it is possible to move staff into new premises
which prevents too much interruption. With shops, that is not so easy," Mr
Harris said.

He added that serious problems could arise where a business decided in the
aftermath of the IRA's ceasefire in August 1994 that special terrorism insurance
was no longer needed.

The extra premiums are collected by all UK insurers and passed on to Pool Re,
which then meets claims against it. Without this cover, which can costs
thousands of pounds, any compensation for a terrorist attack is limited to a
maximum pounds 100,000 each for structural damage, replacing stock and business
interruption. Up to a third of the damage caused in the Docklands blast was not
reclaimable because the owners of buildings had not paid into Pool Re.

"Even if you do have the Pool Re cover, it may not be possible to hold on to
your staff because you have a duty to the insurer to 'mitigate your losses'," Mr
Harris said. "A restaurant owner could argue that it is vital to keep paying a
chef's wages because he is an essential employee. But he may not be able to keep
the waiters."

Tony Baker, deputy director general at the Association of British Insurers, the
industry's trade body, said many thousands of businesses insured through Pool Re
will also face an immediate levy.

After the IRA ceasefire, Pool Re agreed to charge only 60 per cent of annual
premiums unless terrorist-inspired claims reached more than pounds 75m a year.
Although the levy has not yet been announced, the Docklands blast alone caused
more than that amount of damage. Saturday's explosion is certain to lead
insurers to demand the remaining 40 per cent from their clients, Mr Baker said.

One insurance source said that while the exact figure is not known "for security
reasons", it could easily reach pounds 100m.


LOAD-DATE: June 17, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1996 Independent Print Ltd

                              339 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                             June 17, 1996, Monday

BUSINESSES COUNT THE COST OF BOMBING

BYLINE:  Bob Newton, City Editor, PA News

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 530 words


Businesses in Manchester are still counting the cost of the bomb which blasted
the commercial heart of the city.  Early estimates put the bill for damage to
property alone at more than £100 million, much of which will be passed on to
insurance companies.  Then there is the cost of lost sales, which could mount up
for many weeks until stores can be reopened.  The 112,000 sq ft Marks & Spencer
store, which bore the brunt of the blast, is one of the retail group's biggest
and busiest.  The £200 million Arndale Centre across the road contains most of
the leading High Street names among its 200 shops, including Bhs, Littlewoods, W
H Smith, Argos and Boots.  The centre also includes a 19-floor office block, the
top of which is occupied by the computer giant ICL.  Chain store customers can
go to other branches, but single outlets must wait for repairs to be carried
out.  Office tenants will have to pay for temporary premises and equipment in
order to maintain operations.  Saturday should have been one of the busiest days
of the year for the city centre shops of Manchester, which rank second only to
London's Oxford Street in terms of importance in the retail industry.  The
weekend crowds were set to be swelled by children seeking last-minute Father's
Day presents and an influx of 30,000 Euro 96 soccer fans.  Clubs and restaurants
had been granted licences enabling them to stay open until as late as 4am to
cater for the visitors in an early trial run for when Manchester hosts the
Commonwealth Games in 2002. Basic insurance policies for businesses give
buildings and contents cover against terrorist attacks up to £100,000 each, but
they can opt to extend that to cover all costs by paying extra premiums.  The
added cover is insured through a special company, Pool Re, which was set up by
the insurance industry after the spate of costly bombings in the City of London
and underwritten by the Government.  Premiums for the extra cover were halved
after the IRA announced its ceasefire, but this concession was put into question
by the Canary Wharf attack which marked the return of terrorist outrages and the
end of the truce.  Industry sources suggest the Manchester bomb could force
premiums back up to their pre-ceasefire levels within the next few days, adding
to business costs not just in Manchester but throughout Britain.

As the first of the traders were allowed back to inspect the damage, one
described the scene of carnage in the streets around Marks and Spencer, where
the bomb was left.  Colin Wardale, 39, a director with solicitors Addleshaw Sons
and Latham, who have offices close to the bomb site, said: "There are windows
out everywhere and some of the ceilings in our offices are down.  "We have two
offices in the immediate area. One of them has been affected with broken windows
but we should hopefully be able to get back into that quite shortly.  "The
other, however, was pretty close to the bomb blast and is very badly damaged. I
could see other buildings in the area with all their windows out and a lot of
cracked stonework - it was a real mess. I still don't think many people can
believe what has happened here."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1996 The Press Association Limited

                              340 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                             June 17, 1996, Monday

Exploding their own strategy

BYLINE: William Rees-Mogg

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 1301 words


The Manchester bomb has alienated everyone who might have helped to bring about
a united Ireland.

Some anarchic terrorism is merely a psychological expression of anger, without
coherent political objectives; serious terrorism is a calculated sequence of
political actions, intended to force governments to adopt the policies which the
terrorists advocate. Sinn Fein/IRA is a serious terrorist political organisation
in this sense. The violent actions of the IRA are integrated with the political
actions of Sinn Fein, both of which have the political objective of achieving a
united Ireland. The methods used by the IRA are wicked; they have caused great
suffering and loss of life to entirely innocent people; yet the IRA believes
that such crimes are justified because they will bring closer the day when the
border will be abolished. If that view is mistaken, the IRA is in trouble.

The Manchester bomb, which injured more than 200 people, should therefore be
analysed as a political act, because the people responsible for it have
political purposes. Did the Manchester bomb advance the cause of a united
Ireland? One can look at the various groups whose support for ending the border
has to be sought, and see what the effect has been on them. It is impossible to
find a single group which has not been made less sympathetic to the Sinn
Fein/IRA cause.

The impact on public opinion on the larger island has been wholly damaging to
Irish nationalism. In the past, mass attacks on the ordinary population have
always damaged the IRA more than their attacks on symbolic targets of power and
authority. The crowd in Manchester included children and pregnant women, and no
doubt some Irish Catholics the people the IRA is supposed to defend. The attack
was directed at the ordinary citizens of Britain, and has inevitably been
resented by almost all of them.

All three of the main British political parties have already denounced it, with
complete sincerity. John Major himself has taken real risks with his political
support in seeking to advance the peace negotiation. The Manchester bomb will
make him less inclined to make any further concessions to nationalism, and also
less able to make concessions even if he wanted to.

There has been more sympathy for Irish nationalism in the Labour and Liberal
Democrat parties than in the Conservative Party. That support has now been both
alienated and undercut. Tony Blair may well be Prime Minister within a few
months; the Manchester bomb sends him the political message that there is no
doing business with Sinn Fein/IRA. Nationalists may have hoped to be able to
obtain concessions from Labour which they could not get from the Conservatives.
That is now less likely. During the period of the ceasefire, a formidable
nationalist coalition was created which included Sinn Fein/IRA, the SDLP, the
Irish and the American Governments. Against the weight of that coalition, the
Unionists, who are themselves divided, could only retreat. The British
Government then stood neutral, a sort of umpire in the tug-of-war between these
powerful forces of nationalism and the much weaker Unionists. The end of the
ceasefire was itself a political disaster for nationalism, because it dissolved
this coalition and pushed the British Government, whose people were now under
physical attack, closer to the Unionist position.

The Manchester bomb has now broken up this nationalist coalition altogether. The
President of the United States has denounced it. How could the IRA expect him to
go into a presidential election campaign as a leader soft on terrorism? Those of
his advisers who believed that the IRA would move towards a peaceful solution
have been proved wrong, and in future their advice will have less weight. For
various reasons, Bill Clinton remains suspicious of the United Kingdom, but he
is distancing himself from Sinn Fein in an entirely predictable way. The IRA has
lost the White House and has embarrassed every important Irish nationalist
politician in the United States. That is not good terrorist politics.

Dick Spring, the Irish Foreign Minister, has already said that Manchester will
make the Irish Government review its relations with Sinn Fein (which had become
dangerously close). Mary Robinson, the symbolically powerful President of the
Republic, has said that the IRA action represents an Irishness of which she
wants to have no part. Both in the Republic and in the United States, terror
attacks on crowds of women and children naturally undermine nationalist support
among the general public, and make it impossible even for pro-nationalist
politicians to maintain the nationalist coalition.

The Manchester bomb has strengthened the Unionists in Northern Ireland in
several ways. It has taken away the pressure on them to make concessions of any
kind. It has made Sinn Fein's claim to join the talks without a ceasefire seem
quite absurd, even to many people who would have supported it only three days
ago. The majority community in Northern Ireland has again been reminded of the
nature of the people it is dealing with, and the Unionist ranks will again close
against nationalism. Dividing your friends and uniting your enemies is a poor
political strategy.

Among Northern Ireland's nationalist and Roman Catholic community, the
Manchester bomb will damage Sinn Fein/IRA. In the recent elections for the peace
talks, Sinn Fein won 15 per cent of the vote, an excellent performance from its
point of view. That was not a vote for terror but a vote for peace. The
Manchester bomb, which the Sinn Fein leaders will not condemn, shows that peace
is as far away as ever, and that the IRA is prepared to attack ordinary
shoppers, not of the wealthier class, in a northern industrial city with a
substantial Irish population. It seems unlikely that Sinn Fein would get 15 per
cent if the vote were held again tomorrow. Along with the American and Irish
Governments, the SDLP will have to re-examine its relationship with Sinn Fein.

Even inside Sinn Fein/IRA, there will have been political costs. We do not know
the truth about the individual divisions over the peace pro

cess, but all experience of political groups facing such big decisions suggests
that there must be acute differences of opinion. Gerry Adams himself frequently
hints at them. To the peace process'' wing of Sinn Fein/IRA, the Manchester
bomb, with its symbolic attack on a mass target, will seem not only
counter-productive, but what Lenin would have called mad dog'' tactics, which he
thought were always disastrous for revolutionary movements. To the hardliners,
the moderates in Sinn Fein may seem close to being traitors. There are
undoubtedly strains in the internal unity of Sinn Fein/IRA, and such splits have
in Irish history led to bloodshed and even to civil war.

As against this analysis, there is only one argument, and that is mistaken.
Undoubtedly some IRA strategists believe that fear is the overriding weapon,
that it was terror which got Sinn Fein/IRA close to the conference table, and
that more doses of fear will push them through to their objectives. But terror
has so far delayed rather than accelerated the change of attitudes in the
Unionist community which has been occurring progressively for the past 40 years.
In the mid 1990s reconciliation is much further off than seemed likely in the
mid 1960s. If the border is to be removed, it will be done by consent and not by
bombing the Protestants of Northern Ireland into the Republic. In any case,
Irish nationalism's most powerful patron lives in the White House. He cannot be
frightened by a bomb in Manchester, but he can be alienated, and his support can
be withdrawn. The Manchester bomb is a political blunder as well as a savage
crime.


LOAD-DATE: July 26, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1996 Times Newspapers Limited

                              341 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 June 19, 1996

The faceless fanatics who could thwart Britain's security forces

BYLINE: Ian Bruce

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 502 words


SECURITY forces hunting the Manchester bombers are working on the "needle-in-a
-haystack" principle. Without direct intelligence from informers or the
possibility of video-camera evidence, their chances of success are slim.

All known or suspected IRA activists on the mainland are already under
surveillance. Many have been the subject of discreet observation since the first
warning of a major infiltration into the UK was passed from agents operating out
of Lisburn, the nerve-centre of the counter-terrorist effort in Ulster, in 1994.

At least six separate active service units, the basic four-person cells which
make up the IRA undercover strength, are thought to be dispersed throughout
Britain. Members of the same unit may live in towns and cities hundreds of miles
apart and meet only for a specific operation.

The structure makes them almost invulnerable to detection. Most have no record
of political violence, and no obvious family connection with "known players"
from the Republican fold.

Their major vulnerabilities are the need to collect explosives and other
hardware from caches looked after by quartermasters, and the probability that an
experienced bomb-maker will have to be imported to construct an explosive device
and its associated anti-handling booby-traps and timer.

The very failure of the IRA's military campaign in Ulster, which prompted the
17-month ceasefire in the first place, left the organisation short of trained
personnel and recruits. Some were dead. More were in custody.

By 1994, it was relatively easy for the security services to tag the competent
IRA bomb-makers and track them if they crossed to the mainland. Terrorist
strength had fallen to fewer than 200, the lowest level since the start of the
Troubles in 1969, and a mere handful of these were capable of constructing
complex explosive devices.

Two major security force successes a decade apart both stemmed from intelligence
gleaned in Ulster. Both involved spotting known bombers en route for Scotland.

The first and most significant resulted in the arrest of an entire ASU in a flat
in James Gray Street on Glasgow's Southside in 1985. More importantly, the
Strathclyde detectives who carried out the raid found a cache which included
more than 130lb of plastic explosive, a large quantity of US and Soviet assault
rifles and ammunition, and plans for a summer bombing blitz on 12 English
coastal resorts.

The second was in 1994, when a joint police-MI5 operation tracked Robert Fryer
to a farm at Sauchie, Clackmannanshire.

The fact that the IRA had to use Fryer, a 22-stone extrovert who joined in a
motorway karaoke on his way to England, to deliver a bomb, demonstrated just how
desperate it was.

Fryer's mission was to construct small, 2lb Semtex devices which were to be used
as primers for huge, home-made bombs such as those detonated in London's
Docklands and Manchester.

However, the IRA has used the 17-month ceasefire to recruit and train.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1996 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              342 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                            June 19, 1996, Wednesday

IRA ADMIT MANCHESTER BOMBING

BYLINE:  Deric Henderson, PA News

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 921 words


The IRA tonight admitted it was responsible for the Manchester bomb - and blamed
the British Government for squandering the opportunity for peace after the
ceasefire.  But the IRA said peace was still possible if the Government put the
"democratic rights" of the Irish people ahead of its "political self interest".
Their statement added: "We sincerely regret injuries to civilians which
occurred." The admission by the Provisionals came as police and troops in
Northern Ireland remained in full alert amid fears that the bombing campaign in
Britain could return to the province which has been free of terrorist attack
since August 1994.  The IRA statement, which was issued in Dublin, said they
called a complete cessation of military operations then to enhance the
democratic process.  The Government squandered the opportunity, said the IRA,
but added: "We are still prepared to enhance the democratic peace process. We
appreciate the efforts of those who have made a genuine contribution, but if
there is to be a lasting peace, if the conflict is to be resolved in Britain and
Ireland, then the British Government must put the democratic rights of all the
people of Ireland before its own party political self-interest."

Tonight's statement made no hint of the possibility of any new ceasefire in the
immediate future.  There is some optimism in Dublin the Provisionals may call a
truce sometime during the summer but security chiefs in Ulster tonight said it
was impossible to predict what the republican leadership is considering.  Three
key IRA areas - East Tyrone, South Armagh, and South Derry, where there is
intense opposition to any ceasefire renewal - have all confirmed their support
for the IRA leadership.  At this stage it looks as if the Provisionals will wait
to see how the multi-party talks process on the future of Northern Ireland
develops before making any decision.

However, it could be September before all sides involved in the round table
negotiations get down to addressing substantive issues, including the
decommissioning of all paramilitary weapons and it looks as if it could be then
at the very earliest before the provisionals decide on a new truce.  But
security chiefs in Northern Ireland fear there could be more attacks following
the devastating blast in Manchester.  One senior police officer told PA News: "I
wouldn't be surprised if there is two, maybe three, more attacks. But who
knows?" It is clear, however, that although the Sinn Fein president Gerry Adams
is under intense pressure in London, Dublin and Washington, it does not appear
at this stage there are any splits beginning to emerge in the republican
movement.

Tonight's full IRA statement said: "An active service unit of Oglaigh na
hEireann placed a device which detonated in central Manchester on Saturday
morning last. We sincerely regret injuries to civilians which occurred. Warnings
of one hour 45 minutes were given to avoid such injuries.  "Oglaigh na hEireann
called a complete cessation of military operations in August 1994 to enhance the
democratic peace process.  "We ended that cessation on February 9 because the
British government had squandered that opportunity.  "The British government has
spent the last 22 months since August 1994 trying to force the surrender of IRA
weapons and the defeat of the republican struggle.  "We are still prepared to
enhance the democratic peace process. We appreciate the efforts of those who
have made a genuine contribution. But if there is to be lasting peace, if the
conflict is to be resolved in Britain and Ireland, then the British government
must put the democratic rights of all the people of Ireland before its own party
political self-interest."

More than 60 Manchester detectives were working on the case and a number were
still sifting through video evidence.  But Mr Rees said they were still
desperate for information about the vehicle's journey from Peterborough to
Manchester.  He said: "We have no absolute sightings of that vehicle on the way
up although we are trying to firm up some possible sightings.  "We are unable to
say what time the vehicle was en route - whether it was evening or morning." He
said they were particularly interested in sightings of the vehicle when it was
stationary and being loaded with the bomb materials.  Mr Phillips said the bomb
site had now been completely cleared of forensic evidence and all the material
was being examined "in minute detail".  Detectives have also asked for
information from all sea ports the bombers may have travelled from.  Mr Phillips
said: "We are determined to track them down. It is going to be a very difficult
and long inquiry and we are determined to amass as much information as we can.
"Morale in the team is very high and we are all determined to do the best we
can." A video of a truck identical to the one containing the bomb was shown to
journalists.  The truck had a distinctive bright red cab with Jack Roberts
Transport - the previous owner - written in bright yellow letters on the front
and side.  Footage was also shown of the truck taken two minutes after police
identified it as suspicious.  Mr Rees said that the vehicle's original metal
rear roller door had been replaced by a plywood door which was "distinctive".
He added that the door was changed by an owner about a month before the blast.
Police are asking for any sightings of the truck in Peterborough, Manchester or
anywhere en route between 3pm on Friday and 9.30am on Saturday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1996 The Press Association Limited

                              343 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 June 20, 1996

IRA admits city centre bombing

BYLINE: By James Mckillop;;

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 961 words


THE IRA last night admitted it was responsible for the Manchester bomb - and
blamed the British Government for squandering the opportunity for peace after
the ceasefire.

But the IRA said peace was still possible if the Government put the "democratic
rights" of the Irish people ahead of its "political self interest".

Its statement added: "We sincerely regret injuries to civilians which occurred."

The admission by the Provisionals came as police and troops in Northern Ireland
remained on full alert amid fears that the bombing campaign in Britain could
return to the province, which has been free of terrorist attack since August
1994.

The IRA statement, which was issued in Dublin, said they called a complete
cessation of military operations then to enhance the democratic process.

The Government squandered the opportunity, said the IRA, but added: "We are
still prepared to enhance the democratic peace process. We appreciate the
efforts of those who have made a genuine contribution, but if there is to be a
lasting peace, if the conflict is to be resolved in Britain and Ireland, then
the British Government must put the democratic rights of all the people of
Ireland before its own party political self-interest."

Last night's statement made no hint of the possibility of any new ceasefire in
the immediate future.

Nevertheless, there is some optimism in Dublin the Provisionals may call a truce
sometime during the summer although security chiefs in Ulster last night said it
was impossible to predict what the republican leadership is considering.

Three key IRA areas - East Tyrone, South Armagh, and South Derry, where there is
intense opposition to any ceasefire renewal - have all confirmed their support
for the IRA leadership.

At this stage it looks as if the Provisionals will wait to see how the multi
-party talks process on the future of Northern Ireland develops before making
any decision.

However, it could be September before all sides involved in the round-table
negotiations get down to addressing substantive issues, including the
decommissioning of all paramilitary weapons and it looks as if it could be then
at the very earliest before the Provisionals decide on a new truce.

Meanwhile, security chiefs in Northern Ireland fear there could be more attacks
following blast in Manchester.

One senior police officer said: "I wouldn't be surprised if there is two, maybe
three, more attacks. But who knows?" It is clear, however, that although the
Sinn Fein president Gerry Adams is under intense pressure in London, Dublin, and
Washington, it does not appear there are any splits beginning to emerge in the
republican movement.

Police yesterday issued descriptions of the three most wanted men in Britain.

A computerised likeness of the IRA man who handed a package containing £2000 to
a taxi driver - enabling the sale of the van which carried the fertiliser -based
bomb to Manchester city centre - last night seemed the best lead towards
bringing the terrrorists to

Continued on Page 2

Continued from Page 1

Continued from Page 1

book. Two men were captured on video leaving the bomb vehicle. Despite the heat,
their heads were covered with hoods and both wore sunglasses as they made their
escape from the area.

Even shortly after 9am it was becoming hot in the centre of Manchester when the
two terrorists made off from the Ford truck leaving its hazard lights flashing.
They must have looked a extraordinary sight to anyone coming across their path.
Detectives hope that this will trigger the memories of shoppers in the city
centre.

However, the suspect terrorist with an Irish accent who handed the £2000 package
to a Peterborough taxi driver to be delivered to a second-hand car dealer could
not hide his features without raising suspicion.

He is the baby-faced bombing accomplice on whom the police are pinning their
main hope for an early arrest. Based on a description from the Hackney taxi
driver in Peterborough detectives issued an E-fit likeness of the suspect.

According to Assistant Chief Constable Colin Phillips of Greater Manchester
Police the E-fit and descriptions of the two men seen leaving the van
represented a "significant breakthrough".

The baby-faced suspect is estimated to be aged between 35 and 40. He was about
5ft 8in and of heavy build, tending towards being slightly overweight. He had
light brown hair, about an inch long, and was wearing a pale blue shirt which
was outside his dark olive trousers. He had an untidy appearance.

The handover of money to the taxi driver took place outside the Tesco store in
Broadway, Peterborough.

Assistant Chief Constable Colin Phillips of Greater Manchester Police said the
first of the two men who left the bomb van was aged between 20 and 30 and was
between 5ft 8in and 5ft 10in. He wore a navy blue hooded sweatshirt and a dark
blue cagoule-type jacket which was zipped up. He was probably wearing jeans.

The second man was aged betwen 30 and 40, of medium build and about 6ft. He was
wearing a grey hooded sweatshirt and a dark blue cagoule which was also zipped
up. He, too, probably wore jeans. Despite the attempt to disguise his features
he is described as having a long nose.

Police are still trying to trace the movements of the bomb van between
Peterborough and Manchester. They are particularly anxious to pinpoint the
location where the vehicle was halted so it could be loaded with the bomb.  This
would have been the high-risk period of the IRA operation.

It is possible that the bombers have may already have fled England, although
ports and airports were on full alert when the initial coded warning of an
explosion was received.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: E-fit picture of one IRA suspect

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1996 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              344 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 21, 1996, Friday

Police in dark over IRA aims

SECTION: NEWS; Page  2

LENGTH: 394 words


Sir Hugh Annesley, Chief Constable of the Royal Ulster Constabulary, yesterday
conceded that the police and intelligence agencies were in the dark about the
intentions of the IRA, saying he did not know whether to expect more bombings or
a renewed ceasefire.

However, he warned that attacks were a possibility either in Britain or in
Northern Ireland. If the IRA attacked in Northern Ireland, he said, loyalist
groups would retaliate both in the north and in the Republic.

He said the IRA and Sinn Fein were inextricably linked, and forecast that there
would be no split between them. He had no doubt that significant sections of the
IRA's ruling army council wanted peace, but indicated that the state of opinion
on the council was changeable.

Speaking at the launch of his last annual report before his retirement, and
later in an extended BBC interview, Sir Hugh described the situation as
worrying, unsettled and volatile.

He went on: "I believe Gerry Adams and Martin McGuinness are very, very
influential people and I think they have a major say in the conduct overall of
the republican thrust. There are, of course, other members on the Provisional
army council, and it seems to me at the moment that those who are arguing not
for a resumption may from day to day be marginally in the majority.  The
difficulty is, it seems to move on a day-to-day basis, and that's why it's so
difficult to read."

Asked about the possibility of a split within the IRA, he replied: "I think they
would go to enormous lengths to ensure that it did not split.  I think there are
differences of opinion. I have no doubt that there are significant sections of
the army council who want peace.

"The difficulty is that some have been associated with violence for so long.
They don't trust the British, they don't trust the Unionists. I think that we
could potentially see more violence rather than have a split in the IRA."

Meanwhile, the Irish Prime Minister, John Bruton, yesterday demanded from Sinn
Fein a clear statement of its attitude to the IRA campaign of violence. "It is
not a matter upon which they can be ambiguous or ambivalent," the Taoiseach
said.

t Five men were arrested yesterday after a suspected IRA bomb factory was found
by police near the village of Clonaslee, Co Laois, in the Irish Republic.

Letters, page 17


LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1996 Independent Print Ltd

                              345 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 23, 1996, Sunday

Manchester gets back to work

BYLINE: Graham Ball

SECTION: NEWS; Page  4

LENGTH: 202 words


A week after the biggest IRA bomb ever detonated in Britain all but destroyed
Manchester's busiest shopping centre, the city is back in business, with
three-quarters of city centre shops open yesterday.

More than 2,000 people crowded into Manchester Cathedral - which still has
boarded-up windows - for a service of peace and reconciliation. Victims of the
outrage, which injured 206 people, wept aschoirister Megan Garrity, 10, sang:
"Let there be peace".

Liberal Democrat leader Paddy Ashdown, visiting the city yesterday, said: "I
have seen a few bombs in my time but nothing like this since I was in Sarajevo."

Estimates of the cost of repairing the damage have been reported at as high as
pounds 500m, but council officials refuse to speculate. "It's impossible to put
a correct figure on it at this stage. Not all the buildings have been properly
surveyed and loss adjusters still have to visit some of the most badly damaged
premises," saidspokeswoman Jane Price.

Yesterday Alistair Burt, minister with special responsibilty for Manchester,
pledged Government support for the rebuilding of the city. A Lord Mayor's appeal
has been launched to provide relief for the victims.


LOAD-DATE: June 24, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1996 Independent Print Ltd

                              346 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                             June 23, 1996, Sunday

IRA'S NEW SKY BOMB TERROR;
 NO-SUB-HEADLINE

BYLINE: JILLY BEATTIE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 306 words


The IRA has developed a murderous new terror weapon - the sky bomb. And the
first target of a terrifying air strike in Britain could be Downing Street.

The deadly mortar device, refined during the Provos' ceasefire, drops out of the
sky and explodes on impact.

The mortar bomb is fired from a shoulder-launcher and, unlike earlier devices,
it is accurate up to 600 yards.

An explosives expert warned yesterday: "The IRA mortar bombs are becoming more
sophisticated and therefore more accurate. The original gas canister bombs were
not reliable and the Provisionals have been working to improve their weaponry.

"These new ones could be used to take out helicopters and can blow up vehicles
carrying security personnel, killing everyone instantly.

"The damage done to buildings is less severe than with other bombs but the new
accuracy could be lethal."

The sky bomb leaves a laser trail in the air before falling on its target. The
user can fire from a distance and then disappear with little chance of
detection.

A Republican source said yesterday: "This is a highly sophisticated weapon which
has undergone major alterations in distance and accuracy.

"It is part of a growing arsenal but we don't know when the go-ahead will be
given for its use."

The evil sky-bomb plan was revealed two years ago by IRA hard-liners based in
South Armagh.

But its first launch was postponed by the leadership, who were preparing for a
ceasefire at the time.

IRA volunteers, however, have tested the bomb extensively in training camps
along the 100-mile Ulster border.

And last week police discovered a bomb factory and arms bunker on a farm in
Clonaslee, Co Laois. The haul included mortar-bomb tubes suitable for sky-bomb
use.

The IRA launched an abortive mortar bomb attack on Downing Street in 1991.

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2003 MGN Ltd.

                              347 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                             June 23, 1996, Sunday

BOMB FACTORY CLUE TO OTHER TERROR DUMPS;
 NO-SUB-HEADLINE

BYLINE: JOHN KIERANS

SECTION: ULSTER Edition; NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 163 words


The sophisticated bomb factory uncovered in Laois may be linked to terrorist
workshops discovered over the years in Britain and Ireland.

As the search of the farm buildings and a cramped underground bunker in
Clonaslee continued yesterday, forensic evidence is being sifted to check
connections with other IRA bomb factories.

Technical evidence gathered at a London bomb factory in Clapham, South London,
eight years ago is being compared with items found in Clonaslee.

Police are also investigating links with a site uncovered at Kilcock in Co
Kildare three years ago.

Guns found in the Laois bunker, including a general purpose machine gun, are
also being tested to check if they have been used by terrorists in recent years.

More seizures and arrests may follow shortly.

Gardai are following up "significant high grade information" which they have
received from the public since the brutal murder of Detective Gerry McCabe in
Adare two weeks ago.

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1996 MGN Ltd.

                              348 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                            June 26, 1996, Wednesday

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 391 words


See also SAUDI Bomb in PA Foreign

RAF UNIT ESCAPES INJURY IN BOMBING HORROR By Charles Miller, Defence and
Diplomatic Correspondent, PA News More than 200 RAF personnel escaped injury in
a horrific bomb attack in Saudi Arabia in which 23 Americans died and more than
250 people were wounded, it was confirmed today.  The detachment from No 9
Squadron is based at Dhahran, eastern Saudi Arabia, alongside American and
French forces.  But a Ministry of Defence spokesman said: "We can say that there
are no casualties among British forces. We are feeling very lucky." The RAF
detachment was not called on to help in the rescue operation, he added.  The
detachment, from RAF Bruggen, Germany, arrived recently in Dhahran to continue
Britain's involvement in the five-year operation to enforce the United Nations'
no-fly zone over southern Iraq.  Up to six Tornado GR1 strike aircraft are based
permanently in Dhahran and fly regular missions over southern Iraq.  The jets,
which are supported by a VC10 air-to-air refuelling tanker, monitor the
situation on the ground in southern Iraq using their sophisticated Thermal
Imaging and Laser Designation (TIALD) pods.  The operation, which Britain
carries out alongside American and French aircraft, began shortly after the end
of the Gulf War following Saddam Hussein's attacks on the so-called Marsh Arabs
in the region.  The UN sees the operation as vital to help protect the Marsh
Arabs.

The Prime Minister said the bombing was "an appalling act, an act of pure evil
for no reason".  John Major went on: "A large number of innocent people were
just brutally murdered. I very much hope they find out who did it so they can be
punished.  "I have already been in touch with the US, of course. We will help in
any way we can," he told BBC Breakfast News.  "We have had all too much of this
sort of experience, the unprovoked bomb, the murder of innocent people. It might
well have happened on the same sort of scale in Manchester a few days ago."

Foreign Secretary Malcolm Rifkind said in a statement: "The British Government
condemns in the strongest possible terms the appalling terrorist attack in Saudi
Arabia last night.  "We extend our sympathies to the families of the victims. We
will give maximum assistance to Saudi Arabia in its efforts to identify the
perpetrators."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1996 The Press Association Limited

                              349 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                            June 27, 1996, Thursday

SAUDI DISSIDENT PROMPTS OUTRAGE OVER BOMB CLAIM

BYLINE:  James Hardy, Phil Murphy and Gavin Cordon, PA News

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 746 words


Outspoken Saudi dissident Muhammad Al Mass'ari sparked a wave of outrage today
with a claim that bombers who killed 19 US servicemen in Dhahran had an
"intellectually very strong" case.  The radical Islamic leader, who two months
ago fought off Home Office attempts to kick him out of Britain, warned that
American forces in Saudi Arabia would face further terror attacks if they did
not withdraw.  A massive tanker bomb believed to have been placed by
fundamentalists blew apart a hostel at the US base in Dhahran on Tuesday,
killing 19 and injuring more than 400.  President Clinton and the Prime Minister
today put terrorism at the top of the agenda during a meeting of the G7 leading
industrial nations in Lyon, France.  But Dr Al Mass'ari appeared to play into
the hands of critics - and Government ministers who tried to expel him - by
attempting to justify the outrage.  He stopped short of condoning the terror
tactics but expressed full understanding for the motives behind them.  The blunt
intervention came at a particularly sensitive time for the British Government,
with Foreign Secretary Malcolm Rifkind due to visit Saudi Arabia and Jordan at
the start of next week.  John Major, aware of Saudi sensitivities and massive
military and commercial contracts between the two countries, was swift to
condemn Dr Al Mass'ari.  He told reporters: "I haven't seen the context of what
he said but I can see no case, intellectual or any other sort of case, for the
sort of activity in Dhahran. It is indefensible by any tenet." And angry Tory
backbenchers at Westminster renewed calls for a review of the status of Dr Al
Mass'ari, who was in April granted four years leave to remain in Britain after
an appeals tribunal blocked deportation moves.

Dr Al-Mass'ari accused the Americans of propping up Saudi Arabia's ruling house
of Al Saud in the face of popular opposition.  "The Americans have become a very
convenient target, being a shield for Al Saud, standing between Al Saud and the
people. They are quite an easy target from a religious and moral point of view,"
he said on BBC radio.  "I feel because formally the regime invited them ...
there is a doubt about the fact that they are a war target and this doubt is
sufficient for me to exclude such action from my side - but in other minds who
did that there is no doubt. They have another point of view.  "It is as good as
if the Americans have jumped on the border and invaded directly. This is a point
of view which is intellectually very strong. It is not as strong as my point of
view." Senior Tories at Westminster, who fully backed Home Secretary Michael
Howard in the unsuccessful expulsion battle, were furious.  Dame Jill Knight, a
member of the home affairs select committee, said: "This latest outburst comes
dangerously close to condoning, if not congratulating, the Dhahran bombers and
gives a sharp edge to the arguments which Michael Howard put forward to bring
about his departure from our shores.  "We don't want trouble-makers. We don't
need them and when they are here on spurious grounds, the tortuous workings of
the law which permit them to remain are clearly totally wrong." Spelthorne MP
David Wilshire said the comments came close to incitement to murder and bore a
marked resemblance to the "mealy mouthed" apologists for Irish republican
terrorism.  "I have no great brief for the Saudi Government, but I do question
whether we should be allowing London to be used a base for this sort of
encouragement for death and destruction," he said.  Before a 45-minute meeting
with President Clinton, Mr Major said both the US and British governments were
tabling ideas for tackling terrorism.  Mr Clinton dubbed terrorism the "security
challenge of the 21st Century" as he renewed his pledge to tackle it in every
possible way.  "We have already agreed on a number of things that we will do
together to deal with the problem of international crime that specifically bear
on terrorism," he said.  "We may come up with some things we can do together but
I think all of us understand that terrorism is a problem from which no one can
hide and on which we must all cooperate." The authoritarian Saudi regime regards
Dr Al-Mass'ari as a highly dangerous opponent and threatened to pull the plug on
the massive Al Yamamah arms deal if he was permitted to remain in Britain.  But
it later recognised that the courts had effectively forced the Government's hand
in allowing him to stay.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1996 The Press Association Limited

                              350 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 June 28, 1996

Al Mass'ari talks of 'strong' case;Outrage at Saudi bomb claim

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 593 words


SAUDI dissident Muhammad Al Mass'ari caused a wave of outrage yesterday with a
claim that bombers who killed 19 US servicemen in Dhahran had an "intellectually
very strong" case.

The radical Islamic dissident, who two months ago fought off Home Office
attempts to kick him out of Britain, warned that American forces in Saudi Arabia
would face further terrorist attacks if they did not withdraw.

A tanker bomb, believed to have been placed by fundamentalists, blew apart a
hostel at the US base in Dhahran on Tuesday, killing 19 and injuring more than
400.

Dr Al Mass'ari stopped short of condoning the terrorists' tactics but expressed
full understanding for the motives behind them.

The blunt intervention came at a particularly sensitive time for the Government,
with Foreign Secretary Malcolm Rifkind due to visit Saudi Arabia and Jordan next
week.

Prime Minister John Major, aware of Saudi sensitivities and massive military and
commercial contracts between the two countries, was swift to condemn Dr Al
Mass'ari.

He said: "I haven't seen the context of what he said but I can see no case,
intellectual or any other sort of case, for the sort of activity in Dhahran.  It
is indefensible by any tenet."

Tory backbench MPs renewed calls for a review of the status of Dr Al Mass'ari,
who was in April granted four years leave to remain in Britain after an appeals
tribunal blocked deportation moves.

Dr Al-Mass'ari accused the Americans of propping up Saudi Arabia's ruling house
of Al Saud in the face of popular opposition.

"The Americans have become a very convenient target, being a shield for Al Saud,
standing between Al Saud and the people. They are quite an easy target from a
religious and moral point of view," he said on BBC radio.

"I feel because formally the regime invited them ... there is a doubt about the
fact that they are a war target and this doubt is sufficient for me to exclude
such action from my side - but in other minds who did that there is no doubt.
They have another point of view.

"It is as good as if the Americans have jumped on the border and invaded
directly. This is a point of view which is intellectually very strong. It is not
as strong as my point of view."

Senior Tories, who backed Home Secretary Michael Howard in the unsuccessful
expulsion battle, were furious.

Dame Jill Knight, a member of the Home Affairs Select Committee, said: "This
latest outburst comes dangerously close to condoning, if not congratulating, the
Dhahran bombers and gives a sharp edge to the arguments which Michael Howard put
forward to bring about his departure from our shores.

"We don't want trouble-makers. We don't need them, and, when they are here on
spurious grounds, the tortuous workings of the law which permit them to remain
are clearly totally wrong."

Spelthorne MP David Wilshire said the comments came close to incitement to
murder and bore a marked resemblance to the "mealy mouthed" apologists for Irish
republican terrorism.

"I have no great brief for the Saudi Government, but I do question whether we
should be allowing London to be used a base for this sort of encouragement for
death and destruction," he said.

The authoritarian Saudi regime regards Dr Al-Mass'ari as a highly dangerous
opponent and threatened to withdraw from the massive Al Yamamah arms deal if he
was permitted to remain in Britain.

But it later recognised that the courts had effectively forced the Government's
hand in allowing him to stay.

Search for clues 13

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1996 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              351 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                            June 29, 1996, Saturday

IRA IN MORTAR RAID ON RATS' ARMY BASE

BYLINE: Steve Atkinson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 374 words


IRA terrorists blitzed a British Army base with mortars last night.  Three
shells screamed into the barracks, shattering dozens of windows and damaging
several rooftops.

But miraculously no one was hurt in the attack at Osnabruck, Germany, home of
Britain's Desert Rats.

The bombers opened fire without warning from a transit van parked outside the
main gates.

They were trying to blow up a petrol station inside the camp - but missed.

Outrage

Troops checked the area for booby-trap bombs as a massive hunt was mounted for
the terrorists.

Last night's outrage was the SECOND IRA bombing at the base, which houses 10,700
personnel, 5,000 of them troops.

There was no warning, said a camp spokeswoman.

A Downing Street spokesman said last night they were awaiting more details on
the latest attack.

"Clearly this is a matter for great concern," said the official.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1996 MGN Ltd.

                              352 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                            June 29, 1996, Saturday

IRA IN MORTAR RAID ON ARMY BASE;
IRA BLITZ ARMY BASE IN OSNABRUCK

BYLINE: Steve Atkinson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 280 words


IRA terrorists blitzed a British Army base with mortars last night. Two shells
screamed into the barracks, shattering dozens of windows and damaging several
rooftops.

But miraculously no one was hurt in the attack at Osnabruck, Germany, home of
Britain's Desert Rats.

The bombers opened fire without warning from a transit van parked outside the
main gates.

They were trying to blow up a petrol station inside the camp - but missed.

Troops checked the area for booby-trap bombs as a massive hunt was mounted for
the terrorists.

Last night's outrage was the SECOND IRA bombing at the base, which houses 10,700
personnel, 5,000 of them troops.

There was no warning, said a camp spokeswoman.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1996 MGN Ltd.

                              353 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 30, 1996, Sunday

Summit threatens Karadzic

BYLINE: Mary Dejevsky

SECTION: NEWS; Page  2

LENGTH: 555 words


World leaders issued a fierce ultimatum to the Bosnian Serb leader, Radovan
Karadzic, yesterday, calling on him to step down immediately, and warning of
sanctions if he did not. In a special statement on Bosnia issued at the end of
their annual summit, the Group of Seven industrialised countries said the
"presence in public office of indicted war criminals" was an "open violation of
the peace agreement".

"We insist," the statement said, "that Mr Karadzic step down immediately and
permanently from all public functions and take no part in government decisions."
A separate paragraph referred to the provision for sanctions contained in UN
Security Council Resolution 1022 and said: "We are ready to consider the
application of sanctions instruments to any party in the peace agreement."

Elaborating on the warning to Mr Karadzic, John Major said there had been
"complete unanimity" among the seven leaders on the need to remove Mr Karadzic.
He denied that there was a deadline of Monday for Mr Karadzic to leave office,
but said that it should be a matter of days. He indicated that sanctions would
be applied first against the Bosnian Serb republic, but could then be extended
to Serbia proper.

The stand on Bosnia was the single strongest point of agreement at Lyons after
the unanimous statement on terrorism issued on the first evening of the summit.
That was the G7's response to the bomb attack on US servicemen in Saudi Arabia.
Yesterday, within hours of the presumed IRA attack on British troops in Germany,
the Group of Seven formally endorsed a 40-point plan for combating terrorism and
organised crime, compiled at the behest of the last G7 summit in Canada. This is
expected to be carried forward at a special ministerial-level meeting on
terrorism to be held in Paris next month.

The Russian Prime Minister, Viktor Chernomyrdin, who joined the seven leaders
for the political part of the summit, endorsed the statement on terrorism, and
French officials suggested that Russia could be represented at the Paris
meeting. Mr Chernomyrdin was standing in for President Boris Yeltsin, who had
decided to stay in Russia for the last stages of the election campaign.

While the beginning and end of the G7 summit were marked by complete unanimity
on terrorism and Bosnia, the economic part of the gathering elicited sharp
disagreements. A general agreement to increase help for the most indebted
countries brought discord between France, Britain, the US and Canada, which want
the IMF to sell a small part of its gold reserves to help repay some Third World
debts, and a second group consisting of Germany, Japan and Italy, which believe
this would undermine the IMF's credibility. IMF sources indicated that
opposition to the sales was strong enough to block the proposal.

The US found itself in the dock over the new Helms-Burton law, which punishes
foreign as well as American companies if they trade with Cuba.  Washington also
appeared to be isolated in its opposition to Boutros Boutros- Ghali serving a
second term as UN Secretary General. While the summit host, President Jacques
Chirac, paid tribute to Mr Boutros-Ghali's efforts at the UN, American officials
made clear their dissatisfaction with cost- cutting and restructuring measures
and said their opposition remained.


LOAD-DATE: July 01, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1996 Independent Print Ltd

                              354 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                             June 30, 1996, Sunday

VIDEO CLUE TO IRA'S TRUCK OF TERROR;
BRITISH POLICE HELP TO TRACK IRA BOMBERS OF OSNABRUCK BARRACKS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 400 words


British police were last night helping to trace the movements of the IRA truck
which bombed a British barracks in Germany.

They believe it was fitted with mortar tubes in Britain before being taken to
Osnabruck for the attack.

Details of the white Ford Transit flatbed cargo vehicle - similar to the one
used in February's Docklands bomb - were flashed to forces all over Britain.

And Customs officers on both sides of the Channel were studying video tapes to
see if they could spot the last movements of vehicle G74OHD.

Last night, as German residents who were evacuated on Friday returned home,
British Military Police and German authorities gave thanks that no-one had been
hurt. One senior officer said: "It could have been carnage."

Brigadier Richard Dannatt, commander of 4 Armoured Brigade added: "This is a
British problem, but it has profoundly affected the lives of German civilians."

Meanwhile police were probing the IRA's Dutch Connection. The terrorists have
used Amsterdam and other Dutch cities as havens since the mid-1980s.

And sources in the Republic believe that a team of US bomb experts have drawn up
plans for the IRA's new "flying mortars".

A police source said: "There is American technical input in some home- made
bombs."

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1996 MGN Ltd.

                              355 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                             June 30, 1996, Sunday

IRA 'ROOKIES' BEHIND ARMY BOMB BUNGLE;
BUNGLED IRA MORTAR ATTACK IN GERMANY PROBABLY THE WORK OF TRAINEE BOMBERS

BYLINE: Dennis Rice In Osnabruck, Germany

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 640 words


The IRA's bungled mortar attack on a British army base in Germany bore the
hallmarks of "Lilywhites" - trainee bombers, say security sources.  The assault,
the first by the terrorists in mainland Europe for six years, did more damage to
a tree than it did to army personnel.

All 150 soldiers in Quebec barracks in Osnabruck escaped without a scratch,
despite three mortars being launched at them without warning. But a nearby tree
was stripped of its leaves.

The mortar that landed exploded less than 30 metres from its launch tube on the
back of a white Ford Transit van.

Anti-terrorist squad officers are convinced that the Provisionals are using
inexperienced men and women in its active service units.

Like Ed O'Brien, the bomber who accidentally blew himself up in London's Aldwych
earlier this year, these "Lilywhites" have no records and are relatively unknown
to the security services.

The attack appeared to have been provoked by the spectacular success of the
Irish police last week in uncovering a huge IRA bomb factory.

Several men were arrested and dozens of home-made mortars recovered during the
raid on a remote arms house in Clonaslee, Co Laois.

British police were last night helping to trace the movements of the truck used
in the assault.

Tapes

They believe it was fitted with mortar tubes in Britain before being taken to
Osnabruck for the attack.

Details of the vehicle - similar to the one used in February's Docklands bomb -
were flashed to forces all over Britain.

Customs officers on both sides of the Channel were studying video tapes to see
if they could spot the last movements of vehicle G74OHD.

Last night, as evacuated German residents returned home, both British and German
authorities gave thanks that no one had been hurt.

One senior officer said: "It could have been carnage." Brigadier Richard
Dannatt, commander of 4 Armoured Brigade, added: "This is a British problem, but
it has profoundly affected the lives of German civilians."

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1996 MGN Ltd.

                              356 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                              July 1, 1996, Monday

G7 urged to pool anti-terror expertise

BYLINE: Colin Brown Chief Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Page  5

LENGTH: 587 words


A plan to establish "centres of excellence" in combating terrorism is to be put
to a meeting of ministers from the world's top seven developed countries by
Michael Howard, the Home Secretary.

Mr Howard said yesterday that he will also call for extradition to be improved
between countries, and for terrorists to be denied refugee status at the meeting
of G7 ministers to be held in the wake of the IRA bombings in Manchester and
Osnabruck, and the separate attack on a US base in Dhahran, Saudi Arabia.

The Home Office said last night that the aim was to create a register so that
countries can call on experts, such as Japanese security services who dealt with
recent chemical attacks on their underground rail network by members of a
religious cult.

The renewal of violence by the IRA is threatening to embarrass the Irish
government, which takes over the presidency of the European Union today.

Andrew Hunter, chairman of the Tory backbench Northern Ireland committee, told
Sky News that he would be urging the Prime Minister and Northern Ireland
Secretary, Sir Patrick Mayhew, to consider the reintroduction of internment to
combat the heightened threat from the IRA.

Mr Hunter admitted such a policy - which might involve interning Sinn Fein
members such as Martin McGuinness - could be counter-productive and added that
the timing had to be right and there had to be public support for it. But he
said: "I think you've got to say to yourself what is the lesser evil:
infringing, as some would argue, the rights of a minority, or protecting the
majority against the threat of being killed or maimed by bombs."

The Irish Prime Minister, John Bruton, and John Major are expected to intensify
the security action against the IRA in the wake of the Osnabruck attack, and the
killing of a special branch officer in the Republic.

British intelligence sources warned ministers before the mortar attack on the
Osnabruck army base in Germany that the IRA is planning to mount a bombing
campaign in another major British city.

Ministers believe the IRA may then seek to force Sinn Fein into the talks by
calling a ceasefire. Mr Bruton made it clear, when he condemned the killings
yesterday on the BBC's Breakfast with Frost programme, that the two governments
would accept a ceasefire, but would require Republicans to accept the six
Mitchell principles, including renouncing violence, before Sinn Fein was
admitted to talks.

The IRA's continuing campaign of violence was "utterly pointless and
self-defeating", Mr Bruton said. "You will never unite people in any way by
fighting, or by promoting fighting . . . that's something a six-year- old child
understands."

He said the attack at Osnabruck was "appalling, when you think about the number
of soldiers and their families, who are engaged in a peace- keeping exercise in
Europe, how many of them could have been killed by this mortar attack. It's
obviously a continuation of the campaign of violence by the IRA, and it is
utterly pointless.

"They used violence for 25 years, and all they did was bring hardship on
everybody, but particularly on the people who have supported them.  It is a
completely useless and self-defeating campaign."

tThe IRA last night claimed responsibility for Friday's attack at Osnabruck.
The claim, using recognised codewords, was made in a telephone call to the
Dublin office of RTE, the Irish Republic's broadcasting network.

Irish plans, page 10

Being Irish in Britain, page14


LOAD-DATE: July 02, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1996 Independent Print Ltd

                              357 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  July 3, 1996

SAUDIS ASSURED OF NEW LAW TO STOP TERRORISTS;
Saudi royal family members are likely to be the militants' next target

BYLINE: Richard Norton-Taylor And Kathy Evans

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FOREIGN PAGE; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1040 words


MALCOLM RIFKIND, the Foreign Secretary, met King Fahd and other members of the
Saudi ruling family last night after signalling changes in Britain's refugee
laws denying asylum to those engaged in what he called "inciting or directly
helping terrorism".

He also confirmed that Britain would propose a change in the 1951 UN Convention
on Refugees whereby anyone "aiding and abetting terrorism" would not be entitled
to claim asylum.

He discussed the proposals with Saudi ministers in Jeddah, including Crown Price
Abdullah, a week after the bombing of a military base at Dhahran which killed 19
US airmen.

The US offered a reward of $ 2 million ( pounds 1.3 million) yesterday for
information leading to the arrest and conviction of the bombers, adding to the $
3 million offered by the Saudi government.

Under existing British law, the only overseas crime for which foreign nationals
can be prosecuted in Britain is conspiracy to commit murder. The Government is
considering how to extend the law of criminal conspiracy to include terrorist
activities abroad.

Officials of the the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees expressed
concern that the definition of those covered by the proposed new UN convention
could be so wide as to affect those refugees with genuine cases.

"There are already exclusion clauses to the UN Convention which accommodate the
concerns of governments," said a UNHCR official. "This issue also raises the old
question of what is a terrorist."

Attention has focused on Mohammed al-Mas'ari, the Saudi dissident who recently
defeated a Government attempt to deport him to Dominica.

British ministers admitted that the attempt was prompted by concern expressed by
Saudi Arabia and fear of losing arms export deals.

Mr Rifkind's visit is believed to be intended to mend fences after the Mas'ari
case. But Mr Rifkind maintained that Mr al-Mas'ari's continuing presence in
Britain had no significance for relations with Saudi Arabia. British exports to
the Saudis had increased by 20 per cent in the first three months of this year,
he said.

Meanwhile, princes of the Saudi royal family have been sent threats by militant
Islamic groups active in the kingdom.

Faxes sent from public telephone booths were received by King Fahd's personal
secretary, the head of Saudi intelligence, and the interior minister.

According to the American television station ABC, the faxes threatened
"unspecified civilian targets" if a group of 230 prisoners arrested in 1994 was
not released.

As well as King Fahd, four senior princes were mentioned by name - Prince
Salman, governor of Riyadh, Prince Sultan, defence minister, Prince Nayef,
interior minister, and Prince Khaled al Feisel, governor of the Southern
province.

Messages received by the American embassy specifically mentioned the American
International School, which is attended by the children of diplomats and
military personnel.

Dr Saad al-Faqih, head of the London-based Movement for Islamic Reform in
Arabia, said he believed that members of the royal family were likely to be the
next target for the Islamic militants, rather than the American forces.

Leader comment, page 14

Xref: Leader comment

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              358 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  July 3, 1996

LEADING ARTICLE: SMOOTHING THE TRACKS TO RIYADH;
Mr Rifkind's double motives in seeking to change UN law

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGE; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 734 words


FLYING OFF to Saudi Arabia, Malcolm Rifkind has announced that Britain seeks to
make an important change to the 1951 UN Convention on Refugees. The transparent
intention is to smooth his way in Riyadh. The visit is designed, say those
accompanying the foreign secretary, to end a chill in relations caused by the
case of the Saudi dissident Mohammed al-Masari - who has successfully resisted
efforts to deport him from Britain. The British plan, we are told, would not
change Mr al-Masari's current status, but it "would affect future Masaris".

Adding a new instrument to a UN Convention is a serious business which would
have to go before the General Assembly and then, if successful, be submitted for
ratification. The British move shows no sign of being serious either in
substance or in the casual way it has emerged. The idea is to stipulate that
anyone who funds, advocates or supports terrorist activity should be denied the
right of asylum. This wording is extremely loose: "advocacy" and "support" are
almost impossible to define. It is the sort of proscription once found in laws
of communist countries which made it a crime to "advocate" or "support"
activities "against the state". It was used by them to suppress free speech and
would have a similar effect now. But as the London-based Liberty has commented,
the language is much too vague to have any chance of being added to an
international convention.

The existing 1951 convention already specifies (Article I, F, a-c) certain
conditions under which its rights will not apply.  These include the commission
of crimes against peace, and of any acts "contrary to the purposes and
principles of the UN." The convention also requires every refugee to conform to
the laws and regulations of the host country. The UNHCR is as opposed to
terrorism as any other body, but it takes the sensible view that the convention
as it stands does not protect terrorism at all, and that it already offers
plenty of scope for governments to take necessary action.

There is no sign that Mr Rifkind's proposal is based upon careful analysis of
this kind. It was floated past the G7 summit at the weekend, where it served to
show support for Bill Clinton's anti-terrorism crusade in the wake of last
week's devastating bomb. Now it is being floated in Riyadh to bolster British
trade and good relations with the House of Saud. Mr al-Masari has used ambiguous
language in commenting on the attack in Dhahran, but if he were not a Saudi
citizen talking about Saudi Arabia no one in government would be bothered by
what he said.

Mr Rifkind's new proposal comes just one day after Peter Lilley's plan to curb
asylum payments has been partly frustrated in the House of Lords. In both cases,
there is a clear political motive - one domestic, the other external - in
seeking to restrict the benefits of asylum. A principle of such importance
deserves much better treatment.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              359 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                  July 3, 1996

Rifkind meets Fahd and mends fences on dissident

BYLINE: From Paul Mylrea;;

SECTION: Pg. 13

LENGTH: 498 words


Jeddah, Tuesday

BRITISH Foreign Secretary Malcolm Rifkind crowned a flying visit to Saudi Arabia
with talks with King Fahd and other senior members of the royal family,
dispelling worries about frayed relations.

Rifkind, in Jeddah to counter tension caused by bitter criticism of the royal
family by London-based Saudi dissident Mohammad al-Masari, met King Fahd this
evening after a day of meetings with senior members of the Saudi government.

The talks confirmed reports from diplomats and Saudi officials that the king's
health has improved. The king handed his duties temporarily to Crown Prince
Abdullah after a stroke in November but is now back as ruler.

Analysts and British officials also described the turnout for the talks as a
show of confidence in Rifkind, who earlier in the day met Abdullah, and in
Saudi-British relations, signalling that the Masari affair was over.

The trip was planned before last week's bomb attack in Dhahran, which killed 19
US servicemen. But it gave Rifkind a chance to brief the king on the agreement
by leaders of top industrialised nations at their G7 summit in Lyon to step up
the fight against terrorism, in part as a result of the Dhahran truck bomb.
Rifkind also briefed King Fahd on a British plan to modify the United Nations
refugee convention to stop people claiming asylum while promoting, funding or
assisting terrorism.

The plan, which officials said has already received a positive initial reaction
from President Clinton and other leaders, would not affect Masari's current
status.

However, they said it could help prevent a recurrence of the events which
prompted Saudi Arabian Interior Minister Prince Nayef last month to issue a
thinly-veiled warning to Britain to take care to distinguish between friends and
enemies.

Masari, a fundamentalist Islamic dissident, has sharply criticised the Saudi
rulers since fleeing to London in 1995. In his most recent remarks he supported
the intellectual arguments behind the Dhahran bombing, although denying his
involvement.

British officials say the Saudi government has now accepted Britain has done its
best to curb Masari and has been barred from taking further action by its own
laws.

Earlier this year Britain tried to deport Masari to the Caribbean island of
Dominica. But in March he won a court fight against deportation and now has
leave to remain for four years.

q In Washington, the United States offered a $ 2m reward for information leading
to the Dhahran bombers, and warned the perpetrators to "sleep with one eye
open."

State Department spokesman Nicholas Burns announced the US reward at a briefing,
noting it would supplement the $ 3m reward already offered by the Saudi
government.

He said the US counter-terrorism awards programme has so far paid out $ 3m in 20
different cases, notably the 1993 World Trade Centre bombing in New York City
and the 1988 bombing of Pan Am Flight 103 over Lockerbie. - Reuter

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1996 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              360 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            July 3, 1996, Wednesday

New turn of Corsican violence alarms Paris

BYLINE: MARY DEJEVSKY Paris

SECTION: INTERNATIONAL; Page  8

LENGTH: 519 words


In words that have a familiar and awful resonance in Britain and Northern
Ireland, the mayor of Bastia in northern Corsica called on the French
authorities yesterday to stop "getting lost in negotiations with this or that
armed band. Respect the rule of law and disarm the armed groups - all armed
groups."

The mayor, Emile Zuccarelli, was speaking the day after a powerful car bomb
exploded in the picturesque old port area of his city, killing one person and
injuring 15, two seriously.

Three of the victims, including the man killed, Pierre Louis Lorenzi, 34, were
known members of Cuncolta, the legal political front for one of Corsica's most
hardline nationalist movements, the FLNC.

Charles Pieri, 46, who was very seriously injured, is a co-founder of the FLNC.
He is regarded as the main target of the attack.

The bomb was planted in a Citroen parked in front of the offices of the security
firm they ran. In a pattern repeated time and again, the car had been stolen the
previous day and parked close to its target. The bomb is believed to have been
activated by a remote control.

Although Corsica has been wracked by violence in recent years, this attack -
which took place on Monday afternoon, at the start of the tourist season - was
immediately condemned on the island and in Paris as a new and dangerous
departure.

Until now, attacks have been "targeted" at people or buildings deemed to be
directly involved in the conflict.

Monday's bomb is regarded as the first intended to injure indiscriminately.
Among those hurt were people who had been sitting in seafront bars and
passers-by, including a 14-year-old boy and two retired people.

Yesterday, the scenes of blood and destruction in Bastia were being compared
with the aftermath of car bombs in Lebanon and Algeria, places that have
historical and current significance in France.

In Paris, the Interior Minister, Jean-Louis Debre, called such violence
"intolerable".

He promised to send in a unit of special paramilitary police. In another sign of
firmness, the head of the anti-terrorist section of the French police, Irene
Stoller, was immediately dispatched to Bastia to head the investigation in
person.

The atmosphere in Bastia was one of shock and dismay as the implications of the
attack sank in. The killing brought the number of people killed directly in
terrorist attacks in Corsica to 20 in less than two years.

As worrying for many Corsicans is the extent to which the island now seems
governed by the gun rather than by law. Many Corsicans blame inaction and
wheeler-dealing by French authorities for this situation.

A visit to the island last January from the interior minister, Jean- Louis Debre
was thoroughly eclipsed by the FLNC, which staged a night- time encounter with
600 armed guerrillas in a mountain hide-out for the benefit of the French press.

The Prime Minister, Alain Juppe, denied that Paris was involved in deals with
the terrorists. But this was the only way many people could explain the fact
that the FLNC's show of strength had gone unpunished.


LOAD-DATE: July 03, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1996 Independent Print Ltd

                              361 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            July 3, 1996, Wednesday

Rifkind settles row over Masari

SECTION: INTERNATIONAL; Page  8

LENGTH: 292 words


Jeddah (Reuter) - After talks with Saudi leaders yesterday, Malcolm Rifkind, the
Foreign Secretary, said the two sides had dismissed a row over the London-based
Saudi dissident, Mohammad al-Masari.

Mr Rifkind's trip was planned before last week's bomb attack in Dhahran which
killed 19 US servicemen. But it gave the Foreign Secretary the chance to brief
Saudi officials on the decision by leaders of the world's top industrialised
nations at the G7 summit in Lyons to boost the fight against terrorism.

Britain has been keen to end the row over Mr Masari, a fundamentalist Islamic
dissident who has bitterly criticised the Saudi royal family since fleeing to
London in 1995.

British businessmen had warned that his attacks could threaten trade with Saudi
Arabia. The Foreign Office had tried to deport him, but was blocked by a British
court.

Mr Rifkind told a news conference after talks with Crown Prince Abdullah and
Foreign Minister, Prince Saud al-Faisal, that the matter had not affected
relations between Riyadh and London.

"The subject of Mr Masari has only been raised once, very briefly, and only to
dismiss it. It is clearly agreed that it is irrelevant to our relations."

To emphasise the British Government's anger with Mr Masari, Mr Rifkind briefed
Saudi officials on a British plan to change the United Nations convention on
refugees to stop people taking advantage of asylum laws while promoting, funding
or assisting terrorism.

The plan would not affect Mr Masari, but could prevent "future Masaris'', said
an aide. Saudi officials have been angered by his recent remarks, in which he
supported what he called the intellectual arguments behind the Dharan bombing,
although he denied involvement.


LOAD-DATE: July 03, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1996 Independent Print Ltd

                              362 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  July 4, 1996

IRA SQUAD 'LYING LOW IN GERMANY'

BYLINE: Ian Traynor In Bonn

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 934 words


GERMAN investigators said yesterday they believed an IRA terrorist cell was
active on the Continent as they sifted through the evidence being gathered on
last Friday's mortar bomb attack on a British forces' base in Osnabrueck.

The doctored Ford Transit vehicle used in the attack on the Quebec barracks in
Osnabrueck, the biggest British garrison in Germany, was sent via France from
the Irish Republic at least a week before the attack, said Ralf Hanich of the
federal state prosecutor's office in Karlsruhe, the body in charge of the
investigation.

"The perpetrators must have spent some time here," said Mr Hanich.

Trials in Germany of alleged IRA operatives stemming from the wave of attacks in
mainland Europe between 1987 and 1990 had produced evidence showing that one or
two IRA active service units were established on the Continent, Mr Hanich said.

"In the past they often lived here - in Germany - temporarily.

"I think it would not be wrong if this was again the case.

"I don't believe they just came here to deliver the vehicle and left. Such an
attack needs several days' preparation at least and the vehicle was around a
week on the Continent."

Mr Hanich's remarks imply that an active service unit was already present in
Germany and planning the triple mortar attack.

Only one of the three bombs launched from the back of the Ford Transit exploded
and missed its apparent target, a diesel pump. No one was hurt, but British and
German officials feared the attack heralded the restart of a continental
campaign.

The Quebec barracks is the headquarters of 4 Armoured Brigade.

Almost 11,000 British servicemen and their families are based in Osnabrueck.

Based on past experience, Mr Hanich said he thought there were between three and
seven people involved in the attack.

Active service units operating on the British mainland usually number no more
than four.

In its earlier bombing spree against British targets in Germany, the IRA used
safe houses and depots in Hanover, near Osnabrueck, and near the north-western
city of Cologne.

Donna MacGuire, convicted last year by a German court for her role in the
bombing of the same barracks in 1989 but released because of the time she had
served on remand, was arrested in 1990 by the Irish police in Rosslare after
making a ferry crossing from France.

"We know that the vehicle arrived by sea from Ireland to Europe a week before
the attack," said Mr Hanich.

It crossed to France and was then driven to Osnabrueck.

He declined to specify the particular crossing route.

British forces spokesmen in Germany said they believed the white Ford travelled
with its false British registration plates, G74 OHD, already attached.

* A United States judge has rejected a last-minute attempt to block the
extradition of Maze escaper Jimmy Smyth to Britain.  Smyth, 42, said he was
pinning his hopes on an appeal to President Clinton.

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              363 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  July 9, 1996

SECURITY IN HANDS OF SECRETIVE EU COMMITTEES

BYLINE: Richard Norton-Taylor

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FOREIGN PAGE; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1080 words


THE foundations for closer co-operation between EU countries on law and order
issues including policing, asylum, extradition and terrorism, are being laid by
a network of secretive committees in Brussels.

The committees, using such codenames as K4 and P8, prepare decisions affecting
the basic human rights of individuals both within and outside Europe.

They enjoy the enthusiastic support of the British government. A particular
attraction for Britain is that their work is strictly inter-governmental. The
European Commission and the European Parliament are kept well out of the way.

The committees have gained significance in the wake of the recent G7 meeting in
Lyon where Western leaders announced a crusade against international terrorism.
They are helping to prepare a follow -up conference of foreign and interior
ministers in Paris later this month.

Britain is already planning to change domestic law to make conspiracy to commit
terrorist acts abroad a criminal offence. The proposal is one of several
relating to terrorism being considered by the law lord Lord Lloyd.

The Foreign Secretary, Malcolm Rifkind, said during a visit to Saudi Arabia
after the Lyon summit that Britain intended to deny asylum to anyone engaged in
what he called "aiding and abetting terrorism". Under existing British law, the
only overseas crime for which foreign nationals can be prosecuted in Britain is
conspiracy to commit murder.

The K4 committee, named after the article in the Maastricht treaty under which
it was set up, consists of officials from the interior ministries (in Britain,
the Home Office) of EU member states. It meets about four times a year and
reports to ministers. K4 has three steering groups, covering immigration and
asylum, police and customs, and judicial co-operation. Each has five or six
working parties, one of which concentrates on terrorism.

Their activities are extremely difficult to penetrate. One man who has tried is
Tony Bunyan, the editor of Statewatch, a London-based bulletin monitoring
security and intelligence services in Britain and the EU. He has embarrassed
member states by persistently asking for K4 committee minutes, testing a 1993
European Council decision covering public access to EU documents.

His requests for information have split the EU, with Sweden, Finland, and
Denmark consistently arguing for disclosure, and a majority - including France,
Italy and Spain - voting against on the grounds that secrecy is needed "to
protect the public interest". Britain has adopted a middle position.

Mr Bunyan has had some reward for his perseverance: he has at least been told
the subject matter of documents withheld by the EU. These include plans to draw
up a European information system for the exchange of personal data between EU
police and intelligence services, and the development of a common policy on
visas and extradition, telephone-tapping, minimum guarantees for asylum-seekers,
organised crime and Europol.

Britain's opt-out - a refusal to recognise the role of the European Court of
Justice in overseeing the activities of Europol - will deprive British citizens
of the right to complain to the court.

The EU committees, meanwhile, are also co-operating with the United States and
other non-European countries in the context of what is called P8 - political
co-operation between the G7 countries and Russia. There are moves to expand
Europol's role in the P8 network to include what French officials last year
described as "those who made propaganda calling for violence".

British officials at a P8 ministerial meeting in Ottawa last December expressed
concern "not just about those engaged in terrorist activities but about other
political activisits who promoted unconstitutional change or destroyed the good
relations enjoyed by the UK with other governments".

Co-operation on all these issues will be taken forward at the meeting in Paris.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              364 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            July 10, 1996, Wednesday

Arab rebel leader warns the British: 'Get out of the Gulf'; Robert Fisk tracks
Saudi Arabia's most wanted man to his lair in Afghanistan

BYLINE: Robert Fisk

SECTION: TITLE; Page  1

LENGTH: 898 words


Osama Bin Laden, the fiercest opponent of the Saudi regime and of America's
presence in the Gulf, has warned Britain that it must withdraw its servicemen
from Saudi Arabia if it wishes to avoid the fate of the 19 Americans killed by a
truck bomb in the Kingdom last month. In an interview with the Independent in a
remote mountainous area of Afghan- istan's Nangarhar province - to which he has
returned from Sudan with hundreds of his Arab mujahedin guerrillas - the
40-year-old Saudi dissident declared that killing the Americans marked "the
beginning of war between Muslims and the United States".

Although taking no personal responsibility for the bombings, which have sent
tremors through the vulnerable, oil-rich states of the Arabian peninsula, Bin
Laden insisted that the killing of the Americans in Khobar (Dhahran) just over
two weeks ago demonstrated the depth of hatred for Americans in Saudi Arabia.
"Not long ago, I gave advice to the Americans to withdraw their troops from
Saudi Arabia," he said. "Now let us give some advice to the governments of
Britain and France to take their troops out - because what happened in Riyadh
and Khobar showed that the people who did this have a deep understanding in
choosing their targets. They hit their main enemy, which is the Americans. They
killed no secondary enemies, nor their brothers in the army or the police of
Saudi Arabia . . . I give this advice to the government of Britain."

Bin Laden, most of whose immensely wealthy family have remained loyal to King
Fahd, has been accused by Western and Arab governments of being "the financier
of an Islamic international army", training fighters to oppose the governments
of Algeria and Egypt as well as Saudi Arabia. And in his long and sombre
interview, he expressed his contempt for the Saudi monarchy and its failure to
abide by Islamic sharia law, adding that the "evils" of the Middle East stemmed
from America's attempt to take over the region and from its support for Israel.
My journey to him took me across miles of devastated villages and fields in the
rocky mountainsides of the country where he once fought Soviet invaders, and it
culminated in a remote village where dozens of his mujahedin, dressed in Afghan
clothes, stood guard as he spoke.

In Saudi robes - and sitting next to his two teenage sons, Omar and Saad - Bin
Laden revealed that he had arrived here from Sudan on 18 May with his fighters,
after the Saudis and Americans had put pressure on the Khartoum military
government to expel him. He claimed that he would carry on a campaign from
Afghanistan to set up a "true" Islamic state under sharia law in Saudi Arabia
which, he said, had been turned into "an American colony".

When I asked if he was declaring war on the West, he replied: "It is not a
declaration of war - it's a real description of the situation. This doesn't mean
declaring war against the West and Western people - but against the American
regime which is against every Muslim."

As he spoke, armed Egyptians, Saudis, Algerians and Afghans patrolled the
night-time fields around us, their presence revealed by a single hissing gas
lamp. At one point, Bin Laden broke off our conversation to pray, alongside his
Arabs, on straw matting laid out in the field. Every few minutes, gunfire could
be heard from the mountains to the east. "The explosion in Khobar," he said,
"did not come as a direct reaction to the American occupation but as a result of
American behaviour against Muslims, its support of Jews in Palestine sic and the
massacre of Muslims in Palestine and Lebanon - of Sabra and Chatila and Qana -
and of the Sharm el-Sheikh anti-terrorist conference."

Bin Laden's arrival back in Afghanistan after five-and-a-half years in Sudan
marks a new stage in the campaign of the Organisation of Advice and Reform.

He accused the Saudi royal family of promising sharia laws while allowing the
United States "to westernise Saudi Arabia and drain the economy".  He blamed the
Saudi regime for spending $ 25bn in support of Saddam Hussein in the Iran-Iraq
war and a further $ 60bn in support of the Western armies in the war against
Iraq in 1991, "buying military equipment which is not needed or useful for the
country, buying airplanes by credit" - while at the same time creating
unemployment, high taxes and a bankrupt economy.

"The safest place in the world for me is Afghanistan," he said.

When I suggested to Bin Laden that Afghanistan was the only place - rather than
the safest - in which he could campaign against the Saudi government, he and
some of the Arab fighters around him burst into laughter. "There are other
places," he replied.

Did he mean Tadjikistan, I asked? Or Uzbekistan? Or Kazakhstan? "There are
several places where we have friends and close brothers - we can find refuge and
safety in them." When I said that he was already a hunted man, he dismissed my
comment with contempt. "Danger is a part of our life - do you not realise that
we spent 10 years fighting against the Russians and the KGB? . . . When we were
fighting the Russians here in Afghanistan, 10,000 Saudis came here to fight over
a period of 10 years."

Osama Bin Laden clearly believes he now represents the most formidable enemy of
the Saudi regime and of the American presence in the Gulf. Both are probably
right to regard him as such.


LOAD-DATE: July 10, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1996 Independent Print Ltd

                              365 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                            July 10, 1996, Wednesday

A 24-hour united city

BYLINE: Anthea Massey

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 963 words


Among the worst hit by last month's IRA bomb in central Manchester were the
residents of Cromford Court, the development of 70 co-ownership flats on top of
the Arndale Centre, at the heart of the blast.

Since the bomb, which probably caused Pounds 300 million worth of damage, the 90
or so residents have been temporarily rehoused half a mile away in the city's
gay village''. John Denny of the Northern Counties Housing Association, which
manages the development, says that only two have decided they do not want to go
back.

Manchester has been extraordinarily successful in attracting people back to live
in the city centre. In the past ten years, more than 3,000 residents have moved
into houses and flats some new and some converted from derelict textile mills
and warehouses and the population of the central area is expected to rise to
more than 10,000 by 2000.

Manchester is determined that the explosion will not dent its enthusiasm for the
rediscovered delights of urban living. It has Britain's best-defined gay
quarter, a vibrant club scene, a huge number of students and a council
determined to turn the place into the UK's first 24-hour city. And in 2002, it
hosts the Commonwealth Games.

John Glester, the former chief executive of the Central Manchester Development
Corporation, set up in 1988 and disbanded at the end of June, is convinced that
the revitalisation of Manchester's city centre now has a momentum that the bomb
cannot stop.  Retail rental values in the shopping district rule out any
large-scale residential development in this relatively small area,'' he says.

The new homes have been created at the edge of the shopping district, where
residential development values are similar to those for secondary office
developments. At the beginning, we didn't know whether it was possible to bring
people back to the city to live. Early developments such as Wimpey's Piccadilly
Village to the north of Piccadilly station and the developer Trafford Park's
Granby Village in Whitworth Street needed one pound of public money for every
three of private-sector money to get them off the ground. But now most new
developments are self-supporting.''

This sense of optimism is in turn nurturing young entrepreneurs who cut their
business teeth on the back of Manchester's youth culture, doing things such as
selling posters, running clubs and record labels and who are turning their
talents to property development.

Tom Bloxham, 31, is the developer responsible for taking the London phenomenon
of loft living to Manchester. His office, in one of his earliest developments,
is a conversion of a warehouse in Ducie Street.

His Splash Holdings property empire, which has nine buildings in Liverpool and
Manchester, is said to be worth about Pounds 18 million and is producing a
rental income of almost Pounds 1 million a year.

Mr Bloxham specialises in bringing new life to run-down city areas with projects
that combine cheap office space with bars and shops. He is a dab hand at getting
his hands on government inner-city grant money. Hardly a day passes without
someone offering him a derelict building to take on.

Now he is tackling the Smithfield Building, which once housed the Affleck &
Brown department store, a mellow stone Victorian building on Oldham Street. The
building is only 200 yards from the Arndale Centre, but suffered nothing more
than a few broken windows from the blast. Ironically, Affleck & Brown, once the
Harrods of the North, went into genteel decline after the Arndale Centre opened
in 1972. A local landmark building, it had been empty for five years before
Urban Splash took it on.

The project is costing Pounds 10 million, with Pounds 2.87 million of government
funding coming through English Partnerships. When completed in three years'
time, it will include 80 lofts with 31 shops on the ground floor. The first
release of 22 lofts for completion in the spring of next year was launched at
the beginning of May. Six had already been reserved before the bomb.

Urban Splash's Liz Williams expected reservations to slow down after the bomb.
But,'' she says, I was surprised when someone walked in and reserved on the
following Tuesday.''

Manchester is not slavishly copying the London model of loft living, where
people buy an empty shell and allocate space to their own wishes. At the
Smithfield Building, Mr Bloxham has come up with what he calls the pod'': a
cleverly designed unit that incorporates a bed platform with a kitchen and
bathroom fitted in back-to-back underneath. This instant fit-out'', available as
an optional extra at the Smithfield Building development, is the kind of
inventive idea that could travel to London.

Carol Ainscow, 38, is one of Manchester's leading gay entrepreneurs. She is the
business brains behind the Mantos cafe/bar and the Paradise Factory nightclub in
the gay village and Generation X, a bar and club in the student quarter. She
also runs a record label.

Her latest venture is the conversion of 42-44 Sackville Street, a former textile
warehouse about half a mile from the blast site, to 28 lofts. This was the
building that defeated Harry Handelsman of the Manhattan Loft Corporation two
years ago. He planned two-storey glass penthouses on top of the building, but
had to pull out when the costs rose.

Ms Ainscow's scheme is less grand.  We are fitting out the lofts at Sackville
Street with kitchens and bathrooms, so they are ready to occupy,'' she says.
Selling bare shell units, as in London, will not work here. We are more
practical; we don't want to be living in a building site for three years with
all that noise and dust.''

Urban Splash, 0161-834 5140. Smithfield Developments, 0161-834 8486.


LOAD-DATE: July 16, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1996 Times Newspapers Limited

                              366 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             July 14, 1996, Sunday

Philip Green to rescue of M&S

BYLINE: Paul Farrelly

SECTION: BUSINESS; Page  2

LENGTH: 394 words


Philip Green, the controversial former head of discount retailer Amber Day, has
charged to the rescue of Marks and Spencer, whose Manchester store was
devastated in last month's IRA bomb attack.

The irrepressible Mr Green is turning over 90,000 square feet of space on three
floors of his Lewis's department store in the city to M&S.

Britain's biggest retailer is still counting the cost of the damage, which runs
into millions and likely to mean the total rebuilding of one of its flagship
stores. The move, however, swiftly restores a presence in the UK's fourth
largest city that dates back over a century.

"It's brilliant. It's very different for us, but after three weeks we've been
able to find prime retail space," said an M&S spokeswoman.

"There's a tremendous feeling in the city. It's like the spirit of wartime.
We're not going to take the bomb lying down. We've been in Manchester since
1894."

The flamboyant Mr Green is no stranger to comebacks himself. Ousted by
institutions in 1992 from Amber Day after a profits setback, he bounced back the
following May, using his pounds 1.1m pay-off and the sale of his Amber Day stake
to buy Parker & Franks, a struggling chain of 54 shops selling cut-price clothes
and gifts in the North of England.

His return to the big-time, however, came with the purchase of Owen & Owen early
last year. Founded in 1868, and older than M&S, the firm counts five Lewis's
stores among its 13 department stores, and Mr Green set about changing a
negelected format that had lost its way.

Late last year he added Sears' Olympus sports chain in a pounds 25m deal that
brought 200 shops and concessions.

Women's fashion chain Mark One followed this February, adding 95 shops to a
burgeoning Manchester-based empire of nearly 400 shops with sales understood to
be running at around pounds 500m a year.

"We all have a commitment to bringing Manchester back to life, and I am
delighted to welcome M&S," he said last week.

"By sharing the available space in the Lewis's store, the focus for quality
shopping will remain in the city centre."

M&S will re-open there in late Autumn and has also taken 15,000 square feet from
the Co-Operative Insurance Society at Spring Gardens in the city.

It will sell clothes, furnishings and gifts from Lewis's and food from the Co-op
site.


LOAD-DATE: July 15, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1996 Independent Print Ltd

                              367 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 July 16, 1996

BOMB HAUL BIG BOOST FOR MI5
Anxiety for IRA if raid followed informer tip -off, writes Richard Norton-Taylor

BYLINE: Richard Norton-Taylor

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 694 words


THE discovery of bomb-making equipment, said to be enough to make 36 devices, is
a highly significant breakthrough for the security services, particularly if
they were tipped off by an informer.

MI5 - whose role in the operation was given special praise by Commander John
Grieve, head of the Metropolitan Police anti-terrorist branch - has had a
conspicuous lack of success in penetrating the IRA since it resumed its campaign
in Britain with a bomb in London Docklands in February.

Later that month, police found an IRA bomb factory in Lewisham, south London,
but they were directed to it after Edward O'Brien blew himself up on a bus in
Aldwych. They found 15kg of Semtex explosive, 20 timers, four detonators, an
incendiary device and ammunition at his flat.

Security sources last night were coy about how they knew the whereabouts of the
seven men arrested early yesterday, preventing what they confidently described
as a renewed IRA bombing campaign.

Telephone-tapping is a possible source of the tip-off but is unlikely given the
lengths to which IRA active service units go to avoid detection in this way.

The possibility of an informer is a huge psychological as well as material blow
to the IRA. It would be no less a blow if the tip-off came from carelessness on
the part of the potential bombers - for example, by acting suspiciously near
their targets.

The seven arrests are also significant, given the belief among the security
services that there are only about 30 IRA members active in Britain.

Cmdr Grieve's disclosures that targets included gas, electricity and water
supplies, and that the security services had foiled a plot to cause huge
disruption in London and the South-east, suggest that the operation had been
planned for some time.

London's electricity supplies are mainly fed underground. Gas and water are
supplied through a network of pumps and pipes.

The last time the IRA aimed at energy supplies was in February 1993, when it
blew up a gasworks in Warrington, Cheshire.

In a recent report on IRA strategy, Bradford University's department of peace
studies said disrupting these supplies was "likely to have little more than
short-term national economic impact. Its value lies more in its effect on
business and public confidence".

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              368 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 July 16, 1996

£200m security ring for Atlanta athletes

SECTION: Pg. 10

LENGTH: 600 words


BRITAIN'S Olympic squad this week will become surrounded by the biggest and most
complex secrity operation yet staged as athletes complete their final training
for the centennial games.

The operation - costing almost £200m - to protect Atlanta from the growing
threat of terrorism peaks on Friday with the opening ceremony at the Olympic
stadium.

More than 30,000 troops, police, and federal agents will keep watch over 16,000
athletes, coaches, and officials at more than 30 Olympic venues during the next
month.

The British team, some of whom have already arrived in Atlanta, will be
protected by technology never before seen at such a major public event.

The security forces are aware of the need to prevent a repeat of the 1972 Munich
games, when 11 Israeli athletes were taken hostage and killed by the Palestinian
terror group Black September.

President Bill Clinton is reported to have ordered that no expense be spared on
the security operation as the nation comes under worldwide scrutiny.

Major Johnathon Gordon, head of Olympic planning with the Atlanta police, said:
"This week will see the peak of our operation to protect the city, athletes, and
all our visitors.

"We are confident that this operation will be a success and will set new
standards worldwide for dealing with events of this magnitude."

Major Gordon said Atlanta had drawn on the advice of several crime agencies in
the planning of the security operation. He would not confirm or deny whether
British anti-terrorist officers, expert in intelligence gathering in Northern
Ireland, had been involved.

Security measures for the games include a digital hand geometry scanner that
checks a person's hand to ensure it matches a hologram on their identity badge
when entering high security areas such as the Olympic village.

Vehicles entering close to secure areas will be checked and all members of the
media, volunteers, and officials must pass through regular electronic check
zones.

Watching over the entire operation and monitoring everything right down to the
last car park attendant is a command centre modelled on the Nasa mission control
centre in Houston.

Closed-circuit cameras and undercover agents from the FBI, CIA, and the secret
service will also be involved as Atlanta bids to make sure it is the host city
of the century rather than a public relations disaster.

While the collapse of peace in Northern Ireland prompted headlines of an IRA
threat to the British team, British Olympic Association officials have been
quick to stress security is at "normal levels".

A BOA spokeswoman said: "The security measures in place are at a level you would
expect for a team of this size. This is at a level which had been decided months
ago and there has been no need to increase it.

"We are happy with the security situation and are kept regularly updated by the
police and security teams as to what is going on.''

Anti-terrorist officers, FBI agents, and police have already held exercises
covering everything from kidnaps, a highway pile-up, to threats of nerve-gas
attacks and germ warfare.

Security fears, however, grew only last month when 12 members of the Arizona
extremist group, the Viper Militia, were arrested for plotting to attack
American government buildings in Atlanta.

America still remains haunted by the Oklahoma bombing last year, which killed
168 people and injured hundreds more, and the Waco disaster, when more than 80
members of the Branch Davidian cult died in a fireball after FBI agents had
stormed their compound.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1996 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              369 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            July 17, 1996, Wednesday

Hunt for more IRA explosives in London

BYLINE: PETER VICTOR

SECTION: NEWS; Page  2

LENGTH: 388 words


A painstaking search was under way last night for what police believe is a large
hoard of explosives stored by an IRA team which had been planning a series of
bomb attacks on London.

Enough timers and batteries for 36 bombs were recovered in raids on houses in
London on Monday, when seven men were arrested. Forensic science teams continued
to search for explosives at addresses in Tooting and Peckham, south London.

Scotland Yard confirmed that officers were searching for explosives intended for
bombing public utilities such as gas, water and electricity installations.

The seven men remained in custody under the Prevention of Terrorism Act and were
being questioned about the timers.

Police said these and the power units to go with them had been charged up.
London and the South-east were only hours away from the start of a potentially
devastating campaign.

Commander John Grieve, head of the anti-terrorist squad, said the men would be
questioned initially about the plot which the raids disrupted, but they might be
questioned later about other matters.

Police have enjoyed a series of successes in uncovering arms and explosive
caches in Britain and Ireland over the past few years.

A few days before the IRA's attack on Osnabruck barracks in Germany last month,
police in the Irish Republic swooped on a bomb factory on a remote farm in
Clonaslee, Co Laois. Semtex, home-made explosives and bomb-making equipment,
including timers and batteries, were among the haul.

Earlier this year, the flat in Lewisham, south London, used by Ed O'Brien, whose
bomb blew up on a bus, was found to contain 15kg of Semtex, 20 timers, four
detonators, an incendiary device and ammunition.

In April last year, police found almost 40 weapons, including sub- machine guns
and rifles outside Belfast. They were thought to be for use by loyalists.

That month, Irish police found three mortars, nine detonators and more than
1,000 rounds of ammunition. Officers said the mortars were of the type fired by
the IRA.

Also in April, four suspected members of the extreme republican group, the Irish
National Liberation Army, including a man once named in court as the
organisation's chief of staff, appeared in court charged in connection with the
discovery of an arms cache near Dublin.


LOAD-DATE: July 17, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1996 Independent Print Ltd

                              370 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                            July 18, 1996, Thursday

DUBLIN PARALYSED BY BOMB SCARE

BYLINE:  Chris Parkin, PA News

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 275 words


Dublin's O'Connell Street, the best-known part of the city centre, was brought
to a standstill today by a bomb scare.  Early tonight, Irish army bomb experts
carried out a controlled blast on a suspect package in a rubbish skip, but the
alert was continuing. The alert began after a phone caller using a recognised
code word told the BBC in Belfast the loyalist Ulster Freedom Fighters had
planted a bomb in O'Connell Street.  The dual-carriageway quarter-mile-long
street was packed with holidaymakers, shoppers and vehicles at the time, and
police acted swiftly to divert traffic and evacuate the area.  With the street
cordoned off, helicopters mounted an aerial surveillance operation, as police
checked shops, offices, litter bins, post boxes and parked cars and vans for
suspect packages.  The phone message to the BBC gave no details, but the caller
said there would be a statement later.  An Irish police spokesman said the
threat had been taken "very seriously".  He added: "The alert will go on until
we are satisfied there is nothing there." The incident comes at a period of
heightened tension in Dublin, generated by the possibility of loyalist terror
strikes in response to IRA attacks in Britain.  Security precautions were
stepped up in the Irish capital and on roads leading from the border with
Northern Ireland earlier this week following the weekend bomb and rioting in
Ulster.  Today's scare was the most serious of a number to hit Dublin since the
IRA ceasefire collapsed earlier this year. City centre traders said the alert
had cost them hundreds of thousands of pounds.

The scare ended tonight after six hours.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1996 The Press Association Limited

                              371 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 July 19, 1996

SUSPICIONS CENTRE ON MIDDLE EAST GROUPS;
THE SUSPECTS: The hunt for possible culprits is looked at by Ian Black, Kathy
Evans and Jonathan Freedland

BYLINE: Ian Black, Kathy Evans And Jonathan Freedland

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 907 words


IF TWA 800 turns out to have been the target of a terrorist bomb - like Pan Am
103 downed over Lockerbie in 1988 - fundamentalist Middle Eastern groups are
likely to be the main suspects.

Palestinian, Lebanese and Iranian organisations have all been involved in anti
-American attacks in the past two decades; but those in the past five years have
been carried out by radical Islamist groups with a Saudi Arabian link, such as
those behind the bombing of a US base in Dhahran earlier this month.

Security experts look for capability and motive in suspects, though US and
British officials were unwilling to speculate yesterday - not least because many
wrongly linked Islamic groups with last year's Oklahoma City bombing. But
examining motive produces a wide range of suspects. Radical fundamentalists
oppose the US both because of its backing for conservative Arab regimes in the
Gulf and its traditional support for Israel.

Progress in the Middle East peace process - halted by the rightwing victory in
the Israeli elections - makes no difference to die-hard groups such as the
Palestinian Islamic Jihad, Hamas and the Lebanese Hizbullah.

Middle Eastern terrorists are not likely to be directly supported by states.
Ten years ago regimes like Iraq, Libya and Syria backed groups for their own
ends. Libya remains the main suspect behind the Lockerbie bombing - though the
Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine-General Command is still in the
frame - and like Iraq is isolated and weak. Syria has cleaned up its act.

The US blames Iran for supporting terrorism and there is evidence that Tehran -
or at least elements in the regime - has links to groups like the Organisation
of Islamic Revolution of the Arabian Peninsula. But no one has identified direct
Iranian state attacks on US targets.

Today's Middle Eastern men of violence tend to be radical Muslim veterans of the
anti-Soviet war in Afghanistan, financed - ironically - by the CIA, Saudi Arabia
and Britain.

In the US, attention was also focusing yesterday on the circle around the Muslim
cleric, Sheikh Omar Abdel-Rahman, now serving a life sentence for leading a
conspiracy which culminated in the 1993 bombing of the World Trade Centre in New
York.

Another key figure is the mysterious Pakistani, Ramzi Ahmed Yousef, once
described as the "evil genius" behind the World Trade Centre bombing, which
killed six people and injured 1,000. Mr Yousef and two associates are on trial
in New York for plotting to blow up 11 American airliners day over the Pacific.

Capability is a harder question. The expertise to bomb an aircraft is not
believed to be widely available and the few known practitioners, like Yousef,
are already in custody. One Iraqi bombmaker who worked for the small but deadly
Palestinian Abu Ibrahim group defected to the US in the 1980s and lives under a
new identity there.

Two other cases are also likely to be under examination. The US provoked threats
of retaliation in May when a federal judge ordered the extradition of the
Palestinian Hamas leader, Mousa Abu Marzook, to Israel to face murder charges
for allegedly planning a series of bombings. Meanwhile in a Washington court a
Palestinian, Omar Mohammed Ali Rezaq, is on trial for his part in the 1985
hijacking of an Egypt Air flight.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              372 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 July 19, 1996

Shots are fired at royals' chateau

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 434 words


POLICE yesterday fired a dozen warning shots in the air after two French
photographers, dressed in combat fatigues, were arrested inside the private
grounds of the royal holiday chateau on the French Riviera.

Unconfirmed reports said the photographers were detained just 10 yards from the
swimming pool where the Princess of Wales and Duchess of York were sunbathing
with their children. Scotland Yard would not confirm any details.

The chateau, Le Clos de Meaux, thought to be owned by the duchess's former
boyfriend, Paddy McNally, is ringed by a high fence. The grounds are being
patrolled by British royal bodyguards, armed French police, and guard dogs. As
well as a virtual siege by journalists, the police are vigilant against possible
criminal or terrorist attacks on the visiting royals.

Meanwhile, the Prime Minister pledged last night that the Princess of Wales
would continue to have an important role in British public life after her
divorce.

Mr John Major roundly rejected as "profoundly wrong" any suggestion that the
princess would disappear from the limelight after announcing this week she has
resigned from 100 charities. There is a great deal of affection for the Princess
of Wales in this country," he said.

"She is a member of the royal family and she will remain a member of the royal
family. She is the mother of the next but one heir to the throne. So she is
going to have an important role in our public life as far ahead as we can see."

A call for the princess to renounce her title now that she has "divorced"
herself from the principality by resigning as patron of Welsh charities was made
at Westminster yesterday.

Six Welsh charities were among those from which the princess announced her
resignation earlier this week. Yesterday, a group of Labour MPs tabled a Commons
motion expressing sadness that the princess "has not felt it suitable to
maintain links with any Welsh charities, given that she will retain her title as
the Princess of Wales".

A German doctor, who was arrested carrying a placard with comments about the
Queen during the Trooping the Colour ceremony, was fined £100 yesterday.

Klaus Wagner, 37, who believes the Queen is possessed by the devil and should be
replaced by the Princess of Wales, was found guilty of insulting behaviour and
displaying a sign which could cause distress. He was arrested, as he waited in
the Mall for the Queen to go by, carrying a placard which said "Elizardbeast -
Britain is at 666 and 777". He was also bound over to keep the peace for 12
months by Bow Street magistrates.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1996 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              373 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 July 19, 1996

The ominous coincidences with PanAm Flight 103

BYLINE: Iain Wilson, Chief Reporter, & Lachie Kennedy

SECTION: Pg. 9

LENGTH: 851 words


COINCIDENCES surrounding yesterday's TWA jetline explosion resemble ominously
those which resulted in Britain's biggest mass murder in the skies over
Lockerbie in 1988.

A lesser case can also be presented to highlight differences between TWA's ill
-fated Flight 800 and PanAm's infamous Flight 103.

Only time will tell if the circumstances are the same - although that, arguably,
is a forlorn hope, especially if terrorism is again behind the tragedy.

Controversy still envelops the facts behind the Lockerbie atrocity despite
millions of words of evidence and declarations on both sides of the Atlantic
that the perpetrators are known.

The most obvious connections between Flights 800 and 103 are that both were
American owned and both were Boeing 747-100 airliners. In addition, Flight 800
had just left New York while the latter was heading for it.

Most remarkable, however, both exploded well within one hour of take-off.
Indeed, if calculations of departure times are correct, the explosions may have
been as close as within 60 seconds of each other - underlining fears that an
improvised barometric bomb had been used again.

Equally intriguingly, both aircraft had been abroad just hours before their
destruction. Flight 800 was parked at Athens before leaving New York, while
Flight 103 had left Heathrow with a bomb on board - loaded from a connecting
flight from Frankfurt.

Eyewitness accounts of the explosion and disintegration of Flight 800 are
uncanny when compared with those at Lockerbie.

Yesterday, the US and Greek Governments, and corporate propagandists, were
working overtime to protect their interests.

These include the global implications of yet another "unprecedented" loss of
life in a Jumbo jet; the rarefied reaches of air security systems; and insurers
wanting to protect hundreds of millions of dollars from looming compensation
claims.

Rumour machines have already laid false trails and misconceptions which may
never be resolved, regardless of faith in the ability of investigation teams.

Questions over tighter security abound - be it of aircraft maintenance, baggage
handling, or intelligence systems.

Greek civil aviation officials were adamant the TWA Jumbo had a "thorough safety
and security check" at Athens airport before taking off for New York's Kennedy
International Airport, where it stayed just three hours before taking off for
Paris.

FBI officials in the US were as bullish about no immediate indications of
sabotage.

Ironically, less than three months ago the US lifted a warning to passengers
that Athens airport failed to meet international security stands.

However, if a bomb is to blame, it could, arguably, have been loaded at New York
despite the airport having the most up-to-date security equipment in the US.

Yesterday, American aviation sources stressed that security had been stepped up
at all airports at the Olympics.

Speculation that the disaster was a terrorist attack was rife. However, there
were other scenarios, including engine malfunction. The 25-year-old aircraft was
one of the oldest in commercial service.

A CNN report claimed the TWA Jumbo had an engine pressure ratio gauge replaced
before taking off for Paris.

It also carried reports of a "distress call" reported to the coastguard by air
traffic control about 10 minutes before the aircraft disappeared from radar
screens.

One crash-site witness told of a macabre find that suggested passengers knew
they were going to crash: a yellow TWA lifejacket floating on the water.

"It was inflated and it was buckled," said Jimmy Vaccaro. "These things don't
light and inflate by themselves - you have to pull on it or blow through the
tube."

As residents of Lockerbie awoke yesterday to hear of the American airline
disaster, there were bitter memories of the night their own lives were shattered
by Britain's worst air disaster.

Mr John Smith, 82, who escaped from his home which was destroyed by debris, said
at his home in Sherwood Crescent: "It's terrible to hear of the crash in
America. Every time something like this happens, it brings back all the memories
of the Lockerbie disaster."

The Lockerbie community yesterday sent its condolences to relatives who have
lost family and friends in the US crash.

Councillor Stephen Berry, who represents Lockerbie on Dumfries and Galloway
Council, said: "Whenever I hear of a plane crashing, I think of what it meant to
a community like this and what it will be like for the families who have lost
relatives. Our thoughts are with them at this time."

Dr Jim Swire, spokesman for British families bereaved by the Lockerbie disaster,
invited grieving relatives from the US crash to contact him.

He said: "One of the lessons we have learned is the value of a mutually
supportive family group. It is important people do not feel they are alone in
these circumstances. That is why we are offering the hand of human friendship to
people who have lost a relative or friend in the crash."  TRANS WORLD AIRLINES
INC;  TWA (AMEX);

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Dateline 1988: the wreckage of PanAm's Flight 103 which blew up over
Lockerbie.

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1996 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              374 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             July 21, 1996, Sunday

Britons injured in Spanish bomb blast

BYLINE: Michael McCarthy and Sophie Goodchild

SECTION: TITLE; Page  1

LENGTH: 450 words


Forty-five British holidaymakers were injured in a bomb explosion at a Spanish
airport last night. The Basque separatist group ETA said it carried out the
attack.

The tourists were caught in the blast at the Costa Brava airport of Reus, west
of Tarragona, as they waited for flights taking them home to Gatwick, Manchester
and Birmingham.

Most suffered minor cuts but early today at least 22 of them, including a
six-year-old boy believed to have serious leg injuries, were detained in local
hospitals.

About 900 tourists travelling with Thomson holidays on "changeover day" were in
the airport when the bomb went off in the passenger waiting area.  It was
thought to have been hidden in a waste bin and the blast ripped through the
restaurant and bar.

"There was blood everywhere, and a big pool of it near the bar where the bomb
went off," said a photographer for the Reuters news agency.

Only five minutes warning was given, in telephone calls to newspapers in nearby
Barcelona, and the Basque city of San Sebastian, giving police inadequate time
to clear the building.

At least eight Spaniards were also injured in the explosion, including a woman
cleaner who was badly hurt.

Shortly afterwards, many other British tourists had narrow escapes when the ETA
terrorists planted more bombs in hotels in the coastal resorts of Cambrils and
Salou, just south of Tarragona. The Salou bomb was in the Princess Hotel, which
was packed with Britons, but it was found in a hotel lavatory and detonated in a
controlled explosion, as was the Cambrils device. Both hotels were evacuated.

Thomson, Airtours and First Choice holidays all use Reus airport for
holidaymakers going to the Costa Brava and Costa Dorada. Worried relatives
jammed switchboards in Britain and Spain last night anxious to find out more
news; directory inquiries said they were inundated with calls from people
wanting an emergency number.

As part of a campaign to hurt Spain's tourist industry, currently the second
largest in the world behind France, ETA (Basque Homeland and Freedom) has
exploded six bombs in southern Spanish tourist towns during the past three
weeks.

During the summer of 1995, the group exploded three bombs at tourist locations
in Reus, Cambrils and Salou as part of a similar campaign. ETA has waged a
28-year struggle for the creation of an independent Basque nation made up of
seven provinces in Spain and southern France.

n FBI investigators and aviation disaster experts are convinced that the
explosion aboard the Boeing 747 jumbo jet that plunged into the sea off Long
Island on Wednesday night killing 230, was caused by a bomb

TWA crash, page 2


LOAD-DATE: July 22, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1996 Independent Print Ltd

                              375 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                             July 21, 1996, Sunday

BRITS HURT IN COSTA BOMB BLITZ FLY HOME;
TOURISTS HIT BY SPANISH BOMB FLY HOME

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 146 words


Tourists caught in a terrorist bomb blast at a Spanish airport flew back to
Britain early today in a state of shock.

Three Britannia Airways jets returned to Birmingham, Gatwick and Manchester with
stunned passengers.

They left behind 25 wounded Britons, four seriously injured.

FULL STORY: PAGE 2

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 1996 MGN Ltd.

                              376 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                             July 21, 1996, Sunday

25 BRIT TOURISTS HURT IN SPANISH TERROR BLASTS;
25 BRITISH TOURISTS HIT BY SPANISH AIRPORT BOMB

BYLINE: Robert Kellaway

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 960 words


A boy of six was among 25 British tourists hurt by a terrorist bomb at a Spanish
airport last night.

More than 1,000 passengers were waiting to board flights home when an explosion
ripped through the packed holiday airport of Reus, near Tarragona in North-east
Spain.

Minutes later bombs blasted two luxury hotels at Salou and Cambrils, on the
Costa Brava.

The airport bomb exploded in a wastepaper bin, showering tourists with flying
glass and debris. Up to 22 Britons, including several children, were admitted to
hospitals in Tarragona.

Four, including the six-year-old boy, were said to be in a serious condition and
undergoing surgery.

And early today the first of the holidaymakers to touch down in Britain told of
their terror. Many of the younger passengers, held tightly by their parents,
were still crying when flight BY433 landed at Birmingham airport.

Steve Eagles, 37, on holiday with his wife and two children, said: "I've never
been so scared in my entire life."

And Andrew Mumm, 25, said: "I saw the smoke and heard the terrifying bang and
there was a stunned silence before the panic. It was a nightmare.  I saw kids
with cuts on their arms and faces."

Driver Pete Jones, 32, from Birmingham, said: "When the bomb went off there was
a stampede to get out, but there was only one door open. I saw about 800 people
rushing for the closed exit and then the glass in the door just shattered."

Three Britannia Airways jets bound for Birmingham, Manchester and Gatwick had
taken off with passengers suffering from shock.

A total of 29 passengers were left behind as relatives asked to join their loved
ones in hospitals.

As flight crew patched up cuts and bruises, counsellors and medical staff rushed
to the British airports to comfort the injured on arrival.

The holidaymakers were travelling with major tour firms including Thomson and
First Choice.

A spokeswoman for Thomson said: "The injuries are mostly minor. There are cuts
to legs and arms and some people are suffering from shock.

"One person required stitches in the wrist and another had a wound on the back
of his calves."

Worst hurt was a Spanish cleaning lady who suffered severe injuries in the
airport bomb which was planted by terrorists from the Basque separatist group
ETA. A telephone warning was given to newspapers five minutes before the blast
but police were unable to evacuate the terminal.

Last night police were hunting for a fourth device following the warnings
received by newspapers in Barcelona and the Basque city of San Sebastian.

The Princes Hotel in Cambrils, and the Olimpus Hotel in Salou, the two hotels
targeted, were packed with British holidaymakers. Security teams were able to
evacuate both hotels in time and no-one was injured.

Janice Laight of First Choice, which has 50 tourists at the hotel, said: "The
bomb was found and a controlled explosion took place. There were absolutely no
injuries. It's all calmed down now."

As part of a campaign to hurt Spain's tourist industry, ETA had exploded six
bombs in southern Spanish tourist towns during the past three weeks.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 1996 MGN Ltd.

                              377 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             July 23, 1996, Tuesday

Spain takes hard line on terror

BYLINE: JANE WALKER Madrid Peter Victor

SECTION: INTERNATIONAL; Page  8

LENGTH: 545 words


The Spanish government yesterday announced that security is being stepped
upalong the Costa Dorada around Barcelona and Tarragona following the weekend
bombs in which 30 Britons were injured.

The Spanish government is expected to adopt tough new anti-terrorist measures
this week. Miguel Angel Rodriguez, the secretary of state for communications,
refused to give details, but said that an announcement would be made later this
week.

In the latest Eta summer bombing campaign, 14 bombs have been placed in areas
frequented by foreign tourists since 9 July.

Police are searching for two men who were seen acting suspiciously near the
Hotel Augustus in Crambils on Sunday evening. Five hundred guests, mostly German
and Dutch, were evacuated from the hotel before police found and defused the
small packet containing around 500g of explosive material and a timing device
hidden in a window.

Of the 34 people injured in the blast at Reus Airport on Saturday evening, 12
were still in hospital yesterday.

Police suspect that a cleaner, who was the most seriously injured, could have
triggered the airport bomb prematurely when she emptied a waste bin in the bar
in the departure area where the bomb had been hidden.

A telephone call to a Basque newspaper warned that the bomb had been timed to
explode between 8 and 8.30pm. Police had not had time to evacuate the crowded
airport terminal when the bomb went off 20 minutes early.  The metal waste bin
shattered into hundreds of pieces, scattering fragments which caused shrapnel
injuries to the victims. Condemnation of the latest Eta bombing campaign, which
is similar to ones inflicted on the Spanish Costas every summer for almost a
decade, has been universal

Eta is attempting to damage the Spanish economy by targeting its vital tourist
industry. More than 40 million tourists visit Spain each year, four and a half
million of them from Britain.

However, Costa Dorada hoteliers appeared yesterday to be more worried about the
threat from terrorist bombs than their clients. The beaches were crowded as
normal, and visitors had to search Salou beach for space on which to spread
their towels. Most hotels in the area are full to capacity, with few
cancellations from tourists.

The Foreign Office said yesterday that it was modifying its advice to tourists
in Spain after the events of last weekend, but was not clear what the new advice
would be.

"The final wording of our advice is still being worked on, but we are certainly
not telling people not to go to Spain," aspokesman said. "Obviously, people
planning a Spanish holiday must bear in mind what's been happening."

"There have been occasions, in other areas, when we have advised people against
travelling. But in this case we are asking people to be vigilant and use common
sense."

The advice is prepared by the Foreign Office's travel advice bureau which is
attached to the consular division.

The bureau liaises with consulate or embassy officials in the area concerned, as
well as Foreign Office officials, before finalising the wording of advice
bulletins.

The Association of British Travel Agents (ABTA) is closely monitoring the advice
and will pass it on to tour operators and travel agents.


LOAD-DATE: July 23, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1996 Independent Print Ltd

                              378 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 July 24, 1996

DON'T GIVE IN TO BOMBS OF SUMMER;
The recent blasts show ETA has not given up its terror campaign. Spanish
commentators argue for a united and determined stand against intimidation

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FOREIGN PAGE; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1200 words


La Vanguardia

ETA's recent terrorism is unfortunately not the first time the group has
targeted the peaceful citizens who come to the busiest tourist areas on the
Mediterranean coast.

This is one of their criminal obsessions. Last summer the gang was already
parading its sinister strategy, planting bombs in Andalusia and Catalonia - in a
re-run of actions the group rehearsed in past seasons.

This year it has followed the same pattern. On Saturday it set off explosive
devices in various locations along the south coast of Catalonia. ETA's two
declared aims are to show that its terrorist activity is not confined to a
specific geographical area, and to undermine one of the country's main economic
resources: tourism.

All ETA attacks, but specifically those intended to sow fear in people enjoying
a weekend break or a holiday, bear the same hallmark. They are characterised by
blind but systematic criminality, lacking in ideological principles and socially
indiscriminate.

When terrorists target tourist interests, they are not just trying to weaken a
major economic sector, but directly threatening citizens who want to enjoy a bit
of peace and quiet with their families.

This is why we should not waste any respect on recent references by the
terrorists and their collaborators to a "truce", or the pretexts they come up
with to justify the kidnap of the prison officer Jose Antonio Ortega Lara in
Burgos in January. The only language they understand is the violence they use to
try to alarm the population.

Hence the importance of not letting ourselves be intimidated by such actions.
Terrorism is victorious when it manages to make its way in a terrorised society.
It has not succeeded yet, despite years spent pursuing this aim.

The united front presented by all the forces for democracy has not cracked - as
evinced by recent round-table meetings.  The security forces have maintained a
calm, vigilant front, and our citizens are co-operating increasingly with the
anti-terrorist authorities, both in the Basque Country and the rest of Spain.
These are the best means to defuse the tragic terrorist campaigns.

Translated from the Barcelona daily newspaper La Vanguardia

Copyright reserved The Guadian/La Vanguardia

EL Mundo, 22 July

ENDING the fiction of a "temporary suspension of armed activity", ETA has gone
back to the only language it knows. Its attacks on beaches and hotels are
designed to sow panic and bring it sinister publicity. Terrorists do not take
holidays.

ETA has achieved its desired propaganda effect. The news that a bomb had
affected a party of British tourists, seriously wounding three of them, was
front-page news in the British papers. Britain is Spain's second-biggest tourist
market (after Germany), and such dramatic events, blown up by the sensationalist
press, could do a lot of damage to the sector.

But the fate of the victims is much more important than the tourist industry.
Although ETA claims its attacks are designed to attract attention to its cause,
it always ends up with blood on its hands.  Anyone who uses bombs for propaganda
purposes, seeking out large gatherings of people, is bound to sow death. In this
context, giving advance warnings is no more than a sinister form of hypocrisy.

The Spanish interior minister, Jaime Mayor Oreja, called for calm yesterday and
made it plain that ETA "will not succeed in changing the government's
anti-terrorist and imprisonment policy". This is a laudable act of
steadfastness, combined with a good dose of realism. "We can't ask for
miracles," the minister said, aware of public weariness and the arduous nature
of the anti-terrorism struggle.

In this battle, there is no room for grand spectacle or miracles. The only way
forward is a united political front, rigorous judicial and police proceedings,
and international co-ordination.

Copyright reserved The Guardian/El Mundo

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              379 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                            July 25, 1996, Thursday

French boost for bomb-hit Corsica

BYLINE: Steve Keenan

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 302 words


THE FRENCH Tourist Office is putting extra money into promoting Corsica in
Britain this summer in the face of a series of setbacks for the Mediterranean
island.

Following a slump in demand from the UK, more money is being spent on promoting
Corsica than on any other French region, with the island's tourism authorities
and the FTO spending an estimated Pounds 250,000.

The only flights to Corsica are Sunday charters, and this summer there are just
24,186 seats available, compared to 29,440 last year. But bookings are still
running 20 per cent down, slightly less than mainland France.

Howard Jones, managing director of market leader Holiday Options, said: People
will pay a premium for Corsica above Greece or Portugal, but not much.

The top-end holidays and self-catering are holding up in August you can't get a
four-star but where there is space in two or three-star hotels.''

The strength of the French franc is an inhibiting factor. But it has had a worse
effect on Corsica's biggest foreign market, the Italians.

A terrorist bombing in Bastia on July 1, coupled with air and ferry problems
from the mainland, have also seen a fall in demand from the domestic French
market.

As the French school holidays started last week, some regions of the island were
reporting business down by 60 per cent. Hoteliers also reduced prices in weeks
previously considered peak season.

We thought it would be better this year but after the bombing we didn't have any
bookings. We will be full only between August 5-20,'' said Meireille Orsoni of
the Casa Vecchia Hotel in Calvi.

Tour operators including Holiday Options and Cresta have cut prices for holidays
outside mid-August. Cresta is offering holidays from Pounds 554 and Holiday
Options has cut prices by Pounds 50.


LOAD-DATE: July 26, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1996 Times Newspapers Limited

                              380 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                             July 28, 1996, Sunday

'THERE WAS A BLINDING FLASH, THE EARTH SHOOK. THEN I SAW THE RIVERS OF BLOOD';
THE DAY THEY BLEW UP THE OLYMPIC DREAM; PARTY IN THE PARK ENDS IN CARNAGE;
TERRORIST BOMB KILLS TWO IN CENTENNIAL PARK AT THE ATLANTA OLYMPIC GAMES

BYLINE: John Jackson In Atlanta

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2, 3

LENGTH: 1720 words


They hoped for the best, but prepared for the worst. They got the worst.

And when it came, they still weren't ready.  Because nothing can prepare you for
the carnage, the mayhem, the blood and the sheer horror of a terrorist bomb
blast.

In Britain, we know that only too well. But in America, the city of Atlanta was
still in a state of shock last night after their Olympic dream was blown to
bits.

Two people died and up to 200 were injured when a pipe bomb packed with nails
and metal fragments exploded at a rock concert.

Eyewitness Terry Tyson said: "I thought it was fireworks, like a big boom, and I
saw three guys lying in the street with leg injuries. Blood was running down the
street. It was horrible.""

Desmond Edmonds, a teacher from London, said: "There was a blinding flash and I
felt the ground shake.

"I think one lady was definitely dead. She wasn't moving. Some people looked
really messed up. There were rivers of blood."

The dead were Turkish TV cameraman Melih Uzunyol, 40, who had a heart attack
rushing to the scene, and Alice Hawthorn, 44, from Albany, Georgia.

Ms Hawthorn's 14-year-old daughter was also seriously injured in the blast and
was in hospital last night unaware that her mother was dead.

l

A 53-year-old Briton was among the more seriously injured, and one victim is
critical after emergency surgery to remove large pieces of shrapnel from his
chest and abdomen.

The blast came at 1.25 am local time as revellers thronged the Centennial Park,
right at the heart of the giant party taking place side by side with the
Olympics. There was a telephoned warning 30 minutes earlier.

The bomb was in a nylon bag placed next to a sound mixing tower as a rock band -
by cruel irony Jack Mack and the Heart Attack - played to thousands of
youngsters.

Mark Smith, the band's sound man, said: "The bomb was spotted by Richard, our
security guard. He did a great job. He found the package by the tower and told
the police, who immediately started clearing the area.

"I was 50 feet away when it exploded. I saw the cop get hit in front of me.

"He took a huge piece of shrapnel. He was about 30 feet away and was the closest
to the explosion - he got hit bad.

"We put a towel on his head and I poured some water on the towel to wash the
blood away."He was face down and not moving.""

Briton Anthony Long said he thought the explosion had been part of the act. He
said: "I was 50 feet behind and heard it go off. At first there was no panic at
all. Then people realised what it was.

"By that time I was near the front. I saw the people on the floor with
superficial wounds and cuts, which obviously I thought at first were from glass.
I didn't think it was from a bomb.

"I don't think anyone realised what was going on until the actual explosion
happened. The band just stopped playing. They looked shocked - they looked
around, they walked about and then they just went off the stage."

Eye witness Jim Slave said: "There was shrapnel flying about and people started
running around screaming 'it's a bomb, it's a bomb'."

Swimmer Karen Pickering revealed that the British swim team left the concert
minutes before the blast.

"Right now gold medals seem really unimportant,"" she said.

American swimmer Janet Evans was next to the stage being interviewed live by
German TV when the bomb went off. Later, still shaking, she said: "There was
this bang over my shoulder - and my heart stopped.

"Everything became a blur although I remember being dragged out by a security
guard. I'm scared to death and my heart is still beating very fast."

Jennifer Ellis, a volunteer at the swimming venue, said: "People starting
running and screaming. Police were herding everyone out, shouting: 'Get out, get
out'.

"People who could walk were being walked out, but there were clumps of people
lying on the ground."

The faces of witnesses were etched with shock. Michael Elman, a soccer coach
from Orange County, California, spent a harrowing hour tending to the wounded
strewn across the park. "It was real team work,"' he said.

For hours after the blast police helicopters with high-powered spotlights
scoured the area around the park as ambulances continued to leave the scene
taking the casualties to hospital.

Dr Bill Anderson, of Atlanta's Grady Trauma Centre, where most of the victims
were taken, said: "We are just working on the injuries and removing pieces of
shrapnel."

At the Georgia Baptist Hospital, a spokeswoman said about 45 of the walking
wounded"were being treated for cuts to arms and legs.

She said: "Most of them are just coming in with looks of disbelief, as if they
cannot believe what has happened to them".

At the park, behind a tight security cordon manned by hundreds of police, FBI
agents and forensic teams sifted the debris for clues.

The blast was captured on amateur video, and last night FBI agents appealed for
camcorder enthusiasts to come forward with their films in the hope that someone
has inadvertently trapped the terrorist.

As daylight dawned over a shocked Atlanta yesterday, the full horror of the
night before was highlighted by streams of dried blood on a paved area of the
park.

Nearby in a bundle was the sheet used to cover the body of the victim who was
killed outright. The mixing tower was shattered at the bottom with tattered
covers flapping in the light breeze.

And with the dawn came the grim reality that the city had always dreaded, but
hoped would never happen.

As it did in Mexico City, as it did in Munich - in Atlanta, the Olympic dream
died a little more.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLOODBATH: Victims fell to the ground as shrapnel flew;; MOMENT THE
NIGHTMARE BEGAN: An amateur video shows thousands of youngsters listening to a
rock band as the night sky is ignited by the flash from the bomb just yards
away;; CARNAGE: Medical teams help the wounded as victims lie unconscious in the
roadHORROR: A bloody towel lies across a floor of bricks engraved with the names
of Olympic donors

                            Copyright 1996 MGN Ltd.

                              381 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 July 29, 1996

GLOBAL BATTLE TO BE JOINED AGAINST THE TERRORISTS;
Governments are combining forces in the war on an increasingly sophisticated
foe, write Richard Norton-Taylor and Ian Black

BYLINE: Richard Norton-Taylor And Ian Black

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FOREIGN PAGE; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1334 words


INTERNATIONAL efforts to combat terrorism will be placed at the top of the
political agenda tomorrow by governments of some of the world's most powerful
countries amid warnings that the nature of the threat has changed beyond
recogniton.

With the bombing at the Atlanta Olympics, the apparent downing by a bomb of TWA
flight 800 and a sudden resurgence of domestic terrorism on their minds, foreign
and interior ministers from the United States, Canada, Britain, France, Germany,
Italy, Japan and Russia meet in Paris to map out a response.

Despite the shock of the Atlanta blast, they will congratulate themselves on
some recent initiatives, such as the arrest in France of suspected members of
the Basque separatist group, ETA.

"The fight against ETA terror is naturally a Spanish affair, but also a French
affair," said France's interior minister, Jean-Louis Debre, driving home the
central message of tomorrow's meeting.

Diplomats say the ministers will approve 25 recommendations for international
action, including better intelligence-sharing, a crackdown on fundraising, and
the marking of explosives and other sensitive materials to aid detection.

But because of the increasingly diffuse and transnational nature of terrorism,
they will also be calling for closer inter-governmental co-ordination.

As the state-sponsored organisations of the 1970s have given way to amorphous
networks - especially of radical Islamic groups - so attention has shifted to
closing loopholes in national asylum and immigration laws that allow terrorists
to operate across frontiers.

Britain is advertising practical measures that include amending a United Nations
convention whereby anyone planning or funding terrorism can be refused asylum.

It also intends to make it an offence to engage in conspiracy with others - or
to incite others - to commit terrorist offences abroad.

Britain has been anxious to play a leading role because it has been widely
accused of providing a safe haven for Islamic fundamentalists.

"All countries fear terrorism to varying degrees," said Bruce Hoffman, head of
the Centre for the Study of Terrorism and Political Violence at St Andrews
university. "But just as one country's terrorist is another's freedom fighter,
so one country's terrorist threat is another country's distraction which they
wish would go away."

Experience has shown that, despite denials, democratic governments have engaged
in clandestine contacts with terrorist groups - the British government's secret
talks with the IRA is one example.

And Britain's new anti-terrorist proposals have already prompted concern among
officials of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, who fear that they could be
used against genuine asylum-seekers.

"Proposals to criminalise dissidents from other countries have real human rights
concerns, particularly because there are a number of regimes all round the world
who are actively involved in torturing and killing their citizens," said John
Wadham, the director of the civil liberties group Liberty.

The problem is recognised in a Home Office report. Some countries have no
offence of conspiracy, so the situation could arise of a prosecution in Britain
for activities relating to foreign countries where they would not be illegal.

Tighter security measures at airports are also part of the anti-terrorist
agenda. In the wake of the TWA disaster, the United States president, Bill
Clinton, last week announced new airline security measures, warning they would
be expensive and inconvenient.

"Physical measures will make it more difficult for terrorists but will not stop
the threat," said Dr Hoffman. "The challenge for the terrorist is to overcome
the new measures - it is never -ending."

Dr Hoffman points to new terrorist techniques, including the use of microchips
in bombs to extend timer mechanisms, and the moulding of plastic explosives into
very thin, easily hidden sheets.

Current moves on terrorism began in December 1995 at a meeting in Ottawa of the
Group of Seven countries. They gained momentum at the Sharm al-Sheikh summit in
March, convened after a spate of suicide bombings in Israel.

It took the attack on American servicemen in Dhahran, Saudi Arabia, to galvanise
international efforts, leading to a ringing declaration at the G7 Lyons summit
earlier this month.

"The global response is the only possible response because you've got the
globalisation of the threat," one expert said.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              382 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 July 29, 1996

Talks on plan to combat terrorism

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 380 words


HAUNTED by the TWA airliner crash and the Atlanta Olympics blast, Ministers from
the Group of Seven industrialised powers and Russia will seek practical measures
to fight terrorism when they meet in Paris tomorrow.

World leaders called for the one-day meeting of foreign and interior Ministers
at their annual G7 summit last month in the wake of a June 25 truck bomb attack
that killed 19 US soldiers at a Saudi Arabian airbase.

Events since then have only highlighted the urgent need for closer co
-operation.

Attorney-General Janet Reno, representing the United States in the absence of
Secretary of State Warren Christopher, is expected to brief Ministers on the
state of the TWA inquiry.

The G7 summit in Lyon, France, pledged to make the fight against terrorism an
"absolute priority" and work to bring the perpetrators to justice without
exception.

Leaders adopted a 40-measure package to fight cross-border organised crime, some
of which also apply to political violence. They included intelligence sharing,
faster and more systematic extradition and judicial co-operation, and a
crackdown on money laundering and arms supplies.

Britain has aired fresh proposals ahead of tomorrow's so-called P8 meeting,
which diplomats from other G7 nations said reflected likely consensus.

Home Secretary Michael Howard proposed a three-point plan for international co
-operation against terrorism, including changes in UN policies on extradition
and granting asylum.

The proposals include a framework for sharing expertise and training in
preventing and handling attacks, a UN resolution against the planning,
incitement or funding of terrorist acts, and a strengthening of anti-terrorist
laws around the world.

French officials said Ministers would try to avoid the thorny problem of
defining what constitutes a terrorist group. One person's terrorist is another's
freedom fighter.

One central issue will be better public transport security, following deadly
attacks in Japan, France, and the United States.

The Ministers are also expected to agree to increased surveillance of nuclear,
chemical, and biological materials to prevent them falling into the hands of
terrorists. - Reuter  TRANS WORLD AIRLINES INC;  TWA (AMEX);

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1996 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              383 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             July 29, 1996, Monday

Leading Article: Breathe deep, count to ten, then react

SECTION: COMMENT; Page  13

LENGTH: 966 words


In the aftermath of the bomb in Atlanta the priority is to keep a sense of
proportion. It's always tempting to manufacture a panic. You extrapolate from
one tragic event, one bounded very precisely by time and place, and create a
looming threat. The Atlanta bomb, let's be clear, is one-off. It is unrelated to
recent attacks in Dhahran and Moscow or bombing in Spanish resorts. It says
nothing about the chances of the IRA striking again on the British mainland - or
whether the thwarting of political pluralism in Suharto's Indonesia will give
rise to political violence there. Acts of terror may occur worldwide but there
is no great, global force called terrorism.

Second, however great the revulsion caused by the incident in Atlanta, the
response has to be measured. There are few ways in which security can be
tightened around the Olympic Games themselves; the bomb in Centennial Park was
outside the security zone. But there are ways in which governments, including
the American government, could overreact - and threaten the fundamental freedoms
on which civil society rests.

Clinching evidence is still awaited on the cause of the crash of TWA Flight 800.
Even if it was a bomb, there is nothing to link it with Atlanta.  Nor ought
confirmation that the flight was downed by a terrorist act provoke
ill-considered actions. Holiday-makers ought not suddenly to cancel nor business
travellers reroute away from Kennedy airport. Nor will they.  Most sensible
people will continue to fly.

It is not that they sit down and make a calculus of risk, people judge these
things pragmatically. And the pragmatic judgement must be that little has
changed. Most travellers would resent the further delays caused by an undue
tightening of screening and baggage checks. While airline security may be of
special concern in the United States - where screening techniques appear to be
out of date - recent events call, on this side of the Atlantic, for nothing more
than continued vigilance.

If the perpetrators of the Atlanta blast are found to belong to some domestic
American insurgency the point to be reinforced is that "terrorism" is no
monolith, no international conspiracy. Most terrorist acts are rooted inside
particular national and historical contexts. No random act of bombing can ever
be justified; but there is no point, either, in pretending all terrorists are
alike. Behind the Manchester bomb is an Irish organisation, with objectives
confined to the triangle of the Republic, Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
Bombs on buses in Jerusalem or under cars in Madrid are the work of groups with
attributes incomprehensible outside the specific histories of Israel and the
Palestinians or Spain since Franco. Stopping such terrorism is never just about
police officers and patrols. At some stage the Israeli foreign minister has to
sit down with President Assad of Syria. It is hard to see ETA being extinguished
without someone talking to someone else in San Sebastian.

For its part, the Turkish government might agree with this line of argument.  It
might say: the harshness which has led to hunger strikes, death and the threat
of armed assault on prisoners has to do with the nature of terrorism in that
country, whether perpetrated by the hard left or the Kurds. It takes, the Turks
might say, strong measures to protect national integrity and there is no
gainsaying the importance of Turkish integrity in a region left unstable by the
dissolution of the Soviet Union. But repression has a terrible habit of breeding
terrorism. Besides, Turkey wants to evolve into a trading nation based on
principles of legality and individual rights: that is the only possible basis
for its application to join the European Union. Its dilemma, like that of all
governments including Britain's, is how to protect against terrorist acts
without breaching norms of decency and proper procedure.

The answer is that there is a balance to be struck between protection of the
public, the power of the state and maintenance of individual rights.  That
equilibrium remains as precious after Atlanta as before. The passage, 20 years
ago, of the (supposedly temporary) Prevention of Terrorism Act tipped the
balance in this country in favour of government and its police and security
forces. Once the state acquires new powers they tend to become encrusted and
permanent, despite lack of evidence of their effectiveness.  In the United
States, a parallel example might be the federal government's power to eavesdrop
on phone conversations: one of the casualties of the Oklahoma bombing has been
the reticence of judges to question applications from law enforcement agencies
for permits to tap phones.

That the maintenance of liberty requires us constantly to be on our guard is a
hoary old cliche. It needs updating. Maintenance of liberty in an age of
terrorism requires collective self-restraint in order not to overreact, together
with patience. Long experience of bombs directed against civilian targets tells
us two things. Perpetrators can be found and convicted: what it takes is
dedicated detective work, often of a traditional kind, not great armouries of
new and intrusive state powers.

But no amount of police effort can substitute for the force of public opinion.
The state is only as effective as civil society allows it to be: policing that
is too aggressive or intrusive is self-defeating if it stirs up resentments and
non-co-operation. Terrorists usually need domestic assistance. Even in a country
as baggy and mobile as the United States, the public is often its own best
protector. Yet the public's safety margins are wide - they may be prepared to
tolerate a great deal more threat and risk than governments and newspaper
commentators realise.


LOAD-DATE: July 31, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1996 Independent Print Ltd

                              384 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             July 30, 1996, Tuesday

The Turkish question; The hunger strikers have had European support, but Turkey
needs understanding too, says Tony Barber

BYLINE: Tony Barber

SECTION: ANALYSIS; Page  12

LENGTH: 1706 words


Taking a swipe at Turkey's human rights record has long been the favourite
occupation of a certain type of Western politician and pressure group. Murder,
torture, denial of freedom of speech, discrimination against minorities: the
allegations pile up so thick and fast that a visitor from Mars might wonder why
Turkey has not yet been banished to the same netherworld of pariah states as
Iraq or North Korea.

As the death toll rose last week in Turkey's mass prison hunger strike, off went
the politicians and pressure groups again. Most European Union governments (with
the interesting exception of Britain, of which more below) were quick to point
the finger of blame at the Turkish authorities and to demand urgent improvements
in the conditions of the prisoners' confinement.

Some of this criticism was fair, but much of it was misplaced. It would be more
rewarding, though undoubtedly less fashionable, to make an effort at
understanding the challenges facing Turkey, a rapidly modernising country that
is uneasily poised on the dividing lines between Europe and the Middle East,
Christianity and Islam, the Western and non-Western worlds.

That in turn might enable Europeans, including the thousands of British tourists
now on holiday in Turkey, to make up their minds about what sort of Turkey we
can expect to see in the future and what sort of relationship we should have
with the Turks. Turkey is developing too fast, its strategic position is too
important and its role as a standard-bearer for secular democracy in an Islamic
society is too valuable for these questions to be put off any longer.

First, that hunger strike. It started two months ago, involved about 300
prisoners in jails scattered across Turkey, and ended last Sunday with 12
inmates dead and 18 others in critical condition. Clearly, it was no trivial
matter, yet unfortunately the manner in which it was presented to television
audiences and newspaper readers in Europe tended to distort the issues involved.

Most news organisations, searching for a simple label to categorise the
prisoners, took to calling them "leftists". So some of them were, in a sense -
the same sense in which Martin Bormann and Heinrich Himmler were "rightists". It
is open to doubt whether the prisoners themselves would be happy with their
media tag. Some would certainly regard it as an insult to be called mere
leftists, in the same way that Josef Stalin would have flown into a rage if
anyone had dared suggest he was a social democrat of the bourgeois variety.

Most hard-core hunger strikers came from Turkey's relatively young but rich and
intermingled traditions of revolutionary terrorism and political extremism. Some
protesters had been convicted of murder and bombings, and the majority belonged
to groups with names such as the Turkish Revolutionary Communist Union and the
Revolutionary People's Liberation Party Front.

This is not left-wing politics of a kind that Tony Blair or even Tony Benn would
attach his name to. If it is left-wing politics at all, it is left-wing politics
driven by an urge to kill. For these groups openly embrace "armed propaganda",
the euphemism for terrorist attacks on politicians, judges, policemen,
businessmen and anyone else deemed to symbolise Turkey's power structures. They
have nothing but contempt for free elections and civilised political debate, and
their purpose in life consists of instilling maximum fear and disorder in
Turkish society.

"Leftist" urban terrorists have been active in Turkey since 1970 and, together
with their extreme right-wing opposite numbers and the heavy- handedness of the
state, they were largely responsible for the climate of violence and chaos that
caused the armed forces to launch a coup d'etat in 1980. These days the
political influence of the revolutionaries is minimal, and one explanation for
the co-ordinated hunger strike is that the prisoners needed publicity and hoped
to provoke the Turkish authorities into rash measures of repression.

None of this is to suggest that prison conditions in Turkey are particularly
good, or that recent Turkish governments have had a clean record as far as
concerns human rights in general. Conditions in some Turkish prisons can be very
grim. Eskisehir prison in western Turkey, the institution at the centre of the
dispute that gave rise to the hunger strike, is known to its inmates as "the
coffin" on account of its cramped one-man cells.  The government rejected the
protesters' demand for its closure, but ended the hunger strike by agreeing to
move about 100 prisoners to Istanbul.

The government also did the right thing by agreeing to improve medical care for
prisoners and end the practice of holding them in jails in remote Turkish
provinces, thereby restricting access to lawyers and families.  No doubt the
Islamist-led government of Necmettin Erbakan, the new Prime Minister, could and
should have introduced these reforms earlier, helping to save lives. However,
the hunger strike was a problem that Mr Erbakan inherited from the previous
government of Mesut Yilmaz. It gathered pace at a time when political tensions
were running high in Turkey, for the country was about to entrust its fortunes
to an Islamist political party for the first time since Kemal Ataturk
established the secular republic in 1923.

The hunger strike seemed a sideshow compared with the high drama taking place on
the national political stage. Once Mr Erbakan was installed in power, the
imprisoned extremists redoubled their resolve to fast to the terrible end as a
way of undermining the new government's authority and maximising the damage to
Turkey's democratic institutions.

None of these considerations prevented the European Commission, the Socialist
group in the European Parliament and the governments of France, Germany and
Italy from making public demands last week for the Turkish government to make
concessions to the hunger strikers. It was noticeable, however, that the US and
British governments took a much more restrained approach.

Their caution was prompted partly by the impending vote in the Turkish
parliament on whether to extend Operation Provide Comfort, the US-led mission in
which US, British and French aircraft use an air base in southern Turkey to
protect Kurds in northern Iraq. The vote is due today and is expected to be
close, and the US and British governments were keen not to risk alienating
Turkish parliamentary opinion by complaining about prison conditions.

This example illustrates how, like it or not, Turkey occupies too important a
place in the geopolitical scheme of things for the West to make human rights the
sole yardstick of its relationship with Turkey. As it happens, most Western
governments consider that Turkey's human rights record has improved
substantially since this time last year, partly in response to EU prodding
designed to ensure that the European Parliament would approve a landmark
EU-Turkish customs union.

The union gives Turkey the closest possible relationship with the EU short of
full membership, and in time it should bring real benefits to the Turkish
economy. However, it is not surprising that the Turks do not feel that they have
been genuinely welcomed into Europe, since Greece has been blocking EU funds for
Turkey ever since the customs union came into effect in January. It is common to
hear Turks point out that it is difficult for Western Europeans to understand
just what it is like to live in a country that has so many hostile, radical or
unstable neighbours.  Greece, its traditional enemy, is right on its Aegean
coast; Russia lies across the Black Sea; to the north-east is the turbulent
Transcaucasus; and to the east and south lie Iran, Iraq and Syria.

Naturally, this does not excuse bad prison conditions inside Turkey, let alone
the crude methods that the army and security forces have used in an attempt to
extinguish the 12-year-old Kurdish insurgency in the south-east. However, it
accounts for a certain hunger for internal order and sensitivity to foreign
criticism on the part of the political elite that Western Europeans need to
understand better.

A flourishing European-Turkish relationship is important not least because, if
the EU can show that it genuinely wants to extend the benefits of prosperity and
partnership to a democratic, non-Christian country, then the positive impact on
the Middle East and northern Africa could be considerable. Europe's stability
could be extended southwards to an area stretching from Algeria to Israel that
is plagued by religious radicalism and social upheaval.

Conversely, if the impression arose that the EU regarded Turkey as a
fundamentally different type of society and state, worthy of friendship but not
of an especially warm relationship, then the chances are that suspicions and
misunderstandings will continue to dog Europe's relations with its southern and
eastern neighbours.

It is important in this context that EU countries should take care not to give
an impression of being worried about the Islamist component in Turkey's
government. Mr Erbakan's Welfare Party has achieved power for one simple reason:
it won the largest share of the vote in Turkey's general election last December.

The Welfare Party has not abused the rules of democracy, but played within them
and won. It offers proof, if proof were needed, that there need be no conflict
between an Islam-based political philosophy and Western-style democracy.

To forge a special European relationship with Turkey does not mean that
governments should turn a blind eye to human rights issues, nor could it do
given the prominent role of private Western human rights organisations in
shaping public perceptions of Turkey. With regard to the Kurdish war, probably
the major blot on Turkey's record, European governments should try to persuade
Turkey to see the matter as something more complicated than a security and
terrorism problem.

But all efforts along these lines will bear little fruit unless Europeans get
used to the idea of treating Turkey as a friend and equal partner.  There has
been some progress in recent years, but not enough.


LOAD-DATE: July 30, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1996 Independent Print Ltd

                              385 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 July 31, 1996

PURGE OMITS TERROR 'PATRONS'
Leading powers agree 25-point crackdown but sidestep rift with US over sanctions
on suspect states

BYLINE: Alex Duval Smith In Paris And Richard Norton-Taylor

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1054 words


LEADERS of the big powers yesterday promised to co-operate in an international
crackdown on terrorism but sidestepped serious political and commercial rifts
between the United States and Europe.

Foreign and interior ministers of the Group of Seven countries, plus Russia,
agreed in Paris to 25 measures to fight terrorism, including
intelligence-sharing, uniform airline passenger lists, a system for identifying
explosives and tougher border controls.

But they stopped short of endorsing a call by the US president, Bill Clinton, to
impose sanctions on countries which Washington says are supporting terrorism,
such as Iran, Iraq, Libya and Sudan.

Peter Tarnoff, the US under-secretary of state for political affairs, said
later: "We recognise that some legislation passed in the United States has
encountered opposition among our allies and trading partners, but the
overwhelming sentiment is for co-operation."

He was speaking as the European Commission in Brussels drew up measures to
counter a US law punishing companies for doing business with Cuba.

The commission said it was drawing up a blacklist of US companies and citizens
as potential targets for retaliation. It also called for anti-boycott
legislation throughout the European Union that would make it illegal for
European companies to comply with the controversial US law on Cuba. The measure
could be extended to include legislation on Iran and Libya, which is pending, if
Mr Clinton signs it into law.

Mr Clinton told reporters: "I believe sooner or later other countries will come
to our understanding that you simply cannot continue to do ordinary business
with people who believe that they have a right to practise commerce with you in
the daytime, and fund terrorists to kill your innocent civilians at night."

Earlier, France's interior minister, Jean-Louis Debre, had said the US analysis
was "a bit simplistic and outdated". Mr Debre said the new threat of terrorism
was home-grown - or promoted by extreme regional or religious groups - and was
not primarily state-sponsored.

As if to illustrate the point, the US defence secretary, William Perry, is to
meet Saudi Arabia's King Fahd today in Jeddah to ask for help paying for
increased security for the 5,000 US troops based in his country. Two separate
bomb attacks in the kingdom since November last year have killed 24 Americans.

Following up the Paris talks, Britain's task will be to compile an international
database of counter-terrorism expertise.  Michael Howard, the Home Secretary,
indicated that Britain felt vindicated in its opposition to the Schengen
open-border agreement between seven EU countries.

"I made it clear that we regard the terrorism threat as strengthening our view
that we need to maintain border controls," Mr Howard said.

Other measures agreed yesterday include a call to the G7 countries and others to
use national legislation to limit the use of the Internet by terrorists. They
agreed the need for a new United Nations convention preventing asylum for anyone
planning or funding terrorism.

Home Office officials conceded last night that it would take some time before
any agreement on a new UN convention could be reached.

The crash of TWA 800 and the Atlanta bomb were highlighted as examples of a new
form of terrorism - attacks by groups or individuals who do not claim
responsibility.

TWA bomb theory still not proved, page 11;

Letters, page 14

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              386 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 July 31, 1996

Co-operation is way forward Nations move to combat terrorism

SECTION: Pg. 14

LENGTH: 651 words


THERE is no such thing as complete security from terrorism; indeed, there is
nothing which approaches it even remotely.

Nevertheless, the effort to counter such events must be made and, in countries
such as Britain which have suffered regularly from terrorist violence, there is
a tacit acceptance of the need to pursue the best possible means of deterrence
while acknowledging that it will probably remain an intermittent factor in our
lives.

This is not a counsel of despair but a mature acceptance of reality, reflected
yesterday in the terrorism summit held in Paris by the G7 states and Russia.

Large scale gatherings of this sort, especially those called at short notice in
response to a terrorist outrage, often achieve little.

Summits are usually preceded by lengthy spade-work and followed by even more;
the senior participants are present to endorse the hard work of their officials.
Nevertheless, the Paris summit has produced some sensible, if obvious,
proposals.

The establishment of a directory of counter-terrorism expertise which will allow
participating nations to exchange information and personnel is an excellent
antidote to the frequently confused efforts made in isolation when nations try
to respond to terrorist attack.

The investigation of "front" organisations will be useful, and here Britain has
a role to play. For some years a number of foreign nations have insisted that
Britain allows organisations of this sort to operate on British soil.

The Israelis have complained long and hard about the activities of Islamic
extremists in Britain. The French have suspicions about Algerian activities here
and the Saudis have their own complaints.

All of these allegations must be examined thoroughly, but without abusing human
rights. The last point is relevant to the calls to prevent terrorists using the
Internet. Human rights organisations are worried about the knock-on effect of
attempts to stop terrorist, racist and pornographic exploitation of the
information superhighway.

They warn that censorship efforts in the US and in Germany have already lent
support to those in China, Singapore and Iran where censors target not only
morally repugnant material but also pro-democracy discussions and human rights
education.

The United States, which is new to the prospect of internal home-grown
terrorism, must take particular care. American politicians have displayed an
alarming tendency to blame everyone else for terrorism, and particularly those
lax old Europeans.

This is nonsense but, taken together with the American can-do attitude which
appears to believe that terrorism can be conquered (or more dangerously, that
this can be implied in an election year), there are possibilities for
unnecessary arguments between allies.

These have surfaced already in the disagreement between Washington and the
European Union over American plans to punish foreign companies which have
commercial dealings with Cuba, Iran, or Libya.

As we explained on Monday, this is a violation of international law which will
be rightly and vigorously resisted by the EU but it is an illustration of the
parochial attitude which the United States often assumes.

The issue of sanctions was avoided at the Paris summit but there is a
possibility that this only happened at the insistence of the French hosts.  That
was sensible because it prevented an almost certain split between the main
allies which would have damaged the other measures to be discussed.

It should be clear to all those who listened to the arguments in Paris yesterday
that a simplistic analysis of the problem of national and international
terrorism is doomed to failure.

Indeed, it is cruel to raise hopes of triumphant success when incremental gains
are the best hope. Co-operation is the way forward and the work of the Paris
meeting must be built upon.

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1996 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              387 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                            July 31, 1996, Wednesday

Contempt is the answer

BYLINE: Simon Jenkins

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 1401 words


Terrorists should not be glorified, but cut down to their puny size.

When an anarchist set off a bomb in the old days, the head of Scotland Yard
would summon a team of detectives and say, I want him caught''. Not today. Now
the world packs its bags and flies to an international conference to issue a
communique. When Hamas exploded a car bomb in Israel last March, President
Clinton summoned a terrorism conference at Sharm el Sheikh. When Arab
fundamentalists killed 11 Americans near Dhahran last month, Mr Clinton put
terrorism on the G7 agenda in Lyons. When a bomb brings down a TWA jet and
another explodes in Atlanta, he sends his Attorney-General to join the British
Home and Foreign Secretaries at a conference in Paris.

Terrorism conferences are two a penny. They are like state funerals, global,
hotel-busting, gut-wrenching photo-opportunities. They do not stop terrorism.
The only suspense concerns the number of points'' on the agenda. The 40 points
of last year's G7 had shrunk by yesterday to 25. The list was unbelievable.
After a quarter-century of conferring, after Lockerbie and Air India and now
TWA, people are still talking about forming an international database'' or new
means of identifying luggage'' or methods to avoid cash laundering''. Either
these proposals are trivial, or they really might counter terrorism. If the
first, this is a charade; if the second, those involved have been so negligent
over the years as to be accessories before the fact. The American
Attorney-General and the British ministers flew to Paris yesterday because both
countries have elections in the offing. But that is to compound their cynicism
with ours.

There is no such thing as international terrorism. It is a fantasy of Ian
Fleming's Dr No. All terrorism is domestic, even if sometimes executed abroad or
in the air. The killers at the Munich Olympics were not attacking Germany, but
Israel. The mayhem that afflicted the Mediterranean region in the 1980s was
directed at Western support for Israel. The Saudis who murdered the American
troops last month were not destabilising America, only Saudi Arabia. They
thought a big bomb might get the Americans out, as one drove the Americans from
Beirut in 1983. An IRA bomb in London is not meant to undermine the British
State; it just makes Britons fed up with Northern Ireland. It suits statesmen to
pretend otherwise, because it validates their posturing. But political violence
is specific in its motivation and local in its target. It should be handled by
the police.

Nothing seems to boost a dictator so much as to be accused of sponsor ing world
terror'' and ostracised. The world's longest established rulers Castro, Gaddafi,
Assad, Saddam Hussein, the Ayatollahs have all benefited from such pariah
status. American sanctions, plots, bombs and assassination attempts have served
only to impoverish their people and maintain them in power. Students of the
counter-productive in international relations need look no further than the
glamorisation of terrorism by the West.

The best that can be said for the Paris conference is that it should be
harmless. It was a reprise of March at Sharm el Sheikh, when President Clinton
and John Major stood shoulder to shoulder and told the terrorists, your day has
passed''; 29 world leaders stood against terror'' and would stop it. They
promptly agreed not to criticise Iran, Iraq, Syria and Libya in the final
communique, for fear of upsetting them and damaging trade. This timidity was
repeated yesterday.

When I saw the pictures of Presidents Clinton, Yeltsin, Mubarak and Arafat
smiling hand in hand, I wondered how long it would be before the IRA and Hamas,
the Chechens and the fundamentalists, or some random psychopath punctured their
smugness. The answer was, not long, as the US Air Force and the people of
Manchester learnt to their cost. Joseph Conrad's terrorist obeys a logic of his
own. He is a simpleton, calling madness and despair to the regeneration of the
world''. Our freedoms are the sea in which he swims. We let him buy weapons and,
in America, peruse the pages of Pipe and Fire-bomb Design. We believe in freedom
more than we fear terror.

The truth about random political violence is that there is nothing to be done
about it. Neither prevention nor deterrence has any effect. Catch one anarchist
and the amoeba divides. Small is strong. The world's most protected public
figures are gunned down in the street. The world's biggest armies are vulnerable
to a suicide bomber. The world's proudest democracy, the United Kingdom, can be
driven into emergency powers and special courts by a few dozen Irish killers.

There is nothing to do. Put another way, the one thing that can be done is
nothing. Random violence is insignificant, except to its immediate victims. It
kills a few people and wrecks a few buildings. True, the damage can run to
millions and attacks swamp the world's media for a day or two. But a summit
conference on earthquakes or gun-control or traffic accidents would save more
lives and make more sense.

President Clinton's speechwriter, clearly floundering this week for some bon
mot, suggested that the TWA and Atlanta outrages imperilled democratic values.
He promised not to let the acts of the wicked few destroy the dreams of the
many''.

But who ever said that they could?

He claimed that Atlanta's Centennial Park had become our national common ground,
a symbol of our common determination''. This is ludicrously exalting the
terrorist. It is setting him on a pedestal, turning the spotlight on his
violence and crediting him with a power that challenges presidents and nations.
It is as if the world's leaders have run out of real enemies and must pump puny
ones full of air so as to appear bigger before they are defeated.

This is doubly wrong, since these enemies are not big and yet cannot be
defeated. Terrorism does not undermine democracy. If democracy is vulnerable to
a bomb in a park, then it must be rotten indeed and Heaven preserve it from more
substantial enemies. Statesmen are flying round the globe to exchange platitudes
and trivial reforms in obeisance to the world's most squalid criminals.

Worse, they have selected for this honour the criminals on whom their
thunderbolts will have least impact. These gangs, or single individuals, will
not quake in their shoes after Paris. Pseudo-political killing is endemic in
open societies, as the Russians and the Americans are finding to their alarm.
Britain's much-trumpeted terrorist policing cannot stop a Docklands or a
Manchester bomb, any more than its trumpeted weapons laws could stop the
Dunblane massacre. The essence of random violence is its unpredictability. The
essence of a reasonably free community is that it is always vulnerable to such
attack.

Ido not believe that yesterday will have made anybody feel safer. All the
precautions taken after Lockerbie have not stopped an occasional bomb bringing
down an occasional plane. But the extent to which a bomb instils terror is a
function of the publicity given by politicians and the media to the outrage. It
is as if everyone involved in such a crime from sound-biting politicians to the
makers of body armour and X-ray machines had a vested interest in politicising
it. They need to squeeze from it every ounce of political and commercial juice.

In doing nothing about so-called terrorism, we are doing all we can. There are
two components to a terrorist act, the incident and the aftermath.

The first needs the oxygen of the second to instil terror, or it is merely a
misadventure. The first we cannot stop. The second we can at least mitigate. By
not surrounding the incident with hysterical posturing, we cut it down to size.
We make it seem a nuisance rather than a cataclysm. We stifle its capacity to
instil terror. We decline to be afraid.

Everyone who works on a newpaper knows how hard this maxim is to follow. For
some reason, we long to portray the criminal as a majestic demon, a figure of
towering horror. The often pathetic, inadequate murderer is depicted as a
fiend''. After yesterday's shenanigans in Paris, I am tempted to think that the
cause is lost. With such glittering prominence within his grasp, the terrorist
has what he most craves, fame. He has the whole world gunning for him, and that
means with him.


LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1996 Times Newspapers Limited

                              388 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 August 1, 1996

Army may help fight bug crisis

SECTION: Pg. 10

LENGTH: 565 words


TOKYO: Japan is considering ordering the army's anti-germ warfare unit to help
civilian health experts contain the 0-157 killer bacteria epidemic.

A Cabinet spokesman admitted that the government response had been slow to
battle the epidemic, which has killed seven people and infected nearly 9000
others, mostly in the western city of Sakai.

Macedonian deal

SKOPJE: Defence Secretary Michael Portillo signed a military co-operation
agreement during a visit to the former Yugoslav republic of Macedonia. He said
that Britain would help Macedonia remain independent and sovereign.

Troops on move

KUWAIT: US troops in Saudi Arabia will be moved to new locations in the kingdom
as soon as possible to improve security. The announcement follows a visit by US
Defence Secretary William Perry, who had talks with Saudi Defence Minister
Prince Sultan. A truck bomb at a US air base in Dhahran killed 19 airmen on June
25.

Eta blamed

MADRID: The Basque separatist terrorist organisation Eta was blamed yesterday
for a packet bomb which left a Spanish father and his son gravely injured at
Calatayud, in north-east Spain.

Admiral quits

NAPLES: US Admiral Leighton Smith handed over command of the Nato-led peace
force in Bosnia yesterday to his compatriot, Admiral Joseph Lopez, at the
Alliance's southern headquarters. Smith, 57, said his successor was "in for one
hell of a ride" in what Lopez noted had been described as "the hottest job in
the world".

Fears for 42

GUWAHATI: At least 42 people were feared dead after a ferry carrying at least 70
people capsized in a remote Indian river near the Chinese border on Tuesday.
Rescuers recovered eight bodies from the Noa Dihing river in the Tinsukia
district of the north-eastern state of Assam.

UN's flood plan

ROME: Hundreds of people may have died in the floods that have devastated North
Korea, leaving many homeless, said the UN World Food Programme. It claimed
millions had been affected and has expanded its emergency food aid programme to
feed at least 1.5 million North Koreans.

Bonner attack

MOSCOW: Russian human rights activist Yelena Bonner, speaking from hospital
where she is being treated for a heart problem, accused President Boris Yeltsin
yesterday of deceiving people over Chechnya. Bonner, 73, widow of Nobel Peace
Prize winner Andrei Sakharov, said Yeltsin's re-election for four more years in
power had turned out to be "a deception for millions of voters".  His desire for
peace Chechnya had been only pre-election words, she claimed.

Costa packet

MADRID: Holidaymakers to Spain will soon be paying up to 25p more for a large
measure of spirits after the government yesterday increased taxes on alcohol by
25%. Cigarettes will also cost about 25p a packet more.

Journalist cut

BUENOS AIRES: An Argentine journalist who uncovered a £166m bribery case
involving International Business Machines was attacked yesterday by a gang who
cut the letters I-B-M into his chest. It was the fourth attack on Santiago
Pinetta since he uncovered a corruption case involving state-owned Banco Nacion
and IBM's Argentine subsidiary.

Ready in a wink

BRUSSELS: Two Belgian inventors have come up with a way for people to show they
are carrying a condom - a small adhesive badge dubbed the "wink" which can be
stuck on clothes to indicate you have protection.

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1996 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              389 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            August 3, 1996, Saturday

something to declare

SECTION: TRAVEL; Page  15

LENGTH: 503 words


A likely story

"Direct services from the regions to start in 1996"

The promise contained in the 1996 French Railways brochure has been broken.
There is no likelihood of "new direct Eurostar services from Glasgow and
Manchester to both Paris and Brussels, and from Birmingham to Paris" that the
company says will begin this year. Rolling stock for the Paris services has been
delayed. To Brussels, the train operators are busy trying to fill existing
services from London, without the problem of having to sell tickets on extra
trains from Glasgow and Manchester to the Belgian capital.

No sign yet of the other great innovation in the French Railways brochure The
European Night Services linking London with Holland and Germany in the spring.

Trouble spots:

Advice from the Foreign Office on avoiding danger zones in Europe and the Middle
East

Corsica: "There have been several recent attacks on property belonging to
foreigners, including two British-registered yachts. Yacht owners should seek
advice from the harbourmaster on entering Corsican ports and should consider
moving on if they do not obtain adequate assurances of security while in port."

Spain: "Those wishing to travel to Spain should bear in mind the recent upsurge
in terrorist attacks apparently aimed at tourists, but British tourists have not
been singled out."

Bulgaria: "Recently the incidence of robbery with violence against foreigners
has increased, particularly on trains and near Sofia's central railway station.
Under no circumstances accept any food or drink from strangers as there is a
risk it may be drugged."

Israel: "There have been terrorist incidents during the last few months in
various parts of Israel, including Tel Aviv and Jerusalem, particularly bomb
explosions in buses and busy shopping areas and rocket attacks on northern
Israel from the Lebanon."

Saudi Arabia: "Following the bomb explosion at Al Khobar on 25 June there have
been press reports of a call by an Islamic extremist for Britain and France to
withdraw their military personnel from Saudi Arabia. In this context this could
be taken as an implied threat."

Iran: "There have recently been a number of cases of tourists being asked for
identification by bogus policemen, who have then made off with the visitor's
wallet and currency. Keep passports separate from other valuables."

Bargain of the week

The Worshipful Company of Shipwrights does not crop up often in these pages. But
the generosity of the guild could mean the trip of a lifetime for four young
readers. It is offering four grants, worth pounds 2,500, to allow sailors aged
18-25 to take part in the voyage of the ship Endeavour, a replica of Captain
Cook's vessel of discovery. In October, two places are available from Perth in
Australia to Port Elizabeth in South Africa, and two more for the 12-week voyage
to London starting in December. Young people with ocean sailing experience
should call the National Maritime Museum on 0181-312 6790.


LOAD-DATE: August 05, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1996 Independent Print Ltd

                              390 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                            August 3, 1996, Saturday

NEWS OF THE WORLD:

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 1283 words


SEX, DRUGS AND SECURITY SCANDAL AT DI'S HOME: A drag queen is running a drugs
ring inside Kensington Palace.  STREET RAT'S FOUND A RIGHT LITTLE SPLASHER: Look
Trish, we've found Terry Duckworth - as far away from Coronation Street as he
can get.  SEX SHAME OF RACHEL MURDER TECH: The cop who led the bungled Rachel
Nickell murder inquiry is today exposed as a sleazy sex cheat who is cashing in
on the crime with a secret book.  Sport: KEANE SHAME: Roy Keane plunged soccer
into the gutter yesterday as Manchester United's friendly with Ajax exploded
into shame.

seize Radovan Karadzic, the Bosnian Serb leader wanted for war crimes, in a
daring raid bitterly opposed by Britain.  PUBLIC GETS HOTLINE TO SHOP BENEFIT
CHEATS: The public will be urged to report people suspected of falsely claiming
state benefits in a new crackdown on social sercurity fraud to be launched
tomorrow.  TAXMAN TO STUDY BOOKS OF MILLIONAIRE TORY DONOR: The Inland Revenue
is making inquiries into the business affairs of Wafic Said, the Syria-born
businessman and Tory donor.  City REVEALED: BRITAIN'S METAL TSAR: A little-known
trader, Trans-World chairman David Reuben, has emerged as Britain's biggest
metal investor in the former Soviet Union and one of the UK's wealthiest men.

WILDCAT STRIKERS SET TO FACE HUGE DAMAGES CLAIM: The Tories are set to reverse
trade union immunity to damages claims arising from industrial action in
"essential services" in their forthcoming manifesto.  SOROS CHALLENGES CHINESE
OVER HONG KONG DOLLAR: Hong Kong is bracing itself for an attack from currency
speculators which could see it forced out of the pegged exchange rate with the
US, sparking off a stock market crash. Currency speculator George Soros is
leading the challenge, insiders say..  CHANNEL 4 FORCED TO CANCEL JACK WALKER
DOCUMENTARY: Channel 4 has abandoned a TV documentary on Blackburn Rovers
chairman Jack Walker after his lawyers intervened.

MONSTER!: A judge branded Alan Delaney Britain's most evil sex pest. Now he has
a house full of children.  GENERAL GAGGED OVER GULF WAR SYNDROME: Gulf War hero
Major General Patrick Cordingley has been gagged by defence chiefs for trying to
reveal his views on the mystery Gulf War Syndrome.  ANDY AND FERGIE HOST A
MARRIAGE CELEBRATION: Prince Andrew is to host a lavish party with his ex-wife
Fergie to celebrate ten years of marriage.  Sport: KEV CHASES £5 MILLION SEAMAN:
Kevin Keegan is set to copy Blackburn supremo Kenny Dalgish's title success by
splashing out more than £5 million for a world-class goalkeeper.  PEOPLE: YOUR
SHOW'S SICK, CILLA: Cilla Black's hit TV show Surprise, was slammed by welfare
experts for "playing with emotional fire" and wrecking people's lives.  £75 FOR
TOT'S GLASSES AS NHS SPECS WON'T FIT: A couple have had to fork out £75 for
their young son's specs because no NHS glasses will fit him.  I'LL RETURN, VOWS
BRAVE GLADIATOR PLUNGE GIRL: Paralysed Gladiators contestant Nicki Claxton
yesterday vowed to fight back to fitness for a second crack at the hit show.
Sport: COME BACK HOME: Arsenal have trained their sights on Manchester United
youngster David Beckham.

TOUGHEN UP ON STUDENTS: Universities are to introduce a revolutionary 'character
test' to weed out would-be students who do not have the drive or the basic
skills to make the most of their studies.  QUEEN MOTHER'S BIRTHDAY PROMISE: It
was a promise she made to a loyal friend - and one she did not forget amid the
celebrations of her 96th birthday, finding time to inaugurate a new village
sign.  EN FAMILLE IN PROVENCE: For John and Norma Major it is the perfect family
holiday. And for the partners of their two children, who have both gone too, it
is a sign they have earned the Prime Minister's approval.  City: CAR PARK KING'S
DRIVE TO THE EXIT: Millionaire car park boss Sir Donald Gosling is understood to
be seeking a £700 million buyer for his National Car Parks group ahead of the
General Election.  Sport: LINFORD BLASTS TRACK CHIEFS: Linford Christie last
night ruled himself out of playing a major role in the future development of
British athletics.  mf SUNDAY EXPRESS: ABORTION OF THE HEALTHY TWIN: Professor
Phillip Bennett faces a dilemma. His patient, 16 weeks pregnant, is carrying
healthy twins and cannot abide the prospect of having two children.  IMRAN
CHARITY FRAUD PROBE: Claims that money has been embezzled from Imran Khan's
cancer charity are being investigated by Scotland Yard.  £5 BILLION INTERNET
BILL TO WRECK BLAIR'S PLEDGE: Tony Blair's plan to connect every school in
Britain to the information super-highway is close to collapse.  City: HAMMER
STRIKES IT HOT: Maurice Saatchi's fast-expanding Meglomedia group is in
discussions with one of the best-known names in the British film industry -
Hammer Films - in a move which could see the creation of a chain of themed
Hammer Horror restaurants.  Sport: GIVE US GAMES: The Government will this week
ask Olympic team managers to draw up a blueprint for Britain's future sporting
success, including a bid to stage the Games, all funded by at least £320 million
from the National Lottery.

NEW FEAR OVER BSE IN MILK: Government scientists are urgently conducting fresh
research into the safety of cow's milk amid allegations that previous
experiments held to show milk cannot be infected with BSE have been unreliable
and inconclusive.  DONORS LEAD SCRAMBLE FOR STATE ASSETS: The secretive group of
donors to the Tory Party exposed in the Observer has moved closer to acquiring
lucrative state assets as the Government scrambles to unload them before the
general election.  MODEL LABOUR SET FOR MINISTER'S PRIZE: The Labour Party is in
line for a government-sponsored award as a model employer, raising the
intriguing possibility of a visit to Walworth Road by Board of Trade President
Ian Lang.  City: GERMANS BUY £130 MILLION LONDON OFFICES: Land Securities,
Britain's largest property company, has sold a flagship London building for £130
million to a German investment fund.

TAXPAYER FOOTS £450 MILLION BILL FOR RAIL PRIVATISATION ADVISORS: More than £450
million has been spend on lawyers, accountants and consultants during the
privatisation of the rail network, according to Government figures.  NEAR
DISASTER BLAMED ON SLIPPING STANDARDS: Only the vigilance of a signalman
prevented a rail disaster similar to the 1988 Clapham crash on the very day two
months ago when Railtrack was floated on the stockmarket.  BBC WINS OLYMPIC BOUT
WITH ITV: The BBC has largely won its high-stakes bet that Britain wanted
wall-to-wall coverage of the Olympics, according to the latest viewing figures.
City: WINNER TAKES ALL: No-one looked on with more tension and anticipation that
the world's corporate elite as Olympic competitors awaited the signal to lunge
for gold.

NEIGHBOURS URGED TO SNEAK ON BENEFIT CHEATS: Millions of people will be urged to
sneak on their neighbours with the launch of a national telephone hotline to
encourage tip-offs about benefit cheats.  US PREPARES AIR STRIKES AGAINST IRAN:
The Clinton administration is this weekend drawing up detailed plans for
military strikes against Iran to punish the Islamic regime for backing terror
attacks against the US.  PORTILLO IS CLEAR TORY FAVOURITE: Michael POrtillo's
prospects of becoming the next Tory leader have been boosted by a Sunday
Telegraph survey of the likely new intake of Tory MPs.  City: LAPORTE PUTS £300
MILLION TAG ON EVOSTIK: Laporte, the chamicals group, has put its entire
adhesives and sealants business, which makes Evostik, up for sale with a £300
million asking price as the next stage of its reorganisation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1996 The Press Association Limited

                              391 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                             August 4, 1996, Sunday

SNATCH AND JAB

BYLINE: Cal Mccrystal

SECTION: THE OBSERVER LIFE PAGE; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 4920 words

HIGHLIGHT: When this baby boy was given the hepatitis B vaccine, he suffered a
violent reaction. When his sister was born, their parents decided not to have
her immunised. The result? Armed policemen on the doorstep and a shocking battle
for custody of achild. Cal McCrystal reports


It may seem strange that Albrecht Bastian, a German vet, and his Philippine wife
Nenith, should have chosen to raise their children in strife-torn Northern
Ireland. In 1987, when they married and moved to County Fermanagh, the Troubles
showed no sign of abatement: a High Court judge was murdered, eight IRA men died
in an SAS ambush, soldiers and policemen were gunned down, an IRA bomb killed 11
and injured 63 in Enniskillen, and there was mayhem all over.

But, as it happened, they remained relatively untouched by the sectarianism
erupting and swirling around them. Nenith, a Roman Catholic, placed a Child of
Prague a colourful holy statue with a crown surmounted by a gold cross in a
front window of their house, which is in an unyieldingly Loyalist, rural
stronghold a few minutes from the shores of Lower Lough Erne, about six miles
from the Irish border. So far as is known, the plaster child provoked no
acrimony.

Yet when the Bastian's two flesh-and-blood children were born, trouble flowed in
torrents. Its source was an apparently simple matter: should the Bastians'
second baby be vaccinated? The parents thought not; the health authority
disagreed. Given that current Government policy is that parental consent must be
given before a child is immunised, you might have thought that the Bastians'
view would prevail. Yet the local health authority's conviction that the child
should be vaccinated made their lives so hard that their health deteriorated:
they couldn't eat, had difficulty in sleeping and lost weight. At one stage,
they had to hide their new-born infant Caecilia with a neighbour. Armed
policemen turned up on the doorstep. The Bastians were threatened with
imprisonment. Caecilia was made a ward of court.  The foreign family that had
sought a haven in rural Ulster was completely crushed; but the story of their
experience has wider implications, raising fundamental questions about the
rights of parents against those of the state to dictate a child's medical
treatment.

The Bastians live in a century-old, ochre-painted farmhouse in rolling green
countryside near the village of Kesh. The house overlooks a partly-wooded hollow
in what was once a deer park. It seems an ideal spot in which to raise children
in health, safety and freedom. The house is approached by a private road.
Clustered nearby are barns, outhouses, clumps of fuchsia and a walled vegetable
garden. While I was there, summer breezes sighed through alder and hornbeam,
shuffling the dappled shade.  Inside, the ceilings are high and timbered; the
walls hung with tranquil paintings in antique frames. It seems not the right
place from which to have conducted a war.

Albrecht and Nenith Bastian greeted me with polite reserve. At 35, he is thin,
with a long, sensitive face topped by a thick, black fringe and horizontally
divided by eyebrows and moustache of the same dark density. He wore a blue
polo-shirt tucked into belted trousers, and sandals over beige socks. He
addressed his wife as Nita, her pet name. She is 29, tiny in her blue denim
mini-dress, her face registering anxiety and calm alternately. Their children
Benedikt, who will be three in September, and Caecilia, who was a year old in
May were having their afternoon nap, and slept through most of what their
parents narrated to me.

The relentlessly bleak tale begins in 1989, two years after their marriage.
During a routine examination, the Bastians' local GP a Dr Melotte told Nenith
that a blood sample revealed her to be a carrier of the hepatitis B virus. Tests
on her husband showed that he had high antibody levels in his blood and was
therefore naturally immune to the virus. There had been no history of hepatitis
B in their respective families or among close friends and workmates.
Understandably, however, when Benedikt was due to be born at Omagh Hospital on
28 September 1993 the Bastians readily took Dr Melotte's advice to have the baby
vaccinated against hepatitis B within 12 hours of birth.

Benedikt showed no apparent reaction to the first shot, but a month later, soon
after his second, red spots appeared on the baby's face, increasing in number
and size in the ensuing weeks. Albrecht phoned his mother, a consultant in a
Cologne hospital and a member of the Swiss Paediatric Society. She suggested
calendula cream, but this, and other preparations, failed to halt the spread of
the eczema to Benedikt's upper arms, chest, shoulders and abdomen. The condition
developed into a 'weeping dermatitis'. Every possible allergenic food, including
most dairy products, were avoided during weaning. Strict hygiene was practised
to avoid infection.

In March 1994, the Bastians' new GP a Dr Hutchinson administered another booster
vaccination and advised the application of a corticosteroid cream and daily
antihistamines for the baby's skin condition. The parents, supported by Dr
Bastian in Cologne, declined. 'Both drugs are known to cause adverse reactions,
especially in a child of that age,' Albrecht said. By then, he had begun to read
as many medical opinions as he could find on the side effects of hepatitis B
vaccination.  Meanwhile, the dermatitis spread to the baby's legs and forearms.

Nita B bastian handed me some photographs from the time. They showed Benedikt at
six months, his entire body a fiery, weeping rash that turned his clothing pink.
It was not until he was one year old that his skin began to dry up. He has now
completely recovered. 'In view of the absence of any explanation from the
medical profession for the skin eruptions, we felt we had to keep an open mind
about a possible connection between the vaccination and the skin reactions,'
Albrecht said.

Towards the end of 1994, Nita Bastian became pregnant again. At the antenatal
clinic of the Erne Hospital in Enniskillen, she was examined by Dr S Cheah,
consultant obstetrician, who said the child would need to be vaccinated against
hepatitis B within 24 hours of delivery. Given the the trials and tribulations
with Benedikt, Albrecht said: 'I'm not so sure about this vaccination. . .' But,
he says, Dr Cheah 'did not discuss the matter. Both my wife and I felt deeply
disappointed.' On 15 March, 1995, two months before Nenith's second baby was due
to be born, her husband arrived home from work at the Northern Ireland
department of agriculture to find his wife in tears. She handed him a letter
that had arrived by recorded delivery. Signed by Dr Richard Smithson, consultant
in communicable disease control on the Western Health and Social Services Board
in Londonderry, it threatened court action should they withhold consent for the
vaccination.The letter also raised the possibility of the baby being made a ward
of court. Nita, says her husband, was so upset that, 'I was worried she might
even lose the child.' He decided to get other medical opinions from outside the
province. Among those he approached were Dr Kris Gaublomme, editor of The
International Vaccination Newsletter in Belgium; Prof Gordon Stewart, Emeritus
Professor of Public Health at the University of Glasgow, and Dr Peter Mansfield,
an English GP who, more than 25 years experience of officially recommended
vaccination procedures in Britain, had 'developed misgivings'. All expressed
reservations about the course of action being demanded by the Western Health
Board. In a paper written after Caecilia's birth, Dr Mansfield said: 'Adverse
reactions to all immunisation procedures occur far more frequently than is
stated in official literature. These are not trivial: prolonged catarrh,
coughing, mental irritability or skin rashes are common, and hundreds of more
serious examples are currently sub judice in British courts. . . Coercive
tactics are too readily employed by advocates of immunisation, who pay too
little attention to the individual misgivings of parents, and too little respect
to family hygiene. General hygiene and nutrition has, both historically and in
modern practice, played a far larger part in eradicating epidemic disease than
is generally realised.' The Bastians considered crossing the Irish border to
have the baby.  'But we discovered that the Western Health Board had been in
touch with hospitals in the Irish Republic about us,' Bastian said. Feeling
increasingly desperate, they decided to have the baby at home.

On 5 May, the Bastians' GP asked them to meet him 'as a matter of urgency' at
his surgery. There, a sympathetic Dr Hutchinson repeated the health board's
ultimatum, adding that their consent to vaccination had to be given by noon on 9
May. He gave them a written consent form, which the couple refused to sign.
Meanwhile, midwives prepared for a home delivery of the Bastians' second child,
and Caecilia was born at 4.45am on Sunday 14 May. Dr Maria Bastian, 75, had
arrived from Cologne for the birth. Events then moved at bewildering speed.

By 10am, Dr Hutchinson arrived to vaccinate the infant. When the parents refused
permission, he advised them that he would have to report it to the board. At
lunchtime, a senior social worker employed by the board informed him that
proceedings to obtain a ward of court order were going ahead. At 2.30, she rang
again to say an emergency court hearing was scheduled for 4.30pm at the High
Court in Belfast. It takes between 90 minutes and two hours to drive to Belfast.

Knowing he could not possibly marshal medical and legal advisors behind him on a
Sunday, in time for the hearing, Albrecht decided not to even try to attend it.
The medical opinions the parents had received were encouraging, in that all of
them from Italy, Germany, the United States, Australia, New Zealand and England
accepted the Bastians' concern and suggested that vaccination be postponed. Dr
Gaublomme's four-page opinion, dated 11 May, bristled with warnings against
proceeding with the first jab. Although Dr Gaublomme conceded that there was 'a
certain risk' that if a child at danger was not immunised, it might develop into
a chronic carrier and eventually produce liver damage, he also pointed out that:
'Vaccination itself, however, also may lead to liver damage. There is too little
data available to accurately outweigh both risks.' He concluded that, given the
reactions of Benedikt to vaccination, 'the risk of (Caecilia) to also developing
side-effects is considerably higher than it is with the average child. My
advice, therefore, would be not to vaccinate your child, or, if vaccination
cannot be avoided, to postpone this.' Among other reports sent to Albrecht were
New Zealand findings of an increased incidence of diabetes in infants who
received the hepatitis B vaccine. 'And that's just part of a long list of
reported side effects,' he says.

Anticipating trouble, Albrecht moved his wife and new-born child to a friend's
house nearby, 'to reduce the stress on her when the social services people
turned up. I wanted to protect my wife and child from the assault. I stayed here
with my mother and Benedikt.' At 4pm, two armed policemen, two female social
workers, three ambulance men (and an ambulance) arrived at the Bastians' home.
'I answered the door,' recalls Albrecht. 'They told me they were going to take
my wife and child to hospital for vaccination. They said it was not for us
parents to decide. I said that by natural divine law a child is subject to the
parents. It is there because the parents and the Creator wanted it there. The
child is the responsibility and duty of the parents who feed it, clothe it. They
have the direct mandate of looking over the child. I was preaching to deaf ears.

'Then I told them the child was not here. And they said if I didn't tell them
where the child was they would find it anyway.  They would have detectives out
in no time. They also said that if I succeeded in preventing this vaccination,
then, in later life should the child die as a consequence, I would be charged
with manslaughter.' Albrecht's mother protested, but to no avail. 'So at that
stage we gave in. I got the police to agree to let me collect my wife and child
and take them to Enniskillen Hospital accompanied only by the social workers.'
There, a doctor took a blood sample from the child's neck 'quite a traumatic
experience for a newborn baby, and distressing for us,' says Albrecht, who
claims this was done without explanation.

Dr Phillips injected the baby with the vaccine, while the two social workers
guarded the door outside, using walkie-talkies.  Nita Bastian seemed close to a
breakdown when she and her child were, as her husband puts it, 'set free'. But
before they returned to Kesh, the social workers reminded them that they, not
the parents, were legal custodians of Caecilia until she had had booster shots
at one month and six months.

Events had taken their toll on the Bastians. Albrecht was unable to work for
several weeks, lost a stone in weight, suffered from insomnia, dry mouth and
nervousness. His wife continued to be extremely agitated and was unable to
breastfeed Caecilia as she had intended.

But still the Bastians fought on. After receiving a copy of the court order,
they engaged a solicitor to appeal against it and prevent the booster shots. By
now national and local newspapers were sniffing around. The Mail on Sunday ('The
parents who refuse to have their baby protected against a killer disease') and
the Belfast Telegraph ('Vaccination of new-born baby leads to court battle') ran
stories which identified the Bastians and their children. At the same time,
Albrecht wrote to his MP, the Ulster Unionist Ken Maginnis, to tell him what was
going on in his constituency; he heard nothing. Maginnis admits, in an interview
with the local paper, avoiding the case 'because I don't know the right
answers'. When Albrecht wrote to Michael Ancram, the health minister at the
Northern Ireland Office, he received only an acknowledgement.

In the end, when the case finally came to the High Court, Lord Justice
MacDermott indicated that a solution between all the doctors involved should be
sought and agreed before the actual hearing. The doctors deliberated in a
consultation room for 90 minutes before Albrecht was called in to hear 'a
compromise solution'. Despite protests by the Bastian's expert witnesses
(Professor Stewart described the events as an assault upon the child, a
misunderstanding of its best interests, and an indecency to the parents'; while
Dr Mansfield said that the authorities would bear 'a heavy responsibility in the
event. . .  that the late effects of active immunisation at such an early age
prove in themselves to be damaging'), the court decided that Caecilia should
have booster shots, but to a delayed schedule. The whole vaccination programme
was to start again, but from the age of three months onwards.

Like her brother, Caecilia did not appear to react to the first shot. 'But 10
days after the second vaccination,' says her father, 'she developed red spots on
her face, very similar to Benedikt's reaction after his second innoculation at
one month.' The eczema spread to Caecilia's ears, forehead and shoulder. The
next booster shot was postponed for a month. A health board dermatologist
diagnosed the condition as infantile eczema, but conceded the possibility of a
link to the vaccine.

'I started asking precise questions about components in the vaccine, such as a
stabiliser, Thiomersal, which contains mercury not a very good thing to have
injected into you,' says Albrecht. 'The vaccine also contains formalin and
aluminium as well as the active vaccine itself. The doctor suggested patch tests
for Thiomersal and aluminium which, however, could not be carried out because
they did not have permission from the court. When permission was finally
obtained the tests appeared negative. But she said there was a possibility that
the child was allergic to the vaccine itself, but couldn't test this because it
would entail giving the child a greater dose of the vaccine than it would
receive in an actual vaccination which of course was pointless.' Increasingly
annoyed by the health board's behaviour, Albrecht told a board social worker
that he and his wife would go to any lengths to prevent further vaccinations,
'even if we have to take the child out of the country'. As a result, when he saw
his solicitor in Belfast, Albrecht was warned of imprisonment and recommended to
give a written assurance that he would not remove Caecilia from Northern
Ireland. 'In the event of our refusal to sign this assurance, the child would be
taken into care by the social services, I was told. Under this threat, my wife
and I finally signed it.' Caecilia was due for her next booster shot in January
this year.  'But we noticed her skin was yellowish, like a touch of jaundice. We
went to the GP who couldn't see much wrong with her, but he examined her urine
and her blood and postponed the vaccination until she was 100 per cent well. I
suggested that since he was checking her blood, he should check her immune
status. This was done in Belfast and the results were amazingly good. After only
two shots she had no trace of the virus in her blood, a relative high rate of
antibodies against the virus. Yet on the basis of these results, the health
board demanded that they proceed with the vaccination schedule.' The board was
clearly on a collision course with other experts.  When Professor Stewart faxed
the Chief Medical Office, Northern Ireland, in December, saying continued
vaccination of Caecilia was 'not in the best interest of the child and is
entirely contrary to the voluntary basis of the immunisation programme', he
received a two- line response: 'Thank you for your letter. . . I have noted your
comments.' But further help was at hand. Albrecht wrote to one of the leading
virologists in the United Kingdom, Professor Jangu Banatvala at St Thomas's
Hospital, London. 'I gave him the blood test details and he gave me a written
interpretation.' Prof Banatvala noted that'the child has antibodies of the
hepatitis B core antigen and, if this is the case (he later confirmed that it
was), this would suggest that despite prophylaxis, the child has acquired and
recovered from a sub-clinical infection with hepatitis B. If this is the case,
no further doses of hepatitis B vaccine will be necessary.' 'In other words,'
said Albrecht, 'the vaccine didn't work. The child built up her own immunity.'
Yet another court hearing followed in February; a further compromise emerged.
The health board would make do with one more booster shot in early March. This
done, however, the board demanded another blood sample. To the Bastians, the
order smacked of vindictiveness rather than concern for their child's wellbeing.

By June, the Bastians' problems were common knowledge in the British medical
profession. Editorials appeared in the London-based Bulletin of Medical Ethics.
In one, the editor, Dr Richard Nicholson, had to remind readers that 'this did
not happen in some backward dictatorship. It happened in Northern Ireland.' Dr
Nicholson was still afire when I spoke to him.  'The issue needs to be made
public,' especially, he says, when across Europe the trend has been towards
voluntary vaccination. Germany, where compulsion was the rule a couple of
decades ago, now relies on voluntary acceptance. Norway is about to make
voluntary its compulsory BCG vaccination of children. 'Public health authorities
in the UK, however, seem determined to move towards compulsion. What makes me
suggest that is the conduct of the mass vaccination campaign against measles and
rubella two years ago, where totally biased and often inaccurate information was
given to parents almost to coerce their consent. You've then got the Government
laying down that GPs must achieve at least 90 per cent vaccination in order to
get bonus payments, which has led to cases of GPs striking off their registers
people who don't want their children vaccinated. And now we have this individual
case where the Government has not intervened when a health authority has gone
for a court order.' In June, when the Bastian case was becoming a kind of cause
celebre, the Western Health Board contacted the Bastians' solicitor, saying it
had decided to drop the whole thing and that the court order would be lifted.

'It was good news for us,' says Albrecht. 'I think the board realised we would
not give in, and they were faced with the prospect of sending more armed
policemen to enforce a blood sample from a child. That would have been just a
bit too embarrassing.' And now what? 'My wife was very anxious to leave the
country, and begged me to do so for a whole year. I was very tempted to leave,
but now I see it differently. I think this massive criticism we have stirred up
will prevent them from ever trying such a thing again. That makes all we
suffered so worthwhile.'

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              392 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                             August 4, 1996, Sunday

RAID TO SNATCH KARADZIC 'WOULD PUT BRITISH LIVES AT RISK'

BYLINE:  Sian Clare, Political Correspondent, PA News

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 933 words


The lives of British soldiers would be put at risk by any move to snatch Radovan
Karadzic, the Bosnian Serb leader wanted for war crimes, in a commando raid,
Defence Secretary Michael Portillo warned today.  The United States is reported
to be drawing up plans for a strike by airborne special forces against Karadzic
at his base in Pale.  But today Mr Portillo cautioned against such a move,
saying that British, French and American lives might be sacrificed in this kind
of kidnapping raid.  "Remember, this is not a free option. If Karadzic were to
be snatched, my judgement is we would put at risk, we might sacrifice American,
British, French lives.  "The question that I am responsible for asking is how
many British lives that is worth.  "I'm not saying that that rules it out
completely. I'm saying that that is a very sombre calculation that would have to
be made," Mr Portillo told GMTV's Sunday Programme.

Britain's immediate priority was keeping stability in Bosnia and holding
elections in the country next month, Mr Portillo said, Snatching Karadzic could
be "counter-productive" because it could alienate the Bosnian Serbs in the
run-up to the elections.  But he added: "That judgment could change at any
time." Karadzic has been indicted by the United Nations war crimes tribunal in
The Hague.  Mr Portillo warned: "Karadzic should not sleep easy. He is going to
be brought to justice." According to today's Sunday Times, intelligence sources
in the US and Britain say the American military is poised to strike against
Karadzic. Undercover agents and equipment are said to be in place already.  But
Britain fears that snatching Karadzic could lead to reprisals against Nato
troops and risk re-igniting the war.  A raid could also lead to high numbers of
casualties among Karadzic's 2,000 fiercely loyal bodyguards.  Meanwhile Mr
Portillo, who held talks with US Defence Secretary William Perry last week, said
Britain was standing "shoulder to shoulder" against terrorism against Western
citizens in the Middle East.  British troops serving in Saudi Arabia could be
targeted by the terrorists who killed 19 American soldiers in June, he warned.
Speculation is mounting that the US may decide to mount a strike against Iran if
it is proved to be the guilty party - and that the Americans may want to use
British bases to launch a strike.  Asked whether he would let the US use British
bases to launch an attack on Iran, or to mount a raid to grab Karadzic, Mr
Portillo said: "We have this very strong relationship.  "I am pleased to say
that any scars that there were from our previous disagreements about Bosnia have
been put behind us.  "We're working very closely together. We're standing
shoulder to shoulder against terrorism in the Bosnian operation and in what
we're doing in Saudi Arabia. This is very close co-operation between allies.  "I
won't speculate upon particular events or particular requests, but it is very
close," he said.

Mr Perry has talked openly of the need for tough action against the terrorists
involved in the attack at the military housing complex near Dhahran in Saudi
Arabia on June 25.  Mr Portillo said that although Mr Perry had mentioned Iran,
it was too early to jump to the conclusion that it was involved Both the US and
Britain would require "absolute clear evidence" that a third country had been
involved before any action was taken, he stressed.  But he warned: "These
Americans who were killed could have been British. There are lots of British out
there." The RAF was out there flying missions over Iraq to show the presence of
the West in the area to resist aggression, he said.  Asked about the terrorists'
possible future targets, Mr Portillo said: "It could be us. It could be the
French, they're there as well. This is a campaign, I am sure, against the West
and all the powers who would bring about security in the region." The terrorists
were "trying to drive out the Western powers and make that region insecure, cut
off oil to the West, unleash extremism of one sort or another" he said.
"Therefore we need to be extremely robust. We must be absolutely side by side
with our American allies," he said.  "We're all united both in maintaining the
mission in Saudi Arab

LAN

Mr Portillo today condemned the refusal by Croats in Mostar to accept the local
elections results there.  He warned it was a bad sign in advance of the
elections across Bosnia-Herzegovina on September 14.  Mr Portillo said the EU
may decide to withdraw from Mostar, which would leave Nato to provide the
overall security umbrella.  He called for more pressure to get the Croats to
accept the Mostar election results.  "Pressure on the Croats and indeed on the
Serbs should be intensified. We have to look to the people who are on the scene
to provide the conditions for peace in Bosnia-Herzegovina," he told BBC Radio
4's The World This Weekend.  "Sanctions is certainly one of the weapons which
the international community must have in its locker," he said.  "The
international community, having sacrificed men in Bosnia-Herzegovina, having put
billions of pounds into it, having taken refugees from Bosnia-Herzegovina, we
all feel we have the right to demand of those who are closest to the scene the
greatest cooperation in trying to produce ... peace and a democratic outcome."
Mr Portillo also dismissed as "inconceivable" reports that Britain could be left
alone holding the baton in Bosnia.  "It must be a Nato decision. That means we
would expect all Nato countries to leave together or to stay together," he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1996 The Press Association Limited

                              393 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                             August 4, 1996, Sunday

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 1322 words


What the papers say:

NEWS OF THE WORLD: SEX, DRUGS AND SECURITY SCANDAL AT DI'S HOME: A drag queen is
running a drugs ring inside Kensington Palace.  STREET RAT'S FOUND A RIGHT
LITTLE SPLASHER: Look Trish, we've found Terry Duckworth - as far away from
Coronation Street as he can get.  SEX SHAME OF RACHEL MURDER TECH: The cop who
led the bungled Rachel Nickell murder inquiry is today exposed as a sleazy sex
cheat who is cashing in on the crime with a secret book.  Sport: KEANE SHAME:
Roy Keane plunged soccer into the gutter yesterday as Manchester United's
friendly with Ajax exploded into shame.

SUNDAY TIMES: BRITAIN WARNS US NOT TO KIDNAP SERB LEADER: America has drawn up
plans to seize Radovan Karadzic, the Bosnian Serb leader wanted for war crimes,
in a daring raid bitterly opposed by Britain.  PUBLIC GETS HOTLINE TO SHOP
BENEFIT CHEATS: The public will be urged to report people suspected of falsely
claiming state benefits in a new crackdown on social sercurity fraud to be
launched tomorrow.  TAXMAN TO STUDY BOOKS OF MILLIONAIRE TORY DONOR: The Inland
Revenue is making inquiries into the business affairs of Wafic Said, the
Syria-born businessman and Tory donor.  City REVEALED: BRITAIN'S METAL TSAR: A
little-known trader, Trans-World chairman David Reuben, has emerged as Britain's
biggest metal investor in the former Soviet Union and one of the UK's wealthiest
men.

SUNDAY BUSINESS: WILDCAT STRIKERS SET TO FACE HUGE DAMAGES CLAIM: The Tories are
set to reverse trade union immunity to damages claims arising from industrial
action in "essential services" in their forthcoming manifesto.  SOROS CHALLENGES
CHINESE OVER HONG KONG DOLLAR: Hong Kong is bracing itself for an attack from
currency speculators which could see it forced out of the pegged exchange rate
with the US, sparking off a stock market crash. Currency speculator George Soros
is leading the challenge, insiders say..  CHANNEL 4 FORCED TO CANCEL JACK WALKER
DOCUMENTARY: Channel 4 has abandoned a TV documentary on Blackburn Rovers
chairman Jack Walker after his lawyers intervened.

SUNDAY MIRROR: MONSTER!: A judge branded Alan Delaney Britain's most evil sex
pest. Now he has a house full of children.  GENERAL GAGGED OVER GULF WAR
SYNDROME: Gulf War hero Major General Patrick Cordingley has been gagged by
defence chiefs for trying to reveal his views on the mystery Gulf War Syndrome.
ANDY AND FERGIE HOST A MARRIAGE CELEBRATION: Prince Andrew is to host a lavish
party with his ex-wife Fergie to celebrate ten years of marriage.  Sport: KEV
CHASES £5 MILLION SEAMAN: Kevin Keegan is set to copy Blackburn supremo Kenny
Dalgish's title success by splashing out more than £5 million for a world-class
goalkeeper.

PEOPLE: YOUR SHOW'S SICK, CILLA: Cilla Black's hit TV show Surprise, was slammed
by welfare experts for "playing with emotional fire" and wrecking people's
lives.  £75 FOR TOT'S GLASSES AS NHS SPECS WON'T FIT: A couple have had to fork
out £75 for their young son's specs because no NHS glasses will fit him.  I'LL
RETURN, VOWS BRAVE GLADIATOR PLUNGE GIRL: Paralysed Gladiators contestant Nicki
Claxton yesterday vowed to fight back to fitness for a second crack at the hit
show.  Sport: COME BACK HOME: Arsenal have trained their sights on Manchester
United youngster David Beckham.

MAIL ON SUNDAY: TOUGHEN UP ON STUDENTS: Universities are to introduce a
revolutionary 'character test' to weed out would-be students who do not have the
drive or the basic skills to make the most of their studies.  QUEEN MOTHER'S
BIRTHDAY PROMISE: It was a promise she made to a loyal friend - and one she did
not forget amid the celebrations of her 96th birthday, finding time to
inaugurate a new village sign.  EN FAMILLE IN PROVENCE: For John and Norma Major
it is the perfect family holiday. And for the partners of their two children,
who have both gone too, it is a sign they have earned the Prime Minister's
approval.  City: CAR PARK KING'S DRIVE TO THE EXIT: Millionaire car park boss
Sir Donald Gosling is understood to be seeking a £700 million buyer for his
National Car Parks group ahead of the General Election.  Sport: LINFORD BLASTS
TRACK CHIEFS: Linford Christie last night ruled himself out of playing a major
role in the future development of British athletics.

SUNDAY EXPRESS: ABORTION OF THE HEALTHY TWIN: Professor Phillip Bennett faces a
dilemma. His patient, 16 weeks pregnant, is carrying healthy twins and cannot
abide the prospect of having two children.  IMRAN CHARITY FRAUD PROBE: Claims
that money has been embezzled from Imran Khan's cancer charity are being
investigated by Scotland Yard.  £5 BILLION INTERNET BILL TO WRECK BLAIR'S
PLEDGE: Tony Blair's plan to connect every school in Britain to the information
super-highway is close to collapse.  City: HAMMER STRIKES IT HOT: Maurice
Saatchi's fast-expanding Meglomedia group is in discussions with one of the
best-known names in the British film industry - Hammer Films - in a move which
could see the creation of a chain of themed Hammer Horror restaurants.  Sport:
GIVE US GAMES: The Government will this week ask Olympic team managers to draw
up a blueprint for Britain's future sporting success, including a bid to stage
the Games, all funded by at least £320 million from the National Lottery.

OBSERVER: NEW FEAR OVER BSE IN MILK: Government scientists are urgently
conducting fresh research into the safety of cow's milk amid allegations that
previous experiments held to show milk cannot be infected with BSE have been
unreliable and inconclusive.  DONORS LEAD SCRAMBLE FOR STATE ASSETS: The
secretive group of donors to the Tory Party exposed in the Observer has moved
closer to acquiring lucrative state assets as the Government scrambles to unload
them before the general election.  MODEL LABOUR SET FOR MINISTER'S PRIZE: The
Labour Party is in line for a government-sponsored award as a model employer,
raising the intriguing possibility of a visit to Walworth Road by Board of Trade
President Ian Lang.  City: GERMANS BUY £130 MILLION LONDON OFFICES: Land
Securities, Britain's largest property company, has sold a flagship London
building for £130 million to a German investment fund.

INDEPENDENT ON SUNDAY: TAXPAYER FOOTS £450 MILLION BILL FOR RAIL PRIVATISATION
ADVISORS: More than £450 million has been spend on lawyers, accountants and
consultants during the privatisation of the rail network, according to
Government figures.  NEAR DISASTER BLAMED ON SLIPPING STANDARDS: Only the
vigilance of a signalman prevented a rail disaster similar to the 1988 Clapham
crash on the very day two months ago when Railtrack was floated on the
stockmarket.  BBC WINS OLYMPIC BOUT WITH ITV: The BBC has largely won its
high-stakes bet that Britain wanted wall-to-wall coverage of the Olympics,
according to the latest viewing figures.  City: WINNER TAKES ALL: No-one looked
on with more tension and anticipation that the world's corporate elite as
Olympic competitors awaited the signal to lunge for gold.

SUNDAY TELEGRAPH: NEIGHBOURS URGED TO SNEAK ON BENEFIT CHEATS: Millions of
people will be urged to sneak on their neighbours with the launch of a national
telephone hotline to encourage tip-offs about benefit cheats.  US PREPARES AIR
STRIKES AGAINST IRAN: The Clinton administration is this weekend drawing up
detailed plans for military strikes against Iran to punish the Islamic regime
for backing terror attacks against the US.  PORTILLO IS CLEAR TORY FAVOURITE:
Michael POrtillo's prospects of becoming the next Tory leader have been boosted
by a Sunday Telegraph survey of the likely new intake of Tory MPs.  City:
LAPORTE PUTS £300 MILLION TAG ON EVOSTIK: Laporte, the chemicals group, has put
its entire adhesives and sealants business, which makes Evostik, up for sale
with a £300 million asking price as the next stage of its reorganisation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1996 The Press Association Limited

                              394 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                             August 5, 1996, Monday

USELESS, SMUG & ARROGANT;
YANKS, BUT NO THANKS;
TONY PARSON'S COLUMN

BYLINE: Tony Parson

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 2307 words


Poor old America. The Olympics end with the host nation loaded with medals but
hardly covered in glory.

Atlanta has proved that Uncle Sam is a very sick old man.

Atlanta was awash with boorish crowds, bad losers and patriotism so cheap that
it would have made Michael Portillo blush.

The self-obsessed hosts proved themselves incapable of recognising greatness
unless it came with an American passport.

One of the most repulsive sights was a little, fat, bald old man - who turned
out to be Bruce Willis chanting, "USA! USA!" surrounded by America's gold
winning gymnasts.

With his moronic bellowing and pathetic gibes about other nations, Bruce Willis
spoke for all America. These people don't know how to win. And they sure don't
know how to lose.

In the pool, Ireland's Michelle Smith won three gold medals and a bronze - one
of the greatest Olympian achievements of all time. The entire world rose to
applaud her. Apart from the Americans who conducted a vindictive whispering
campaign against an Irish girl who had beaten them fair and square.
Pathetically, they just couldn't take it.

There were some undoubtedly great athletes in American colours. But real
sporting heroes like Carl Lewis are a dying breed. Now the American champions
are mostly smug loudmouths who inspire admiration rather than affection.

Beyond the narcissistic tears he sheds on the winner's rostrum, Michael Johnson
is so arrogant that he makes Linford Christie look like Bobby Charlton.

And whatever happened to American efficiency? The Olympics went smoothly in
Barcelona and Seoul. But the organisation in have-a-nice-day Atlanta was so
lousy that foreign athletes couldn't wait to get out of the place.

These days the Yanks can't even get their buses to run on time.

The terrorist bomb in Atlanta's Centennial Park turned a farce into a nightmare.
But who planted the bomb? A publicity-seeking nut? A militia man with a grudge
against central government? Chelsea Clinton?

What matters most is that it was almost certainly planted by an American.  That
is the crucial difference between terrorism here and in America.  The bombs in
British streets are planted by outsiders who despise us.

As the Oklahoma bombing proved, the bombs in the streets of the USA are quite
likely to be planted by some all-American boy.

Out in the endless woods and deserts of America there are 200 known militia
groups - private armies loaded with guns, bombs and Rambo fantasies.

All of these self-employed soldiers have a bitter loathing of Washington.

Meanwhile America's inner cities are polluted with gangs, drugs and racial
tension that could erupt at any moment. America is a country at war with itself.

The tragedy of Dunblane has inspired debate about the gun laws in Britain.  And
that debate will continue, despite Tories blocking the ban on the private
ownership of hand guns.

What we should do is consider the way America treats guns and then do exactly
the opposite. For America is a country with gun laws that should be unthinkable
in any civilised society.

This is where the murderous can buy a gun as though it was breakfast cereal.
Yet America still suffers from pitiful delusions of grandeur.

The big film in the States this summer was Independence Day - an enjoyable romp
about how American guts and gumption save the planet from invading aliens.

But the notion that America can save the world is now as far-fetched as any tale
about little green men. America can't even save itself.

This may have been the American century, but the century is almost over.

So we shouldn't feel too bad that our medals total is only on a par with
Belarus, Kazakhstan and Belgium.

Americans may have more gold, silver and bronze than us. But where would you
rather live?

A WISE BUY OR A SHEAR WASTE?

Princess Diana received pounds 15 million just for shacking up with our bat
-eared future king for a few years.

There are Hollywood actors who get countless millions for appearing in some
mindless blockbuster. There are pop stars who become millionaires with a little
light crooning.

So why shouldn't Newcastle pay pounds 15 million for Alan Shearer?

There are two possible reasons. The first is that it is morally obscene to pay
so much money for any footballer.

And the second is that it is not good business to pay that much for Alan
Shearer.

Few would argue that the money paid for Shearer is out of all proportion to the
good he does to society. Of course it is outrageous that his transfer fee could
pay the yearly wages of 1,000 nurses.

Unfortunately, the choice was never between Shearer and the NHS.

Yes, we should pay nurses far more than we do now. But is naive to expect
Newcastle United's chairman and sugar daddy, Sir John Hall, to do the
Government's job for it.

This is an unfair world where nobody is paid for their intrinsic worth to
society. Wages are determined by market value. And pounds 15 million is
certainly Shearer's market value because there was more than one football club
ready to pay it.

But is Shearer a sound investment? Only if Newcastle start winning trophies.

For a football team to win the league championship, they sometimes have to win
even when they are playing badly.

The reason that Manchester United won the Premiership last season is because
Newcastle started losing even when they were playing well. At Anfield they put
three goals past Liverpool. But they let in four.

So it is difficult to see what Shearer will bring to Newcastle. Yes, he is one
of the greatest centre forwards that England has ever produced.

But Newcastle would have been far better off buying David Seaman.

It's news to Asda

Andy Warhol said that in the future everyone would be famous for 15 minutes.
Surely he meant that once famous, you are famous forever?

Certainly, former newsreader Jan Leeming has discovered that's the case.

She filmed a commercial for Asda where she was shown admiring the supermarket
chain's vitamins and medicines.

But the Royal Pharmaceutical Society complained that the ad broke TV regulations
which forbid endorsements by people "who, because of their celebrity, could
encourage the consumption of medicinal products."

In their defence, Asda rather rudely declared that Jan was no longer a
personality as she has not read the news for nine years.

But Jan - still a cracker at 54 - was ruled to be still famous and the ad will
not be shown.

Asda are left searching for someone truly obscure.

I wonder if Little Jimmy Osmond is available?

GROWN UP - TO TAKE THE MICHAEL

As Gary Barlow and Robbie Williams prove, teen idols have to grow up or die.
Those that have waggled their bums to the delight of millions of screaming girls
one day have to get a new adult identity or get a day job.

With his first solo single, Forever Love, Gary Barlow chose to become a slim,
thoughtful, rather melancholy balladeer.

With his own single, Freedom 96, Robbie Williams has transformed himself into an
independent creature who can't be tamed by his record company, adoring fans or
old career.

Gary and Robbie both have a shiny new identity. Unfortunately both of those
identities belong to George Michael.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SUPPORT: Bruce and wife Demi Moore (left);; PRICEY: Shearer;; LASTING
FAME: Jan Leeming

                            Copyright 1996 MGN Ltd.

                              395 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                             August 5, 1996, Monday

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 1626 words


What the papers say

TIMES: PRESSURE GROWS FOR US RAIDS ON TEHRAN: Republican leaders in America,
placing pressure on the Clinton administration, last night urged military
strikes against reported terrorist camps in Iran if the United Nations failed to
persuade Tehran to close them.  A-LEVEL RECORD SPARKS STANDARDS ROW: A-Level
pass rates are set to rise to record levels this month, boosted by the first
major set of grades from "test as you go" modular courses.  BMA BACKS DOCTOR WHO
ABORTED TWIN: Doctor's leaders last night defended as "ethical" a leading
obstetrician to abort a healthy twin whose single mother cannot cope with two
babies.  City: SHRINKING RESERVES HIT NORTH SEA PROSPECTS: Britain's oil
industry faces a bleak future of shrinking reserves and declining production,
according to a report published today by leading consultants. Failure by oil
companies to replace current production with discoveries of new oil and gas
fields raises the prospect of an industry falling into decline after peaking in
1998 and 1999.  VIRGIN ATLANTIC ABOUT TO SIGN CARIBBEAN CARRIER DEAL: Virgin
Atlantic is close to sealing a £30 million deal which could lead to Richard
Branson's airline taking control of BWIA International Airways, one of the main
carriers between the UK and the Caribbean.

TELEGRAPH: WOMAN TO ABORT ONE OF HER HEALTHY TWINS: A mother expecting twins is
to have one of them aborted, because she says she cannot cope with having two
more children.  THE QUEEN MOTHER, A VINTAGE 96: Queen Elizabeth the Queen Mother
celebrated her 96th birthday at Sandringham yesterday and was toasted with
champagne as she left church.  VOTERS 'RETURN TO THE TORY FOLD': Hopes of a
revival in Conservative Party fortunes in time for the next election receive a
boost today with a poll showing disillusioned Tories returning to the fold in
greater numbers than ever before.  City: NATIONAL POWER WINS AUSTRALIAN MARKET
SHARE: National Power yesterday completed a British electricity double in
Australia after winning the auction to buy a power station in Victoria.
DISCOVERIES DECLINE IN NORTH SEA OILFIELDS: North Sea oil production is on
course to reach a new peak of 3m barrels a day by 1998 and 1999 but the rate and
size of discoveries is slowing, according to the latest analysis by Wood
Mackenzie, the oil consultancy arm of NatWest Markets.

INDEPENDENT: NEW EXAMINATION SYSTEM SET TO BOOST A-LEVEL PASS RATE: The A-level
pass rate will rise again this year because of changes that allow students to
spread revision throughout their courses rather than having to do it all at the
end, examination boards predict.  NHS 'WASTING MILLIONS ON FAILED COMPUTER
PROJECTS': The National Audit Office has launched a preliminary investigation
into allegations that millions of pounds have been wasted on computer projects
which have failed to deliver, are late and in some cases may never work properly
at all.  VIRTUAL WELCOME FOR FIRM'S RECRUITS: After the paperless office and the
golden hello, a firm of accountants has dreamed up the next stage in technology:
the virtual welcome.  City: CELLNET IN BATTLE OVER NUMBER PORTABILITY: Cellnet,
the mobile telephone network owned jointly by BT and Securicor, has launched a
behind-the-scenes campaign to prevent the introduction of mobile number
portability, where customers can change networks but keep their existing number.
AUCTION OF BBC TRANSMISSION SERVICES AIMS TO RAISE £250M: The BBC will this week
finalise plans for the privatisation of its transmission services, prior to an
auction aimed at raising as much as £250m.

FINANCIAL TIMES: LABOUR SHIFT ON SOCIAL CHAPTER: Labour is hardening its stance
on the EU's social chapter, making clear that if it forms the next government it
will not necessarily accept increased involvement by Brussels in British
employment practice.  BANK LIKELY TO WARN AGAINST MORE RATE CUTS: The Bank of
England is expected to caution this week that UK interest rates should not be
cut further if the government is to meet its inflation target of 2.5% or less.
SITE ROW HITS PLAN FOR OXFORD BUSINESS SCHOOL: Oxford University faces mounting
opposition to its plans to build a leading business school using a £20 million
donation by Wafic Said, the Saudi entrepreneur.  Companies and Markets: RANK TO
SEEK £300m FROM DISPOSALS: Rank Organisation, the diversified leisure group, has
drawn up plans for a disposal programme to raise up to £300m as part of a
radical restructuring by Andrew Teare, its chief executive.  USAIR IN MOVE TO
END LINK WITH BA: The US courts are to be asked to sever the three-year link
between USAir, the American carrier, and British Airways.  KLEINWORT FACES KEPIT
REBELLION: Independent directors of Kepit, the £500m privatisation investment
trust in the midst of a takeover battle, are mounting a revolt against Kleinwort
Benson Investment Management, its manager.

GUARDIAN: TREASURY SWEETENS DSS SALE: The Treasury is preparing to offer
sweeteners worth hundreds of millions of pounds to encourage property developers
to conclude a £4 billion deal to buy the nation's social security offices before
the general election.  BRITISH DIVERS SELL THEIR SOLES: The sad, penniless state
of British sport, which has endured its worst Olympic Games for 20 years, was
exposed again last night when two divers said they had been forced to sell their
official issue Olympic kit to raise money for a night out.  'NO NEW ISSUE' IN
ABORTION OF TWIN: The first abortion of one of a healthy pair of twins because
the mother said she could not cope with both raises no new ethical issues, a
leading member of thew British Medical Association said last night.  City
SHEPHARD BLOCKS JOBLESS SURVEY: Gillian Shephard, the Employment and Education
Secretary, has blocked plans for a new monthly measure of unemployment that
could paint a gloomier picture of job prospects.  RANK PREPARES FOR £300M ASSETS
CLEARANCE SALE: Rank Organisation, the leisure conglomerate, will this week
announce that it is selling up to £300 million of assets as part of a
wide-ranging overhaul of the business by new chief executive Andrew Teare.

EXPRESS: PORTILLO TURNS HEAT ON MAJOR: Michael Portillo yesterday shattered the
Cabinet's fragile truce on a single European currency.  EUROPE MILK THREAT AFTER
MAD COW TESTS: Britain's £7 billion dairy industry was under threat from Europe
last night after Government scientists admitted testing milk for mad cow
disease.  US ALERT OVER NEW TERROR RAID: President Clinton yesterday ordered the
evacuation of 700 wives and children of US servicemen in Saudi Arabia amid fears
of further terrorist attacks.  Sport: QUICK SILVER BLACK PLANS GOLDEN RULE FOR
FAB FOUR: The eldest of the four called the young troops to his room and told
them to make history. They knew the look in his eyes and, in less than three
minutes of sensational running, the words of Roger Black were answered.  MEDAL
BLOW FOR NICK: British swimmer Nick Gillingham is vowing to fight for his bronze
medal after the Russian who beat him was reinstated despite failing a drugs
test.

MAIL: OLYMPICS - THE FINAL SELL-OUT: Two of Britain's top divers hawked their
official team kit on an Atlanta street last night in the final shaming of our
Olympics squad.  PHONE CODES ARE RINGING THE CHANGES AGAIN: Telephone users are
facing another massive shake-up of the dialling code system, the industry's
watchdog will confirm today.  PORTILLO HINTS AT A NO-GO FOR THE EURO: Michael
Portillo indicated yesterday that Cabinet could get off the fence over a single
European currency 'quite soon'.  Sport: DRUGS FIASCO: Nick Gillingham was facing
new Olympic heartbreak last night. The 29-year-old Briton had been officially
told that he would be presented with the bronze medal after the Russian who beat
him in the 200m breast-stroke tested positive for drugs.

MIRROR: £10 ... PRICE OF MY LIFE: Two dying patients have been robbed of a year
of extra life because the Health Service can't afford their £10-a-day treatment.
WIFE OF BRIAN: Jolson star Brian Conley wed Anne-Marie Aindow yesterday in a
ceremony full of romance, quips - and surprises.  SCANDAL OF BRITAIN'S OLYMPIC
BEGGARS: Two broke British Olympic stars were reduced to selling their sports
gear on the streets of Atlanta like beggars.  Sport: OFFICIAL - A BUNCH OF
SHEPHERDS ARE BETTER THAN BRITAIN: A nation of goat-keepers and shepherds last
night humiliated the might of Great Britain's Olympic team.  THE UNION JOKE:
Only once was the National Anthem played. Only once was the Union Jack raised
above all other flags in a victory ceremony.

SUN: £2M A YEAR: Soccer superstar Alan Shearer will earn a staggering £2 MILLION
a year at Newcastle United - more than £6 for very second he is on the pitch.
OASIS RANT AT DJ EVANS: Oasis bad boys Noel and Liam Gallagher unleashed an
astonishing foul-mouthed attack on DJ Chris Evans in front of 40,000 fans.
CABINET SPLIT OVER GUNS BAN: Home Secretary Michael Howard has sparked a Cabinet
split by refusing to back demands to outlaw handguns.  Sport: SAKI AS PARROT:
Kevin Keegan branded his stars an embarrassment after this humiliation by a
second-rate Japanese side.  FERGIE'S IN KNEED: Manchester United prepare for the
Wembley showdown with Alan Shearer knowing their championship team is already in
tatters.

STAR: ROSE AND CROWN: Prince Charles is spending £350 a week on flowers for his
mistress.  ITS CHUNDERWALL: Barmy Oasis fans lived up to their reputation as the
world's craziest - leaving a trail of destruction at their sell-out gigs.
Sport: OUR SHAME: Two British athletes have been forced to sell their Olympic
kit because they are so hard up.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1996 The Press Association Limited

                              396 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 August 6, 1996

EX-SOLDIER ADMITS IRA BOMBING

BYLINE: Owen Bowcott And Conor Foley

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 854 words


A FORMER Parachute Regiment cook who deserted in Northern Ireland at the height
of the Troubles yesterday pleaded guilty to leading the IRA's bombing of Ripon
barracks in north Yorkshire 22 years ago.

Peter McMullen, nicknamed "Pete the Para", had spent nine years in a New York
prison fighting extradition even though he had admitted causing the explosions.

Grey-haired and leaning on a walking stick, McMullen, 49, said little when he
appeared at York crown court to plead guilty to four charges under the
Explosives Act. Sentencing was postponed until October.

There were no warnings for the four bombs at Claro Barracks, near Ripon, in
March 1974 which devastated buildings and injured the manageress of a NAAFI
shop. The devices had been triggered by cheap Japanese alarm clocks. It was the
Provisional IRA's first bombing of an army barracks in Britain.

Born in Magherafelt, Co Londonderry, McMullen joined the British army in 1963, a
career move not uncommon for young Catholic men then. His loyalties were torn
when the First Battalion of the Parachute Regiment was posted to Northern
Ireland in the early 1970s.

The final split came in January 1972. In an interview last year, before
returning to Britain, he said he had feared what his fellow paratroopers were
planning. "There had been confrontation on a march a few days beforehand," he
recalled, "and they were talking in the mess about the need to show the marchers
who was boss." He deserted three days before Bloody Sunday, when 14 nationalist
protesters were shot dead in Bogside by soldiers from his regiment.

He used family connections to contact the IRA and the Belfast Brigade welcomed
his military expertise. After carrying out the Ripon bombings, he was arrested
in Dublin in late 1974. He served several years for arms offences, during which,
he claims, he became disillusioned with the IRA because of the pub bombings in
Birmingham and Guildford.

After release he was sent to the United States on republican business but was
recalled to face an IRA court martial. He fled back to New York and sought
political asylum to avoid deportation for being an illegal alien.

His complex predicament left him a lonely figure, cut off from the support of
republican circles and facing extradition proceedings to Britain. Despite being
granted political asylum - the first time such a category was conferred on an
IRA suspect - his case became the subject of protracted legal wranglings.

In 1986 he lost his right to stay and was preparing to return to Dublin
voluntarily when a new extradition treaty with Britain came into force. After
nine years, mainly in New York's Metroplitan Correction Centre, he accepted he
would have to return to face the British courts.

When Gerry Adams, the president of Sinn Fein, visited Washington in November
1994, he was said to have handed President Clinton a list of 20 people in US
custody whose release would advance the peace process. McMullen's name had
allegedly been crossed off.

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              397 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 August 6, 1996

Former soldier admits Army bomb attack 22 years ago

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 618 words


A FORMER soldier yesterday pled gulity to bombing an Army barracks 22 years ago.
Peter McMullen, 49, admitted planting four bombs which devastated the Claro
Barracks in Ripon, North Yorkshire, in March 1974.

Although more than 100 soldiers escaped injury in the blast, the manageress of
the Naafi shop was slightly injured.

Armed police surrounded York Crown Court as grey-haired McMullen, from County
Antrim, Ulster, arrived early yesterday.

McMullen, who leaned heavily on a stick as he entered court, spoke only to
confirm his name and to plead guilty to four charges under the Explosives Act.

Judge Arthur Myerson adjourned the case until October 30, awaiting documents
from the United States from where McMullen was extradited this March.

McMullen, a former Parachute Regiment cook, had lived in the US for more than 20
years and had fought extradition since 1978.

The Claro Barracks were the headquarters of the Royal Engineers, which had many
soldiers serving in Northern Ireland at the time.

Police said no warnings were received for the four bombs, and no-one claimed
responsibility for the attack.

Detective Superintendent Ian Lynch, of North Yorkshire police, said: "Although
this incident took place 22 years ago the evidence has stood the test of time.

"A very thorough, detailed, and professional investigation was carried out at
the time.

"The conviction of McMullen is evidence, if any is needed, that we will pursue
with vigour anyone involved in terrorist activities."

Mr Lynch praised the Justice Department and Federal Marshall's department in New
York for their "outstanding assistance" with the case.

McMullen's admission of his involvement in the bombing is the latest instalment
in a tale of violence and betrayal dating back to the early 1970s.

McMullen was born in Belfast and joined the Parachute Regiment in the early
1960s.

He was a cook in the regiment's 1st Battalion at the Palace barracks near
Belfast when it was blasted by two bombs in January 1972. He deserted a few days
later, joining the IRA. Arrested in Ireland shortly afterwards, he jumped bail.

Claiming to be disillusioned with random terrorism, he resigned from the IRA in
1974.

McMullen fled to the US and gave himself up to the authorities in San Francisco
in 1978. He was as much a fugitive from the IRA - which had accused him of
attempting to extort money from bars in New York using its name - as he was from
British justice.

He detailed his involvement with the IRA in a series of interviews for the
Boston Globe newspaper in 1979, which are thought to have angered his former IRA
colleagues. He claimed to have been heavily involved in arms smuggling
operations from the US, even maintaining that the QE2 had been used to transport
weapons to Ireland.

In a 1986 BBC interview about extraditions, McMullen described his view of
terrorism. He said: "How do you define a terrorist? A person who uses terror
against another person.

"How do you define a guerilla? A person who fights for something he believes in.
That's how I define it."

McMullen was at the centre of an extradition row between the US and Britain in
1991. A federal judge in New York refused to grant a warrant for his
extradition, ruling it was unconstitutional since a 1986 treaty between the two
countries was aimed specifically at him and other Irish republicans.

Previously, in a long string of court proceedings, he had defeated attempts to
extradite him under a 1977 treaty between the US and Britain by claiming
political exemption.

McMullen spent several years in a holding prison in New York and attracted
considerable sympathy in the US.

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1996 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              398 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            August 8, 1996, Thursday

Bad weather losses blast Commercial Union results

BYLINE: Nic Cicutti

SECTION: BUSINESS; Page  16

LENGTH: 265 words


Commercial Union, one of Britain's largest composite insurers, yesterday blamed
heavy weather-related losses in the United States and Britain for a 15 per cent
drop in pre-tax profits in the first half of this year.

CU said a pounds 56m increase in weather claims from the US and the UK forced
profits before investment returns down to pounds 216m, against pounds 248m in
the same period last year. However, strong profit growth from Continental Europe
helped to offset the losses.

Shares in the company closed 4p higher at 617p after analysts said that, despite
the drop in profits, CU's results were at the top end of their forecasts.

CU said that in France profits from Abeille, its life and general insurance
business bought in 1994, increased by pounds 22m to pounds 58m, while returns
from the Netherlands rose to pounds 88m. Profits from CU's life and pensions
businesses across the group, including the UK, grew 14 per cent to pounds 117m.

John Carter, chief executive at CU, said: "These strengths helped to reduce the
effect of increased weather claims and competitive general insurance markets in
the UK."

General insurance rates in the UK remained competitive, but there were signs of
selective increases in some areas, mostly in motor cover. CU made an
underwriting loss in Britain of pounds 26m, down from a pounds 36m profit at the
same point last year.

The IRA bomb attacks in London in February and in Manchester in June cost CU
pounds 9m, Mr Carter added.

The insurer is hoping to cut costs by introducing new information technology.


LOAD-DATE: August 08, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1996 Independent Print Ltd

                              399 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                             August 9, 1996, Friday

LONDON COUNCIL WANTS ULSTER-STYLE COMPENSATION FOR TERROR BOMBING

BYLINE:  Anjali Kwatra, PA News

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 425 words


A council in a part of London hit by a terrorist bomb six months ago is
demanding £2 million compensation from the Secretary of State for Northern
Ireland, it was disclosed today.  A scheme was created in 1977 to provide
compensation for victims of terrorist attacks in Northern Ireland.  But Tower
Hamlets Council in the East End of London says there is no reason why it should
not also apply to mainland Britain.  Council Leader, Councillor Dennis Twomey,
said: "We have been pressing Whitehall for compensation for, what after all, was
an attack against this country, not Tower Hamlets.  "Exactly six months later we
are no nearer receiving a single penny towards the enormous clean-up and repair
bill.  "If this had been Northern Ireland compensation would be payable so why
should it be any different from other parts of the UK?" he added.  Local
councillor Stephen Molyneaux said: "The residents here feel they have been let
down and forgotten, especially after the Government has donated so much money to
Manchester (scene of a terrorist bomb attack on June 15).  "We are pleased that
Manchester is receiving funds, but we feel that a deprived borough like Tower
Hamlets should not have to pay the full cost of a terrorist attack which was
aimed at the country as a whole. We hope the Government will recognise the
justice of our case." The Criminal Damage (Compensation) (Northern Ireland)
Order 1977 was aimed at compensating those in the Province whose property was
damaged by terrorist acts, but council leaders say there is nothing in the Order
which excludes payment for similar acts in mainland Britain. The Compensation
Agency of the Northern Ireland Office said it could not confirm it had received
the Tower Hamlet Council claim.  But a spokesman for the Agency, Frank
Brannigan, said: "We believe that the 1977 Order applies only to Northern
Ireland. We have had claims from outside before, but they have always been
unsuccessful.  "Our advice to Tower Hamlets Council will be to withdraw their
claim, although if they insist the case could go to appeal.  "But there would be
numerous difficulties in pursuing a claim, because all the legislation is
enshrined in the law of Northern Ireland. For example, for a claim to be
successful the Chief Constable of the RUC must confirm that the bomb was a
terrorist attack and this could be difficult when he has no jurisdiction in
London." He added: "Whatever decision the agency takes is subject to appeal and,
of course, a court may take a different view of the claim."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1996 The Press Association Limited

                              400 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            August 11, 1996, Sunday

Terminator of the North Circular gets Finchley all in a flutter

BYLINE: Ivan Waterman/Vanessa Thorpe

SECTION: BRITAIN; Page  8

LENGTH: 651 words


In All the unlikely encounters dreamt up by Hollywood, King Kong meeting
Godzilla long held pride of place, until giving way to Frankenstein meeting the
Werewolf; but in terms of sheer implausibility neither came close to last week's
meeting between Arnold Schwarzenegger and Finchley.

In the rush to document the occasion - the UK premiere of Arnie's latest
shoot'em up spectacular, Eraser, at the new pounds 7m Warner Brothers state-
of-the-art multiplex eight-screen cinema at the Great North Leisure Park,
complete with celeb-studded after-show party - the encounter itself has largely
passed unremarked.

For the inhabitants of these uneventful streets, peaceful shopping parades and
leafy parks near London's North Circular Road, however, the visit of the
legendary musclebound cinematic total killing machine will linger in the memory.

Not that Finchley is unused to celebrity. Actor David Jason, of Only Fools and
Horses fame, was born and bred in Finchley. DJ Nicky Campbell is a resident, as
is daytime chatshow host Vanessa Feltz. Margaret Thatcher was local MP between
1959 and 1992. Finchley Road is famous for its traffic holdups.

But Arnie, sweeping in by helicopter, was something again. For Lizzie
Kleinschmidt, a Finchley resident and member of the cinema's management, the
preview was definitely, "the most interesting thing to happen in Finchley ever".

She stressed: "This may not sound like a tall order in an area with only a
quaint city farm to put it on the map, but in fact in recent years there have
been a couple of big terrorist explosions, and, of course, there was Margaret
Thatcher."

Unemployed Tony Christo, 25, was one of 3,000 people to stand outside the cinema
waiting for a glimpse of his hero. Tony still cannot get over the fact he only
had to stroll across the road from his flat to come face-to-face with the man
who features so strongly in his home video collection.  "I have to admit Arnie
isn't a good actor," he said. "He looks like a robot or an android, but I like
him because he is tongue-in-cheek.

"After the stars had all gone in to see the film my mate and I saw Arnie again,
sneaking out the side door and getting into a flashy car. We ran over but his
bodyguards weren't pleased."

The incident seems to have been the only rough edge in an otherwise seamless
publicity event. Arnie himself has requested a video of the night and he later
joined his producer in pronouncing the premiere the best organised he had ever
attended anywhere in the world.

He was a little hazy, later last week, on the details of Finchley qua Finchley.
Did he get a chance to explore the area?

"I would say not," he grinned. "I was fortunate to come by helicopter so I could
arrive on time without getting stuck in the traffic. The Mayor?  Councillor Mrs
Pam Coleman I'm afraid I wouldn't know him.

"There were so many people coming up to me when I walked into the theatre that I
had never met before from local government to actors that I cannot remember. But
it is not so odd to be going to a premiere in a place like that because today
the world is changing so much.

"You don't just have the big cities where the action is, and nowhere else. The
big shopping malls are being developed outside big cities. The big entertainment
centres are being developed outside big cities, and all the movie theatres are
being developed outside.

"So it is more than normal that those people feel they are part of the world and
we are now coming to them. Why not? They have been coming to our movies as well
as the people in the cities."

Will Arnold and Finchley meet again? Well, he offered his fans his well- worn
catchphrase "I'll be back," but the crowd knew the chances of that were pretty
slim.

Things like that don't happen in Finchley twice. In fact most people took
convincing that they were going to happen once.


LOAD-DATE: August 12, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1996 Independent Print Ltd

                              401 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            August 12, 1996, Monday

Leading Article: After the marching, the waiting season

SECTION: LEADER PAGE; Page  11

LENGTH: 942 words


Britain and Ireland are today experiencing what might be termed the relief of
Londonderry: a sense of thankfulness that the last major events of the marching
season have passed with relatively little disturbance.  Having just lived
through some 2,600 loyalist parades and around 300 nationalist marches Northern
Ireland can relax, just a little.

Next year will bring another marching season, but in the meantime a three-
person committee - made up of an Oxford academic, a Presbyterian minister and a
Catholic priest - will be grappling with the parades issue and reporting to the
Government. It may produce valuable suggestions.

To be blunt, it had better. This has been an awful summer for Northern Ireland,
and strenuous efforts on both marches and other fronts will be required to avoid
a further deterioration. Things had seemed bad enough with the breakdown of the
IRA ceasefire and the murderous IRA bombings in the London Docklands and in
Manchester. But last month's Drumcree stand- off has driven a sword between the
two communities, severely damaged Anglo- Irish relations, and raised the most
fundamental questions about Northern Ireland's viability as a society.

Although these latest marches passed off comparatively peacefully, the tensions,
anxieties and even dread experienced in the run-up to them served as a reminder
that it is a society which is never too far from the brink.  In recent years a
number of factors had increased confidence in its stability.  These included a
limited economic upturn, the potential for progress through the peace process,
the increased professionalism of the Royal Ulster Constabulary and a
strengthened London-Dublin relationship. Drumcree wrecked much of this.

Today the police candidly, though privately, admit that law and order did break
down in that period and that the security forces simply could not cope. That
sense of a society virtually out of control is profoundly damaging for economic
prospects: big business will invest in a region suffering from terrorism but
many turn away completely from a place where central authority is seen, even
momentarily, to be lost.

This point was well put by Northern Ireland's leading business and commercial
organisations, which recently combined to deliver a sombre warning: "The world
thought that we had turned a corner. It has been shocked - indeed we have
surprised ourselves - by the public display of animosity and bitterness.  For
Northern Ireland the moment of truth has arrived when it must decide whether it
wants to be regarded as a credible, serious, first-division economic player or
is prepared to accept relegation."

But one problem is that the leaders of the Belfast brigade of the IRA, and the
Orangemen who last month blocked hundreds of roads, can both, if unemployed,
rely on Britain to cough up their dole money, as well as to continue to search
for new investment. There is no perceived economic penalty for extremism.

There is no local political penalty either. There is no indication that David
Trimble's Ulster Unionists will suffer at the polls for their identification
with Drumcree: indeed, the chances are that their next vote will go up.
Similarly Sinn Fein, which has played a cool, calculating hand in many of the
parading controversies, is currently on the crest of a wave.

The reduction of politics to geo-sectarian street manoeuvres has led many
moderate Unionists to something close to despair. The closest thing they have to
a political voice are probably the business organisations quoted above, but the
business community has become almost completely detached from Unionist politics,
and has only marginal influence on it.

The fact that there is also deep disillusionment throughout constitutional
nationalism, north and south, is a factor which may significantly increase
instability. Non-violent nationalists were clearly collectively scandalised by
Drumcree, which at a stroke all but shattered their confidence in the Government
and the RUC.

At this moment the arguments within nationalism are being won by those who say
Protestants will never accept Catholics as equals; that Unionism will never
formulate a deal acceptable to nationalists; that the RUC will never be an
acceptable police force; that Britain lacks the will or the means to deal with
Orange mobs - in short, that Northern Ireland cannot be gradually reformed into
a truly equal society.

It will be disastrous if these views harden from expressions of anger into
settled conclusions. Nationalists will only be induced to shelve their
aspiration to a united Ireland in return for a deal offering them equality and
parity of esteem. If this is not on offer, then nationalism as a whole will
conclude that Northern Ireland is, and will remain, an unjust entity. Such a
communal judgement would give the IRA the moral cloud-cover for a fierce and
protracted new campaign; the loyalist paramilitaries will reciprocate; and a new
and terrible cycle will begin. The current poisonous atmosphere will provide
plenty of recruits to the two equally futile causes.

There are few indications that the Government fully grasps the seriousness of
the situation. Sir Patrick Mayhew looks tired, at a loss, and possibly
demob-happy. John Major has devoted more time, energy and thought to Ireland
than any prime minister since Gladstone and Lloyd George; sadly, his efforts
have yet to receive their reward. He has many other items on his agenda, but he
must continue to make Ireland an urgent priority. Otherwise he risks entering
next year's general election with a rapidly worsening situation.


LOAD-DATE: August 12, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1996 Independent Print Ltd

                              402 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                           August 14, 1996, Wednesday

PRICE OF TERROR;
MONEY;
GENERAL ACCIDENT BLAME FALL IN PROFITS ON IRA

BYLINE: Clinton Manning

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 133 words


The IRA has blown a pounds 7 million hole in the profits of one of Britain's
biggest insurance firms.

The terrorist attacks in London and Manchester, above, helped send General
Accident's half-year profits tumbling pounds 63 million to pounds 194 million.

The firm was also forced to fork out pounds 34 million for flood damage caused
by harsh weather at the turn of the year.

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1996 MGN Ltd.

                              403 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                August 15, 1996

NUCLEAR STATES URGED TO CUT STOCKPILE

BYLINE: Christopher Zinn In Sydney

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FOREIGN PAGE; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 907 words


BRITAIN and the other nuclear powers should cut their weapons stockpiles as a
matter of urgency, an international report published yesterday advises.

Highlighting the threat of terrorism and nuclear proliferation, the report from
the multinational Canberra Commission for the Elimination of Nuclear Weapons
said the end of the cold war provided "a uniquely favourable moment" to do away
with nuclear weapons.

The report also called on the United States and Russia to take their nuclear
forces off a state of alert.

The 17 scientists, statesmen and former cold war warriors urged the five
declared nuclear countries - Britain, China, France, Russia and the United
States - to commit themselves unequivocally to complete nuclear disarmament by
1997.

The commission, which was set up by the Labour government before its defeat in
March, included the former US defence secretary Robert McNamara and the former
French prime minister Michel Rocard.

It raised doubts about the control and security of Russia's nuclear arsenal and
said the danger of terrorist groups acquiring nuclear weapons or material was "a
growing threat to the international community".

It warned: "Political upheaval or the weakening of state authority in a nuclear
weapon state could cripple existing systems for ensuring the safe handling and
control of nuclear weapons."

The chairman, the Oxford professor Robert O'Neill, said: "Nuclear weapons were
quintessential weapons of the cold war and the cold war is over."

He said it was only a matter of time before a terrorist group managed to steal a
nuclear warhead and detonate it somewhere over the US.

The 120-page report, which was presented to the Australian prime minister, John
Howard, yesterday, put forward six steps: take nuclear forces off alert; remove
warheads; end the deployment of non -strategic nuclear weapons; ban nuclear
testing; further reduce US and Russian nuclear arsenals; apply a "no first use"
agreement.

Australia is to present the report to the United Nations General Assembly in
September and the Conference on Disarmament in 1997.

Mr Howard thanked the committee, which also included a former commander-in
-chief of the US nuclear forces, General Lee Butler, and the British scientist
and Nobel peace laureate Joseph Rotblat.

"A world free of the threat of nuclear destruction is not only a common goal of
both sides of politics in Australia but a common goal of mankind around the
world," Mr Howard said.

The commission said the end of superpower confrontation had not removed the
danger of nuclear catastrophe, because the risk of accidents had increased.

If the ranks of the declared and undeclared nuclear states increased even by
one, the commission said, there would be a high risk of a proliferation.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              404 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                August 16, 1996

Clinton under fire on Adams

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 457 words


MPS yesterday echoed the dramatic warning from a leading American politician
that President Bill Clinton's contacts with Sinn Fein have seriously damaged the
special relationship between Britain and the United States.

Former US Secretary of State James Baker attacked Mr Clinton for inviting Sinn
Fein President Gerry Adams to the White House during the IRA ceasefire.

In an electioneering speech to the Republican convention in San Diego, Mr Baker
said: "We have seen a representative of the IRA hosted in the White House just
prior to its resumption of terrorist bombings in London.

"The result has been the worst relationship with our closest ally, Britain,
since the Boston Tea Party."

The British Government declined to comment on what it saw as a party political
speech by Mr Baker in the run-up to the US presidential election.

The visit on February 1 came just eight days before a massive bomb killed two
newspaper sellers when it devastated Canary Wharf in London's Docklands, ending
the 17-month IRA ceasefire.

Mr David Wilshire, vice-chairman of the Tory backbench committee on Northern
Ireland, agreed that relations with the US were "not good" following Mr Adams
visit to the White House.

"At long last, a note of realism in America, at last someone is putting people's
lives above grubbing for votes," he said.

MrClive Soley, chairman of the Commons Select Committee on Northern Ireland and
Labour MP for Hammersmith, agreed that Britain's relationship with the US had
suffered over Washington's involvement in Ulster.

"It went through a rocky period but it wasn't anywhere near as bad as at other
times in history such as during the Suez crisis. Overall, their involvement has
been helpful."

However, he added: "This is just the Republicans trying to get votes.

Ulster Unionist Ken Maginnis said the Americans had made the mistake of
believing that the IRA ceasefire was permanent.

"It has given the IRA a breathing space and it wasn't only the Americans who
were to blame in falling into the trap," he said.

Sinn Fein accused Mr Baker of exploiting the troubles in Ireland for party
political advantage in the US presidental election.

It said President Clinton had made a positive and constructive contribution in
the search for a lasting peace.

Mr Pat McGeown, a member of the party's ruling executive, said: "Mr Baker's
failed policy while US secretary of state of allowing the British Government to
dictate US policy on Ireland ensured that the US played no progressive role in
the search for peace in Ireland.

"The US administration has, on the contrary, adopted a balanced, even-handed
approach. The evidence of its success in recent years is clear."

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1996 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              405 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                August 16, 1996

Distaste of independence

BYLINE: Patrick Brogan

SECTION: Pg. 16

LENGTH: 703 words


Clinton is blamed

for a loosening of

special ties with

Britain, reports Patrick Brogan

THERE was a nice double act at the Republican convention on Wednesday night.
First came James Baker, secretary of state under George Bush, to denounce Bill
Clinton for various sins of omission and commission, including inviting "a
representative of the IRA to the White House just prior to its resumption of
terrorist bombings in London. The result has been the worst relationship with
our closest ally, Britain, since the Boston Tea Party".

Then came Jeane Kirkpatrick, who was US ambassador to the UN in 1982 when
Argentina invaded the Falklands. She vociferously supported Argentina, out of
affection for its military government (she liked General Galtieri's strident
anti-communism) and went to a reception at the Argentine embassy the day after
the invasion.

She did not mention those past embarrassments on Wednesday, instead asserting
that the Clinton administration "does not understand how to protect and preserve
American strength and credibility". She does not have a great deal of
credibility herself and no doubt Mr Baker remembers the fury her attitude
provoked in Britain.

No doubt Mr Baker's comments on Britain were hyperbole. For one thing,
transatlantic relations have gone through many ups and downs since 1773 (the
British burnt the White House and the Capitol in 1814, for instance).

For another, despite loud expressions of dismay at the time of the first
American concession to Gerry Adams, the British Government has since come around
to the view that Mr Clinton's policies have been beneficial.

There would hardly have been a ceasefire without the president's personal
intervention, and he can hardly be blamed for the IRA's decision to break it.

All the same, the "special relationship" (British ambassadors hate the phrase),
is not what it was. From the beginnings of the Second World War until some
undefined moment in the 1980s, Britain was indeed "our closest ally".

That Britain is now, if we're lucky, on a par with Germany, Japan, or even
France, has nothing to do with any change of American sentiment, but is a
consequence of Britain's continuing decline in the world and, to some extent, to
its own wilful refusal to play its part in Europe.

Palmerston once remarked that nations have no permanent alliances, only
permanent interests. The United States has a permanent interest in the cohesion,
economic liberalism, and political loyalty of Europe. If Britain refuses to take
part in that European cohesion, it must necessarily lose in standing compared
with France and Germany. The idea that Britain would have more clout in
Washington if it left the EU is a ludicrous delusion.

It could be said that Mr Clinton's insistence on going his own way over Gerry
Adams was a result of Britain's loss of influence in Washington, rather than a
cause for "the worst relationship with our closest ally since the Boston Tea
Party".

The decline in the special relationship in the past 20 years or so can be
checked in a series of markers. Gerry Ford, on the advice of Henry Kissinger,
made a point of skipping Britain when he toured Europe in 1975.

Ronald Reagan ordered the invasion of Grenada in 1983 without informing the
British Government (the Queen was reputedly much offended). That was a year
after Mrs Kirkpatrick had enraged London with her pro-Argentinian sympathies.

The US and all Europe, including Britain, have been at constant cross-purposes
over Bosnia (the Americans think the Europeans should either sort it out
themselves or agree with American proposals, whatever they happen to be at any
particular moment).

Now trade is much more important than it used to be, which puts the Pacific Rim
on a par with Europe, and soon to eclipse it, and the business of reeling in
Russia and landing it as a safely modernising, democratic state is far more
important than any Western European susceptibilities.

As for the Irish, Mr Clinton was led to believe that it was a small place with a
small problem that he could help to resolve. Like many people before him, he has
found it all more intractable then he expected.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1996 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              406 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                            August 16, 1996, Friday

US links with Britain 'worst since 1773'

BYLINE: Martin Fletcher in San Diego, Philip Webster and Nicholas Watt

SECTION: Overseas news

LENGTH: 804 words


PRESIDENT CLINTON'S support for Gerry Adams has left Anglo-American relations in
their worst state since the War of Independence, the former Secretary of State
James Baker said yesterday.

Mr Clinton had also squandered American supremacy since the Cold War, leaving
other countries with the impression that he was weak and that his word was
meaningless. "In private our allies say what they dare not admit in public: that
America is no longer the world leader it was under Ronald Reagan and George
Bush. Sad to say, our allies are right," Mr Baker told the Republican convention
in San Diego.

On Ireland, Mr Baker - who served under Mr Bush - said: "We have seen a
representative of the IRA hosted in the White House just prior to its resumption
of terrorist bombings in London. The result has been the worst relationship with
our closest ally, Britain, since the Boston Tea Party in 1773."

His attack infuriated the Clinton Administration and Sinn Fein, surprised
British ministers who believe that the relationship between the two Governments
has improved of late, and delighted Unionists who welcomed it as a breath of
fresh air.

There was no immediate response from the White House, which regards Northern
Ireland as one of Mr Clinton's foreign policy successes. But a spokesman for the
Clinton-Gore re-election campaign expressed astonishment that Mr Baker should
even raise an issue on which the present Administration had made progress and
his had not.

He conceded that a formal peace agreement was still a long way off, but said
there had been a great change in the popular mood, all-party peace talks had
begun and for 18 months the IRA had observed a ceasefire.

Sinn Fein denounced Mr Baker's comments as cheap propaganda and accused him of
"cynically trying to exploit the conflict in Ireland for party political
advantage in the US presidential campaign".

The statement, issued in the name of national executive member Pat McGeown,
continued: "In the search for lasting peace in Ireland, no US President has made
a more positive or constructive contribution than President Clinton." When in
office, Mr Baker had pursued "the failed policy of allowing the British
Government to dictate US policy on Ireland".

While allowing for their electioneering tone, many British ministers would be
surprised by Mr Baker's remarks and his conclusion that relations were at such a
low. Mr Clinton certainly enraged London by admitting Mr Adams to America,
allowing him to raise funds and receiving him at the White House - all in spite
of furious British protests. But even British officials privately concede that
those concessions helped to secure an 18-month ceasefire and that the two
Governments have been working together quite harmoniously since the "visa wars".

Mr Clinton made a triumphant visit to Northern Ireland last autumn, when he was
given a hero's welcome by Roman Catholics and Protestants alike, and he strongly
condemned the IRA's resumption of violence.

However, David Wilshire, vice-chairman of the Conser vative backbench Northern
Ireland committee, welcomed Mr Baker's intervention, saying: "Hallelujah! At
long last a note of realism in America. At last someone is putting people's
lives above grubbing for votes. I applaud him for it. He is absolutely right."

Mr Baker's remarkes were also welcomed by Unionists, who were highly critical of
Mr Clinton's determination to reward Mr Adams politically for the IRA ceasefire
and whose fears were fuelled by an IRA briefing paper in 1994 describing Mr
Clinton as the first President in decades to be influenced by the Irish American
lobby.

Ken Maginnis, the Ulster Unionists' security spokesman, said Americans had made
the mistake of believing that the ceasefire was permanent. "It has given the IRA
a breathing space - and it wasn't only the Americans who were to blame in
falling into the trap. Mr Baker is right in what he says about the long-term
effects of inviting Adams to the White House. The Americans' involvement will
prove to have been most unhelpful."

Peter Robinson, deputy leader of the Democratic Unionists, said: "Mr Baker is
prepared to say what many Americans - and many people in the United Kingdom -
think about President Clinton. His approach to terrorism is inconsistent. He
wants to be tough against terrorism internationally, yet he is blind to the role
of the Provisional IRA and Sinn Fein. If he wants to be consistent, he should
ostracise Gerry Adams and make sure that the IRA has the same standing as the
Oklahoma bombers."

But Joe Hendron, SDLP MP for West Belfast, praised Mr Clinton for devoting so
much energy to Northern Ireland. "The Republicans are playing politics. They
have to do that because they have their work cut out in trying to get Bob Dole
elected."


LOAD-DATE: August 17, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1996 Times Newspapers Limited

                              407 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            August 27, 1996, Tuesday

Letter: Police heavy mob reclaims the streets

BYLINE: BRYAN MURPHY

SECTION: LEADER PAGE; Page  9

LENGTH: 302 words


Sir: Living in Italy in the 1980s, I witnessed what was known as the "strategy
of tension". This was a campaign by fascist subversives to perpetrate acts of
terror in order to elicit law-and-order measures that would erode civil rights
and bring the Italian state closer to the authoritarian model they dreamed of.

Naturally, I never expected to see anything like it in action in Britain, and I
still don't, but I saw something disturbingly reminiscent of it on the streets
of Brighton on Saturday, when a peaceful protest was brought to a violent
conclusion by police tactics.

The Reclaim the Streets protest there (Significant Shorts, 26 August) started in
a carnival-like atmosphere, heightened by balloons and giant puppets, with
people of all ages, including children, taking part. Even the police on duty,
who almost outnumbered the demonstrators, appeared to be enjoying themselves.

Although the protesters blocked one of the town's main thoroughfares, and indeed
were allowed to do so, the demonstration, and the police response, remained
essentially good-humoured until someone in the police hierarchy apparently gave
the order to send in the heavy boys. The result was not only a ludicrously high
number of arrests and a shockingly high number of injuries, but also a diversion
of the media coverage from the traffic issue to the law-and-order issue.

In Britain, fortunately, the police are not above the law. Whoever ordered the
blood-letting in Brighton could be identified and held responsible for his
actions, whether they resulted from conspiracy or from a mere balls-up. Such
action, however unlikely, would restore the reputation of our police force as
well as reinforce our right to demonstrate peacefully in our streets.

BRYAN MURPHY

Brighton,

East Sussex


LOAD-DATE: August 27, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1996 Independent Print Ltd

                              408 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                           August 29, 1996, Thursday

Loyalist hardliners told to leave Ulster or die

BYLINE: Nicholas Watt, Chief Ireland Correspondent

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 501 words


THE loyalist paramilitary leadership last night moved to clamp down on
hardliners by ordering two men to leave Northern Ireland within 72 hours or face
"summary justice".

Billy Wright, who played a leading role during the disturbances at Drumcree last
month, and Alex Kerr, who is currently on remand in prison, were given the
warning by the Combined Loyalist Military Command. Mr Wright, who served a
prison sentence on an Ulster Volunteer Force wing, was given 72 hours from
midnight to leave the Province. Mr Kerr, who is facing terrorist charges, was
ordered to leave within 72 hours of his release from prison.

The move comes after persistent pressure from hardliners for the loyalist
ceasefire to be ended. The Military Command said in a statement that the two men
would be killed if they ignored the order. "Failure by either man to comply with
this directive will result in summary justice." The same threat was made to
anyone supporting the two men.

Mr Wright said last night that he would stay and defy the threat. "If I die,
then I will die believing what fellow Unionists believe in.

"I believe wholeheartedly that our country is now in a crisis and that somehow,
some way, the leadership of these movements has been used to enforce a form of
politics that is leading Northern Ireland into a united Ireland."

Making it clear he intended to be no easy target, he said: "I have survived many
murder attempts by the IRA, who tried to impose their will upon me." Mr Wright,
36, has a devoted following in his home town of Portadown, Co Armagh. David
Trimble, the Ulster Unionist leader and the local MP, had talks with him at the
height of the loyalist agitation in Drumcree and asked him to use his influence
to restrain loyalist paramilitaries.

Earlier, Mr Wright contrasted the leadership's action against him with its call
for loyalists to hold back resist new violence after the IRA bombs on mainland
Britain earlier this year as "incredible". The Military Command is the umbrella
organisation for the three main loyalist terrorist groups, the UVF, the Ulster
Defence Association and the Red Hand Commando. It announced the loyalist
ceasefire in October 1994.

Ian Paisley Jr, the justice spokesman of the Democratic Unionists, criticised
the loyalist terrorists' statement: "Leaving the personalities aside, any death
threat on any individual by any organisation is contemptible. It is repugnant."
Mr Paisley questioned whether the Progressive Unionists and the Ul ster
Democratic Party, which have links to the paramilitaries, could continue to
attend the multiparty talks in the light of the statement.

The statement came 24 hours after David Ervine, a leader of the Progressive
Unionists, said that the loyalist ceasefire was close to breaking point. He
accused the Irish Government and the Social Democratic and Labour Party of
standing shoulder to shoulder with the IRA, and added that he had never known
loyalists to feel such vitriol towards Dublin.


LOAD-DATE: August 30, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1996 Times Newspapers Limited

                              409 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                            August 30, 1996, Friday

HUNT FOR IRA COP KILLERS SWITCHES TO SCOTLAND;
'THEY'VE FLED ACROSS SEA';
BRITISH POLICE JOIN SEARCH FOR MURDERERS OF JERRY MCCABE

BYLINE: Jonathan Russell

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 640 words


Cops in Britain are to join the hunt for the killers of detective Jerry McCabe.

Gardai murder squad chiefs believe the ruthless IRA gunmen have gone to earth in
Scotland and have asked forces there to help hunt them down.

A senior detective said last night: "We believe there is a strong chance they
have slipped across the Irish Sea.

"We have asked police in Scotland to give us a hand."

Jerry, a father of five, was shot at point-blank range by a gang of Provo armed
robbers during a botched post office raid at Adare, Co Limerick, three months
ago.

The Special Branch officer was in an unmarked patrol car escorting a van
carrying pounds 100,000 dole and pension cash.

Jerry, 52, died in a hail of bullets as the masked four-man gang strafed the car
with Kalashnikov rifles before fleeing empty-handed. His partner Ben O'Sullivan
was badly wounded in the murderous fusillade and spent three weeks in hospital.

Gardai know the identity of the terror killers, all members of the IRA's
notorious Munster brigade.Their homes and those of known associates were raided
within an hour of the killing. Several people were arrested on firearms charges
but the raiders gave detectives the slip.

Officers believe they lay low in a forest hideaway before fleeing to a safehouse
in Scotland where IRA terrorists have sought sanctuary in the past.

The detective said: "They have obviously slipped through our net but we are
determined to track them down wherever they are.

"The IRA get a lot of help from Scots and from Irish families who have settled
there.

"If Jerry McCabe's killers are in Scotland they'll find sympathy and plenty of
people willing to give them a safe place to stay. They willl be well looked
after.

"Scotland is known for providing cover for gunmen and bombers. And some of the
cells who have carried out mainland bombings have based themselves there.

"It's also a well-known staging point for weapons on their way to Ireland.
Terrorists know security is not quite so tight there."

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MURDERED: Shot detective Jerry McCabe

                            Copyright 1996 MGN Ltd.

                              410 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               September 4, 1996

Major stands fast behind Clinton action

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 412 words


BRITAIN closed ranks behind the United States last night defending President
Clinton's decision to unleash the cruise missiles on southern Iraq.

Defence Secretary Michael Portillo is due to fly to Washington on Concorde today
for urgent talks with his US counterpart William Perry on the crisis.

John Major said Britain had learned "from bitter experience over recent years
precisely what Saddam Hussein stands for, what he is and the danger he
represents, both to his own people in Iraq and to others as well".

He stressed that when Saddam moved north to Arbil: "The concern we had about
that is the danger of replicating the sort of humanitarian disaster we saw in
1991." He emphasised the importance of the safe havens he initiated.

"We feel strongly we ought not to let a similar situation to occur again.  There
was self-evidently a danger of that happening if no action was taken."

Mr Portillo said the international community could not sit by and wait for
Saddam to massacre his population.

"He was testing the international community and there would have been enormous
danger if we had not responded and if we had made Saddam believe that we lacked
the interest or the willpower to do anything about it," he said.

Military planners in Britain and the US are assessing whether more fighter jets,
strike aircraft and airborne radar planes will be needed to patrol the thousands
of extra square miles of the extended air exclusion zone in the south.

But Saudi Arabia is opposed to beefing up allied forces on its territory after
two recent terrorist attacks. Western intelligence sources said it was believed
that units from the Republican Guard were withdrawing from Arbil but remained
close to the Kurdish town of Chamchamal.

If Chamchamal was to fall, it would clear the way to Sulymaniyah, the stronghold
of the Kurdish Patriotic Union of Kurdistan.

The Foreign Office advised about 30 British nationals working for aid agencies
in northern Iraq to leave the region.

Labour took a bi-partisan attitude on the Iraq attack

Dr David Clark, Shadow Defence Secretary, said: "This action was justifiable and
inevitable given Saddam Hussein's unprovoked attack on Kurdish towns and the UN
protected area.

"Saddam should be warned that any future infringements on UN protected areas
will be met with an appropriate military response from the allies. His military
incursions will not be tolerated," Dr Clark added.

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1996 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              411 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               September 4, 1996

Iraqi dictator paves the way for possible demise of US leader;Old fox has his
eyes on presidential prey

BYLINE: By Ian Bruce;Defence Correspondent;;

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 680 words


SADDAM Hussein is not a forgiving soul. He is, however, a consummate manipulator
of Islamic masses, the United States government, and the world's media in
general. By cultivating yesterday's US missile strike, he has paved the way for
the possible demise of Bill Clinton.

Long before America's voters go to the presidential polls in 10 weeks, the Iraqi
leader will have upped the ante by another notch. It may be an act of terrorism
or a new flaunting of the non-existent "safe haven" of Kurdistan. It may even be
a Scud attack on US forces in Saudi Arabia.

Next time, cruise missiles will not be enough to counter the slight. And the
danger of escalation is that it will inevitably draw both the US and its
principal allies - notably Britain - back into a conflict nobody wants or can
afford politically or financially.

By blasting a path through what remains of Iraq's air defence and military
communications' zone in southern Iraq and extending the "no fly" zone almost to
the outskirts of Baghdad, the US has created a rod for the West's own back.

To police the area, more aircraft will have to be deployed. The US cannot be
seen to act alone. Its diplomats will already be calling in favours from the
likes of the UK, whose Defence Secretary Michael Portillo yesterday refused to
rule out the commitment of RAF fighter-bombers for punitive raids if Saddam
calls the White House bluff.

The Saudis, beset by their own internal problems of Islamic militancy, and the
Turks, who are becoming decidedly iffy about the continued use of Incirlik
airbase for Nato warplanes supposedly flying shotgun over the Kurds' "safe
haven", are unlikely to sanction Nato or US air strikes from their soil. Both
have too much to lose in the convoluted religious politics of the region.

The UK has three squadrons in the potential war zone. Two are based in Saudi and
a third, consisting of just six Tornados, in Turkey. But their importance for
any future US foray against Iraq far outweighs their numbers. Clinton has to be
seen to be acting in concert with others to give legitimacy to war -making and
electioneering.

Britain has played the great game of duplicity in international affairs far
longer than most of the others now nursing a hand at the table. Its diplomats
know the pitfalls of becoming embroiled in someone else's war.

Unfortunately, the UK is now a third-world power militarily. Its own continued
place at the centre of decision-making is largely dependent on the goodwill of
the White House's occupant. Britain's greatest worth is moral rather than
physical. Our forces are first-rate in quality but too small to matter when it
counts.

The Falklands was a little local difficulty and a skirmish by most standards.
The Gulf showed the real gaps in British capability. It took the entire
resources of British Army of the Rhine to field a single, understrength division
whose role was reduced by necessity to that of flank guard for the main US
thrust into Iraq. The Desert Rats were bit-players in someone else's movie.

On the plus-side, elimination of Iraqi air defences in the southern region
should mean that several key airfields are now out of bounds and that allied
surveillance of the area can be stepped up to prevent a surprise invasion of
Kuwait or even Saudi.

If push comes to shove, allied aircrews should have a clear run to their targets
in Baghdad and beyond. After that they become hostages to fortune and triple-A.

The move was also calculated to present Saddam with an insult to his pride and
that of his military apparat which might prove to be the straw which broke the
camel's back. Perhaps his senior commanders would tire of being on the losing
side and stage a coup.

It is likely to be forlorn hope. Saddam is too wily a fox and too ruthless a
ruler to allow that to happen. Unless the West ponders its next move very
carefully indeed, he might yet outlive another wave of British and American
heads of state. Thatcher and Bush were hard-core. Major and Clinton are
distinctly second division.

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1996 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              412 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                          September 4, 1996, Wednesday

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 1460 words


What the papers say:

TIMES: US THREATENS TO ATTACK AGAIN: America declared last night that it was
ready to attack Iraq again, in spite of widespread criticism of its cruise
missile strike yesterday morning.  JAPANESE-LED CONSORTIUM WINS THE BATTLE FOR
MoD'S MARRIED QUARTERS: A consortium led by Monura International, the Japanese
bank, has won the battle to buy the Ministry of Defence's married quarters
estates of 58,000 homes with a bid of £1.6 billion.  RHINO HORNS WORTH £3M
SEIZED IN LONDON: The world's biggest seizure of rhinoceros horns almost £3
million, was made by police in London yesterday after a tip-off to the RSPCA.
City: MG FACES LOSSES OF £150M ON FUNDS: Morgan Grenfell could face losses of up
to £150 million when dealings resume tomorrow in three investment funds at the
centre of an investigation by a City watchdog.  BANK ACTS TO ALLAY CITY'S FEARS
ON EMU: The Bank of England yesterday countered alarm that London could lose its
place as Europe's pre-eminent financial centre if Britain continues to opt out
of a European single currency.

TELEGRAPH: CLINTON STRIKES BACK AT SADDAM: President Clinton said he was
defending US interests in the Persian Gulf by launching 27 cruise missiles
against military installations in southern Iraq as punishment for Baghdad's
latest aggression against the Kurdish minority.  BRITAIN IS NOW THE LAND OF FAT
CATS - AND DOGS: Animal lovers are killing their pets with kindness, says a
survey which claims that British cats and dogs are Europe's fattest.  BLAIR WOOS
CITY WITH 10p TAX: Labour will today hold out the prospect of a 10p or 15p
starting rate of income tax.  City GRENFELL TRUSTS BACK ON TRACK: Trading in
three Morgan Grenfell unit trusts frozen following the discovery of
irregularities will resume tomorrow, the Investment Management Regulatory
Organisation said.  REFUGE UNDER PRESSURE TO REVISE MERGER TERMS: Leading
institutional shareholders have forced insurance giants Refuge and United
Friendly to re-think their £1.5 billion merger.

INDEPENDENT UNITED STATES ABANDONED US SAY KURDS: Salhuddin - The leader of the
Kurdish group which has allied itself with President Saddam Hussein, has angrily
criticised the US missile attack on southern Iraq.  RECORD HAUL OF RHINO HORN IS
SEIZED: The world's largest haul of illegally held Rhinoceros horn was seized in
what was heralded as a major breakthrough in combating the international
poaching trade in endangered species.  City: MORGAN MAY HAVE BROKEN SIB RULES:
Peter Young, the Deutsche Morgan Grenfell fund manager at the centre of
investigations into irregularities involving £1.4bn of funds, vastly exceeded
regulatory limits for the amount which could be invested in unquoted securities.

FINANCIAL TIMES: SADDAM DEFIANT AFTER US STRIKE: President Saddam Hussein
responded defiantly yesterday after the US launched one of the biggest strikes
against Iraq since the Gulf war.  CASH FOR MORGAN GRENFELL FUNDS: Deutsche Bank
last night injected some £200 in cash into three suspended investment funds run
by its UK subsidiary Morgan Grenfell Asset Management in order to restore
confidence among 90,000 investors.  DE BENEDETTI QUITS AS HEAD OF OLIVETTI AS
LOSSES HIT GROUP: Mr Carlo De Benedetti last night resigned as chairman of
Olivetti, the Italian electronics group, following an unexpected emergency board
meeting in Milan.  Companies and Markets: LUCASVARITY TO CULL 30% OF TOP
MANAGERS: LucasVarity, the motor components manufacturer created by this
summer's merger of Britain's Lucas Industries and Varity Corporation of the US
is planning to cull a third of its senior management as part of a £115m
cost-cutting drive.  WIMPEY SLIPS INTO FIRST-HALF DEFICIT: The difficulty of
George Wimpey's task, following the March swap of its construction and minerals
businesses for Tarmac's housebuilding division was emphasised yesterday when the
UK's largest housebuilder announced fist-half pre-tax losses of £8.6m.

GUARDIAN CLINTON WRECKS GULF ALLIANCE: The western and Arab coalition that waged
the Gulf war against Saddam Hussein five years ago fell apart yesterday as
shock-waves from the American missile attack on Iraq spread through Europe and
the Middle East.  LOST UP A MOUNTAIN: Residents of Keel in County Mayo are
bracing themselves for an influx of fortune hunters after claims that last
week's winning Irish national lottery ticket, worth just over £2 million could
be lying on a nearby mountain.  STORMIN' NORMA BRAVES SCOTS' NO-FLY ZONE: The
secret weapon who is going to take out the Labour Party had a moderately
successful test-firing yesterday.  City: MORGAN FACES £500M COMPENSATION BILL:
Morgan Grenfell, the German-owned investment bank which was forced to suspend
dealings in three of its leading unitised investment trusts, could face
compensation claims stretching to £500 million or more, fund management experts
predicted.  DE BENEDETTI QUITS AS OLIVETTI LOSSES MOUNT: Carlo de Benedetti, the
flamboyant Italian entrepreneur, last night suddenly resigned as chairman of
Olivetti, the troubled computer group synonymous with his name for the past 18
years.

EXPRESS HAUNTED BY A STALKER: The tragic widow of stabbed headmaster Philip
Lawrence is being terrorised by a stalker.  WE'LL HIT YOU AGAIN, ALLIES THREATEN
SADDAM: Britain and America were last night bracing themselves for terrorist
reprisals from Saddam Hussein in the wake of US Operation Desert Strike.  CASH
ALONE WON'T CURE ILLS OF NHS: Big injections of cash will not cure the problems
of the NHS, a pre-Labour think-tank claims today.  Sport: ILLY IN THE CLEAR: Ray
Illingworth won the battle to clear his name in the Devon Malcolm affair
yesterday - with his solicitor accusing Lord's of "racism in reverse".  ENGLAND
PLAYERS STAGE BOYCOTT: England's top rugby players will boycott the first
national training squad of the year today, as the feud between the clubs and
Twickenham increased.

MAIL: BRITAIN AND THE US STAND ALONE: Britain stood firm beside the US last
night as the world alliance against Saddam Hussein began to crumble.  IN PERFECT
HEALTH: A left-wing think-tank has dramatically blunted Tony Blair's General
Election armoury by giving the NHS a glowing bill of health.  BLAIR'S 10P TAX
CARROT: Tony Blair will dangle an extraordinary low-tax carrot today - by
setting a target for a bottom rate of 10p in the pound.  Sport: HEAT ON BOSSES:
Four of the Premiership's highest-profile managers are being hauled before
soccer disciplinarians in the opening salvo of another battle to clean up the
game's image.  MAINE ROAD RAGE DEFUSED BY FIGHTBACK: The mood of anger that
drove Alan Ball to quit Manchester City engulfed Maine Road again last night -
for all but the last seven minutes.

MIRROR: MY LINDA'S BEATEN CANCER: Pop legend Paul McCartney revealed last night
that his wife Linda has won her battle against breast cancer.  SLAPPED BOY, 12,
TAKES HIS DAD TO COURT: A teacher who slapped his naughty son stood in court
yesterday - accused of assault by the 12-year-old.  SADDAM TERROR THREAT:
America was poised last night to hammer Saddam Hussein with more missiles - amid
mounting fears of terrorist attacks by the Iraqi dictator.  Sport: ROVER AND IN
GEORGE: Sacked Arsenal boss George Graham is being lined-up for a stunning
return to soccer with Blackburn.  MY RUUD AWAKENING: Ruud Gullit has lifted the
lid on his season of frustration after Glenn Hoddle lured him from Milan to
London.

SUN: SADDAM TERROR SQUADS TARGET BRITAIN: Evil Saddam Hussein is planning
terrorist attacks against Britain in revenge for yesterday's US missile blitz,
experts warned last night.  STREET'S PHYLLIS IN 999 HEART DRAMA: Coronation
Street star Jill Summers was rushed to hospital with a suspected heart attack
yesterday.  FIVE-PLUS TESTS FOR EVERY KID STARTING SCHOOL: All five-year-olds
are to do compulsory tests within a week of starting school, the Government
announced yesterday.  Sport: STAN CAN GO: Liverpool are prepared to sell Stan
Collymore.  ASPRILLA 'N GINOLA AXED: Kevin Keegan will axe David Ginola and
Faustino Asprilla for tonight's North East derby at Sunderland.

STAR: BRUCIE HUNK'S GAY AD SHOCK: The hunky host of Bruce Forsyth's hit TV game
show is fronting a gay sex chat line.  TAKE THAT FOR STARTERS: President Clinton
warned evil Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein: "I ain't finished with you yet".
BEACH KIDS' PARENTS TELL OF THEIR HELL: The grieving parents of beach tragedy
kids Jodi and Tom Loughlin told of their nightmare "in a million".  Sport.
KEVIN KEEGAN'S AMAZING CONFESSION: I WISH I COULD START THE SEASON ALL OVER
AGAIN!: Newcastle boss Kevin Keegan revealed the torment behind his side's
dismal start to the season.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1996 The Press Association Limited

                              413 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Standard (London)

                               September 06, 1996

WHAT THE PAPERS SAY

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1120 words



The Daily Mail

A FATHER slaps his naughty son who reports him to police. Dad is hauled off to
the cells, his life ruined. Something fundamental is undermining the
relationship between parents and children. Totalitarian regimes realised that
the way to control society is to undermine families. Yet this subversion is
encouraged by a Conservative Government boasting commitment to the family.

Financial Times

LORD WEINSTOCK, managing director of the General Electric Company since 1963,
retires today. While there may be some criticism of his achievement in global
terms, in the UK context he has done well. GEC has a market value of £10billion
and enormous reserves of cash. No British manager of his generation has better
claim to the title great industrialist.

The Guardian

HITLER deposited royalties from his best-seller Mein Kampf into a secret Swiss
bank account identified in newly declassified US intelligence reports.

The Union Bank of Switzerland pleaded client confidentiality and refused to say
if the account had been closed but it could contain a fortune. Mein Kampf was
first published in 1925 and sold six million copies by 1940.

The Daily Telegraph

CONSIDERING the threat which Saddam posed to stability in the Middle East at the
beginning of the Nineties, the breaking of ranks between the Allies is deeply
disheartening. Yet it must not prevent America from shouldering the burden of
being a superpower and from trying, through diplomacy backed with military
force, to contain unrest in a region of primary strategic importance to the
West.

The Times

A RESEARCH project to find ways of raising luminous creatures in captivity has
come to a halt because the scientists paid themselves no salaries. Dr Robert and
Dr Jan Wright of Knight Scientific in Plymouth were given £500,000 by the
Department of Trade and Industry to raise piddocks whose luminous material is
used in medical experiments. The couple existed on a pension but the DTI said
not paying themselves was against the rules and is withholding part of the
grant.

The Independent

THE release in Britain of the new £30million film on the IRA's founding father,
Michael Collins, may be delayed because of Hollywood fears it could spark
renewed IRA violence. The movie by Neil Jordan, the British director who made
The Crying Game, opens in Los Angeles in a few weeks. In the latest edition of
Screen International, Collins is given an October release date in Britain but
Warner Brothers themselves refused to name a date for the UK or Ireland.

The Sun

A VILLAGE Neighbourhood Watch organiser was murdered in his home, possibly by a
thief he had helped manage to catch. Dennis Paige was found on the kitchen floor
in his house at Llwyn-y-pia in the Rhondda Valley.

It is believed he let his killer into his house.

The Daily Mirror

THE wife of former England cricketer Allan Lamb thumped a groper who attacked
her on a train. Lindsay Lamb went berserk when she was grabbed at St Pancras
Station during the recent libel trial between her husband and Imran Khan, she
said. 'I snapped after 10 days in court. The guy picked the wrong time in the
wrong place."

The Daily Express

LABOUR may hold 13 referendums in the first term of government if Tony Blair
wins power. The series of polls would range from a new voting system to a new
tier of regional government and would signal a massive cultural shift in the way
the Government takes major decisions.

ENDS


LOAD-DATE: September 9, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1996 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              414 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           September 6, 1996, Friday

Warner stalls over release of pounds 30m IRA film

BYLINE: DAVID LISTER

SECTION: ARTS; Page  9

LENGTH: 430 words


The release in Britain of the new pounds 30m film on the IRA's founding father,
Michael Collins, may be delayed because of Hollywood fears that it could spark
renewed IRA violence.

The film, which stars Liam Neeson and Julia Roberts, is directed by Neil Jordan,
the British director who made The Crying Game, the highly successful film about
an IRA man who falls in love with a transvestite.

Jordan's movie about Collins was praised last month at the Venice Film festival
and opens in Los Angeles in a few weeks. In yesterday's edition of Screen
International, Collins is given an October release date in Britain. But Warner
Brothers are stalling on naming a release date in the UK or Ireland.

One insider said yesterday: "We haven't cancelled the release in Britain, but we
are watching the situation. If we had a mainland bombing campaign we would have
to think hard about whether the film could inflame the situation, and whether it
would be right to release it."

Warner Brothers in London yesterday denied reports that pressure had been put on
the Hollywood parent company by President Clinton, anxious to see Northern
Ireland peace talks start again before the American presidential elections in
November.

Robert Daly, chairman of Warner Brothers, said: "This is not a film we are
hiding, but we will be sensitive to conditions in the world at the time."

Neil Jordan defended his film. "I challenge anyone to demonstrate a more
accurate historical movie," he said. "It's going to be moving and traumatic when
the British and Irish public see the film. But that's a good thing. Yesterday's
terrorist is today's statesman. I make no apology for that."

Cinemas are certain to show the film as soon as Warnermakes the decision to
release it. John Wilkinson, president of the Cinema Exhibitors' Association,
predicted that the film would be shown in Britain as soon as Warner gave it the
go ahead. "It will be put on where exhibitors believe there will be an audience
for it," he said.

Simon Burke, chairman of Virgin Cinemas, said yesterday: "We don't shy away from
putting on controversial films . . . Michael Collins is a charismatic figure and
it will be a good film. I don't really think it's got political overtones that
are relevant today."

No release date has been given yet for another film, Devil's Own, starring Brad
Pitt as an IRA man on the run. Columbia Pictures, which made the film, is also
said to be studying the political situation.

Work on both films began while the IRA ceasefire was in place.

Living, page 4


LOAD-DATE: September 06, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1996 Independent Print Ltd

                              415 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 9, 1996

LONDON'S POUNDS 550M EROTIC GHERKIN

BYLINE: James Meikle And Elizabeth Pickering

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 814 words


PLANS for Britain's first 1,000ft plus skyscraper will be unveiled today as
London takes a Manhattan-style approach to proving itself a leading world city.

The proposed pounds 550 million, 90-storey building - a third as high again as
Canary Wharf - would be Europe's tallest, and will spark a furious debate about
just how far architects and City bosses should reach for the sky.

The tower has been designed by Sir Norman Foster. Staff at his offices last
night refused to discuss the plans for the site of Baltic Exchange, badly
damaged by an IRA bomb attack in 1992 which killed three people and injured 80.

The building, housing up to 10,000 people in hotels, penthouses and offices,
would also have "parks in the sky" at 20 storey intervals, restaurants and
recreation areas.

Those who claim to have seen the plans give a range of descriptions - sleek,
elegant, a mixture of concave and convex sides, or a building with "erotic"
gherkin-shaped structures on top.

Its highest point reaches 1,200 feet, slightly smaller than the Empire State
Building in New York, still the best known if no longer the biggest skyscraper
of all.

Tim Cordy, director of the Town and Country Planning Association, warned that
there was already a surplus of 3 million square feet of office space in London.

Owen Luder, president of the Royal Institute of British Architects, expressed
his excitement at the project and his annoyance at those who would object to it.
"There were howls of derision when Eiffel wanted to build his tower," he said.

The Prince Charles camp of architectural traditionalists were bound to oppose
it, he said, because "it's not decorated with doric columns.

"People come from around the world to visit tall buildings and go up to the top
of them. Tall buildings are attractive on the skyline."

Stuart Murphy, former city architect and planning officer to the City
Corporation, had reservations. "The corporation is in a dichotomy - it does not
want to lose out to any other capital, but then what ruined Manhattan is that
they didn't make any effort to preserve the skyline." He dismissed concerns
about the shadow cast by the tower. "It's clearly a slim tower, so the shadow
will be short."

A spokesman for the corporation said: "My understanding is a formal application
will be submitted and the planning commiteee will look at it next month."

Owners of the Baltic Exchange, a grade II listed building, are thought to have
been paid about pounds 26 million by insurers after the bombing. Two years ago
the Exchange transferred to another building nearby.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              416 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                           September 9, 1996, Monday

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 560 words


Here is an index to the catchlines and headlines of stories in PA News's early
file today,

ACCIDENT Rail BOY SURVIVES FALL ON POWER CABLE AIR Midland AIRLINE'S £15M LIFT
FOR BUSINESSMEN Embargoed to 1100 Monday September 9 CHURCH Runcie RUNCIE 'KNEW
OF CHARLES AFFAIR' - CLAIM CITY DBS DBS SET FOR FULL STOCK MARKET LISTING CITY
Thomas THOMAS THE TANK ENGINE ON TRACK FOR CITY CITY Thomas Factfile THOMAS: A
SIGNAL SUCCESS CITY Prince PRINCE'S STARTER BOOST FOR YOUNG ENTREPRENEURS CITY
Tower TOWER PLANNERS AIM HIGH CITY Stores SUPERMARKET GIANTS TOP SALES LEAGUE
CITY Small 'SMALL FIRMS OPTIMISTIC FOR FUTURE' CITY Cable BBC IN TALKS WITH
CABLE TV FIRM CONSUMER Bodyshop BODY SHOP BIDS FOR ANIMAL TEST BAN COURTS Smack
MUM DEFENDS RIGHT TO SMACK 'OUT OF CONTROL' SON COURTS School ABUSE HEAD FOR
SENTENCE CRIME Abduct MASKED ATTACKER TAKES WOMAN ON TERROR RIDE CRIME Russell
BRAVE JOSIE SAVED ME FROM SUICIDE SAYS FATHER DEATH Briton HUNT FOR BRITON'S
'ROBOT' KILLER DEFENCE Nuclear TV CALL FOR GREENHAM COMMON LEUKAEMIA PROBE
ECONOMY Single 'BRITAIN ILL-PREPARED FOR CURRENCY REFERENDUM' EDUCATION Boy
SCHOOL MUMS HIT AT 'UNRULY' BOY DEAL EDUCATION Security SELF-HELP SECURITY GUIDE
FOR SCHOOLS HAPPENED Today ON THIS DAY - SEPTEMBER 9 HEALTH Aids PARENTS WANT
SCHOOL BAN ON HIV FEAR BOY HEALTH Gun RESEARCHERS DEVELOP 'GENE GUN' INDUSTRY BA
MASSIVE JOB LOSSES FEARED IN BA SHAKE-UP INQUEST Children BEACH CHILDREN INQUEST
LEGAL Lockerbie LOCKERBIE: LIBYANS 'ANXIOUS TO BE CLEARED' LOTTERY Jobs FINGERS
CROSSED FOR NEW LOTTERY JOBS Embargoed to 0730 Monday 9 September POLITICS Pay
£3 BILLION COST OF LOW PAY - LABOUR POLITICS Bust 'GENERATION OF BUSINESS TALENT
LAID TO WASTE' POLITICS Campaign LEADERS BACK ON THE STUMP POLITICS Campaign
BlairBLAIR IN THE LION DEN POLITICS Nicholson MAJOR 'TRIED TO FLIRT WITH ME' -
TORY DEFECTOR POLITICS Poll TAX FEARS OF CONVERTS TO LABOUR'S CAUSE POLITICS
Blair BLAIR ADMITS BLUNDER OVER HARMAN SCHOOL POLITICS Howard HOWARD LOOKS AT
CRIME-BEATING PROJECT RADIO Archers THE ARCHERS IS DREADFUL NOW, SAYS ITS
EX-EDITOR SCIENCE Nano MICROSCOPIC ROBOTS MOVE A STEP CLOSER TO REALITY SCIENCE
Festival MUSIC A KEYNOTE THEME OF SCIENCE FESTIVAL SHOWBIZ Pyjamas STARS REVEAL
BEDTIME SECRETS ...  SOCIAL Shell UNION URGES RENEWED SHELL BOYCOTT Embargoed to
noon Monday September 9 SPORT Fan CLUB TACKLES FAN WITH BEST SEAT IN THE HOUSE
TRANSPORT Roads BRITAIN'S ROADS 'UNTIDY AND UNKEMPT' TRANSPORT Roads
FactfileOVERGROWN ROAD DUBBED 'THE HAY 6' TRANSPORT Fares CAR CHEAPER THAN TUBE
FOR COMMUTERS - SURVEY Embargoed to 0700 Monday September 9 TUC Congress TUC AND
SMALL FIRMS SEEK FAIRNESS AT WORK TUC Commentary UNIONS BID TO SHAPE NEW ROLE
ULSTER Talks FRESH BID TO BREAK ULSTER DEADLOCK


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1996 The Press Association Limited

                              417 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               September 10, 1996

Lawyers back move to end Lockerbie impasse;Call for neutral court for Libyans

BYLINE: By James Mckillop;;

SECTION: Pg. 9

LENGTH: 669 words


A GATHERING of international lawyers yesterday joined a growing campaign to have
two Libyans suspected of the Lockerbie bombing brought to court in a country
other than Britain or the US in a trial based on Scottish law.

Delegates at a seminar in London were told it was the only sensible solution to
end the legal stalemate that has added to the agony of those whose relatives
died in the outrage.

The proposal has won the wholehearted approval of Dr Jim Swire, representing UK
Families Flight 103, and whose 23-year-old daughter Flora was one of the 270
victims.

"We are convinced it is time to compromise," he told delegates at the meeting
organised by the International Bar Association and the Arab Lawyers Union.

"For nearly eight years, we have been seeking truth and justice over those cruel
deaths. The ultimate human right, the right to life itself, was lost for those
we loved, but we too have human rights - to truth and justice.

''For the last five of those years, we have watched with disbelief the utter
failure of the international community to arrange a fair trial for those accused
by the UK and US of this heinous crime."

Despite the considerable weight of this international gathering of lawyers and
the impassioned plea of Dr Swire, it remained doubtful last night that either
Prime Minister John Major or President Bill Clinton would be shamed into
changing course, especially in the run-up to elections in both countries.

However, it was made clear by the Scottish and Libyan lawyers of Mr Abdel Baset
Ali Mohamed al-Megrahi and Mr Lamen Khalifia Fhimah - accused of the terrorist
attack - that unless the trial was to take place in a country other than
Scotland or the US, it would not take place at all.

Mr Alastair Duff, the Scottish lawyer for the two Libyans, said he had received
instructions from the accused that they did not believe that they could get a
fair trial in either Scotland or the US.

Their Libyan legal representative, Mr Ibram Legwell, said his clients were
prepared to stand trial in a neutral country.

They were happy that the hearing should be based on Scottish law, although he
insisted that they should be tried by a panel of judges rather than a jury.  The
accused were happy for this panel to be headed by a Scottish judge, and that the
Lord Advocate should prosecute.

The proposal to break the impasse and bring the two men to trial was first
suggested by Professor Robert Black, professor of Scots Law at Edinburgh
University.

The Montreal Convention of 1971, for the Suppression of Unlawful Acts against
the Safety of Civil Aviation, made it clear that the suspects could be tried in
Libya, Scotland, or the US.

As long as Britain and America insisted that the trial be held under the
jurisdiction of one of these countries, Libya would maintain its right that the
two should be tried there. Mr Legwell insisted that the Black solution was the
best formula to break the deadlock.

The seminar, called specifically to examine the present state of affairs over
Lockerbie from a legal point of view, attracted representatives from all over
the world.

No resolution was passed and no official view was expressed at the conclusion of
the conference but Professor Ross Harper, president of the International Bar
Association, said a full report would be published and made available to
interested parties.

Labour MP for Linlithgow, Mr Tam Dalyell, who attended the seminar, said he had
no doubt the trial should be held in a neutral country: "If there were a couple
of Scots charged with crimes, would we hand them over to Gaddafi, with whom we
don't have an extradition treaty?

"If the boot were on the other foot, it's inconceivable that we would do
anything of the kind. Why do we expect Gaddafi to do it?"

Mr Dalyell said that if the present Government could not be embarrassed into
changing the venue of the trial of the two Libyans, then it was likely a future
Labour Government would.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1996 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              418 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                         September 11, 1996, Wednesday

Would-be hero poisoned by his own sting; Ex-soldier fears that Indian treason
charge is cover for official incompetence.

BYLINE: Tim McGirk

SECTION: INTERNATIONAL; Page  8

LENGTH: 757 words


New Delhi - An ex-military intelligence officer named Peter Bleach thought he
was doing the British government a good turn. He tipped off the Ministry of
Defence that a cargo of arms was being parachuted down to terrorists in some
remote hills of northern India last December, and he collaborated in a sting
operation intended to catch the terrorists. Now Mr Bleach is in a Calcutta jail
charged with treason.

Under Indian law, the 44-year-old Yorkshireman faces a possible death penalty
for "waging a war against India".

Mr Bleach feels that the Indians and British authorities should regard him as a
hero. How he ended up in a Calcutta jail cell is a bizarre tale involving
international arms dealers, blundering intelligence agencies and a Hindu
extremist cult that dances with human skulls. The Independent has learnt that Mr
Bleach is afraid the Indian authorities may sacrifice him to hide their slip-ups
in letting the terrorist ringleaders evade the snare which Mr Bleach so
carefully laid.

"The entire operation should have been a perfect trap. Instead, everybody of any
importance was allowed to escape. The case has become high profile, and the
Indian authorities need a high-profile accused," he told The Independent.

Mr Bleach opened a "defence supply service" after tours with military
intelligence in Belfast and Africa. He was contacted in July 1995 by a Danish
firm asking him to supply a quote for the delivery of four and a half tons of
AK-47 rifles, ammunition and rocket-propelled grenades to an unknown destination
in South Asia. He flew to Copenhagen but soon realised that, in his words, "it
was anything but a legitimate arms deal.  It was clearly on behalf of some
terrorist group."

After returning to Britain, he immediately notified the MoD's Export Services
Organisation of the terrorist plot and requested advice. In a taped recording of
a telephone conversation in early August 1995, Mr Bleach "promised to carry on
as normal, and to do nothing which might alert the buyers".

Sources familiar with the case claimed that the MoD officials tried to warn Mr
Bleach against going ahead. But the ex-military officer disputed this. "We had
no direct knowledge of who the guns were intended for, and indeed the object of
the entire exercise was to discover this information," Mr Bleach said.

However, British intelligence officials were keen to monitor how the deal was
unfolding. Three times his office defence ministry agents visited his office to
collect copies of documents.

Once it became apparent that the destination for the cargo was India,
authorities in New Delhi were alerted. By October, a month and a half before the
drop, New Delhi had been informed through British channels of everything,
according to Mr Bleach: the names of the people involved, the cargo, the type of
aircraft used and its registration, even its route.

Mr Bleach's contact was a man in his mid-thirties who called himself Kim Davy
and whose New Zealand passport later proved to be a fake.

Indian police hold that Mr Davy had arranged the arms deal on behalf of an
extremist Hindu sect, the Ananda Marg. On board the cargo aircraft Mr Bleach was
expecting to be intercepted by jet fighters the second they crossed into Indian
air space. It never happened.

After taking off from Karachi, the plane landed at Varanasi, took on fuel and
then made a detour over Purulia on 17 December to drop the cargo near the
headquarters of the Ananda Marg.

The empty cargo aircraft was eventually instructed to land at Bombay airport.
Bleach expected the aircraft to be surrounded by armed police and troops. But
instead it was ordered to park at a remote side of the airport and left for an
hour before Indian officials turned up. The mysterious Kim Davy walked out of
the airport and has never been seen since. Mr Bleach and the Latvian crew were
arrested, as were six leaders of the Ananda Marg. The top Ananda Marg monks,
believed by police to have helped organise and fund the arms drop, also fled.

In the court hearing, due to start in several weeks, Mr Bleach has few chances
of defending himself. The Indian police, Mr Bleach claims, have "openly
admitted, in front of British diplomats, that they will not tell the courts
about my assistance in exposing the arms drop , and that I must defend myself as
best as I can."

The Foreign Office said yesterday, "We are in regular touch with the Indian
authorities to ensure that if Mr Bleach comes to trial he receives a fair
trial."


LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1996 Independent Print Ltd

                              419 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                           September 13, 1996, Friday

STAR'S SHOCK TIRADE AT IRA;
SHE SWEARS AT THE 'COWARDLY' BOMBERS;
HELEN MIRREN SLAMS IRA

BYLINE: Richie Taylor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1, 4

LENGTH: 1400 words


Award-winning actress Helen Mirren last night slammed the IRA bombers as
"cowardly a***holes".

The outspoken star, pictured above, condemned the terrorists at the Dublin movie
premiere of Some Mother's Son, the story of the IRA hunger strikers.  Mirren at
first refused to give a direct answer when she was repeatedly quizzed at the
premiere press conference about her views on terrorism.

She said: "There are no neat and comfortable answers to all of this.

"There will always be questions. We want people to come out from seeing this
film asking questions."

Then, visibly shaken by the grilling, she angrily declared: "Right! I think they
are all cowardly a***holes, the people who plant these bombs."

Mirren, who won an Emmy on Monday for her role as tough cop Jane Tennison in
Prime Suspect, plays the mother of an H-block hunger striker in the movie.

It goes on general release in Ireland today and has been criticised in some
quarters for glorifying the IRA.

But Mirren, along George and Sheridan and her co-star Fionnula Flanagan, last
night defended it as a human story.

Director Terry George said: "This is a partisan film. It follows the lives of
two mothers in the Nationalist community in Northern Ireland."

Most of the families of the hunger strikers - 10 of whom died in the notorious
H-Block in 1981 - have yet to see the film. None have had contact with the
film-makers.

"They haven't reacted to it yet, but it's out there in the cinema now if they
want to go and see it," added George.

At one point Mirren gripped George's arm to comfort him as he was quizzed over
his portrayal of the IRA.

But George immediately snapped back, stating: "We just heard that one of the
people responsible for the Canary Wharf bomb said he didn't like it. So there.
We don't have some sort of a Holy Grail here."

Film writer Jim Sheridan also slammed criticism of the film and incorrect
reports that it had been banned in Britain and Northern Ireland.

"Everybody wants to protect us from these films as if we are children.  Maybe we
are," he joked.

"Right now passions are enflamed. Also, a lot of us who lived through the hunger
strike are either fed up or jaded with it."

His co-writer Terry George said he believed they had achieved the story they set
out to tell.

He said: "It's the story of two mothers and the terrible choices they're forced
to make. It's about the human spirit.

"Some of the criticism is fair. You put your film out there and you take your
chances with it."

Mirren's co-star Fionnula Flanagan said she didn't see it as being politically
controversial at all but believed it would threaten people's views.

All four later attended the premiere in Dublin's Savoy cinema.

Among the stars and celebrities who turned up were singer Christy Moore, actress
Brenda Fricker, Riverdance composer Bill Whelan, U2 manager Paul McGuinness and
former Northern Ireland MP Bernadette Devlin.

answers to all of this. There will always be questions. We want people to come
out from seeing this film asking questions."

Then, visibly shaken by the grilling, she angrily declared: "Right! I think they
are all cowardly a***holes, the people who plant these bombs."

Mirren, who won an Emmy on Monday for her role in Prime Suspect, plays the
mother of an H-block hunger striker.

The movie goes on release today and has been criticised for glorifying the IRA.
But Mirren, along with director Terry George, writer Jim Sheridan and co -star
Fionnula Flanagan, defended it as a human story.

George said: "This is a partisan film. It follows the lives of two mothers in
the Nationalist community in Northern Ireland."

Most of the families of the hunger strikers - 10 of whom died in the notorious
H-Block in 1981 - have yet to see the film. None have had contact with the
film-makers.

"They haven't reacted to it yet, but it's in the cinema now if they want to see
it," added George.

At one point Mirren gripped George's arm to comfort him as he was quizzed over
his portrayal of the IRA.

But George snapped back: "One of the people responsible for the Canary Wharf
bomb said he didn't like it. So there. We don't have a Holy Grail here."

Sheridan also slammed criticism of the film and incorrect reports that it had
been banned in Britain and Northern Ireland.

"Everybody wants to protect us from these films as if we are children."

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1996 MGN Ltd.

                              420 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                           September 13, 1996, Friday

Ministers warned of new IRA bombings

BYLINE: Arthur Leathley and Michael Evans

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 564 words


MINISTERS have been alerted that the IRA is poised for a mainland bombing
campaign in defiance of intensifying pressure for a renewed ceasefire.
Intelligence services have given a warning that a small network of terrorists is
preparing to attack industrial or commercial centres.

They are said to have honed a list of targets that would damage Britain
financially, prompting fears that attacks may again be aimed at the City of
London. Ministers have been told that experienced IRA members are leading
training programmes in Britain in preparation for a bombing offensive within the
next two months.

The warnings contradict suggestions by the Irish Government that the IRA is
poised to declare a ceasefire in an effort to allow Sinn Fein, its political
wing, into the Northern Ireland cross-party talks.

The new intelligence information comes in the wake of a warning by Sir Hugh
Annesley, the former RUC Chief Constable, that the IRA was preparing a mainland
campaign. The Belfast talks have reached a critical stage, with the British and
Irish Governments pressing parties to move to substantive discussions, including
the surrender of terrorist weapons.

British government sources say that the new intelligence casts serious doubts on
the optimism shown by John Bruton, the Irish Prime Minister, who indicated on
Wednesday that there was a prospect of an IRA ceasefire. Fears have increased
despite police and MI5 breakthroughs in which the IRA's "engineering
department", which develops bomb-making techniques, is thought to have been
undermined.

Although seizures of large caches of arms and equipment are thought to have
disrupted plans, intelligence services believe that the terrorists are lying low
in readiness for a headline-grabbing "spectacular" by IRA "cleanskins" - trained
terrorists who are unknown to the police.

The unconvicted terrorists are believed to have been behind the London Docklands
bombing that ended the IRA ceasefire in February, and the Manchester bomb that
devastated the Arndale shopping centre.

Some republican activists are known to have opposed a renewed terror campaign,
claiming that the movement has recaptured some of the moral high ground from
loyal ists who were embroiled in summer violence in Northern Ireland.

Members of the IRA's army council have also been told that an attack could
severely damage support in America. In the approach to American presidential
elections in November, any attack would draw scathing criticism from President
Clinton particularly since he has decided to lead a high-profile international
drive against terrorism.

Even if the predicted bombings do not materialise, ministers are believed to be
sceptical about suggestions of a meaningful ceasefire, which could allow Gerry
Adams and fellow Sinn Fein leaders to attend the Belfast peace talks. John Major
is being advised to resist any truce that falls short of an unequivocal
restoration of the 17-month ceasefire that ended in February this year.

Senior Tory MPs are concerned that the Government's anxiety to revive the
flagging Northern Ireland talks as a general election draws near might persuade
ministers to acept a conditional ceasefire.

However, pro-Unionist Tory MPs have made clear that they will accept nothing
short of a total ceasefire alongside the first moves towards weapons
decommissioning.


LOAD-DATE: September 14, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1996 Times Newspapers Limited

                              421 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          September 14, 1996, Saturday

Wembley's pitch for new stadium

BYLINE: Patrick Tooher

SECTION: BUSINESS; Page  21

LENGTH: 465 words


The owners of Wembley, the home of English football, yesterday highlighted the
success of the Euro '96 championships to press their case for selection as the
site of Britain's new national stadium.

Alan Coppin, chief executive of the Wembley group which also operates greyhound
tracks in America , compared the almost trouble-free summer football fest with
the transport problems, computer crashes and terrorist incidents that dogged the
Olympics in Atlanta.

"We would hope that if you compared Euro '96, the third-largest sporting event
in the world, with the world's largest sports event that took place in Atlanta
the following month, that we came out better."

Wembley stadium, built in north London in the 1920s, is pitted against a rival
bid from Manchester in the race to win up to pounds 100m of National Lottery
money for a futuristic venue that could host the World Cup and Olympic Games.

The Sports Council has informed Wembley that a decision is expected by the end
of the year.

Apart from Euro '96, which saw Wembley host six matches including the final, Mr
Coppin also cited the stadium's capital city location as another reason its bid
should succeed. "We are already the de facto national stadium," he added.

Around 65 per cent of the funding for Wembley's national stadium bid will come
from the National Lottery with initiatives such as the sale of debentures and
executive seats providing the rest.

Sir Norman Foster, the award-winning architect, has announced radical plans for
the stadium including the repositioning of its famous twin towers and the
capability for adding a retractable roof - a feature regarded as essential for
any new outdoor, state-of-the-art sports and entertainment complex given the
variable British weather.

But Mr Coppin said a recent visit to Holland to see the new Amsterdam Arena's
sliding roof in action had left him unimpressed. Sir Norman's design, he added,
was only notional: "If Wembley wins, the final design will be decided by an
international architects' competition later next year."

Mr Coppin was speaking after Wembley announced a 72 per cent rise in operating
profits to pounds 15.8m. Profits from Wembley Complex, which includes the
stadium, rose to pounds 7.9m from pounds 3.4m. Euro '96 was responsible for only
pounds 500,000 of the increase.

Wembley Arena benefited from hosting 72 concerts, up from 63 a year ago, while
extra rental income lifted contributions from the conference and exhibition
centre.

Profits from the Keith Prowse hospitality division increased to pounds 1m from
pounds 400,000, due entirely to Euro '96.

Operating profits from UK greyhound tracks were unchanged at pounds 1.4m despite
poor winter weather and competition from scratchcards.


LOAD-DATE: September 16, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1996 Independent Print Ltd

                              422 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                           September 15, 1996, Sunday

SECURITY ALERT AS FEARS GROW OF IRAQ BACKLASH;
SECURITY HAS BEEN STEPPED UP FOR VIPS AFTER FEARS OF IRAQI BACKLASH

BYLINE: Exclusive Kim Sengupta

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 467 words


Security has been stepped up for VIPs, including the Royal Family, after fears
of a backlash over Britain's support of US President Bill Clinton in his clash
with Saddam Hussein.

American war planes have been allowed to use the British base on Diego Garcia,
in the Indian Ocean, for operations against Iraq.

And intelligence chiefs fear terrorist attacks in Britain by religious
extremists, known to based in London, if America launches more strikes.

A security source said yesterday: "The real danger would arise if there are
large-scale civilian casualties following an American air strike."

And worries have escalated with President Clinton ordering 5,000 more troops
into Kuwait, even though on Friday Iraq declared it would "suspend" its missile
attacks on US and allied aircraft policing no-fly zones over Iraq.

US fighters, bombers and warships have also been drafted into the area.

In an attempt to rally moderate Arab support for a possible military showdown,
US Defence Secretary William Perry headed to the Gulf yesterday to try to
rebuild the US-led coalition against Saddam Hussein, fragmented last week by two
American missile blitzes on Iraq.

Perry is due to visit Kuwait and Saudi Arabia - Washington's chief ally in the
Middle East, which has refused to line up against Iraq.

A US official said: "People forget that it was as recently as 1994 when Saddam
made another move on Kuwait and had to be deterred by a firm coalition response.

"Now we must remind people that Saddam is a dangerous animal."

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1996 MGN Ltd.

                              423 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                           September 16, 1996, Monday

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 1718 words


What the papers say:

TIMES: BLAIR TRIES TO STEER PARTY BACK ON COURSE: Tony Blair will today try to
put the Labour party back on course after a week of turmoil by ordering his
troops to turn their fire on the Tories and away from each other.  COURT ORDERS
WOMEN TO HAVE CAESAREANS: A High Court judge has approved Caesarean births
against the mother's will in two cases which appear to give courts much wider
powers to impose surgery without a patient's consent.  CHURCH CALL TO MISSING
BISHOP: The Roman Catholic Church in Scotland yesterday renewed appeals to its
missing bishop, the Right Rev Roderick Wright, 56, to get in touch, amid growing
speculation that he may have gone away with a divorcee.  City: DEAL NEAR ON
TAKE-OR-PAY GAS CONTRACTS: British Gas is in the final stages of negotiating
with two big oil companies a long awaited deal aimed at reducing its exposure to
£40 billion of highly priced take-or-pay gas contracts.  EDITOR TO CLAIM £1.4m
AFTER SALE OF SUNDAY BUSINESS: Tom Rubython, the Editor of Sunday Business, the
national newspaper that has been in administration since June, is poised to
benefit financially from the recent sale of the paper to a Yorkshire
businessman, while most unsecured creditors are to remain empty-handed.

TELEGRAPH: BLAIR TO CALL FOR UNITY AS SPLITS GROW: Tony Blair will order Labour
to stop its internal wrangling today with a warning that further in-fighting
will prejudice the part's chances of forming a government.  BUSINESS CHIEFS URGE
MAJOR TO RESTART CURRENCY DEBATE: Leading business people opposed to a European
single currency are urging John Major to take the lead in opening a debate in
Europe on the dangers of rushing into monetary union.  CHURCH BAFFLED OVER
BISHOP AND MISSING DIVORCEE: The Roman Catholic Church in Scotland remained
baffled last night over the disappearance of one of its bishops.  City: PENSION
FUNDS URGE CLARKE TO SCRAP DIVIDEND TAX: The chancellor is being asked by the
National Association of Pension Funds to reverse the tax on pension funds'
dividends which Norman Lamont imposed in 1993 and not to extend the tax in this
year's Budget.  BLOW FOR AIM AS GREENHILLS' ADVISERS QUIT: Investor confidence
in the Alternative Investment Market was hit again yesterday when Greenhills, an
Aim-listed restaurant group lost its nominated City advisers.

INDEPENDENT: GOLDSMITH'S PARTY "TOO OLD AND TOO FEW TO FIGHT": Sir James
Goldsmith's Referendum Party is in crisis because its supporters are too old and
are too thin on the ground for it to mount an effective challenge to the main
parties at the general election.  PRIVATISING WAR, BY "THE EXECUTIVES": A
security company with links to Britain and the former apartheid regime in South
Africa is emerging as one of the most powerful economic and military forces in
sub-Saharan Africa.  POLICE BACK 24-HOUR DRINKING: Police chiefs are urging the
Home Secretary, Michael Howard, to scrap the licensing laws and allow 24-hour
drinking in bars, clubs and pubs.  City: CARLTON SEEKS GUIDANCE ON A BID FOR
HTV: Carlton Communications, Michael Green's media conglomerate, has sought
informal guidance from television regulators about its plan to bid for HTV and
Westcountry, the first ITV licence-holders for Wales and the west of England.
DELAYED PAYOUTS BY LOTTERY PROVIDE £2BN BOOST FOR TREASURY: Delays in making
payments to good causes from National Lottery funds have boosted the
Government's finances to the tune of more than £2bn.

FINANCIAL TIMES BANK CHIEF HAILS EURO PROSPECTS: The City of London stands to
reap large benefits from European Monetary Union even if Britain is not among
its founder members, according to Mr Eddie George, Governor of the Bank of
England.  BLAIR MOVE TO HALT ROW OVER UNION RELATIONS: Mr Tony Blair will today
call a halt to Labour wrangling over its relationship with the trade unions,
ordering his party to promote more its main economic and social policies in the
run-up to the general election.  TOP COMMERCIAL LAW FIRMS SEE RETURN OF 1980s
BOOM: The UK's leading commercial law firms are enjoying a boom in corporate
work not seen since the late 1980s. The top 100 firms billed £3.25billion in
fees in 1995-96, an increase over the previous financial year and £500m more
than in 1992-93.  Companies and Markets: BAE WILL NOT LIFT AIRBUS STAKE: British
Aerospace will not press for an increase in its 20% stake in Airbus Industrie
even though its assets could prove to be worth relatively more than those of its
European counterparts.  BRADY BONDS POISED TO MAKE FURTHER ADVANCES: Brady bonds
are poised to make further gains after prices rose to an all time high last
week. A rise in US Treasury bond prices helped Bradys - issued in exchange for
distressed commercial debt since 1990 - on Friday, but the strong performance of
the 150bn-plus market also reflects an improvement in the credit worthiness of
many Latin American and eastern European economies.

GUARDIAN LABOUR SUMMIT TO FIGHT REVOLT THREAT: Tony Blair is to call a summit of
two of his most trusted colleagues, Gordon Brown and David Blunkett this week to
head off a policy defeat at next month's party conference as relations between
the leadership and the unions plummet.  IRA CONVENTION MAY CALL CEASEFIRE: The
fate of the Northern Ireland troubles could be decided within a month, it was
learned yesterday when security sources on both sides of the Irish border
revealed that the IRA has called a rare meeting of its supreme authority, the
General Army Convention.  BELFAST DOG HAS HIS DAY OF GLORY BY SAVING GIRL FROM
FIRECRACKER: Belfast has seen its share of acts of heroism, but now even the
dogs in the street know there's a new pup on the block. He's called Bruno and
he's just saved a little girl's life.  City BANKERS 'FORCING MIGRATION': The
World bank is privately warning that Haitian peasants could be forced to
emigrate in order to find jobs, in stark contrast to the bank's public
endorsement of a 'people first' development strategy.  SONY CAST AROUND FOR NEW
FILM CHIEF AFTER FIRING CANTON: Sony, the Japanese electronics company, was
seeking a new top executive yesterday for its troubled movie division after
sacking Mark Canton, who was responsible for commissioning films.

EXPRESS: CHARLES BLAMES FARMERS FOR BSE: Prince Charles is set to spark a
political storm this week by blaming British farmers for mad cow disease.
CLARKES'S 3% CLAMP ON 5M PUBLIC WORKERS: Pay rises for five million public
sector workers are to be pegged to around three per cent next year.  ROYALS
GATHER TO DECIDE FUTURE OF THE FAMILY FIRM: The Queen summoned her children to
Balmoral yesterday for a crunch summit on the future of the Monarchy.  Sport:
LIVERPOOL FEASTING ON KING BERGER BUT COLLY FACES A STARVATION DIET: Stan
Collymore sat watching Liverpool go top of the Premiership yesterday ... and he
is likely to stay on the outside looking in for the foreseeable future.  VILLA'S
RUUD AWAKENING FOR CHELSEA OPTIMISTS: They spilled from the pubs into the Kings
Road, sure as they fuelled themselves for the sweltering afternoon that this was
the day Ruud Gullit would guide Chelsea to the top of the table for the first
time in seven years.

MAIL: THE GIRL WAITING FOR HER TWIN TO BE BORN: A toddler conceived in a
test-tube and born to a surrogate mother is waiting for her twin to be born - 17
months after she was. ROW AS LABOUR PLANS A PENSIONS PENALTY: Labour is planning
to cut the State pension for those who choose to retire early, Harriet Harman
has admitted.  DIANA'S MOTHER PLEADS WITH VANISHING BISHOP: Princes Diana's
mother made a heartfelt appeal yesterday for the return of a runaway Roman
Catholic bishop who is believed to have disappeared with a divorcee.  Sport:
BERGER DOUBLE DELIGHT: Liverpool roared to the top of the Premiership yesterday
thanks to a star turn by 22-year-old Czech Republic international Patrik Berger.
RIX TURNS HIGHBURY JOB DOWN: Crisis club Arsenal were plunged further into
disarray last night when Graham Rix turned down their offer to become Arsene
Wenger's right hand man.

MIRROR: EIGHT-BABY MANDY LOSES CUSTODY OF SON: Distraught Mandy Allwood has lost
a bitter court battle over custody of her young son.  STRIP QUEEN OF HER POWER:
A startling plan to change the way Britain is run is revealed today. It would
curb the powers of the Queen, axe one in three MPs and replace the Lords with
elected representatives.  I'M WED, SAYS NAOMI: Catwalk queen Naomi Campbell has
secretly wed an Italian fashion tycoon, she told stunned friends in New York
yesterday.  Sport: BERGER OFF COLLY: Czech star Patrik Berger last night spelled
out the reasons why Stan Collymore could face a bleak future at Liverpool.
ROBBO CAGES THE BEAST: The Beast of Barcelona has had his move to Manchester
United put on hold by Barcelona coach Bobby Robson.

SUN: MAJOR BUYS STAR FOR ANGELS OF DUNBLANE: Caring John Major has bought a star
in memory of the Dunblane massacre tots.  NAOMI'S EYETIED THE KNOT: Supermodel
Naomi Campbell is telling pals she has secretly got married to a pint-sized
Italian fashion guru.  RAGE OVER ADAMS BOOK LAUNCH AT COMMONS: Gerry Adams was
lashed by furious MPs last night for planning to launch his controversial
autobiography at the House of Commons.  Sport: COLLY HIT BY AN ICE BERG: Super
Czech Patrik Berger scored two stunning goals to put Liverpool on top of the
Premiership and throw Stan Collymore's Anfield career into more doubt.  DAY THAT
CHANGED TONY'S LIFE: Tony Adams woke up last Tuesday and decided to change his
life.

STAR: TYSON ATTACK TERROR: Shamed boxer Mike Tyson faces jail after standing by
as hangers-on battered a car park worker.  CHOOSE CAMILLA OR CROWN: Prince
Charles was summoned to a showdown with the Queen yesterday over his mistress
Camilla Parker Bowles.  LIAM'S BANNED FROM HIS LOCAL: Rock Wildman Liam
Gallagher was booted out of his new local pub when he got drunk while house
hunting.  Sport: BOEUF BERGER: Patrik Berger fired Liverpool to the top of the
Premiership yesterday as a beefy Frenchmen kept Chelsea's unbeaten record
intact.  WENGER BACKS BOOZY ADAMS: Arsene Wenger will today be confirmed as the
new Arsenal coach - and his first job will be to tell Tony Adams his job as
captain is safe.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1996 The Press Association Limited

                              424 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          September 21, 1996, Saturday

something to declare

SECTION: TRAVEL BRITAIN; Page  18

LENGTH: 287 words


Trouble spots

What they say about personal safety in Colombia:

Foreign Office:

"Violence and kidnapping remain serious problems in Colombia. In rural areas in
particular there is a serious risk of being caught in terrorist or guerrilla
attacks and opportunistic kidnapping. Three British citizens were captured in
the last year. Visitors should always take advice from the embassy and local
authorities before travelling by road."

The Independent's travel desk: "Colombia is one of the last, great undiscovered
destinations and is South America's most enticing country. Almost everyone you
will meet is friendly and helpful. Sadly, among

a minority of Colombians, kidnapping foreigners

is virtually a national sport.

The best advice is simply to look as though you are not worth nabbing.  Forget
what your mother always told you, and become scrupulously scruffy."

Visitor's Book

Carshalton Water Tower, Surrey

A Bathroom of Distinction - A Malley, Portsmouth

My three-year-old son liked the bath best - Peter Bream, Sutton

It's like an oasis - Bill Passmore, Sutton

Beautiful building . . . I look forward to having a coffee, etc., here.  - Hans
Allen, Carshalton

It's amazing what you can find in Carshalton - M Moggridge

Bargain of

the week

New York to New Orleans, Montreal to Miami and Charleston to Chicago are all
available for a total of pounds 130 on an Amtrak USA Eastern Rail Pass,
available from agents such as Explorers Tours (01753 681999). It allows 15 days
of unlimited travel within the region. If you want to visit only New England and
the Washington-New York corridor, the price falls to pounds 110 for 15 days. Air
fares are not included.


LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1996 Independent Print Ltd

                              425 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 23, 1996

MONDAY SKETCH: CITY SEEKS TO RISE FROM SHAMBLES;
The IRA bomb demolished part of Manchester. Some residents feel planners should
finish off the job and start again

BYLINE: David Ward

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1414 words


SHORTLY after 11.20am on a sun-filled Saturday in June, a man standing on a hill
in Salford saw a wondrous shimmering and glittering against a clear blue sky in
the east.

There were signs that something extraordinary had happened in Manchester that
day, not least a loud bang and a cloud of dust and smoke. The watcher soon
learned about the bomb (the one we always refer to as the largest on mainland
Britain since the end of the last war) that had devastated the city centre. But
what had caused all that twinkling?

Some time later it dawned on him that a billion fragments of glass had reflected
the summer light after being blown into the air above the Arndale Centre by the
IRA. Some of that glass lacerated shoppers when it fell in Cross Street and St
Ann's Square. But no one was killed. Manchester sighed with relief and called in
the glaziers.

The city is now the scaffolding capital of Europe. Some shops have posters
telling customers they have moved into temporary premises after what are always
described as "the events of June 15".

Marks & Spencer has abandoned its premises, which caught the full impact of the
explosion. Behind it, boards still cover the windows of the jail-like offices
rising above Shambles Square. Otherwise, the square remains much as it was - a
hideous concrete space approached through a dreary passage from St Mary's Gate.

The grand task force charged with overseeing the rebirth of Manchester has given
five design teams pounds 20,000 each to dream up ideas for the transformation of
this squalid dump and the rest of the city centre. On November 1 one will be
chosen.

This is the top-down approach. At the weekend environmental activists went
bottom-up and, at the suggestion of Friends of the Earth, invited the people of
the city to have their say. The Manchester Local Agenda 21 group, which has
adopted the environmental aims agreed at the United Nations Earth Summit in Rio
in 1992, erected its tent in Shambles Square, set out a crude polystyrene city
centre model and offered shoppers little labels and cocktail sticks to push into
the model.

An awful lot of "Demolish" labels were stuck into the flimsy yellow tower of the
Arndale Centre, which trembled in the vicious gale for which Shambles Square is
notorious. Other ideas for the Arndale, the most derided shopping space in
Britain, included a centre for the terminally ill near where Top Man used to be,
a city farm on the site of Mothercare, a needle exchange point instead of W.H.
Smith and an HIV information centre where Littlewoods is trading.

"Make it (Manchester) a more European type of city, e.g. cafes on the pavement,"
read one label. "Refurbish ugly Arndale or pull it down. Get the Tories out!"
Someone else demanded that the structure should be demolished and re-erected in
Liverpool.

But other LA21 consultations suggested that the flattening of the Arndale would
not win universal applause. Amanda Lee-Fisher, who worked in an office in its
squat, square tower until the bomb went off, thought it could be prettified with
mirrors and other decorations. And Emily Roberston, aged 15, insisted: "The
Arndale is safe and it's not cold or windy. And there are lots of shops selling
affordable clothes."

Her mum Diana sighed: "She has grieved for the destruction of Top Shop." Mrs
Robertson would like to see the Arndale opened out and integrated with the rest
of the city on which it turns its back.

"This is a big city and it's not beautiful. But I'm staggered by the changes
that have happened here over the last 20 years.  Perhaps the bombers did us a
favour. The way everyone has responded to the blast has been very Mancunian.
People didn't grieve or mourn. They responded to the challenge."

But a woman who works nearby gazed disdainfully at the chewing gum-spattered
pavement of the hated square. "The whole of Manchester needs a darn good clean.
I wish the place was more like Leeds, with its open streets and Victorian
arcades."

LA21 also gave out forms and asked people to state their likes and dislikes
about Manchester. Some mentioned vibrancy, cultural activity, "dramatic
architecture", a sense of tradition.

Others came up with ideas: less dog mess and pollution, fewer cars; more
toilets, phones, cycle tracks, trams; reconstruction "for people, not greedy
developers". Someone suggested a course in town planning for city councillors.

But what, ultimately, can task forcers, green battlers and smart-planned
designers do if, say, Marks and Sparks chooses to replace its ruin with an
as-before boring commercial temple dedicated to St Michael, patron saint of
sensible trousers?  Perhaps we should pray for answers to St Denis, patron saint
of the bombed-out theological bookshop which has now found a temporary home in
the cathedral's chapter house.

A string group from the Royal Northern College of Music cheered everyone up by
playing Ravel's Bolero in that dreary passage leading to Shambles Square. "You
can't play here - this is private property," warned a nervous security guard.

What can St Michael, St Denis and all the design teams in the world do about a
problem like that?

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              426 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                           September 23, 1996, Monday

THE IRA'S RENEWED CAMPAIGN

BYLINE:  John Deane, Chief Reporter, PA News

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 974 words


This morning's arrests and seizure of a large amount of explosives is the latest
incident since the IRA renewed its campaign of violence after calling off it
ceasefire.  The terrorists signalled the end of the ceasefire in dramatic
fashion with the bombing of South Quay in London's Docklands on February 9.
    The explosion of a massive bomb hidden aboard a low-loader lorry, shortly
after the IRA formally announced that its ceasefire was at an end, killed two
people and injured many more.  Initially there were hopes that the Docklands
bomb - made up of around a tonne of home-made explosives - would prove a one-off
attack and that the terrorists would step back and gauge the impact on the
political process before launching further operations.
    But those hopes were shattered just days later, on February 15, with the
discovery of a 5lb Semtex bomb left in a holdall in a telephone box in Charing
Cross Road, central London.  That device was made safe and no one was injured,
although its discovery brought a large part of the capital to a halt.
    On the evening of February 18, IRA man Edward O'Brien was blown up and
killed by his own bomb when it accidentally detonated and ripped apart the bus
on which he was travelling as it passed along Aldwych, central London.
    In the early hours of March 9, what was described as a "small, improvised
device" exploded in Old Brompton Road, Fulham, west London, causing minor
damage. The IRA later admitted responsibility.
    On Wednesday April 17, an explosion rocked an empty house at The Boltons, an
exclusive area of Earl's Court, in the capital, moments after a coded message
was passed to a news agency. There were no injuries.
    On the evening of April 24, two devices were placed at the south side of
Hammersmith Bridge in west London and an IRA warning was telephoned to the AP
news agency. There were small explosions when the detonators went off, but the
bombs themselves did not explode. There were no injuries and no damage was
caused.  But the following day Scotland Yard issued an urgent bomb warning to
the public after disclosing that twin devices represented probably the biggest
high explosive bomb planted by IRA terrorists in mainland Britain.  Scotland
Yard said that together the devices contained upwards of 30lbs of sophisticated
high explosives, almost certainly Semtex.  Successful detonation would have
wreaked massive destruction and been a high-profile "spectacular" attack by the
terrorists, coinciding with the 80th anniversary of the Easter Rising in Dublin
of April 24, 1916 - a key date in the Republican calendar.
    On Saturday, June 15, the IRA struck outside of the capital for the first
time in its renewed mainland campaign, bringing horror and mayhem to the streets
of Manchester with a huge bomb which ripped through the city centre, injuring
around 200 people, several seriously.  The explosion came after a man with an
Irish accent phoned a coded warning to a local TV station.  The devastating
blast, which was felt miles away and blew people off their feet several blocks
from the scene, came at about 11.20am - an hour and 20 minutes after the warning
- as bomb disposal experts examined a suspicious box-type van near the Arndale
shopping centre in the city centre.  The injuries, mostly cuts caused by flying
glass, came despite the police's best efforts to evacuate the area.  It later
emerged that the bomb was made up of between one and one-and-a-half tonnes of
home-made explosives, probably fired by a small quantity of Semtex
high-explosive. It was possibly the biggest bomb the Provisionals had ever set
off on the mainland.
    On Friday, June 28, the terrorists switched tactics again. They fired a
volley of three mortars at the Quebec barracks in Osnabruck, Germany. There were
no injuries, but several buildings were badly damaged.  It was the first time
that British servicemen on the Continent had been targeted for more than six
years.  The attack came just days after Irish police smashed a mortar factory in
the Republic.
    July 13 and a 1,200lb car-bomb devastated the Kilyhelvin Hotel at
Enniskillen, injuring 17 people, following a week of mounting tension and
rioting sparked by the Drumcree stand-off and the RUC's controversial decision
to allow Orangemen to march through a Catholic area. It appeared to be the first
republican bombing in Northern Ireland since the 1994 IRA ceasefire, but within
hours the IRA emphatically denied any responsibility for this incident.
Suspicion fell on the breakaway Republican Sinn Fein, although one of its
councillors insisted that it had no military wing.
    July 15 and the Metropolitan Police scored their first major success in the
battle against the terrorists, recovering components for up to 36 bombs which
they believe would have been used imminently to target utilities installations
in London and the south east. Seven men were arrested at addresses in Tooting
and Peckham, south London, where police continued the search for a major
stockpile of explosives. A man and a woman were later held in Birmingham.  On
July 19, eight men appeared before Belmarsh magistrates court under strict
security, charged with conspiring to cause explosions. The men were all remanded
in custody.
    On September 13, reports emerged that ministers had been alerted that the
IRA was poised to launch a new mainland bombing campaign. Intelligence sources
had apparently warned that a small network of terrorists was preparing to attack
industrial or commercial centres.  Just days later, however, reports from
Ireland suggested that the IRA had called a rare meeting of its supreme
authority, the General Army Convention, fuelling speculation that it might be
preparing to call a new ceasefire.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1996 The Press Association Limited

                              427 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                               September 24, 1996

Terror vigil on the streets of London

LENGTH: 969 words


The success of the security forces in foiling an IRA bomb attack yesterday was
the culmination of a carefully planned operation. Desmond McCartan examines the
measures being taken to protect London and explains how the bill for terrorismm
is met.

THE SCENE in London's Regent Street just before seven o'clock one morning
recently prompted no more than a sidelong glance from passers-by. Police were
frisking two pedestrians, searching their pockets for objects that might arouse
suspicion of a planned attack.

In Whitehall, with its cluster of government offices, another delivery van or
lorry is pulled over for examination.

Around the City of London, armed police guard the entry points in its ring of
steel, imposed after the havoc of the IRA's Bishopsgate bomb. London, in the
autumn of 1996, is a capital thronged with tourists from all corners. It is also
a place where an unspoken mental state of siege exists.

The passage at Easter of emergency powers, empowering police to stop individuals
in the street for body searches, was one manifestation of how the terrorist
threat has been recognised.

There is also visible evidence of the scaling-up of security. The English bobby
carrying a machine-pistol or a side-arm no longer attracts comment. They stand
in their body armour at the iron gates of Downing Street. They explain, wearily,
to hordes of Americans, Japanese, Scandinavians and others that it is not
possible to be photographed on the steps of Number 10.

More mobile and foot police on patrol, more calls to the bomb squad over
suspicious incidents, more disruption. Somehow, the sirens of police vehicles
sound more disturbing.

To the stoical Londoners, it is a small inconvenience when measured against the
impact of a fresh attack. Strike action on the Underground often will cause more
angst.

Many MPs believe that, among its other goals, the IRA still aims to hit an
important economic target. They abound in London.

Any repair bill, never mind the human toll, is sure to be enormous. In the City,
a historic church that survived Hitler's aerial bombardment crumbled to rubble
at the IRA's hands.

Manchester's Arndale centre, hit by the IRA's 1.5 tonne lorry bomb in June, was
one of the busiest in Europe. It will cost up to '500m to reconstruct. But where
will the money come from? Former Northern Ireland Minister and Tory MP Sir
Philip Goodhart claims the direct and indirect costs of the attack are unlikely
to be less than '1 for every UK citizen.

He argues that, since the IRA inflicts its damage in the name of Ireland, then
Irish taxpayers should pay.

''It would appear appropriate if the Irish government, which represents a
population of more than 3,500,000, should now make a matching contribution of '1
for every Irish citizen,'' he suggests. Deputy Prime Minister Michael Heseltine,
who made two high-profile visits to Manchester, announced an aid package for the
city.

This entails an extra '20m injection from the UK's allocation of European
structural funds.

It includes '1m from the current Euro-programme to prepare a master plan for
development of the city centre and '250,000 from the government to support an
international urban design competition - all well short of what will be needed.

''It is vital that we all work together quickly and efficiently to restore
Manchester,' he pledged. 'Many businesses have been affected. They must be
restored to health.'' It is hardly surprising, therefore, that the '1m reward
from anonymous commercial donors for vital information after the devastating
Docklands attack is now extended to Manchester.

Mr Heseltine headed the Department of Trade and Industry when business had to
turn elsewhere to cover potential losses from terrorism. The Reinsurance (Acts
of Terrorism) Act provides the legislative basis for the scheme, announced after
the City of London was blasted in 1992, for the government to act as ''reinsurer
of last resort''.

The new law, coupled with an agreement between a new mutual insurance pool (Pool
Reinsurance Company Ltd), was intended to guarantee access to cover, despite the
withdrawal from the market of the commercial reinsurers.

Policy holders pay a terrorism premium which reflects the current level of
perceived risk. It is an unwanted cost, but it is better to pay than to risk no
cover at all.

Mr Heseltine emphasised at the time that the government would not pay
compensation to businesses who were uninsured or had inadequate cover for
terrorist risks.

In Great Britain, the Criminal Injuries Compensation Scheme provides
compensation for crimes of violence. However, unlike Northern Ireland, there is
no equivalent government scheme to pay up after a terrorist attack.

In the province, the Compensation Agency handles claims for terrorist damage.
Claims are paid from one of four categories of damage. Undoubtedly, the 17
-month IRA cessation in its campaign and the continuing loyalist ceasefire will
have made a significant impact on the levels of compensation paid out.

However, damage caused during the latest loyalist unrest is certain to inspire a
rash of fresh claims.

A hidden cost, of course, will not be met - the loss of confidence suffered by
business as a result.

Manchester is only beginning to come to terms with the scale of the task
involved in rebuilding its shattered centre. It will take a long time and much
money.

For some individuals, the painful memory will live with them always. Commander
John Grieve, head of Scotland Yard's anti- terrorist branch, says there is firm
evidence to link the Manchester attack with 10 other bombings in a sequence back
to 1992.

On the streets of the capital today, among the tourists, the shoppers and the
commuters, others are ever-vigilant.


LOAD-DATE: November 26, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1996 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              428 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                          September 24, 1996, Tuesday

TARGET: THE TUNNEL;
PROVO PLOT FOILED AS POLICE SEIZE 10 TONS OF EXPLOSIVE;
POLICE FOIL IRA PLOT TO BLOW UP CHANNEL TUNNEL SHOOTING TERRORIST SUSPECT DEAD

BYLINE: Jeff Edwards Chief Crime Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4, 5

LENGTH: 1147 words


A Devastating IRA bomb attack on the Channel Tunnel was foiled yesterday - with
only hours to spare.

Police believe the tunnel, its Kent terminal and key road and rail links around
London were prime targets for the terrorists.

But the Provo plot was smashed as 10 TONS of home-made explosives were seized
and one suspect was shot dead in a dramatic series of dawn raids.

The huge haul, enough to make six bombs the size of the one that blitzed
Manchester, was found at a warehouse in north London.

It would have been used to launch the biggest series of bombings and murders
ever seen on mainland Britain.

And the first attacks could have come today.

Scotland Yard Assistant Commissioner David Veness said last night: "It is clear
a bomb attack was very imminent."

Armed police arrested a total of five suspects in two London raids and a swoop
at Gatwick Airport.

The co-ordinated operation was carried out after months of surveillance by
Special Branch and MI5 in England, the Irish Republic and Northern Ireland.

The man who died, Diarmoid O'Neill, was shot by police marksmen as they raided a
bed and breakfast hotel at Hammersmith in west London just after 4am.

The 10 tons of fertiliser-based explosives were discovered in a warehouse unit
at Hornsey in north London.  Also seized were two pounds of Semtex plastic
explosive, limpet mines, three Russian Kalashnikov AK 47 rifles, automatic
pistols and 1,000 rounds of ammunition.

Explosives had already been packed into wooden crates ready for loading.

Two lorries fitted with electrical wiring and bomb timers were found parked at
sites in north and west London.

Police believe the mines would have been used to blow up the cars of prominent
politicians.

Last night security was tightened around mem- bers of the Cabinet and Shadow
Cabinet, and MPs known for outspoken anti-IRA views.

The public were warned to be on guard.

One detective said: "There may be another terrorist cell we do not know about
that is poised to strike."

Anti-terrorist Squad officers believe the Provos planned to attack the Channel
Tunnel or the Ashford terminal of the Shuttle train service which carries
thousands of lorries and cars to and from France every day.

A previous IRA lorry bomb targeted on the tunnel was intercepted entering
Britain two years ago. Other likely targets were London rail bridges carrying
the main West Coast line to Scotland, the interchange of the M1 and M25 in
Hertfordshire, the Waterloo terminal of the Eurostar passenger train service and
main London rail stations.

The bomb store was in a warehouse in Cranford Way, Hornsey.

The terrorists covered their activities at the Abacus Self Storage Company by
telling their landlords they ran a fertiliser business.

They had been renting a unit within the storage complex for several weeks.

As many as 10 police forces are thought to have been involved in yesterday's
massive operation.

Scotland Yard chief Sir Paul Condon said the raids had foiled "significant"
attacks."

One Special Branch source said: "The potential targets the IRA have been looking
at are mainly in the London area.

"All the equipment is in London and for practical reasons it makes sense for
them to travel the shortest distances possible to plant a bomb.

"We think this time they had a two-prong strategy - big bombs designed to wreak
commercial havoc by severely disrupting road and rail routes, and attacks on
important politicians with guns and anti-personnel mines."

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAMA: The Hammersmith house where the IRA suspect was shot dead by
police yesterday;; SEIZED: Part of the huge haul of bomb-making equipment;;
SEIZED': Guns, bullets and explosives from the warehouse

                            Copyright 1996 MGN Ltd.

                              429 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                          September 24, 1996, Tuesday

REAL-LIFE INSPECTOR MORSE WHO HAS IRA ON THE RUN;
REAL LIFE INSPECTOR MORSE JOHN GRIEVE MASTERMINDED PLOT TO FOIL IRA BOMBING
CAMPAIGN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1134 words


When Colin Dexter invented his hit TV detective Inspector Morse he could have
been thinking of John Grieve.

The Scotland Yard copper who masterminded yesterday's stunning success against
the IRA has many things in common with the character played by John Thaw.

They are the best-read policemen in the land and share a love of real ale, fine
wines, great literature and classical music. They are also both great thinkers
and philosophers and have a dry sense of humour.

But while Morse has spent his career solving bizarre murders among the dreaming
spires of Oxford, Grieve has been at the sharp end of policing.

He joined the force walking the beat in London's tough areas of Clapham and
Brixton,

But he quickly went on to become an undercover cop.

He once disguised himself as a hippy to infiltrate drug gangs.

And he gained the confidence of Chinese informants to break Triad gangs running
riot in London in the 1970s.

Grieve also won over Bangladeshis when he came down hard on Nazi groups
victimising young Asians in the capital's East End.

He is now rated as an expert on international drug syndicates, especially
Colombian cocaine cartels and Yardies.

Grieve was also in the Flying Squad and an important strategist for the key
Criminal Intelligence branch tracking the movements of Britain's "Top 200"
criminals. But alongside his streetwise education, the former public schoolboy
has proved himself a true intellectual.

He decided to join the police after reading the works of Edgar Wallace and
Sherlock Holmes creator Conan Doyle. He got degrees in philosophy and psychology
in his spare time.

Grieve is also a keen history student. He has applied Second World War navy
strategy to the fight against drug clans.

He recently told colleagues: "The U-boats had the upper hand while out at sea.

"But they were vulnerable because they had to go back to base to refuel and re
-arm. There they could be attacked.

"Drug dealers are the same. Find their bases, that's where the evidence will
be."

One colleague said of him: "He has a slightly eccentric reputation which he
secretly enjoys. He is a bit like Inspector Morse."

But Grieve himself once said: "Morse is far smarter than I am because, unlike
me, he has never ever failed to solve a crime."

10

THINGS YOU DIDN'T

KNOW ON TOP COP

GRIEVE loves books and owns his own large library on subjects including the
police, philosophy and drugs.

HIS favourite writers include Crime And Punishment author Dostoevsky and Theatre
Of The Absurd playwright Samuel Beckett.

HE has a passion for landscape painting and drawing.

WHISTLER is one of his favourite artists.

WHEN he is not reading history, he goes walking.

AMONG his hobbies is making model aircraft.

HE has a master's degree in philosophy.

ERIC Clapton and the Rolling Stones are favourite musicians.

AND although he prefers rock, he likes opera too.

HE also enjoys reading poetry.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CUNNING: John Grieve

                            Copyright 1996 MGN Ltd.

                              430 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               September 24, 1996

Gun raids thwart terror campaign;IRA suspect shot dead

BYLINE: James Mckillop

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 728 words


AN IRA suspect was shot dead yesterday, and tons of explosives seized in dawn
raids which have thwarted a renewed campaign of terror.

It is believed planned attacks would have coincided with party political
conferences and the publication of Sinn Fein leader Gerry Adams's autobiography.

Ten tons of "home-made" explosives, already pre-mixed, two lorries, together
with an arsenal of Semtex which could be used as primer, timing devices,
detonators, and high powered weapons had been recovered in raids in London and
the South-east.

The lorries are thought to have been brought on to the mainland through
Scotland.

Security sources suggested the find appeared to dash any hopes of a new
ceasefire.

It is believed the man who died was a member of a group which intended to create
the biggest "spectacular" on mainland Britain since the Brighton bomb, which had
been intended to kill the then Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher and most of her
Cabinet. Five men were being held in custody last night.

Shots were first fired at 4.30am during a raid on an end-of-terrace house in
London's Hammersmith. A trail of blood going down stairs signalled the end of a
long police operation.

Neighbours awakened by the shots saw police swarming over the building and heard
shouts of "throw your gun down, you haven't got a chance".

Police say the IRA planned that the first bomb could have been detonated either
today or tomorrow. It could have been four or five times as powerful as the one
which devastated Manchester city centre.

The City of London was the likely target.

The Manchester device is the biggest IRA bomb to have gone off on the mainland,
but one source said: "It would have been just a minor explosion had the first of
this lot gone off."

Police believe a second four-ton plus bomb was planned as an immediate follow
-up to the first intended spectacular in this latest campaign.

Among the first to offer congratulations to the police and intelligence sources
on their success was the Prime Minister.

Mr Major said: "The discovery of these plans and the huge stocks of explosives
and arms put in their proper context the professions of peaceful intentions of
Sinn Fein's leaders and speculation about a new IRA ceasefire. It remains
impossible to reconcile Sinn Fein's rhetoric for peace with the IRA's
preparation for murder.'

Key politicians had almost certainly been earmarked in this latest campaign.
Booby trap bombs that would fit under cars were amongst the IRA armoury
recovered by police.

One source said it was no coincidence a series of spectaculars was being planned
when Gerry Adams's autobiography was due.

The coming General Election seems to be the major reason the IRA is attempting
to step up attacks on mainland England.

Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir Paul Condon said: "I have no doubt that
today's operation has frustrated an attempt by the IRA to carry out significant
and imminent attacks on the mainland, which were designed to lead to a large
loss of life."

The man shot dead was living at a lodging house in Glenthorne Road, Hammersmith.
Another man was arrested at the same place.

Others were arrested at Averill Road, Fulham.

Raids were continuing to take place elsewhere in various parts of the country.

"This is an ongoing investigation," police declared.

The majority of explosives were uncovered at an industrial estate in Cranford
Way, Hornsey, London.

The raids also uncovered three Kalashnikovs, two handguns, 2lbs of Semtex, and
other bomb-making equipment.

The haul was discovered packed inside plastic bags and wooden boxes within a
large, locked walled unit in a warehouse.

Up to 10 police forces are thought to have been involved in tracking suspects
during a surveillance operation lasting several weeks.

Assistant Commissioner David Veness, in charge of anti-terrorist operations at
Scotland Yard, reckoned that the bombs were destined for economic targets,
probably in London, which would cause grave loss of life, economic impact, and
massive damage.

At a news conference at Scotland Yard Sir Paul declined to say whether or not
the dead suspect had been armed.

He was given emergency treatment on the street by paramedics before being taken
to hospital where he died undergoing emergency treatment.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1996 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              431 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          September 24, 1996, Tuesday

Huge blow to republican morale

BYLINE: David McKittrick Ireland correspondent

SECTION: TITLE; Page  1

LENGTH: 374 words


The swoops in England have dealt a shattering double blow to the republican
movement, undermining the IRA's capacity to inflict destruction in England while
ruining Sinn Fein's chances of entry into talks.

The IRA will try to stage other attacks to make the point that it can still
cause damage in Britain. But most immediately it must face the fact that the
security services finally look to have the upper hand, and that the IRA's prized
"England department" seems chronically insecure. The blow to the IRA is one of
the worst setbacks ever suffered in Britain by the terrorists. The setback is
all the more severe because Britain is the central focus of IRA activity:
Belfast may have its beatings and occasional shootings, but not a single IRA
bomb has gone off there since the ceasefire ended in February.

The IRA had put its faith in the proposition that it could refrain from bombing
in Northern Ireland and exert enough pressure on the Government through bombings
in England alone. In reaching that conclusion it was clearly influenced by the
fact that since 1988, when it launched its major bombing campaign in England, it
almost always managed to stay ahead of the security people.

It is now coming to terms with the fact that Britain has become something of a
disaster zone for its members, and that "successes" such as the explosions which
devastated Docklands, in London, and Manchester are now interspersed with
mishaps and accidents, providing evidence that the organisation has been
penetrated.

Whether or not the bomb or bombs had gone off, the idea of any government
bringing Sinn Fein to the conference table at this moment is risible.  The
bombing has in effect ensured that republicans cannot expect entry into talks
for many months, thus practically guaranteeing that Sinn Fein will not be at the
table in advance of the next British general election.

Yesterday was a good day for the security services and a bad day for the IRA and
Sinn Fein. But it was also a bad day for any hopes of a reconstructed peace
process, for it showed that the republicans have reverted to militarism and that
for the moment regards the IRA as their cutting edge, no matter the damage to
their political wing.


LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1996 Independent Print Ltd

                              432 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                          September 24, 1996, Tuesday

Tactics of Terror

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 571 words


Almost exactly 12 years ago Irish republicans attempted to decapitate the
British Government with a bomb at the Conservative Party conference in Brighton.
Providence spared most of the intended victims then. Vigilance may now have
averted atrocities intended to equal and exceed that murderous attack. The
security forces are to be congratulated on their capture early yesterday of IRA
volunteers in England and their arsenal. They appear to have prevented violence
on a massive scale timed to coincide with the party conferences.

The loss of six terrorists is a sore blow to the IRA's military capability.
Since the IRA resumed hostilities, one of its men has died at his own hands, a
bomb placed by Hammersmith Bridge has failed to detonate, a major explosives
factory has been found in the Republic, seven volunteers were arrested in July
and now five more have been arrested and another killed. The IRA's tactic of
concentrating on the British mainland has been severely disrupted by these
reverses, which have come as republicans are believed to be reviewing their
strategy.

There have been reports that an IRA general army convention apparently planned
for next month might discuss a cessation of violence. The revelation that acts
of terror were still being planned does not, in itself, invalidate the
suggestion that a ceasefire was imminent. The IRA would only wish to suspend the
armed struggle from a position of strength. A "spectacular" which penetrated to
the heart of the British State would assure their supporters of the republicans'
undiminished capacity to fight. Having shown themselves unbowed, republicans
could then walk into negotiations, their guns silenced but still eloquent.The
scale, however, of the military activity that the IRA was planning could point
to a much more depressing conclusion. Since the Docklands bomb, the nature of
IRA activity has implied a commitment to a protracted bombing campaign on the
mainland and a desire to provoke loyalists into breaking their ceasefire.
Leading republicans appear to believe that there is small chance of progress
this side of looming elections in the Irish Republic and United Kingdom.

Republicans may be correct in calculating that a Fianna Fail government in
Dublin would be more indulgent than John Bruton's coalition but they are on less
certain ground in believing that a change at Westminster would benefit them.
Speaking at the Times /Dillons forum last week Tony Blair confirmed that
Northern Ireland was part of his "New Britain", underlined his support for John
Major's current policy and pledged to match the effort invested in the peace
process by the Prime Minister.

With massive constitutional change already planned elsewhere it is hard to see
Mr Blair seeking to expose another flank by departing too far from Mr Major's
cautious approach. He could, however, come under greater pressure from a
re-elected President Clinton to go over the heads of the Unionist majority to
deal with the republicans.

Yesterday's discovery should provide a reminder, if one were needed, of the real
nature of republicanism. Whatever the result of any future election the victors
in London and Dublin should pledge themselves to work with others who resolve
differences by argument, not Armalites. Only when deeds as well as words show
that violence is fruitless and its advocates unheard will Ulster enjoy real
peace.


LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1996 Times Newspapers Limited

                              433 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                         September 25, 1996, Wednesday

ELITE TEAM FOILED IRA;
14 INDEPENDENT INTELLIGENCE COMPANY FOIL IRA BOMBING CAMPAIGN

BYLINE: Jeff Edwards And Don Mackay

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 494 words


THE IRA plan to blitz Britain was wrecked by the Army's most secret soldiers.

Elite troops from 14 Independent Intelligence Company, who specialise in daring
surveillance, uncovered the plot as long ago as May.

The unit, based in Northern Ireland, uses the latest high-tech methods to spy on
the IRA's top brass.

They discovered the notorious South Armagh brigade was planning a huge bombing
campaign in London and tipped off Scotland Yard's Anti Terrorist Squad.

Detectives were ready and waiting when the terror team began to arrive on the
mainland from the end of June.

They were shadowed by relays of officers using a fleet of cars, vans, motorbikes
and light aircraft.

They were tracked to London where they were seen to rendezvous with other people
now under arrest. One Anti Terrorist Source said: "We have been working flat out
for months watching the terrorists' every move.

"When we saw them take a truck to the warehouse where we knew the explosives
were stored we knew a bomb was just hours away and it was time to hit them."

The soldiers of 14 Company use an astonishing array of techniques to gather
information on IRA suspects. They tap phones - including mobiles - plant long
range 'directional' microphones to pick up conversations, and hide micro cameras
to record meetings.

They secretly burgle suspect's homes to plant bugs and put tiny tracking devices
on everything from cars to guns.

Author James Rennie, a former captain in 14 Company, said: "They are simply the
world's best close surveillance unit."

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1996 MGN Ltd.

                              434 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               September 25, 1996

MI5 warns of new IRA campaign

BYLINE: By James Mckillop;;

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 290 words


BRITAIN'S intelligence agency MI5 has warned that the IRA may attempt to re
-establish its credibility after Monday's spectacular police swoop, which left
one terrorist suspect dead and five others under arrest, by activating a sleeper
cell that can hit quickly.

While the bomb blasts which had been planned for London and South-east England
had been months in the planning, intelligence agents fear the IRA may now feel
it necessary to mount renewed attacks - probably aimed at politicians - to
regain some of the initiative that has been lost in the mainland campaign.

"The success of this operation should not lull us into a false sense of
security," was the warning being put out by MI5. "The IRA is still out there and
they may do something soon to prove it."

At the height of the political conference season, the warning is being taken to
heart. Security at the party conferences is already tight following the bid to
wipe out Margaret Thatcher and her Cabinet in Brighton, but police have warned
their officers to be specially vigilant this year.

The United States government congratulated the British authorities on thwarting
a major IRA attack. Washington said the IRA was the "single greatest impediment"
to peace in Northern Ireland.

It said the only real path to a stable political and economic future for
Northern Ireland was through the multi-party talks under way in Belfast.

Monday's pre-dawn raids - hours before the IRA planned to mount its terror
campaign on the mainland - left 27-year-old Dermot O'Neill dead from gun wounds,
and his brother Shane arrested along with four others including 21 -year-old
Mick Phillips, who was employed as a British Airways engineer at Gatwick
Airport.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1996 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              435 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                          September 26, 1996, Thursday

BOMBER O'NEILL AN IRA 'FANATIC';
DEAD IRA SUSPECT DIARMUID O'NEILL A 'FANATIC'

BYLINE: John Kierans

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 960 words


Evil bomber Diarmuid O'Neill vowed to die an IRA martyr.

The Republican fanatic rose from being a Sinn Fein newspaper boy to become one
of Britain's top terrorists, it was revealed yesterday.

Police wanted to quiz the 27-year-old about the Canary Wharf bombing and several
other mainland atrocities when he was shot dead last Monday.

He is now known to have planted Britain's biggest ever Semtex bomb which failed
to go off under Hammersmith Bridge in April.

O'Neill's dream was to be the IRA's new Bobby Sands. The hunger striker was his
idol. O'Neill was recruited as a terrorist in the Irish pubs of Kilburn and
Cricklewood in north London.

He spent his spare time as a schoolkid selling the IRA mouthpiece - An Phoblacht
- to Provo sympathisers in the Irish watering holes.

He joined Sinn Fein and helped organise fundraising activities for them in the
British capital.

The police say O'Neill was the leading IRA operator in London for the past few
years.

They knew he had Republican sympathies but it was only in the past few months
they discovered the scale of his involvement.

One of the men arrested in Monday's raids is suspected of being the right hand
man of the current IRA chief of staff.

The terror suspect is one of five people currently in custody.

The man had been living in Clones, Co Monaghan. He vanished last July and turned
up in London on Monday.

O'Neill spent eight weeks in Ireland this year, staying with his parents in west
Cork. On each visit he was put under Irish Special Branch round-the-clock
surveillance.

He kept a low profile but did contact a handful of known IRA men in the county.

Yesterday a senior gardai source said: "Diarmuid O'Neill was one of the top IRA
men in Britain.

"He might have had an English accent but he was a total fanatic. His dream was
to die an IRA martyr.

"He was all friendly and smiles but he didn't care who they killed for the
cause.

"He was a major player in every sense of the word."

And a Special Branch source said: "We are convinced O'Neill was involved in
placing the Semtex under Hammersmith Bridge.

"Had it gone off it would have caused a monumental explosion with great loss of
life.

"Ironically it would have rattled the windows of his own home."

An anti terrorist officer said: "He had been given a free hand to check out and
select his own targets.

"Having lived in London all his life he was ideally positioned to know which
targets would produce the most damage and chaos."

O'Neill's body has been released to his family, who want an independent post
mortem.

Heartbroken father Eoghan is bringing him back to Ireland to bury him.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SHOT: IRA's Diarmuid O'Neill

                            Copyright 1996 MGN Ltd.

                              436 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               September 26, 1996

Hooked by hidden lure of a life underground;Dermot O'Neill is an unlikely
convert to the Irish cause, while Gerry Adams was born to it

BYLINE: Steve Bruce

SECTION: Pg. 17

LENGTH: 979 words


Steve Bruce explains why certain individuals are drawn to terrorism after an IRA
man's death in London

OUR relationship with people and things Irish is profoundly ambivalent. Our
soldiers are at war with volunteers of the Irish Republican Army yet citizens of
the Irish Republic are at liberty to settle in Britain. Irish nationalists
campaign to remove Northern Ireland from the United Kingdom, but Irish people
residing in the United Kingdom are entitled to vote in our elections. IRA
atrocities periodically swell waves of anti-Irish sentiment but media
personalities such as Eamonn Andrews and Terry Wogan become massively popular
stars.

To our enduring discredit, we peddle invidious stereotypes of the Irish as black
ruffians or charming rogues but we genuinely enjoy Irish music and literature
and treat them as if they were our own. We sink Caffreys and Guinness in Irish
theme pubs and ignore or despise the Orange Order. It is little exaggeration to
say that, except when acts of terrorism remind us which lot are our fellow
citizens, we much prefer the Gaelic Catholic Irish to the Ulster Protestants.

This preference makes it hard for us to comprehend the behaviour of Dermot
O'Neill, the 27-year-old man shot dead during the raid on an IRA arms dump in
London. The foreigner who sneaks in from Ireland and hides among us, waiting for
the time to act out his historic mission of making us suffer for centuries of
accumulated grievance, we can understand. But this cuckoo was given every
advantage available to British citizens.

The son of an Irish engineering fitter who settled in London in the mid
-sixties, O'Neill was educated at the Catholic Oratory - the school so
respectable and successful that Tony Blair and Harriet Harman have been willing
to undermine Labour's education policy to have their children educated there.
Had he done as well as the average Oratory pupil he would have followed the
classic path of upward social mobility; from working class through school and
university, to a professional career. Instead he became an active Irish
republican, selling Republican News in London pubs and then stealing money from
the bank where he worked to fund the IRA.

Once someone like O'Neill becomes publicly active, the signs are there for the
intelligence services to monitor, but what those who try to prevent terrorism
would dearly love is the capacity to predict, to spot in advance what sort of
person is likely to become a terrorist. Unfortunately, just as there is no one
biography common to traitors, there is no set profile for terrorists.

Many are working-class people who have few comforts and privileges to lose but
others willingly forego a nice middle-class life to serve the cause.

Many Irish republicans have been raised in struggle and have acquired their
beliefs, the same way we got ours: by inheriting them from their parents.  Gerry
Adams is an example. Yet others, like Dermot O'Neill, convert to the cause from
such an unlikely background that, until their arrest or death, their parents
have no notion that their son or daughter is involved.

Some people become terrorists in response to a personal experience of the
conflict: a friend killed or a brutal encounter with the security forces. But
others are motivated only by an attachment to abstract ideas.

And then there are those who in one way or another are coerced. There are
obvious dangers in using recruits who only do your bidding because you have some
hold over them. They will turn on you or turn you in as soon as they are beyond
your reach or within the reach of someone else who can apply greater coercion.
Republican and loyalist groups have frequently used reluctant recruits for
low-level but high-risk jobs and viewed them as an expendable resource, but far
better is the true believer who is driven by inner conviction.

That two people can be raised in almost identical circumstances and still become
very different remains one of the mysteries of human life and a great caution
against thinking that, if we just know enough, we will be able to predict a
person's future course. However, what may help our thinking is an appreciation
that what motivates people to a life in a terror organisation is probably not
that different to what motivates the rest of us.

We concentrate so much on the vile consequences of terror - the scattered limbs,
the hair and tissue, the smell of burned flesh - that we forget about the
pleasures of a life spent underground, braving the dangers for the cause.

Like the spy, the terrorist sleeper revels in the superiority of a double life.
He smiles to himself at the ignorance of those among whom he lives, those who
see only the exterior form of a timid, ordinary, dull clerk or taxi -driver, the
stupid people who do not know what is really going on.

Like the mountaineer or the combat soldier, the terrorist faces constant danger
and for every day that he survives, he enjoys the pleasure of victory over great
odds. If he is not completely dormant, not entirely cut off from his fellows,
there is the added pleasure of comradeship, the pleasure of being part of a
secret society with its nicknames, its own language, and its dangerous
knowledge.

And then there is the status. However dishonourable in our eyes, the successful
terrorist is a hero in his own little world. If his cause succeeds, he will have
streets named after him. Until then, he can enjoy the prospect of his name on
the rolls of honour in a club in west Belfast.

Many Irish people migrate to Britain to escape the tortured history of Anglo
-Irish relationships. Why O'Neill acted as he did may never be known. Nor, until
they make a mistake and are caught, will we know how many more people have made
that choice.

n Steve Bruce is Professor of Sociology at the University of Aberdeen.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Dermot O'Neill: came from a respectable background.

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1996 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              437 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          September 26, 1996, Thursday

The Irish bombers: What sort of people are they?

BYLINE: David McKittrick Ireland correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Page  4

LENGTH: 1506 words


The salient feature of IRA personnel involved in the republican campaigns of
terrorism in Britain is that they fit into no single pattern: there is no one
Identikit picture of a typical IRA bomber.

Rather, the profiles of those involved in the course of the campaigns, which
have lasted in various phases since 1972 until the present day, show that they
fall into a variety of categories.

Some are known and highly experienced republican activists, despatched from the
north or south of Ireland; some are only teenagers, with little or no republican
traces; some have lived in England for most of their lives.

What is perhaps extraordinary is the fact that so many people - almost certainly
hundreds of them - have run the risk of becoming involved in terrorist
activities, knowing that if caught they can expect lengthy jail sentences in
unfriendly conditions in British prisons.

Yet the flow of IRA members has been kept up for more than two decades, the
organisation's methods and techniques becoming far more refined than they were
in the 1970s when a gang of republicans bombed the Old Bailey in central London
and then, ludicrously, attempted to board the next plane back to Belfast.

Some of those involved have been hardened IRA members, often from families with
republican links stretching back beyond the present troubles. At least two of
those involved in the early days had brothers killed by the British Army in
Belfast.

The "Balcombe Street gang" of the early Seventies - so-called because they were
arrested after a siege at Balcombe Street in central London - serve as an
example of a group who were apparently intent on fighting on until they were
captured or killed.

Another example of what might reasonably be called a desperado was Paul Magee,
an IRA man who killed a special constable in Yorkshire during a routine vehicle
check in 1992. Magee appears to have considered that he had nothing left to
lose, since he was on the run from police in both Northern Ireland and the
Republic.

As he had escaped from prison in Belfast after being jailed for the murder of an
SAS man, he knew he already faced a life sentence if apprehended.

In at least two cases in recent years the security services were clearly on to
the terrorists right from the start, following them from the moment they arrived
in Britain.

They could have been spotted at ports or airports, or they could have been
reported missing from their usual haunts by police in Belfast or Dublin.

In other cases, teenagers have been sent over to the mainland, obviously in the
hope that their lack of open republican links mean they will escape the
attention of the security forces.

Some involved have had criminal rather than terrorist records. One man jailed
had been to prison almost a dozen times for non-republican offences which
included fraud and theft, while another had a record of sex offences.  More than
one jailed in England has been said to have a drink problem.

In yet another pattern, first or second generation Irish people in Britain have
become involved. These are probably of particular value to the IRA, since they
tend to have English accents and have an intimate knowledge of how to avoid
drawing attention to themselves.

There have also been cases of the IRA recruiting people resident in England who
have both an Irish background and far-left political beliefs.

Some of those who have come before the courts have been described as minor
characters. When a Belfast republican, Patrick Magee, was given eight life
sentences for his part in the 1984 Brighton hotel bombing, in which five people
were killed, another man who pleaded guilty to involvement in the attack was
given only a four-year sentence. Described as shaking as he stood in the dock,
he was said to be a reluctant recruit to the IRA, having been a patient in a
psychiatric hospital where he was treated for manic depression. A doctor
described him as "a quiet, charming gentle and very troubled young man who often
tended to be morose and withdrawn".  Magee is still in jail.

This is, however, very much an exception to the rule that those involved in the
bombing campaigns have generally shown fervour and dedication to their cause.

But the range of different types involved helps illustrate why it has proved so
difficult for the security services to combat the IRA's efforts to take its war
to England.

The Englishman -

Frank Ryan

Ryan was killed in November 1991, together with Patricia Black, an IRA member,
when their bomb exploded prematurely outside a theatre in St Albans, where an
Army band had been playing. Born in Harlow, Essex, of Irish parents, Ryan lived
in England until he was 19. In 1985, he moved to a republican area of west
Belfast with his mother and almost immediately became involved in republican
work, helping to sell Sinn Fein newspapers.

Those who knew him in Belfast described him as bright, intelligent and dedicated
to republicanism.

His English accent marked him out as being of potential use to the IRA in
Britain, and he was sent there as part of an active service unit, probably less
than a year before his death.

Speaking at Ryan's funeral, a Sinn Fein leader said: "Frankie and Patricia are
not alone. They are representatives of a generation of Ireland's youth who have
acquired the skills to remain hidden, who come forward when required to do so.
How will the British defeat this invisible force?"

The lecturer -

Feilim O hAdhmaill

O hAdhmaill was arrested early in 1994, just six weeks after arriving in England
to take up a post in Preston as a lecturer on social policy.  In November 1994,
he was jailed, aged 36, for 25 years for conspiracy to cause explosions.

He had republican form, having faced a charge of murdering an RUC constable in
the early 1980s. The case was dropped. He was a close friend of Bobby Sands, the
near-legendary IRA hunger-striker.

Born in Birmingham of Northern Irish parents, O hAdhmaill had moved back to
Belfast at the age of four. There he gained a doctorate with a thesis on "the
dynamics of the ghetto", lecturing in Belfast before applying for the job in
Lancashire.

Caught red-handed with a car containing explosives, he admitted IRA membership
but mounted the defence that he intended only to store them because the IRA was
involved in a peace process.

In a speech from the dock, O hAdhmaill said he hoped the process "leads to a
permanent end to the war in my country and the establishment of a lasting and
just settlement".

After a lengthy campaign, he was transferred to serve his sentence in a Northern
Ireland prison in July 1995.

The student -

Kevin Barry O'Donnell

O'Donnell was 19 when he was arrested in London in 1990 by police who found two
Kalashnikov rifles in the boot of a car in which he was travelling.

A native of County Tyrone, he was at the time of his arrest taking a poultry
husbandry course at an agricultural college in Shropshire. A year later, there
was surprise when a jury acquitted him of terrorist charges.  There was
speculation that the verdict might have been influenced by the freeing of the
Birmingham Six the day before.

O'Donnell told the jury: "I do not support the IRA. I don't agree with killing
and bombing. I come from a devout Catholic family. There's no way I support the
taking of life." Following the trial, O'Donnell was re-arrested and deported to
Northern Ireland.

In Tyrone a month later, he was charged with possessing a rocket-launcher, but
not jailed. The following year, he was part of an IRA unit which attacked an RUC
station in Coalisland. Immediately after, he and three others were shot dead in
an SAS ambush. He was given an IRA funeral.

The southerner -

Patrick Kelly

Kelly, who was described as a typical country boy from a rural community, was
jailed for 25 years in 1993, at the age of 41. Southern Irishmen rarely surface
in an active IRA role in Northern Ireland, but over the course of the troubles
many have played an active role in terrorist operations in Britain.

Kelly, from Co Laois, was arrested in the act of driving a lorry containing a
large bomb into the centre of London. He was also convicted of attempted murder
on the grounds that an associate had fired shots at a pursuing policeman.

Leaving school at the age of 13, Kelly worked as a general dealer, lorry driver
and crane driver, living for much of his life in England.

He had a chequered criminal career, with convictions for kidnapping a
horse-dealer in the Republic and for importuning and indecency.

At the time of his trial, it was said that Kelly was "in a small way of
business", frequently travelling between England and Ireland where he traded in
goods including computers, kettles and umbrellas. Some time ago, he was
diagnosed as suffering from skin cancer. Following a lengthy campaign, he was
transferred first to Northern Ireland and then to a prison in the Republic.


LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1996 Independent Print Ltd

                              438 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Investors Chronicle

                               September 27, 1996

Survey: Greater Manchester - Rebuilding the city centre - The second stage of
the urban design competition is underway but no-one yet knows the true cost of
the damage caused by the IRA bomb in June or when business can resume as normal

BYLINE: By KEVIN GOPAL

LENGTH: 928 words


Manchester's surveyors and insurers, no doubt egged on by journalists, fell over
themselves in their haste to put a figure on the damage caused by the 3,300
pound bomb which exploded outside Marks & Spencer's on 15 June. The sum of
pounds 200m gained early support, rising to pounds 500m over the next few days.

Then came a backlash, with one estimate coming down to pounds 70m. Manchester
City Council, and Manchester Millennium, the company it set up as its task
force, have resolutely refused to come up with a figure preferring to get on
with the task of getting businesses reopened because, the truth is, nobody knows
yet.


This is just one aspect of a wider difficulty in assessing the impact of the
largest bomb to explode on mainland Britain since the second world war. Those
who praise Manchester's ability to quickly put together a recovery plan and talk
of the opportunities presented are accused of being insensitive to those who
have lost most. But a failure to look on the bright side of life brings the
charge of playing into the hands of the terrorists.

Confusion is, of course, one of the aims of terrorism. For safety reasons, many
small business owners went through an agonising wait before they were let back
into the Corn Exchange to assess the impact on their livelihoods. About the only
thing Mancunians were certain of was that the loss of the unloved Arndale Centre
would be no bad thing. But then came the reports that the structural damage was
not severe enough to warrant it being put out of its misery. Perhaps terrorists
have invented a bomb which leaves the ugly buildings standing.

The most meaningful figure at the moment is pounds 21m of aid, announced by
deputy prime minister Michael Heseltine when he donned hard hat and visited
Manchester on 3 July. But pounds 20m of that is from the UK's ERDF allocation,
siphoned off from other parts of the country. Only pounds 150,000 came from
central government, to pay for an international design competition to rebuild
the blasted area.

Manchester Millennium

Manchester Millennium was quickly set up after the blast, with a board
consisting of Richard Leese and Kath Robinson, leader and deputy of the council,
respectively, Sir David Trippier, chairman of Marketing Manchester, Tony
Strachan, North West agent of the Bank of England, and Marianne Neville-Rolfe,
head of the Government Office North West. Its chief executive is Howard
Bernstein, deputy chief executive of the city council, and it is chaired by Sir
Alan Cockshaw, chairman of Amec. The Lord Mayor's emergency fund, administrated
by John Glester, former head of the defunct Central Manchester Development
Corporation, had raised and distributed pounds 1m by early September.

A total of 670 businesses were displaced by the bomb, 245 of them assessed to be
long term displacements. Approximately two-thirds were set to be relocated
temporarily by 5 September, leaving the Task Force and the Mayor's Fund with the
priority of finding accommodation for the rest. Traders were reluctant to take
up space in nearby Oldham Street and negotiations are currently underway to take
up the empty fourth floor of department store Lewis's.

'So far, so good,' is Peter West's assessment of the recovery, although there
are small business owners who would argue. Manchester Millennium's project
co-ordinator stresses that the situation is fluid but says the links between
authorities, agencies and companies already established in the area proved to be
a strength. 'When the bomb went off, we didn't have to run around wondering who
to talk to.'

Ambitious redevelopment

Manchester City Council states that the recovery work will not mean redirecting
resources from elsewhere in its budget. No time has been lost in depositing the
first batch of bids for the ERDF money with Government Office North West, in
what could be the first serious test of the effectiveness of integrated regional
government offices.

In the short term Manchester Millennium needs to get businesses back on their
feet. In the long term, it needs to exploit the opportunities offered by the
blast to improve the quality of city centre retailing and stave off the looming
challenge from the Trafford Centre, the fiercely contested out-of-town shopping
development. This is one reason why such ambitious schemes for redevelopment are
being considered when the actual area of damage is less than many initially
thought - without the bomb, nobody would have thought of changing this part of
the city.

Five successful entrants were selected from 27 submissions in the first round of
the international urban design competition. They envisage extensive changes,
emphasising the area around the Cathedral and the nearby riverside or seeking to
rebuild Shambles Square. Some suggest the fragmentation of the Arndale Centre,
and even Piccadilly, well away from the centre of the blast, comes in for
attention.

The five have now been given a more detailed brief, with submissions due in by
18 October. The teams have been told they should assume that Marks & Spencer and
Longridge House - which took the full force of the bomb - will be demolished but
that the Arndale Centre will remain an essential component of the city centre,
though it can be changed.

The Arndale bus station however will not re-open and teams will need to consider
how buses will travel around the city centre. The guidelines state: 'Any radical
redevelopment will therefore need to be driven by commercial rather than
structural considerations.'

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                Copyright 1996 Financial Times Business Limited

                              439 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                          September 28, 1996, Saturday

HE WAS A GOOD, LAW-ABIDING, DECENT, HONEST YOUNG MAN;
FURY AS ADAMS PRAISES TERRORIST;
SINN FEIN LEADER GERRY ADAMS RECIEVES HOSTILE RESPONSE DURING RADIO PHONE-IN

BYLINE: Nic North

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1480 words


Sinn Fein leader Gerry Adams sparked uproar yesterday when he described shot IRA
terrorist Diarmuid O'Neill as a "law-abiding, honest young man".

The head of the Provos' political wing infuriated radio listeners when he
defended 27-year-old O'Neill, who was shot dead by police in a raid on a house
in Hammersmith, West London, on Monday.

He also backed Sinn Fein's refusal to condemn the IRA's terror campaign.

Mr Adams had a heated discussion about IRA violence with a caller to BBC Radio 5
Live, Paul Northey from Chepstow, Gwent.

When Mr Adams said O'Neill was killed "in very disputable circumstances", he was
interrupted by Mr Northey, who said: "He was not there for a friendly chat."

Mr Adams hit back: "How do you know? There were no explosives found.

Good

"This, as far as I can tell, was a decent, law-abiding, good, honest, young
man."

Mr Northey asked him: "If you think his family agree with that, why don't they
want the IRA to go to the funeral?"

Mr Adams said: "I have no contact with his family but I am trying to make the
point that in all this, to use a good Irish saying, it's some mother's son.

"Whether it be a British soldier killed in Ireland, whether it be some child
killed here in Britain, whether it be Diarmuid O'Neill, we have to get an end to
the killing and we do that by talking."

A string of angry callers to the show The Magazine, hosted by Brian Hayes,
accused the Sinn Fein president of having terrorist links.

Former soldier Tom Hanley, who served in Ulster and now lives in Sheffield, told
him: "You are a terrorist, or have been an active terrorist. You have created a
monster in Northern Ireland in the past 25 years."

Mr Adams hit back: "You are someone who came to my country, heavily armed as
part of an army, and then you have the audacity to call me a terrorist.

"I think you will concede that, having served in Northern Ireland, the British
Army cannot defeat the IRA.

"There can be no military victory for any side."

Terry Phillips, from the Wirral, Merseyside, told fellow listeners: "Hide your
children from this man, he and his organisation maim and kill British children.

"They have done it before and they will do it again to achieve their political
aims.

"When you talk of Hitler, Idi Amin and Saddam Hussein, then mention in the same
breath Gerry Adams, for he is an evil man and a disgusting coward."

Mr Adams, in London to promote his autobiography, calmly replied: "There is no
need to respond to that. This man is obviously emotionally unhinged."

Asked whether the bombing would continue on the British mainland, Mr Adams told
listeners: "I don't know. I hope not, but I don't know.

"The IRA made clear in February that the cessation was over. I regret that.

"You can see it makes life more difficult for me, it makes life more difficult
for people here, it makes life more difficult for my political projects."

A mother who lost her son in the IRA's Baltic Exchange explosion in London in
1992 said she had resisted calling the BBC phone- in because she knew she would
"say too much".

Ann Casey, whose son Tom was blown apart by the bomb that devastated the City,
said: "I've given up on politicians.

"I didn't understand all the trouble in Ireland then and I don't understand it
now.

"If I spoke to Gerry Adams to let him know how I feel I would say too much.

"I sit with my son's photograph in front of me every day. I miss him every day
and a day never goes by when I do not think about him. I've tried to get over it
but I can't.

"You just never get over these things. The IRA are monsters.

"They must enjoy killing innocent people.

"I just cannot understand why anyone would do such a thing. But I am not
optimistic for peace.

"This trouble was going on when I was a young girl in the 1930s and 1940s and I
can't see it coming to an end."

Mrs Casey, from Barking, East London, added: "I know it is not all the Irish
people and I do not blame them for what happened."

"I just feel nothing towards Gerry Adams - I am too old and have seen too much."

As he left the BBC building in London, Mr Adams said he had had a friendly
welcome in Britain.

Climbing into his waiting car, he said of his reception on the mainland: "One
has to expect a certain amount of mixed reaction when one takes into account all
the censorship from events in Ireland.

"But I think in general people have been very friendly."

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TARGET: Gerry Adams fends off attacks from listeners yesterday after
defending terrorist Diarmuid O'Neill, left

                            Copyright 1996 MGN Ltd.

                              440 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 28, 1996

PRIDE AND PREJUDICE: DOGS IN A MANGER

BYLINE: Alexander Chancellor

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN WEEKEND PAGE; Pg. T5

LENGTH: 1720 words


As I sit in my room in Hammersmith, wondering which house full of IRA terrorists
the police are going attack here next, my thoughts turn to three dogs sitting in
a kennel in Tuscany. Tuscany is where my wife has owned a farmhouse for more
than 25 years, where we go for every holiday and where many abandoned dogs roam
the countryside and often end up with us.

Two of the dogs I am thinking about turned up at the house last year, one of
them heavily pregnant. The pregnant one, being mainly Dalmatian, had a most
engaging smile; and we decided to keep her and one of her offspring, another
bitch that looks very like her. We called them Allegra and Bella.

The other dog was a huge, white, fluffy animal that we called Eddie.

They were all neutered by the nice English vet in Arezzo, Mr Halliday, and given
the necessary injections against rabies and the rest. We built them a pretty
kennel made of stone with a tiled roof, for which I think we ought to have asked
planning permission since the builders scratched the date 1978 into the cement,
explaining that it definitely would have been legal to build it then. The dogs
are well looked after and well fed when we are not there, but they are, for most
of the time, on their own.

As I sit here in this dogless house, I think how nice it would be to have them
here, romping about in their cheerful way.  But, of course, they can't come here
without going into quarantine for six months; and then we wouldn't be able to
bring them back and forth from Italy without going through the same impossible
performance each time. It is a sad business and one to which I am most
vehemently opposed.

I wouldn't be so much opposed if there was any evidence that the British
quarantine laws were of any use in protecting us from rabies, but there isn't.
Sandy Mitchell, the deputy editor of Country Life, wrote an article in the
Sunday Telegraph Magazine last year pointing out the following: that the endemic
European variety of rabies is restricted to foxes, and that even if a dog is
bitten by a rabid fox, it cannot pass the disease on to humans; that of the
200,000 dogs to have been held in quarantine in Britain over the past 25 years,
not one has carried the rabies virus (though around 2,500 have died in
quarantine kennels); and that, according to the World Health Organisation, even
rabies among foxes on the Continent is being steadily wiped out by dropping
innoculated meat from helicopters.

With the one exception of the British Veterinary Association, there is an almost
total consensus among British veterinary and scientific authorities that the
laws should be abolished; and even an all -party parliamentary committee, set up
by the Government two years ago, concluded that 'scientific advances now make it
not only feasible, but desirable, for the UK to permit anti-rabies controls
based upon vaccination and blood- testing'. Under a new system approved by the
European Union, dogs will be given passports and have microchips implanted in
their necks, which will reveal to Customs Officers their names, addresses and
the status of their obligatory anti-rabies vaccinations.

Yet despite all that, and despite the fact that, under the Treaty of Rome,
conditions imposed on imports for health-and-safety reasons may be considered
illegal if less restrictive options are available, normally reasonable Tory
ministers such as William Waldegrave and John Gummer have continued to insist
that the laws must stay.

But this proud, patriotic posture was given a nasty knock this week by an
outraged Danish diplomat in London who, casting diplomacy to the winds, has
stated that 'our family will only remember England for its cruelty to animals,
and that it was here that our English cocker spaniel, who actually came back to
its roots, was sent to prison and had to die on a cold cement floor in the
middle of West Sussex without his loved ones'.

That we will be remembered only for our cruelty to animals is a terrible thing
to have said about a people who particularly pride themselves on their kindness
to them, but Mr Henrik Sorensen's blood is up. As he tells the story, his
family's pet dog, to which they had given the very English name of Mr Bogie, was
put into quarantine at St Andrews Kennels, Horsham, when he arrived in England
on June 4 to take up a new post as an attache at the Danish Embassy in London.

Nearly three months later, on August 29, Mr Sorensen was telephoned by the
kennels to be told that Mr Bogie had died during the night and that a
post-mortem had determined the cause of death to be kidney cancer. When he asked
to see the dead dog, he was told it had already been cremated; and when he went
to the kennels to collect its ashes, he was handed them in an old Nescafe jar
inside a dirty plastic bag.

Since the post-mortem was not carried out in a laboratory but in the kennel, Mr
Sorensen doesn't understand how the vet could be so sure that his dog, which had
been healthy when he brought it in, had died of kidney cancer. 'I am of the
opinion that Mr Bogie died due to lack of exercise and, but not least, not being
among his loved ones. In the year 1996, however, it is astonishing to find such
a cruel quarantine system in a Western country.' Mr Sorensen sounds like a real
sentimentalist when it comes to dogs, but he is probably right, even so. I have
never been to a quarantine kennel myself, but Sandy Mitchell described in his
article a visit he made to Wey Farm near Woking, 'by all accounts one of the
better class of quarantine establishments in this country'.

The dogs, he wrote, 'slavered in a deafening frenzy' as he walked past their
'small concrete cells' in which, for six months, they were 'denied all contact
with grass, let alone with the intimate and bewitching odours of another
animal'. The conditions sound cruel, all right, and Mr Bogie's tragedy is far
from unique.

Catherine Campagna, an American resident in Britain, led a march on the House of
Commons last November after her pet dog died in quarantine after a mystery
illness and was decapitated and cremated without her consent. Many kennels make
it a condition that owners need not be informed before vets are called or
post-mortems held.

The case for changing the law is so overwhelming that it must come soon - not
just for the sake of the dogs, but for the sake of all the people in the
military and in the diplomatic service, and the many others who are forced to
spend time abroad.  Only the mindless idiocy of the right-wing tabloids and of
fanatical anti -Europeans stands in the way.

It is pathetic of the Government not to stand up to them, but in the end, it
will have to - and then Allegra, Bella and Eddie will pay regular visits to
Hammersmith.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              441 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               September 28, 1996

Fox offers to broker Sri Lanka ceasefire

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 304 words


Colombo, Friday,

BRITAIN has offered to mediate a settlement between the Sri Lankan government
and Tamil Tiger rebels locked in a fierce battle in the island's north.

Junior Foreign Minister Liam Fox told a news conference that London could play a
third-party role to end the island's 14-year ethnic war.

"We are happy to offer our service in any conflict where both parties want us to
be involved. But only when both parties are committed to a peaceful settlement
is it possible for a third party to come in and be of use," said Mr Fox, who is
on a five-day visit to the former British colony.

He was speaking as Sri Lankan forces killed more than 450 rebels, many of them
women, in counter-attacks on army advances towards the northern guerrilla
stronghold of Kilinochchi.

A military spokesman said 75 government soldiers, including five officers, were
also killed in the fighting yesterday, the fiercest since troops launched a
fresh offensive towards the town on Sunday after a lull of more than a month.

The spokesman said more than 1000 members of the Liberation Tigers of Tamil
Eelam (LTTE) had launched two simultaneous counter-attacks from the west and the
south of an army column advancing on Kilinochchi.

"Troops fought back valiantly, completely repulsing the attack, although the
terrorists used human wave tactics," he said. The soldiers struck the rebels
with artillery and mortars.

He said some guerrillas had managed to penetrate the western defences before
they were completely overpowered. Suicide bombers set off blasts near the troops
who fired on them.

The toll of LTTE dead and wounded comes to more than 1000 in five days of the
renewed war, according to the military. It puts the army's death toll at 146 and
the number of wounded at just over 300.-Reuter.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1996 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              442 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 3, 1996

BRITAIN SEEKS ASYLUM LIMIT;
Experts say proposal to tighten UN criteria on refugee status blurs political
dissent and terrorism

BYLINE: Ian Black Diplomatic Editor

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FOREIGN PAGE; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1280 words


BRITAIN today launches a diplomatic push to deny asylum to people promoting
terrorism, urging the United Nations to tighten criteria on refugees in a way
that experts warn blurs the boundaries between crime and political dissent.

Foreign Office officials will go to the UN's legal committee in New York with a
declaration that anyone "financing, planning and inciting terrorist acts" should
forfeit the protection of the 1951 UN convention on refugees.

Britain is also urging the UN to remove the political protection clause -
preventing an individual being handed over to a government he opposes - when
making extradition arrangements.

Critics predict the changes will bring demands to hand over dissidents. They say
that if Nelson Mandela had been in Britain during the struggle against apartheid
he could have been denied asylum and extradited to South Africa as a terrorist.

But government officials insist the question of return is not touched by the
proposed declaration, which is non-binding, and that Britain is bound to take
human rights issues into account.

The move was initiated partly because of frustration about the activities of
British-based exiles, such as the Saudi fundamentalist Mohammed al-Mas'ari, whom
the government tried unsuccessfully to deport to the Caribbean island of
Dominica earlier this year.

Egypt, Algeria and India have all complained of terrorist activity taking place
in Britain.

Home Office and Foreign Office officials insist they are simply trying to close
loopholes exploited by people of violence.  "We are not looking at dissidents,"
one said. "We are looking at a far narrower group of people who are beyond
reasonable doubt engaged in terrorism."

But some experts believe fundamental freedoms will be eroded: "Terrorism is such
a frightener that states only have to mention it and there is a danger that all
manner of human rights will melt away," Anne Owers of the human rights group
Justice warned.

Britain's declaration, advertised last week by Malcolm Rifkind, the Foreign
Secretary, is part of a wider effort involving the United States and France. But
the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees opposes the change because it
blurs the distinction between refugees and terrorists. UNHCR insists the 1951
convention is adequate.

The convention excludes people who have committed war crimes, crimes against
humanity or acts "contrary to the purposes and principles of the UN". Government
strategy is to add terrorism to those categories.

Diplomats say Britain's allies are allowing it to go ahead because common law
rules of evidence and traditions of free speech mean it lacks laws that are in
place in the US and Europe.

"The US will back this but they neither need it nor want it and are only doing
it because the UK has supported it on other issues," a source said. "If this
declaration does go through, the interpretation will be very wide. It would be
much more useful to have national legislation that would define exactly what the
offences are so they can be tested in courts. What is meant by 'planning'? What
exactly is 'incitement'?"

Nicholas Blake QC, an immigration expert, said: "Terrorism is an undefined
concept internationally, rendering legal judgments peculiarly susceptible to
political distortion.

"Western states have armed and supported movements such as the contras in
Nicaragua or the mojahedin in Afghanistan that many consider to be terrorists
while condemning armed resistance by African liberation movements, the Kurds and
others, where no opportunity for democratic change is permitted for oppressed
minorities or even the majority population."

John Major announced the British plan after discussions on terrorism at the
Group of Seven summit in Lyon in July.

"Clearly you don't want people to be able to commit atrocities and then be able
to claim protection, but this raises problems of definition and proof," Ms Owers
said.  "The international human rights framework was set up to provide
protection for individuals against states. If you lob in words like terrorism
and national security it creates the possibility of states undermining those
protections to protect themselves."

John Wadham of Liberty said: "Once you start accepting other people's definition
of terrorism you are in trouble. Incitement is a very nebulous term and there
are real problems about the difference between crime and dissent."

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              443 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                            October 4, 1996, Friday

I LOVE YOU ALWAYS;
GIRLFRIEND'S TENDER FAREWELL TO BOMBER;
FUNERAL OF DIARMUID O'NEILL

BYLINE: John Kierans

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4, 5

LENGTH: 1147 words


The simple wreath with its heartfelt message "I'll always love you, E." provided
a sad farewell yesterday to London IRA bomber Diarmuid O'Neill.

The tribute, tied with two bows in the colours of the tricolour, was left at the
graveside by O'Neill's Spanish girlfriend Karmele Ereno.

The couple, lovers for four years, had planned to marry next year.

Yesterday the 25-year-old waitress joined the family - in mourning at her
lover's funeral.

She comforted O'Neill's parents Eoghan and Theresa and took Theresa's hand as
they entered the little church at Timoleague, Cork.

The two women sat side by side during the hour-long requiem mass. O'Neill's
dedication to the IRA had linked him with Karmele and separated them for ever.
The two young people found romance in their common interest in the politics of
terror.

She was a Basque separatist from Amorebieta, near Bilbao where terror group ETA
backs its demands by bullet and bomb.

He was a fanatical Provo sleeper, awaiting orders from his ruthless taskmasters.

But he was better known in the mountains of northern Spain than in Ireland.  His
Spanish friends paid tribute to "Ginger" in a Basque language newspaper,
promising: "We will never forget you."

O'Neill's dream was to die an IRA martyr, but his sudden gunning down denied his
expectations.

The godfathers of terror stayed away from his funeral. None of the IRA top brass
were to be seen. There was no Tricolour, gloves or beret on the coffin.  No
volley of shots over the grave.

Only 20 known Republican sympathisers drove through the massive police cordon.

Among them were Father Paddy Ryan and Sligo Sinn Fein Councillor Sean McManus.
Ryan was wanted in Britain for terrorist offences but never extradited.

Councillor McManus attended talks with the British at Stormont during the IRA
ceasefire.

But none of the hard-line nationalists knew "Ginger".

Instead, it was left to some 300 family, friends and neighbours to pay their
final respects to the Provo.

Among family was O'Neill's younger brother Shane. He was arrested on the day
Diarmuid died but released on police bail. He hugged relatives, accepting their
sympathies and whispering the odd word here and there.

Despite his quest to destroy peace, O'Neill was finally at peace.

Parish priest, Father James Coombes told mourners: "It is for God and God alone
to judge Diarmuid O'Neill.

"Only God knows the facts since nothing else is known about his death and the
circumstances leading to it.

"This is a time of great tragedy and heartbreak for his parents, sister Siobhan
and brother Shane."

He recalled visiting their home after news of O'Neill's death.

"I was most impressed," he said. "They have no bitterness, no self-pity, no
recrimination and no chip on their shoulders.

"They are just heart-broken at the loss of their son and brother."

He praised villagers for their warmth, compassion and dignity.

The church is on a hill-top overlooking some of the south's most beautiful
scenery.

It is only a few miles from the burial place of veteran Republican and IRA
founder Michael Collins.

But while Collins died a hero, Diarmuid O'Neill did not.

He was just a young man lured into terrorism by the promise of excitement.

He paid the price with his life.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GOODBYE: Weeping Karmele with Diarmuid's brother Shane;; VILLAGE
TRIBUTE: Friends follow the hearse;; FAMILY IN GRIEF: London bomber Diarmuid
O'Neill's younger brother Shane, mum Theresa and dad Eoghan at the graveside in
Timoleague yesterday;; HEAVY LOAD TO BEAR: Shane (left) bears the grief of his
brother's deathLOVER'S; FAREWELL: Karmele's wreath

                            Copyright 1996 MGN Ltd.

                              444 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 4, 1996

SYRIA URGES ARABS TO CUT ISRAEL TIES

BYLINE: Derek Brown In Jerusalem And Ian Black In London

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FOREIGN PAGE; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1147 words


SYRIA blasted Israel yesterday for its go-slow peace policy and urged Arab
countries to sever ties with the Jewish state, as Palestinian radicals
threatened renewed attacks and the Palestinian Authority president, Yasser
Arafat, said the future of peace lay in Israel's hands.

In unusually harsh language, the government's al-Ba'ath daily newspaper said
this week's emergency summit in Washington had "totally failed".

It said the Israeli prime minister, Binyamin Netanyahu, wanted the talks to
"reward the aggressor" by endorsing occupation of Arab lands. "Arabs should not
waste time waiting for any gesture from Netanyahu's government . . . They should
sever ties with Israel."

Mr Arafat - breaking his silence after the United States summit - said last
night that the peace process depended on Israel.

"We are insisting they implement accurately and honestly what has been agreed
upon and what was signed," he said, before leaving for Tunis after talks with
King Hassan of Morocco.

Asked if he had received any promises from Israel, Mr Arafat said: "We have to
wait and see."

He sidestepped a question on any future meeting with Mr Netanyahu, saying: "The
meeting of the steering committee will take place next Sunday in the presence of
Mr Dennis Ross (the US envoy), as President Clinton has declared."

Mr Netanyahu spoke on Israeli television last night to try to convince
Palestinians that the Washington debacle offered a "fresh chance" of peace.

The summit, called by Mr Clinton after the opening of an archaeological tunnel
in Jerusalem sparked bloody clashes, fizzled out on Wednesday.

Britain and France expressed concern yesterday as their foreign ministers,
Malcolm Rifkind and Herve de Charette, met in Paris. Russia warned of the
dangers of "stalemate".

Hamas, the Islamic Resistance Movement, called for "total confrontation" with
Israeli forces and settlers today after Friday prayers in the West Bank and Gaza
Strip.

Since Hamas claimed responsibility for the suicide bombings which killed 59
people in Israel in February and March, its activists have held their fire.

In London, the Foreign Office expressed disappointment about Washington,
warning: "Without real progress on the substance, there remains a grave threat
to the whole peace process. The aim of peace and security for all can be
achieved only by the fulfilment of commitments already undertaken and the
negotiation of further agreements on outstanding issues."

In Paris, where the government is pursuing an increasingly independent Middle
East policy - and again complained that the European Union had not been invited
to the Washington talks - the Elysee announced that President Jacques Chirac and
Mr Arafat would meet today.

Syria's call for Arab action will cause concern in Israel after last month's
alarm when Syrian troop movements were reported in south Lebanon and near the
Golan Heights.

Military analysts rate the chances of war as slight, but there is unease that
Damascus might take advantage of any renewed fighting in the Palestinian
occupied lands.

The Palestinian talks co-ordinator, Hassan Asfour, said the Washington summit,
which produced only a commitment to resume negotiations on the Gaza border on
Sunday, had failed "because of Israeli intransigence".

There was little reaction in the occupied territories. But there were tentative
signs last night of a relaxation of Israel's blockade. Tanks were pulled back
from the outskirts of Bethlehem, and the defence minister, Yitzhak Mordechai,
ordered the easing of some travel restrictions.

Leader comment, page 18

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              445 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                            October 6, 1996, Sunday

OBSERVER LETTER: WHY THE IRISH ARE NOT COWED

BYLINE: Owen Murphy

SECTION: THE OBSERVER REVIEW PAGE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 267 words


JONATHAN STEELE overstated the impact of the IRA's activities on the Irish in
Britain (last week). They are neither a community in denial nor are they keeping
their heads down to anything like the extent suggested. For example, far from
passing unnoticed now, St Patrick's Day continues to be celebrated at black-tie
banquets in the West End (often including Ministers from both countries); and
with a parade from Whitehall to Victoria.

It is right that Irish people should refuse to be cowed by events: 99.9 per cent
of them lend no support to violence. They make a massive net contribution to the
UK in all walks of life. They run, with their British neighbours and friends, an
equal risk of being killed in terrorist explosions. And they must know how much
the continuing violence owes to the Government's having put itself in hock to
the 'Orange Card'. To apologise for the acts of others would surely be an excess
of politeness.

Owen Murphy, London SW10

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              446 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                            October 8, 1996, Tuesday

BOMBERS WANT TO PROVOKE LOYALIST BACKLASH;
LEADING EXPERT ON THE IRA LOOKS AT THE TERRORISTS' AIMS;
DAVID MYERS LOOKS AT THE IRA'S AIMS

BYLINE: Kevin Myers

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1054 words


The bombers call themselves the Irish Republican Army and fool themselves into
believing that is what they are - the army of the Republic declared in Dublin at
Easter, 1916, and endorsed by the first meeting of the Irish Dail in 1919.

The IRA refuses to recognise what it really is - a terrorist group engaged in a
war of aggression against the Unionists of Northern Ireland and anyone else that
gets in its way.

Instead it sees itself as an army sworn to defend a United Irish Republic which
is the only lawful entity in Ireland.

In the IRA mind that entity has been deprived of power and unity by an
undemocratic partition and the occupation of part of Ireland by the British
Army.

That is the basic position of the IRA. It never alters. Never.

Individual members might change their minds. They might seek interim deals, they
might postpone the day of unity until the majority population of Northern
Ireland agrees - but such individuals are irrelevant.

The IRA stands for one irreducible goal - Brits out of Ireland and a single
government over the whole island.

Short of that any IRA ceasefire will be nothing more than a tactical suspension
of hostilities pending negotiated victory or a return to war.

A negotiated victory was never possible, for the Loyalists were never going to
cease to be Unionists.

The Anglo-Irish agreement was as much as Unionists could stomach. They will
accept no more. The IRA does not understand this.

In their fantasy world Unionists exist merely because of the British presence.
Somehow, miraculously, they will stop being Unionists if the British withdraw.

IRA leaders in Northern Ireland, who have clung on to their identity through
decades of partition, should realise that loyalties are not so easily bartered.

They do not. They learn nothing, they remember nothing. Nothing changes them.

They listen to ancestral voices calling for war and believe that a bit more war
will get what they want. The chilling reality of Bosnia taught them nothing.

No victory results from the war option, only more suffering, ruination and
death.

Bizarrely, wickedly, they even depend on the Protestant response to terrorism to
hasten the end of the Northern Ireland state. Last summer showed that a Loyalist
insurrection could immobilise the RUC.

Yesterday's IRA bombs, as we assume they must be, came just as Ulster Volunteer
Force prisoners were following the example of the Ulster Defence Association
prisoners and withdrawing support for the peace process.

That is apparently what the IRA wants - to goad Loyalists into action which
consumes police energies and time, while the IRA concentrates on bombing Britain
and attacking soldiers.

The single-mindedness of these people is psychotic. No price is too high to
achieve their ends, no life too sacred, no city too precious to be spared.

The peace is not dead because there never was a living peace. There was a
tactical truce, which was transformed in people's minds, and by a widespread
hunger for an end to war, into an imaginary peace which only needed to be gift
-wrapped with a final settlement.

But the IRA understands one settlement only. It is the settlement of victory.
It is the settlement of surrender to a war of conquest.

That war was suspended.

Now it is back, and the blood plasma is once again dripping into broken bodies,
and Ireland stands on the verge of utter calamity.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1996 MGN Ltd.

                              447 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                            October 8, 1996, Tuesday

NORTH ON BRINK OF CALAMITY;
KEVIN MYERS PROFILES THE IRA FOLLOWING THE RESUMPTION OF ULSTER BOMBING CAMPAIGN

BYLINE: Kevin Myers; Leading Expert On The Ira

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1080 words


It is called the Irish Republican Army because that is what it deludedly
believes itself to be - the army of the Republic declared in Dublin at Easter,
1916 and endorsed by the first meeting of the Irish Dail in 1919.

The IRA sees itself, not as it is, a terrorist organisation engaged in a fascist
war of aggression against the Unionist population of Northern Ireland - and
anybody else unlucky enough to get in its way.

Instead, it sees itself as an army sworn to defend that United Irish Republic
which, for Republicans, is the only lawful entity in Ireland.

In the IRA mind, that entity has been deprived of its power and its unity by an
undemocratic partition of Ireland and the occupation of the sundered part by the
British Army.

That is the basic position of the IRA. It never alters. Never.

Individuals within the IRA might change their minds. They might seek interim
accommodations, they might postpone the day of unity until the majority
population consents to a united Ireland - but such individual feelings are
irrelevant.

The IRA stands for one irreducible goal - the British out of Ireland and a
single government over the whole island.

Nothing short of that will keep any IRA ceasefire anything other than a tactical
suspension of hostilities pending negotiated victory or a return to war.

A negotiated victory was never possible, for the Unionists were never,
involuntarily or otherwise, going to cease to be Unionists. The Anglo- Irish
agreement was as much as Unionists could stomach. They will accept no more.  The
IRA does not understand this.

In their weird, preposterous world, Unionists are merely Unionists because of
the British presence - somehow, miraculously, they will cease to be Unionists in
the event of a British withdrawal. Of all people, the IRA leaders in Northern
Ireland, who have tenaciously clung onto their identity through decades of
partition, should realise that identities are not so easily bartered.

They do not. These men and women learn nothing, they remember nothing, they are
changed by nothing.

They listen to ancestral voices calling for war, and believe that a bit more war
will get what they want. The appalling reality of Bosnia has taught them
nothing.

No victory results from the war option, only more suffering, ruination, death.
Bizarrely, wickedly, they even depend on the Protestant response to their
terrorism to hasten the end of the Northern Ireland state.

The events of last summer showed that a Loyalist insurrection could immobilise
the RUC completely.

Yesterday's IRA bombs, as we assume they must be, came just as Ulster Volunteer
Force prisoners were following the example of the Ulster Defence Association
prisoners and withdrawing support for the peace process.

That is apparently what the IRA wants now - to goad the Loyalists into action
which consumes police energies and time, while the IRA concentrates on bombing
Britain and attacking British soldiers.

The single-mindedness of these people is psychotic. No price is too high to
achieve their ends, no life too sacred, no city to precious to be spared.  The
peace is not dead because there never was a living peace. There was a tactical
truce, which was transformed in people's minds, and by a widespread hunger for
an end to war, into an imaginary peace which only needed to be gift-wrapped with
a final settlement.

But the IRA understands one settlement only. It is the settlement of victory.
It is the settlement of surrender to a war of conquest.

That war was suspended.

Now it is back, and the blood plasma is once again dripping into broken bodies,
and Ireland stands on the very verge of utter calamity.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: RUN FOR COVER: People inside the army base take shelter as the bomb
explodes near the children's nursery

                            Copyright 1996 MGN Ltd.

                              448 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 8, 1996

NISSAN UK'S POUNDS 59M TAX DEAL FAILS TO CLEAR BOTNAR

BYLINE: Ian King

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN CITY PAGE; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1427 words


OCTAV Botnar, the former head of car distributor Nissan UK, faces the prospect
of being arrested if he returns to Britain despite his company's payment
yesterday of pounds 59 million to settle an Inland Revenue tax claim.

Mr Botnar, who has been living in Switzerland since 1981, still faces an
estimated personal tax bill of around pounds 65 million, which the Revenue
intends to pursue, and an arrest warrant issued five years ago remains in force.

Last night, after confirmation that all tax claims against Nissan UK had been
dropped, Mr Botnar launched an extraordinary attack on the Revenue, accusing it
of "terror tactics" and claiming he would not get justice in Britain.

He said: "The tactics often employed by the Revenue in England bear a striking
similarity to those of the terror police in former communist countries of which
I have had first hand experience."

Earlier, a five-minute meeting at the Revenue's special commissioners offices in
London heard that the Revenue had received a pounds 59 million payment over the
weekend, settling all tax claims against Nissan UK.

After the meeting a Revenue spokesman said: "The dispute between the Inland
Revenue and Nissan UK has been resolved, and all civil proceedings between the
two parties have been discontinued."

But despite the payment, one of the biggest out-of-court tax settlements ever
made in Britain, the Revenue insisted that Mr Botnar, who will be 83 later this
month, would still be arrested if he returned to Britain. However, in a
statement issued last night, Mr Botnar said Nissan UK had not "owed a penny" to
the Revenue.

Insisting he had made a payment to avoid "another five years of frustration,
litigation and enormous legal expenditure", Mr Botnar said the small size of the
payment, in comparison with the pounds 270 million the Revenue had said it was
owed, showed the Revenue's claim had been "spurious".

The Revenue's spokesman said: "He can put his views forward if he wants to, but
it's not for us to comment.

"An arrest warrant was granted, and that remains outstanding."

The payment is the latest twist in one of the most colourful corporate sagas of
the last decade. Mr Botnar, a Romanian businessman who had formerly headed the
NSU car group, signed an agreement in 1971 with Nissan Motor Company of Japan to
set up a car dealership under the name Datsun UK.

By the end of the 1970s the renamed Nissan UK was selling six out of every 10
Japanese cars sold in Britain and Mr Botnar suggested Nissan Motor Co establish
a manufacturing presence in the UK as a means of penetrating other European
markets.  Nissan Motor Co agreed and in 1986 the first car rolled off the
company's new production line in Sunderland, with the Japanese company paying
warm tribute to Mr Botnar.

But in 1991, the Inland Revenue made a dawn raid on Nissan UK's office and Mr
Botnar's home as part of an investigation - Operation Bluebird - into alleged
tax evasion and Nissan Motor Co withdrew Mr Botnar's import and distribution
licence.

By then Mr Botnar had left Britain for Switzerland, but in early 1992 a warrant
for his arrest was issued. Subsequently, Michael Hunt, Nissan UK's former
assistant managing director, and Frank Shannon, Nissan UK's former finance
director, were jailed for fraud for eight years and 18 months respectively, but
Mr Botnar has never faced any charges.

Botnar chronology

1971: Botnar establishes Datsun UK in agreement with Nissan;

1973: Nissan/Datsun sales account for two-thirds of Japanese car sales in UK;

1978: Nissan sales in UK top 100,000 for first time;

1980: Botnar asks Nissan to build UK manufacturing premises;

1986: Nissan UK manufacturing plant starts production at Sunderland;

1991: Nissan accuses Botnar of breaking terms of contract, announces new UK car
distributor network; Botnar loses High Court case and appeal against Nissan;

June 1991: Inland Revenue raids Nissan UK's offices;

November 1991: Botnar says Nissan UK will be wound down, leaves for Switzerland;

January 1992: Inland Revenue secures arrest warrant against Botnar;

May 1992: Two Nissan UK executives sent for trial;

March 1993: Nissan ordered to pay Nissan UK pounds 7 million by High Court;

June 1993: Michael Hunt, former Nissan UK managing director, and Frank Shannon,
former finance director, jailed for fraud;

November 1993: Revenue applies for winding-up order on Nissan UK, liquidators
appointed;

October 1996: Nissan UK settles with Inland Revenue.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              449 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                October 8, 1996

Sands of time for ceasefire

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 714 words


THE bombing, the first major attack on security forces in the province since the
IRA ceasefire of August 31, 1994, threatens to be the most serious blow to peace
since bombers resumed attacks on mainland Britain in February.

It appears to leave only the stand-off between terrorists on either side of the
republican-loyalist divide intact, and comes amid signs that the ceasefire is
becoming increasingly fragile.

Timetable of troubles:

.q.Last night - Leaders of the Progressive Unionist Party held talks at the Maze
Prison, to decide the future of the ceasefire, with fears that Ulster Volunteer
Forces inmates were about to withdraw support for the peace process.

.q.September 30 - Members of the Ulster Defence Association and Ulster Freedom
Fighters inside the top security prison told their political representatives
they no longer had any confidence in the multi-party talks on the province's
future, raising real fears over renewed sectarian violence.

.q.September 29 - Security forces made safe a car-bomb of 250lbs of homemade
explosives, in Belfast. The Irish Continuity Army, allegedly linked to breakaway
Republican Sinn Fein, claimed responsibility.

.q.September 23 - Hopes for a new mainland ceasefire recede as the Metropolitan
Police, on information from MI5, launched a series of dawn raids in west London
and west Sussex, which resulted in IRA suspect Diarmuid O'Neill, 27, being shot
dead and five others arrested.

At a warehouse in London, police recover a massive haul of arms - including 10
tonnes of home-made explosives.

One of those arrested, the dead suspect's brother Shane, was later released on
bail. A week after the raid, the remaining four were charged with conspiring to
cause an explosion and possession of explosives.

.q.July 15 - The Metropolitan Police scored a major success in the battle
against the terrorists, recovering components for up to 36 bombs, which they
believe would have been used to target utilities installations in London and the
south east.

Seven men were arrested at addresses in Tooting and Peckham, south London, where
police continued the search for a major stockpile of explosives. A man and a
woman were later held in Birmingham.

.q.July 13 - a 1200lb car-bomb devastated the Kilyhelvin Hotel at Enniskillen,
injuring 17 people, following a week of mounting tension and rioting sparked by
the Drumcree stand-off and the RUC's controversial decision to allow Orangemen
to march through a Catholic area.

.q.June 28 - IRA terrorists fired a volley of three mortars at the Quebec
barracks in Osnabruck, Germany. There were no injuries, but it was the first
time that British servicemen on the Continent had been targeted for more than
six years.

.q.June 15 - The IRA struck in Manchester, the first time outside the capital in
its renewed mainland campaign, when a huge bomb which ripped through the city
centre, injuring around 200 people.

.q.April 24 - Two devices were placed at Hammersmith Bridge, west London, and an
IRA warning was telephoned to the AP news agency. They did not explode.

The following day Scotland Yard issued an urgent bomb warning after disclosing
that twin devices represented probably the biggest high-explosive bomb planted
by IRA terrorists in mainland Britain.

Detonation would have wreaked massive destruction and been a high-profile
"spectacular" by terrorists, coinciding with the 80th anniversary of the Easter
Rising in Dublin, of April 24, 1916.

.q.April 17 - An explosion rocked an empty house at The Boltons, an exclusive
area of Earl's Court, London.

.q.March 9 - A "small, improvised device" exploded in Old Brompton Road, Fulham,
west London, causing minor damage. The IRA later admitted responsibility.

.q.February 18 - IRA man Edward O'Brien was blown up and killed by his own bomb
when it accidentally detonated on a bus he was travelling on in Aldwych, central
London.

.q.February 15 - A 5lb Semtex bomb was discovered in a holdall in a telephone
box in Charing Cross Road, central London.

.q.February 9 - The IRA announced the end of its ceasefire. Soon afterwards a
massive bomb hidden aboard a low-loader lorry exploded in London's Docklands,
killing two people and injuring many more.

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: The devastated Army HQ and barracks in Lisburn, Northern Ireland, after
the two bomb blasts yesterday.  Picture: PA

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1996 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              450 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            October 8, 1996, Tuesday

Testing times for troubled province; Independent Decade: Northern Ireland

BYLINE: David McKittrick

SECTION: INDEPENDENT DECADE; Page  16

LENGTH: 643 words


The old Chinese curse - may you live in interesting times - is afflicting
Northern Ireland as much in 1996 as it did a decade ago. The killing rate may be
lower, but the possibility of more violence remains in the air.

The prospect of an agreed settlement looks as far away as ever, as the age-old
questions remain unresolved: whether Northern Ireland should be British, or
Irish, or a hybrid; whether it is a political or a terrorist problem; whether a
system can be found under which the two communities can live harmoniously side
by side. Yet it has been an extraordinarily eventful decade, with many high
points and low moments, instances of dialogue and outbreaks of violence, and
numerous times of great hope and near-despair.

In 1986 Northern Ireland was described, rightly, as a tense and dangerous place:
"Government ministers venture out of their heavily fortified bases only
furtively and under heavy escort. Unionist politicians refuse all contact with
them; some Unionist MPs now appear regularly at menacing midnight shows of
strength along with masked men carrying cudgels.

That loyalist unrest sprang mainly from the Anglo-Irish agreement of the
previous year, which scandalised Unionist opinion by giving Dublin a formal
input into the running of Northern Ireland. Unionists believed, then as now,
that the accord undermined the union with Britain.

It was five years before the ire of Unionist politicians abated, and before
they, the government and nationalists politicians sat down to round- table
talks. Those talks proved unsuccessful. The Anglo-Irish agreement did not evolve
into the powerful instrument which nationalists had hoped for, but nor was it
destroyed by Unionist opposition, and Northern Ireland came to be viewed more
and more as an Anglo-Irish matter rather than an purely British issue.

Those five years were plainly traumatic for Unionists, but they also had a
profound if less immediately obvious effect on the IRA and Sinn Fein. IRA
violence continued, both in Northern Ireland and in Britain, but beneath the
surface the agreement helped fuel a far-reaching debate within republicanism. It
took years filled with violence and an underground warren of secret meetings
involving republicans, both governments and others, for that debate to develop
into the peace process which led to the IRA cessation of violence of August
1994.

When the loyalists followed suit two months later hopes were high as it seemed a
new era of dialogue and negotiation had begun. But the atmosphere steadily
soured with rows over demands for the de-commissioning of IRA weapons, over the
calling of all-party talks and over how and when Sinn Fein might be admitted to
political negotiations.

To some the IRA bomb attack on London's docklands in February did not come as a
great surprise, given the sourness and lack of goodwill, but it still caused a
huge shock, signifying as it seemed that the chance of peace had gone.

Another large bomb followed in Manchester, yet the attacks led not to a
resumption of the troubles along the old lines, but rather a form of limbo. The
IRA remained intent on attacking England yet Northern Ireland itself remained
comparatively quiet. The Drumcree summer marching controversy severely damaged
community relations, but even then both republicans and loyalists held their
fire.

The political talks eventually began this year, but Sinn Fein has been excluded
from them because of the IRA violence. Few believe the talks will succeed, but
no one knows whether a new peace process is possible, or whether there will be a
slide back to full-scale violence. No one knows, in other words, whether another
chance can be created for peace, or whether Northern Ireland is fated to endure
another ten years of conflict.

David McKittrick

Ireland Correspondent


LOAD-DATE: October 08, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1996 Independent Print Ltd

                              451 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                           October 12, 1996, Saturday

MAJOR NHS PLEDGE TOO LATE FOR MUM;
HOSPITAL DELAY WOMAN'S ANGER AT HEALTH SPEECHES: THE TORIES AT BOURNEMOUTH

BYLINE: Jill Palmer

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 694 words


A 61-year-old woman in agony with a broken arm and hip lay untreated in hospital
for FOUR DAYS.

As John Major boasted of Britain's unique health service in his keynote
conference speech, details emerged of the terrible ordeal suffered by cancer
patient Gwen Fosh.

It began when she was taken to hospital on May 23 after falling at her home in
Luton, Beds, breaking her arm and hip.

Luton and Dunstable Hospital was so busy staff pushed Mrs Fosh, who was in
extreme pain, to the bottom of the waiting list.

She was eventually taken to the operating theatre 67 hours later. She died two
months after the op. Last night her daughter Susan Robb hit out at Mr Major's
NHS pledges.

"How can anyone believe Tory promises about the NHS any more?" she said.

"This has opened my eyes to what is really going on in our hospitals.

"I am not saying the delay shortened mum's life but it certainly added to her
suffering."

Hospital chief executive Robert Angel blamed the delay on doctors' heavy
workload.

The row broke as John Major told the Bournemouth conference "Tory policy was
working for the patient".

Incredibly, just before his speech, Health Secretary Stephen Dorrell revealed
that cutting waiting lists was no longer a top priority.

The Premier also claimed his sleaze-ridden party was "straight and honourable" -
a day after the drunken antics of ex-minister Sir Nicholas Scott were exposed.

At the same time he signalled how low the Tories will sink to cling on to power
by launching a "Target Tony" campaign of insults at the Labour leader.

The PM also plans to get tough with young louts who are to be kept tied to their
homes by electronic ankle tags.

JOHN Major yesterday paid tribute to Warrant Officer James Bradwell, 43, who
died in the IRA bomb blast in Lisburn.

He said: "I would just like to say to James Bradwell - well done for all you've
done for our peace and our security."

And he told Sinn Fein leader Gerry Adams: "Spare me any crocodile tears."

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ANGRY: Susan Robb and sister Pat holding a picture of their tragic mum

                            Copyright 1996 MGN Ltd.

                              452 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                           October 12, 1996, Saturday

THE IRA DON'T DESERVE TO LIVE FOR WHAT THEY DID TO MY JIM;
SOLDIER JIM BRADWELL DIES FROM INJURIES SUSTAINED DURING IRA BOMB ATTACK ON
LISBURN ARMY HQ

BYLINE: Clive Crickmer

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 560 words


The father of murdered soldier Jim Bradwell spoke out last night against the IRA
bombers who killed his son.

Walter Bradwell, 65, said: "None of them should be allowed to live for what they
have done to my Jim.

"All of the IRA should be blown up. No words are strong enough to say what I
think of them." Mr Bradwell's comments came after Jim, a senior warrant officer
with REME, died from injuries suffered in Monday's Lisburn barracks attack.

The dad-of-three had been planning a new life in civvy street with his wife Pam
and their family. The couple were planning to buy a house near his birthplace in
Gateshead.

Jim, 43, caught the full blast of the first explosion and was injured again when
the second bomb went off.

His family were with him when he died in Belfast's Royal Victoria Hospital.
Pam, 41, and their youngest children - Romana, 16, and Philip, 14 - had been
flown from the mainland. Their eldest child, mother-of-two Amanda, 23, travelled
from her Isle of Wight home on Wednesday.

Jim's Army career took him to Germany, Belize and Canada. He was posted to
Northern Ireland two months ago.

Party leaders condemned the killing. Taoiseach John Bruton said: "Others do not
reserve to themselves the option of going back to violence, or support for
violence, if developments do not match their aims."

Fianna Fail's Bertie Ahern said Jim's death made a vile deed even worse.
Progress Democrat Mary Harney said: "The IRA must be told their evil deeds have
no place in a democratic society."

British Premier John Major attacked the "crocodile tears" of Sinn Fein's Gerry
Adams.

Mr Major said Jim joined the Army prepared to lose his life defending Britain
and had served in the best tradition.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: VICTIM: Jim Bradwell

                            Copyright 1996 MGN Ltd.

                              453 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                October 12, 1996

Ulster blast soldier dies;Victim No.3208 is remembered at Belfast peace rally as
family grieve at hospital bedside

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 672 words


A SOLDIER who was injured in the IRA bomb blasts at the Army's Northern Ireland
HQ died in hospital yesterday with his family at his bedside.

Warrant Officer Class One James Bradwell, 43, who had only recently arrived in
Ulster, died in the intensive care unit of Belfast's Royal Victoria Hospital.

His 41-year-old wife, Pam, was at his bedside with their two younger children,
Philip, 12, and Romana, 14. A grown-up daughter lives in England.

Doctors fought for four days to save him despite his terrible injuries - burns
to 60% of his body, a serious head wound, and an arm injury.

He was close to the first car bomb when it went off and was then injured by the
second 15 minutes later, when it exploded near the Army medical centre where he
was being treated.

WO Bradwell, whose home town was Gateshead, served with the Royal Electrical and
Mechanical Engineers, REME, and was based at army headquarters in Lisburn,
County Antrim.

He began his duty in Ulster only two months ago and lived in married quarters at
the Lisburn base with his wife and two youngest children.

He had been in the Army for 19 years and served in Britain, Canada, Germany, and
Belize.

Four years ago, he was awarded the Long Service and Good Conduct Medal for
Exemplary Service.

He was the first soldier to be murdered in Northern Ireland since the IRA called
off its 17-month ceasefire in February.

The last military death was part-time Royal Irish Regiment Corporal Thomas
Withers, who was shot dead in his butcher's shop in Crossgar, County Down, three
weeks before the ceasefire was called at the end of August 1994.

Relatives were told of the tragedy in a telephone call from his widow.

WO Bradwell's father Walter, 66, who lives in Springwell, near Washington,
Sunderland, said: "It has come as horrible news and I feel bitter that this
should have happened when everyone had been hoping that peace had come to
Northern Ireland.

"I was very proud of Jim and his work as a soldier. He really loved the Army -
it was something he lived and breathed.

"But he had been looking forward to finishing in a few years and starting a new
life back in his home area.

"It is tragic that he should have been prevented from doing so in this way."

Mr Bradwell said his son had been following in a family Army tradition - his
grandfather George served with the Durham Light Infantry in the Second World War
and was involved in the Dunkirk evacuation.

Meanwhile, hundreds of people held a peace rally outside the City Hall in
Belfast. Paper silhouettes representing people murdered in the province were
held aloft.

One was for victim No. 3208, Warrant Officer Bradwell. As rain began to fall,
the crowd stood for a minute's silence as a mark of respect for the soldier, and
a Catholic boy who died after running out in front of a van when terrified by
sectarian chants.

The mother of Darren Murray, 11, from Portadown, County Armagh, blamed loyalists
for frightening him.

Sinn Fein members and representatives of the Ulster Democratic Party, political
wing of the UDA, were among the hundreds who heard peace leaders demand an end
to the renewed IRA campaign.

Ms Anne Carr, co-ordinator of Women Together, the group which organised the
demonstration, said the Lisburn bombing was a cruel, calculated act to bring
people to the brink of civil war.

However, she pledged: "We will continue to demonstrate and stand side by side
until all the sectarian violence, murder, and mayhem is ended for ever."

Protestant and Catholic pupils from a religiously integrated school in the city
sang peace songs and one read a special poem urging an end to the conflict for
the sake of the next generation.

Ms Carr said: "If we don't get up and try and create a new society, they are
going to have to live the next 25 years the way we had to.

"There is despair and, when you are fed on a diet of despair, you give up.

"But that's the last thing we want. You must have hope."

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Warrant Officer James Bradwell.;Gary McMichael of the fringe loyalist
UDP party surrounded by paper silhouettes representing Ulster's victims at
yesterday's peace rally.  Picture:BRIAN LITTLE

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1996 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              454 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           October 12, 1996, Saturday

Major: You're a liar, Mr Adams; Sinn Fein leader responds by regretting
'personal abuse'

BYLINE: Anthony Bevins and David McKittrick

SECTION: TITLE; Page  1

LENGTH: 728 words


The Prime Minister yesterday directly linked Gerry Adams with the murder of
Warrant Officer James Bradwell - the closest he or any other minister has ever
come to accusing the Sinn Fein leader of complicity in murder.

WO Bradwell died yesterday from injuries suffered in the IRA bombing of Lisburn
barracks earlier this week. In a passage added to the text of his Bournemouth
conference speech John Major paid special tribute to the first soldier to die
since the IRA ceasefire was announced in August 1994. He then proceeded to
attack Mr Adams in the most scathing terms.  "For many months, Sinn Fein leaders
have mouthed the word peace. Warrant Officer James Bradwell was 43, with a wife
and with children, Mr Adams.

"He joined the army, prepared to lose his life defending the British nation.
Soldiers do. But he was murdered in cold blood in the United Kingdom.  I sent
him there, Mr Adams, so save me any crocodile tears. Don't tell me this has
nothing to do with you. I don't believe you, Mr Adams, I don't believe you."

The Prime Minister's attack prompted some of the strongest applause of the
speech. Mr Adams, in a swift response in Belfast, said: "Personalised attacks
are no substitute for real politics. It was the absence of real politics and a
good-faith engagement by the British government in the peace process which led
to its collapse. Mr Major cannot evade his responsibility and he must bear the
lion's share of blame for the current difficulties. His insistence on
decommissioning is indicative of a mindset which continues to seek victory, not
accommodation."

The Prime Minister also used his speech to announce an expansion of power for
the Commons cross-party Northern Ireland Committee, setting up ministerial
question times and allowing it to take evidence on proposed legislation.  The
measure was clearly designed to please Unionists, who have been pressing for
such measures for some years. As such, many observers saw it as intended to help
keep the Ulster Unionist Party - and its much-needed Commons votes - on side
with the Major government. The UUP leader, David Trimble, has recently generated
some Government concern by making conciliatory moves towards Labour and its
leader, Tony Blair.

In Belfast the confrontational rhetoric from both the Prime Minister and the
republicans is seen as confirmation that the two sides have written off the idea
of doing any serious business together in advance of the general election. Both
seem more concerned with recrimination and apportioning blame rather than
working out a deal to make another IRA ceasefire more likely. One source who has
had contact with republicans privately this week advanced the opinion that the
Lisburn bombings "were probably aimed more at Tony Blair than at John Major". He
meant that the IRA may have been more concerned with placing Northern Ireland on
the political agenda of the next government rather than altering the course of
this one.

The political talks at Stormont, while continuing at a snail's pace, are at
least still in session and it is clear that their continuation would be
jeopardised by any question of a government concession to the IRA.

Any appearance of concession on arms decommissioning would create a protest
against what would be seen as transparent appeasement of terrorism.  Such a move
would probably lead to a general Unionist walkout from the talks.

None the less, it was noted that in spite of his attack the Prime Minister did
not close his mind to an IRA ceasefire and its eventual inclusion in talks.

"The IRA has always believed that Britain can be deflected by terrorism," he
said. "They have always been wrong. And they are wrong now."

Mr Major added: "No one will take Sinn Fein seriously ever again until they show
a serious commitment to end violence for good."

When Ulster ministers were later pressed to explain whether Mr Major was
accusing the Sinn Fein leader of complicity in the bombing, they were careful to
direct The Independent to Mr Major's words.

Sir Patrick Mayhew, the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland, told The
Independent: "It reflected exactly what all decent people feel; revulsion at the
contrast between those who speak of peace and at the same time are associated
with acts of murder."

Peace vigil, page 2

Leading article, page 17


LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1996 Independent Print Ltd

                              455 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                October 14, 1996

Tough action call against IRA terror;More aggressive policy urged

BYLINE: By John Cooney;

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 631 words


THE British Government was under pressure last night to launch a tough security
drive against the IRA in reply to the resumption of its bombing campaign in
Northern Ireland.

Politicians insisted there could be no political concessions to the terrorists
in a bid to get them to call a new ceasefire and give Sinn Fein entry to the
multi-party talks process.

Mr David Trimble, leader of the Ulster Unionist Party, said that the IRA must be
shown that violence did not pay and it would be penalised for it.

At the same time it was proposed that Ministers should reward Loyalists by
shortening prison sentences as long as their ceasefire holds.

Meanwhile, solid support exists in the Irish Republic for the Dublin government
to introduce tougher security measures against the IRA.

A poll published yesterday showed that two out of three voters want "a more
aggressive approach" to be taken against the terrorist organisation.

The poll was conducted after the Lisburn bombings last Monday, but before the
death on Friday of Warrant Officer James Bradwell.

It shows that the Irish government is lagging behind public opinion on how to
respond to the end of the IRA's ceasefire. Although Prime Minister John Bruton
has denounced the IRA as fascists, he has not ordered his civil servants to
close official channels with Sinn Fein.

All indications in Belfast were that the Combined Loyalist Military Command has
decided to hold back from retaliation for now - but that its units had been put
on alert and another IRA attack in the province could lead to a swift re-think.

Mr David Ervine, of the Progressive Unionist Party which is aligned to the UVF,
said it would be foolish to play into the hands of the IRA and call off its
two-year-old ceasefire.

Mr Trimble said concessions must not be given to the IRA.

The Rev Roy Magee, the Presbyterian churchman who helped broker the Loyalist
ceasefire, also called for tough action against the IRA and more to be done to
reward the Loyalists for holding the line.

Such a proposal is expected to be put to the Prime Minister by the Tory back
bench Northern Ireland committee.

Attacks on the IRA came from British and Irish Ministers. Irish deputy Prime
Minister Dick Spring said the IRA had once again seen the "revulsion" of the
people of North and South and Britain at the Lisburn barracks bombing.

Ulster Political Development Minister Michael Ancram said the bombing had been a
total negation of the IRA of any desire to commit itself to exclusively peaceful
methods - they had "slammed the door on themselves".

Irish opposition leader Bertie Ahern advanced a four-point blueprint to restore
the Ulster peace process.

Urging Prime Minister John Major to put peace in Northern Ireland ahead of
"electoral self-interest", he listed his four points for progress:

q.Reinstatement by the IRA of a ceasefire which could not be broken for any
reason.

q.Removal of terrorist arms decommissioning as a precondition for participation
in the talks process.

q.The British Government to spell out its approach to the issue of jailed
paramilitary personnel in the event of a sustained ceasefire.

q.Establishment by London and Dublin of a time scale for the talks.

It emerged at the weekend that police in Dublin believed that a bomb hoax
outside the Central Bank last Thursday was a trial run for a genuine Loyalist
attack.

A suitcase had been left on the steps close to the bank, but did not contain
explosives.

The hoax, which was played down by the Irish media, revealed shortcomings in
their bomb disposal equipment. According to political sources, a bomb disposal
robot was unable to climb the steps to examine the suitcase, and toppled over in
the attempt.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1996 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              456 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 15, 1996

'BREAKTHROUGH' IN ULSTER TALKS;
Unionist-SDLP agenda deal isolates Sinn Fein

BYLINE: David Sharrock Ireland Correspondent

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 934 words


SENIOR Government sources last night welcomed a "significant breakthrough" in
the Ulster talks process, when David Trimble's Ulster Unionists reached
agreement with the nationalist SDLP on the terms for an agenda.

The deal, which has eluded the parties for four months, means that substantive
negotiations on the province's future can finally begin - in the absence of Sinn
Fein.

It appeared last night that the IRA bombing of Army headquarters in Lisburn, Co
Antrim, gave Mr Trimble the room he needed to water down his party's previous
tough conditions for entry into constitutional talks because it moved Sinn Fein
out of the frame. It also gave the process renewed impetus.

.

The joint UUP /SDLP proposals are close to what George Mitchell, President
Clinton's special adviser and the talks' chairman, proposed at the start of the
year. They suggest a full plenary session of the talks will open without the
decommissioning of weapons dominating the agenda. This has now been downgraded
to the second item, and significantly makes provision for "mechanisms necessary
to enable further progress to be made on decommissioning alongside
negotiations".

The move has delighted all parties in the talks except Ian Paisley's DUP and the
UK Unionists led by Robert McCartney. "It means decommissioning will never take
place, they will talk and talk but nothing will be done about it," said a party
source. "They are paving the way for Sinn Fein's entry into the talks."

But the Ulster Unionists insisted that Sinn Fein and the IRA will still have to
pass a series of tough tests before being allowed in to the talks - the first
being a new, unconditional ceasefire.

At the weekend the Progressive Unionist Party spokesman David Ervine, who is
associated with the Ulster Volunteer Force, warned that rapid progress in the
talks was the only hope of maintaining the loyalist ceasefire.

Marjorie Mowlam, shadow Northern Ireland secretary, also held a meeting
yesterday with 12 loyalist inmates of the Maze prison in a further sign that
loyalists will maintain their ceasefire. UVF and UFF inmates earlier told their
political representatives they supported the view that the ceasefire should
hold.

Sir Patrick Mayhew, the Northern Ireland Secretary, said: "There are increasing
signs of hope that we will get now into the substantive business. There is no
reason why Sinn Fein's empty chair should prevent the other nine parties from
going about this very important business.

"Mr Adams spoke the other day about a political vacuum. Well really, who do they
think they are? They leave one chair empty and pronounce the rest of the room a
vacuum. Not so."

In a speech to supporters in north Belfast, Sinn Fein president Gerry Adams said
the key to another IRA ceasefire lay in John Major's hands.

* Irish police yesterday arrested Nessan Quinlivan, who is wanted in Britain on
terrorism charges, at his Limerick home.  Quinlivan, who was released from an
Irish prison last year as part of Dublin's programme of shoring up the IRA
ceasefire, is on pounds 70,000 bail while his lawyers challenge British
extradition warrants.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              457 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                           October 19, 1996, Saturday

WIDOW'S FURY AT IRA FILM;
IT GLORIFIES TERRORISM. I DON'T WANT IT SCREENED;
WIDOW OF BRITISH SOLDIER KILLED IN THE LISBURN BARRACKS BOMBING CALLS FOR
MICHAEL COLLINS FILM BAN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4, 5

LENGTH: 1880 words


The widow of the British soldier killed in the Lisburn barracks bombing last
night called for cinemas to ban a film about the IRA's founding father, Michael
Collins.

"It glorifies terrorism," said furious Pam Bradwell. "It's publicity like this
that keep the IRA going."

The mother-of-three was speaking publicly for the first time since her husband's
death in the terror atrocity at the Army's Northern Ireland headquarters.

Yesterday as her husband Jim was cremated with full military honours at
Sunderland, Tyneside Pam, 41, hit out at movie chiefs' insensitivity. "How can
they show this film during a renewed wave of terrorism and so soon after the
death of my husband?" she said.

"I don't want it to be screened. I wouldn't have agreed to it before my
husband's death and I certainly don't agree to it now."

The grieving widow's campaign was backed by Elizabeth Curtis, whose son Robert,
20, was the first British soldier to die in the Troubles.

Mrs Curtis, 68, of Denton, Newcastle, said: "The film is a disgrace to the
memory of my son. It should not be allowed.

"The IRA should never be given publicity. I'll never forgive them for murdering
my son. I want Michael Collins banned."

The film, starring Liam Neeson as Collins, goes on general release in Britain
and Ireland on November 8.

And last night distributors Warner Brothers said they had no plans to cancel or
postpone the release of the film, which tells the story of the Easter Rising in
1916 through to Collins' death in 1922. They say it will be screened in Britain
and Ireland from November 8.

Film director Neil Jordan also rejected the women's remarks.

He claims the movie will make a positive contribution to understanding the
Ireland of today and says that in order to look to the future "you have to be
able to address these aspects of your past."

He denied that the film would be used to foster support for Provo terrorism in
the United States.

Warner Brothers said neither the ending of the IRA ceasefire nor the Lisburn
bombings had affected their plans to launch the film.

A spokesman said: "No withdrawal of a film can be expected to compensate for the
horror suffered by Warrant Officer Bradwell's family.

"If we withdrew the movie we'd be responding to the threat of violence. That
would be very dangerous.

"When the film was planned and made Northern Ireland was involved in the peace
process. Like everyone else, we hope it will pick up again. The film is about
four years in the life of a historical figure and should provide an opportunity
to discuss all the issues.

"After all Michael Collins was himself killed by the IRA after negotiating a
peace treaty."

Widow Pam is also praying for peace. As family, friends and comrades said their
last farewell at Sunderland Crematorium, she said: "I haven't come to grips with
my husband's death yet. It just hasn't sunk in. I find it so difficult to
believe."

W. O. Jim Bradwell from Gateshead, Tyne and Wear, is the first British soldier
to be killed in Northern Ireland since the IRA ended their ceasefire.

JIm, who was planning to leave the army to start a new life, was on his first
tour of the troubled province.

He was standing just 30ft from the first bomb blast and was being stretchered by
a mercy team to the base medical centre when he was caught in the second
explosion. He was severely burned. Pam was at his bedside when he lost his fight
for life four days later.

She at first declined the offer of a formal military funeral, telling Army
officials she'd prefer a private family service.

But she changed her mind and gave Jim's fellow servicemen a chance to mourn.

Yesterday many of his comrades from Northern Ireland and Germany, where he was
based until two months ago, were at the service.

An Army spokesman in Northern Ireland said: "The service is down to how families
feel. The Bradwell family expressed a wish for a military funeral."

And yesterday the family - Pam, son Philip, 14, and daughters Romana, 16 and
Amanda, 23 - stood with sorrow and pride as the 43-year-old soldier's medals and
cap took pride of place on his coffin draped with the Union flag.

The Army official said: "The pall bearers were uniformed military personnel.

"The family requested men from his corps, the Royal Electrical and Military
Engineers. Some of them came from Germany where he was posted until he was
transferred to Northern Ireland."

The service was led by Rev David Coulter and the address was given by Captain
Paul Pettifer, who served with Jim in Germany.

W. O. Bradwell came from a military family. His late grandfather George was a
Dunkirk veteran who served with the now disbanded Durham Light Infantry. His
father Walter, 65, spent five years in the TA after national service.

He said yesterday: "I was very proud of my son and the job he was doing.  He was
upholding the military traditions of the family."

MAKING OF

A MARTYR

As a freedom fighter, Michael Collins was perfect for the Hollywood treatment -
even his death is surrounded by myths.

He is said to have been shot by one of his own men. But he may even have been
hit by a stray bullet in the war he stirred up.

Collins, 26 when the Easter Rising exploded in 1916, founded the IRA's
intelligence network.

His murder campaign against Irish policemen saw them hit back with the Black and
Tans. Their retaliation fuelled IRA support.

Collins was Minister of Finance in the Dil. His bid for military power in 1920
sparked the first Bloody Sunday when he had 14 British officers executed. It
triggered violence in which 12 football fans were shot at Croke Park.

In 1922, Collins backed the treaty that bore Ulster. He ended up fighting old
comrades.

Today's Provos do not know what to make of him. The man who gave birth to the
murder creed they follow left them in the cold. But he taught them treachery and
left a legacy of internal feuding.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SORROW AND PRIDE: Daughter Amanda and widow Pam at hero soldier; Jim
Bradwell's funeral;; FAREWELL WITH HONOURS: The dead soldier's cap and medals
take pride of place on the Union flag-draped coffin as comrades carry it into
the crematorium yesterday;; WRANGLE: Liam Neeson as CollinsIRA VICTIM: Warrant
Officer Jim Bradwell>

                            Copyright 1996 MGN Ltd.

                              458 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                October 21, 1996

Minister moves to guarantee container traffic security

LENGTH: 331 words


Irish fury at Chunnel export ban

AN IRISH government minister has moved to head off a Channel Tunnel security ban
on millions of pounds worth of Irish exports . The ban, from November 7 would
hit container exports by rail worth IR'3bn bound for the continent.

The Department of Transport in Britain said it can not accept goods unless
security demands are met.

Container exports from the Republic have up to now been security vetted at
Liverpool.

But the company involved Rail Freight Distributors has notified government it is
ending the service from November 7 because of cost. The security measures are in
place partly to prevent any attempt by the IRA to carry out a terrorist attack
on the Tunnel.

Faced with the fury of the Irish Exporters' Association over the UK threat,
junior marine minister Eamon Gilmore has stepped in. The association complained
that attempts to resolve the security issue permanently have dragged on for two
years.

And it warned of the effect on industry if exporters have to send their goods to
the continent by sea.

Mr Gilmore has taken a series of steps to solve the problem including talks with
the UK authorities.

He said: ''The priority now is to ensure that there is no interruption to trade
on the Channel Tunnel route.'' The minister said the new system will require
vetting by a private security firm of the exporter's factory in the Republic.
The inspection would then be endorsed by the Irish authorities on conditions to
be worked out with Britain.

Mr Gilmore stressed that the security vetting applied only to container exports
carried across Britain by rail.

Most freight travels by lorry on roll-on roll-off ferries and is accompanied by
a driver.

Mr Gilmore pledged the Republic will undertake whatever actions necessary to
meet the security conditions required by the UK.

And he vowed: ''There will be no question of any interruption in the flow of
Irish exports to mainland Europe.''


LOAD-DATE: November 26, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1996 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              459 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                            October 21, 1996, Monday

RUC chief predicts IRA ceasefire after period of violence

BYLINE: Nicholas Watt, Chief Ireland Correspondent

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 717 words


Terrorists accept there cannot be military victory in Ulster, says retiring
Chief Constable.

THE IRA will declare another ceasefire because the republican leadership still
sees the advantages of peace, according to Sir Hugh Annesley, Chief Constable of
the RUC. He gave a warning, however, that the terrorists would attempt to launch
further bomb attacks on mainland Britain and in Northern Ireland before laying
down their arms.

In an interview with The Times to mark his retirement next month, Sir Hugh said
that "sooner or later" the IRA would abandon its terrorist campaign. "I would
certainly see it as coming potentially in the next year. I have no doubt the
republican movement is deeply put out by the strong stance by the British and
Irish Governments."

The IRA would, however, want to declare a truce from a position of strength. He
said: "I think we are in a situation where further attacks on the British
mainland are probable and I think an attack within the Province has moved from
possible to probable." He had based his prediction on intelligence reports and
his own judgment of the thinking of the republican leadership.

Sir Hugh, speaking at RUC headquarters in East Belfast, said: "I believe that
Messrs Adams and McGuinness still believe that the long-term solution to the
problems we have here will be solved by politics and not by military force. I
think it is widely accepted within the general democratic framework that there
wasn't going to be a military victory on either side ... I think still that
Adams and McGuinness see the advantage in peace."

Sir Hugh said that one sign of a move towards a ceasefire was the IRA's plan to
hold a so-called "General Army Convention", which consists of "volunteers" from
every unit and which is the only body within the IRA that can declare a
permanent end to violence. He said that the leadership would use the meeting to
decide on their strategy because the movement appeared to be unsure. He did not
link Gerry Adams and Martin McGuinness directly to the terrorists' Army Council,
but he made it clear that they were the republican movement's pivotal figures.

Sir Hugh accompanied his assessment of the IRA with approval of loyalist
terrorists who have maintained their ceasefire in the face of renewed IRA
terrorism. But he gave warning that they still posed a formidable terrorist
threat.

Sir Hugh spoke of his frustration at having to tackle terrorism with laws that
were weighted too strongly in favour of the criminal. "The lean of the criminal
law is too far in favour of the terrorist. The Italians would not have made any
inroads into the Mafia if they were operating with the law and order system of
the United Kingdom."

He insisted a crackdown on terrorism must be within the normal process of
criminal law. He dismissed the option of interning terrorist suspects without
trial as a "short-term palliative, but a long-term disaster". He said: "If you
don't intern then you have got to say to yourself, how do you tackle terrorism
and how do you get the evidence? Most people will not give evidence against
terrorists because they are afraid, which means eyewitnesses will nearly always
be policemen or soldiers."

He said that difficulties with forensic evidence, which terrorists knew how to
challenge, and problems with confession evidence meant that other evidence ought
to be allowed in court. He called for three major changes to the law: admit
phone-tapping evidence in court; abolish the right to silence in Northern
Ireland; lengthen the seven-day detention period for terrorist suspects.

The renewed IRA violence led him to reiterate the call he first made in 1992 for
a national anti-terrorist unit. While praising the decision to give MI5 the lead
in the fight against terrorism in mainland Britain, he added: "I believe that we
should take hold of this by the scruff of the neck. The head (of the new unit)
should be an equivalent of a Grade I civil servant with direct access to the
Prime Minister and the Home Secretary."

As he reflected on his seven years in Northern Ireland, Sir Hugh, who hands over
to Ronnie Flanagan on November 4, said he would retain vivid memories of
terrorist atrocities. He remembers the name of every RUC officer killed during
his term.


LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1996 Times Newspapers Limited

                              460 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          October 23, 1996, Wednesday

The cream of Manchester: will we fudge our best chance to recreate a city
centre?; Architects on shortlist must rise to opportunity of a lifetime, writes
Jonathan Glancey

BYLINE: Patricia Wynn Davies Legal Affairs Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Page  6

LENGTH: 781 words


The team of architects and planners chosen next month from a shortlist of five
announced by Michael Heseltine yesterday to rebuild the centre of Manchester
four months on from the IRA bomb that injured 220 people and caused immense
damage to commercial and retail are being offered the chance of a lifetime:
nothing less than managing the biggest city- centre regeneration project in
Britain since the Lutfwaffe opened the way for major redevelopment in the
Forties.

A look at the plans and models for the project, which go on show at Manchester
City Hall this weekend, shows that none of the shortlisted plans offers the
glamour, excitement or drama Mancunians might expect and deserve.  At its peak
in the late nineteenth century, Manchester was one of the country's most
distinctive cities, a place of grand warehouses and grandiloquent civic
buildings by some of Britain's finest architects. In recent years it has become
one of the liveliest cities, famous for its nightlife and cafes and bars.

Here, however, there is no Manchester of the twenty-first century. Instead, all
five shortlisted entrants to Manchester's International Urban Design Competition
offer a plethora of urban-design cliches that we have come to expect in the
Nineties: tree-lined boulevards, new city squares, flats and houses, a winter
garden, a remodelled Arndale Centre, city walks, a new bus-station,
pollution-free forms of urban transport, a waterside piazza on the Salford Quays
and every idea that has popped up in urban design theory and practice over the
past 10 or 15 years.

Each team is at pains to stress how green Manchester will become if it wins.
Each posits the idea of wooing the professional middle classes back into the
city centre. Each is a vision, more or less and in a variety of styles, of
Richard Rogers's cafe society (where decaffinated cappuccino replaces pints of
Boddingtons) and, possibly the better for it.

The ingredients are more or less right, yet none of the five hopefuls is
entirely convincing. This is largely, perhaps, because the task of redesigning a
major city centre is not something that can be undertaken lightly or too
speedily. The five contenders began work in mid-July; they had to hurry, but,
like London in the aftermath of the Great Fire of 1666, the city is in a hurry
to get down to brass tacks. The City of London was able to rebuild relatively
quickly after the recent IRA bomb blast because it was effectively doing no
more, and no less, than replacing like with like, one slick Seventies office
block for a slick Nineties office block.

The plans and models of the five rival schemes will be on show at Manchester
City Hall, in Albert Square. However, they are largely incomprehensible to
anyone without training in architecture or town planning. But there is little
doubt the winning team will abandon its first hasty thoughts and begin again
from scratch.

What it needs to do is to win and then negotiate sufficient time to think the
rebuilding through carefully and, if possible, to add the missing magic
ingredient. Call it inspiration, call it imagination, but so far it is lacking.

With luck, and a lot of thought, this will result in a scheme that will create a
city centre that will rival the best modern Europe has to offer.

The five teams shortlisted are Halliday Meecham Architects with Richard Reid
Associates, EDAW (Urban Design and Economic Development, Simpson Associates,
Benoy and Alan Baxter), Building Design Partnership with Donaldsons, Manchester
First (too many consultants to mention, but a wealth of local talent, from
architects to traffic engineers), and another large team of experts led by the
architects and planners Llewelyn Davies.

The full cost of rebuilding is not yet known. As the 3,300lb bomb that exploded
on 15 July destroyed 49,000 square metres of prime retail space and another
57,000 square metres of city-centre offices, and as the plans for the future are
ambitious, the price will be high. Funding is expected to come from the
Millennium Commission, the EU, English Partnerships, the Lord Mayor's Emergency
Appeal Fund and local business.

A task force was set up immediately in response to the bombing, bringing the
public and private sector together to manage the reconstruction.

The competition was the initiative of Mr Heseltine, who has long campaigned for
re-energised city centres. The results deserve to match the energy and faith
that have gone into the project so far. It might, however, have been a good idea
if Manchester had decided to announce the winner of the competition on any other
day than 5 November.

Leading article, page 15


LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1996 Independent Print Ltd

                              461 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          October 23, 1996, Wednesday

IRA bomb threat at all-time high

BYLINE: Jason Bennetto Crime Correspondent

SECTION: TITLE; Page  1

LENGTH: 370 words


Scotland Yard and the security services last night issued a stark warning that
the threat of another IRA attack, particularly on mainland Britain, has never
been higher.

Security sources in Northern Ireland confirmed yesterday that the RUC and the
Army have been alerted about the threat of new terrorist attacks.  As part of
new safeguards, personal protection has been strengthened for a number of public
figures in the province.

RUC officers in Belfast believe that 10 tonnes of home-made explosives
discovered in London last month were destined for use in attacks on mainland
targets to coincide with the IRA bombing of the Army's Northern Ireland HQ at
Lisburn, Co Antrim, earlier this month.

Republican terrorists are thought to be determined to avenge last month's fatal
shooting by police of their London operative, Diarmuid O'Neill.  They might also
wish to mark one of a number of upcoming significant dates, including the
presidential elections in the US and several anniversaries in the Provisionals'
calendar, with a "spectacular" attack.

A Scotland Yard source said this view was backed by information gathered by MI5
and police intelligence experts: "The threat has never been higher. We think it
is the highest is has been since the end of the ceasefire." Assistant
commissioner David Veness, head of Scotland Yard's specialist operations,
speaking on the record, said: "Looking at the period ahead, we are entering
dangerous months. I regret that the threat is likely to be in the long term."

And a security source added: "There's felt to be a heightened threat at the
moment."

While the alert is understood to be based on collated intelligence rather than
on a single piece of information, the strength of the warnings, both on and off
the record, emphasises the seriousness of the threat.

The Metropolitan police will introduce a series of anti-terrorist measures in
London in the run-up to Christmas

These will include an increase in the number of officers involved in
anti-terrorism activities and extra patrols and searches of suspicious premises
and property. Officers will mount extra road-blocks in the capital and
undercover operations will be stepped up.


LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1996 Independent Print Ltd

                              462 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                            October 27, 1996, Sunday

GRIM TRUTH OF MAXIMUM SECURITY ALERT ALPHA; ...IT'S AN OPEN DOOR TO THE IRA;
AS THE PROVO GODFATHERS THREATEN A NEW OUTRAGE WE SHOW HOW ARMY SECURITY BUNGLES
ARE MAKING IT EASY FOR THEM;
SUNDAY MIRROR BREACHES SECURITY AT ROYAL MILITARY ACADEMY, SANDHURST

BYLINE: Exclusive Doug Kempster

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8, 9

LENGTH: 1880 words


We got in so easily it was frightening. And the identity of the man who breached
security at the jewel in Britain's military crown made it absolutely terrifying.

Guards made a cursory search of our car and took a brief glance at his pass
before we drove through the gates of the Royal Military Academy at Sandhurst.

"He's vouched for you, so you're OK," said one guard, pointing at the man with
me and handing me my pass.

My companion was Andy Forbes - who was sentenced to 11 years in prison for
smashing his way into a judge's house, tying him up and thrusting a shotgun in
his face. While in jail he spent a year in a psychiatric wing. Forbes, 37, is a
convicted armed robber with a string of convictions for crimes ranging from
theft to firearms offences.

But for all the security checks made on his background, he could just as easily
have been an IRA bomber intent on blowing up the 1,000 soldiers, cadets and
ancillary staff based at what must be one of the terrorists' prime targets.

RMA Sandhurst, like army camps throughout Britain, is on Alpha Alert - maximum
security - amid warnings of an imminent IRA offensive.

But we strolled past security officers and crack Gurkha soldiers with no
identification and without being questioned, then walked around unchallenged for
half an hour.

Forbes was handed a security pass for the Academy by regimental police only
hours after applying for a civilian job.

He said: "This isn't the only base I've worked at, but the vetting here is
typical - virtually non-existent."

Forbes got into the elite academy after applying to BPFM, a civilian maintenance
company which does contract work for the Ministry of Defence.

A site manager asked him to start immediately, and the company vouched for him
without making any security checks .

Forbes said: "It's a joke, when you think about it. You have all these soldiers
and security men on the gate trying their hardest to spot terrorists, but they
have to let the likes of me in because I have all the correct documentation.

"I was given a security questionnaire, which I completed, but nobody has taken
it from me."

Along with various passes, Forbes was also given detailed maps showing the
layout of Sandhurst, as well as military buildings in Bracknell, Arborfield and
Sunninghill - invaluable to the IRA's intelligence armoury.

Some of the maps identify secret military property in public areas where Army
top brass live. These buildings have no protection, and would be easy targets if
terrorists knew where they were.

Forbes added: "Since leaving prison in 1993 I've had access to military
information which a terrorist would give his right arm for.

"But my last few days at Sandhurst with BPFM have been the worst."

The army separates its properties into two categories - "outside the wire" for
Defence Ministry homes not on a base, and "inside the wire" for buildings in a
military installation.

Forbes said: "As far as bases are concerned there are supposed to be varying
levels of security once you are inside. As a contractor, I should be allowed
into certain buildings and not others.

"But the truth is you can get anywhere once you are inside the wire.

"Sandhurst has a Gurkha Barracks, a police station, computer rooms and who knows
what else.

"The Royals are in and out all the time and Britain's finest officers are
trained here. But if I were a terrorist I would have had ample time to blow up
every major building in the complex by now."

Pointing at the front of the impressive white college buildings, Forbes said:
"That's the most famous view of Sandhurst, you've probably seen pictures of the
Royals in front of the building."

He drove on through sweeping parkland, past assault courses, playing fields,
lakes, a tank and parade grounds.

Occasionally he stopped to allow soldiers to march past, following in the
footsteps of former cadets who went on to claim their places in British history
- the Duke of Wellington, General Gordon, Winston Churchill, Field Marshal
Montgomery and Lord Kitchener. Civilian workers tidied the lawns and carried out
maintenance work by the main parade ground, dominated by a Union Flag flapping
lazily in the wind.

We eventually stopped by an anonymous grey office block.

"That's some kind of computer centre," Forbes said. "I got in there the other
day - totally by accident.

"I had tools in one hand and wood in the other, and my pass stuck in my mouth.

"Nobody checked it, in fact one soldier even held the door for me."

Passing by an accommodation block, he added: "I've been left in there on my own
a number of times.

"Uniforms, ID passes - the lot, all stashed in the cupboards. I could have got
my hands on enough to smuggle an entire IRA unit in."

Last night Shadow Defence Secretary David Clark said: "You have done a service
to the whole nation with this investigation.

"I will take it up personally with the Secretary of State. This cosy
relationship between the MoD and certain contractors has got to be stopped."

On the way out of Sandhurst, Forbes had stopped at the guard house to hand in
his vehicle pass.

On the wall a sign said the camp's security status was Alpha - maximum alert.

They must be joking. But tragically, this is no joke.

The Sunday Mirror approached the directors of BPFM for a comment on our
investigation, but last night they had still not replied to our calls.

ANTI-TERROR POLICE IN SNIPER ALERT

SECURITY has been stepped up for the Royal family and other public figures amid
fears of an IRA assassination.

The RUC and MI5 know three Provo units are in Britain planning a "spectacular"
within days, and they believe it may not be a bombing. A sniper is among the
suspects.

The IRA badly needs a success after a series of reverses. Police smashed one
terror ring and shot IRA man Diarmuid O'Neill dead in London last month.

Anyone with information should contact the anti-terror hotline on 0800 789 321.
There is a pounds 1million reward for tip-offs leading to convictions.

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SO EASY: How we got a pass without vetting;; SHOT: O'Neill;; INSIDE
JOB: Armed robber Andy Forbes at Sandhurst ...there was no security check

                            Copyright 1996 MGN Ltd.

                              463 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                           October 29, 1996, Tuesday

TERROR COPS FOIL IRA'S MORTAR BOMBING PLOT;
TWO QUIZZED OVER AIRPORT ATTACKS;
ARRESTS THWART IRA PLAN TO BOMB MAINLAND

BYLINE: Jeff Edwards

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 614 words


A new IRA plot to attack the British mainland was thwarted yesterday when police
arrested two key terrorist suspects.

Detectives believe they were involved in a plan to launch a mortar bomb attack
in the heart of London.

They were picked up when armed police raided flats in the city's Earls Court
district.

The men were being questioned about mortar attacks on Heathrow airport in 1994
when 12 missiles landed on and around Terminal Four and one of the main runways.
None of the bombs exploded.

Scotland Yard has been on high alert for a new wave of IRA attacks since it
smashed a six-man service unit last month.

Officers believe the terrorists have invented a more reliable mortar which can
be launched three miles from its target and guided to its mark by radio
-controlled fins.

Last month, IRA suspect Diarmuid O'Neill was shot dead by police when they
raided a house in Fulham.

Ten tons of home made explosives, plus lorries wired to carry bombs, Kalashnikov
rifles, automatic pistols and hundreds of bullets were found in a rented
workshop. Five suspects were detained.

Intelligence sources say IRA bosses are determined to avenge O'Neill's death
with an attack against Parliament or Whitehall.

The terrorists have suffered a series of blows in their campaign on mainland
Britain this year because of a run of police successes.

Shortly after the bombing of London's Docklands in February, new recruit Eddie
O'Brien blew himself up with his own bomb on a bus.

In July, a cell was smashed when police raided safe houses.

But Special Branch sources in London say the IRA in Northern Ireland plans to
keep sending new waves of volunteers.

GARDAI went on searching for weapons and explosives in a remote part of Co
Donegal yesterday after the discovery of an IRA training camp. Two AK-47 rifles
and a grenade were among items found north of Malin on Sunday.

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1996 MGN Ltd.

                              464 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                November 1, 1996

BID TO BACK TERROR LAW PHONE TAPS

BYLINE: Owen Bowcott And Richard Norton-Taylor

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1200 words


EVIDENCE obtained by the police and intelligence services during telephone
tapping should be admissible in court in cases of national security, a radical
review of anti-terrorist legislation urged yesterday.

The proposal, endorsed by MI5, the Royal Ulster Constabulary and Unionist
politicians, is understood to be the subject of continued Whitehall infighting
but could be added to the Government's forthcoming Police Bill.

Begun earlier this year before the IRA abandoned its ceasefire, the Inquiry Into
Legislation Against Terrorism by Lord Lloyd of Berwick proposes replacing
emergency laws with a permanent UK-wide act.

No-jury Diplock courts should be abolished, shorter periods of detention
introduced for terrorist suspects and both exclusion orders and internment
without trial removed from the statute book.

Such attempts to dismantle long-standing anti-terrorist powers - predicated on
an end to violence in Northern Ireland - are intended to bring the UK more into
line with the European Convention on Human Rights.

But many of the most far-reaching features concern additional powers for the
police and security services in Britain to tackle both foreign terrorist
organisations - such as the Kurdish PKK - and domestic groups.

"The UK has a responsibility not to allow its territory to be used as a base for
violent activity against a foreign government," Lord Lloyd declares. "The fact
that an organisation is proscribed as a terrorist organisation will make life
generally more difficult for its supporters in the UK.

"The most significant additional measure which the Government can take is to
amend the law of conspiracy so as to facilitate the prosecution of those who
conspire here to commit terrorist acts abroad."

Civil liberties groups have voiced fears that direct action movements, such as
the Animal Liberation Front or even anti-roads protesters, could find themselves
defined as terrorist groups. The front, which has planted bombs, is specifically
referred to in one section.

The report says the Government has embarked on a root and branch review of the
law covering the interception of communications, including faxes and mobile
phones. Pressure for reform has come from Lord Lloyd, MI5, the RUC and the
Ulster Unionist leader, David Trimble. They believe the 1985 Interception of
Communications Act prevents vital evidence obtained from telephone tapping being
used in court.

Others in Whitehall, including, it is understood, Home Office officials, argue
that allowing such evidence would alert terrorists to surveillance techniques.
The law is presently anomalous - evidence from microphones and other bugging and
listening devices can be used in criminal proceedings. Telephone intercepts
cannot be revealed.

The Home Secretary, Michael Howard, yesterday welcomed Lord Lloyd's report as
the "framework for new, permanent counter-terrorism legislation" even if there
was lasting peace in Northern Ireland. But there was no comment on whether any
of it would be incorporated into the Police Bill.

Main points

New powers proposed:

Telephone taps admissible for court cases.

Broader definition of terrorism as "use of serious violence . . . to promote
political, social or ideological objectives".

Membership of foreign terrorist organisations or conspiracy to commit terrorism
abroad to become criminal offences in UK.

Reduced sentences for terrorists who give evidence against former colleagues.

Powers to be dropped:

Shorter periods of detention - four rather than seven days - permitted.

Power of "internal exile" - known as exclusion orders - ended.

Power of internment without trial ended.

Diplock courts discontinued. Trials by jury reinstated.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              465 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            November 1, 1996, Friday

Bid to plug 'terror gap'

BYLINE: Colin Brown

SECTION: NEWS; Page  2

LENGTH: 112 words


A senior law lord urged the Government to close a "major gap" in anti-terrorist
laws to stop Britain being used as a base for international terrorists.

Lord Lloyd said there needed to be a review of means available to police and
intelligence services to see if more changes could be made to help them attack
terrorism finances. "A major gap . . . is that it is not an offence in Britain
to conspire to commit acts of terrorism abroad."

Michael Howard, the Home Secretary, was studying the report last night, but Home
Office sources said it was unlikely that there would be room for a substantial
anti-terrorism Bill in the present session of Parliament.


LOAD-DATE: November 01, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1996 Independent Print Ltd

                              466 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                November 2, 1996

A TESTIMONY OF TERROR;
This week last year October 26, 1995

BYLINE: Emily Barr

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 907 words


John Lloyd was looking forward to his parliamentary career. As Labour candidate
for Exeter, he needed a 2.5 per cent swing to take the seat from the Tories. But
he had reckoned without the storm which engulfed him when the Guardian revealed
his South African past.

In 1964, Lloyd had turned state witness against John Harris who, as a fellow
member of the African Resistance movement, planted a bomb at Johannesburg
railway station which killed a woman after police ignored telephone warnings.

Lloyd's damning testimony led to Harris's murder conviction and, the following
year, to his execution. Implored to retract his testimony when he was safely in
Britain - which would almost certainly have had the sentence commuted - Lloyd
refused.

Although Labour was fully aware of Lloyd's past before his selection, it was
deeply embarrassed by headlines saying 'traitor' and 'terrorist'. The Prime
Minister told the Commons: 'I am wholly and utterly opposed to any act of
terrorism, and I have no doubt the majority of people in Exeter will feel the
same way.' The Daily Mail pointed out that the story's source was Labour's left
wing, angry at the deselection of Liz Davies in Leeds - exposing 'the hollowness
at the heart of New Labour'.  It became a political football.

Lloyd fled to the Isle of Wight hoping the storm would die out. He was
disappointed.

'It was coming from both sides, from the Daily Mail and Tribune,' he recalls.
'But it was the Tribune faction that kept it going.' Lloyd says that on the
advice of Dave Hill at Labour's press office he wrote a long article defending
himself.  His version of events in 1964 was roundly attacked by Harris's widow,
and by Hugh Lewin and Baruch Hirson, both of whom were jailed on Lloyd's
evidence.

While Labour initially supported its candidate, it gradually caved in and in May
the National Executive Council ordered Exeter to deselect him on the grounds
that he had misled them.

Lloyd still insists he had done nothing of the kind: 'That was a trumped up
charge. I kept hoping for a fair hearing, and I do feel a bit sore,' he says.

A source in Exeter describes the local party as 'still very, very angry' towards
the NEC which it sees as having been critical of them as well as of Lloyd. Ben
Bradshaw of the BBC was named as the new candidate in June: Lloyd, whose support
among Exeter Labour members remains strong, has been lending a hand to
Bradshaw's campaign. Meanwhile, he is trying to rebuild his barrister's practice
in Exeter which he says was 'severely damaged' by the revelations of a year ago.

A new account of the events of 32 years ago is published next week. Labour MP
Peter Hain (who, at the age of 15 read the address at Harris's funeral, but has
refused to comment on the Lloyd affair), has written a book, Sing the Beloved
Country: the Struggle for the New South Africa (Pluto Press, pounds 12.99). It
includes a short, first-hand account of Lloyd's involvement.

'It became vital to get news to Lloyd that if he gave evidence John Harris would
be sentenced to death,' Hain writes. 'Mom .  . . was able to smuggle such a
message to him, and established that he had received it. However, Lloyd ignored
this warning.'

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              467 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           November 2, 1996, Saturday

Ministers said to be soft on terrorism

BYLINE: Colin Brown Chief Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Page  6

LENGTH: 489 words


Ministers and police were accused of being slow or unwilling to tackle state
sponsors of terrorism in Britain "for fear of losing trade and markets".

Evidence published with the Home Office inquiry report by Lord Lloyd of Berwick,
a senior law lord, claims Britain is also putting exports above the fight
against terrorism - a charge strongly denied last night.

The allegations, which have strong echoes of the charges against the Government
in the Scott inquiry into the arms to Iraq scandal, were described as dynamite
by opposition sources and are certain to lead to demands for action in the
Commons next week.

Lord Lloyd is urging the Home Secretary, Michael Howard, to take new powers to
tackle terrorist groups who use London as a base for raising money or organising
acts of terrorism abroad. He calls for a change to the law on conspiracy to
procedure those "who conspire to commit terrorist acts abroad". He also suggests
copying the approach used by France and Germany to proscribe named terrorist
organisations to ban them from fund- raising.

Lord Lloyd makes it clear that investigating trading links was not part of his
remit for reviewing Britain's anti-terror laws, but volume two of the report
contains a serious indictment of the authorities by Paul Wilkinson, professor of
international relations at St Andrews University.  "We should note the apparent
reluctance of ministers and the police to utilise fully and rigorously the
powers they already have to seek out terrorist assets and have them frozen,
pending the result of criminal proceedings.

"There is a notable slowness (or unwillingness?) to use such powers against
state sponsors of terrorism for fear of losing trade and markets," Professor
Wilkinson asserts. The "present ambivalence" in the UK's policy towards Iran
should be seen in the wider context that Iran is engaged with client Islamic
groups in trying to undermine the Middle East peace process, which is so vital
to future stability, he adds. "Yet Iran is being rewarded with more access to
British trade and services."

The Home Office last night played down the allegations as an academic study.

"Obviously the professor is entitled to give his views but we are looking at the
recommendations of Lord Lloyd, not at the academic report."

But Lord Lloyd says in his report that he has drawn heavily on the special
report commissioned by his inquiry from Professor Wilkinson. Jack Straw,
Labour's shadow home secretary, said: "These are very serious matters and Labour
will be calling for Malcolm Rifkind (Foreign Secretary) to make a full
explanation of these grave allegations." Britain has a trade embargo against
selling military equipment to Iran but has no embargo for other goods. A
bilateral agreement was recently agreed to repay pounds 20m in debts as a first
step to lifting a block by the Exports Credit Guarantee Department on credit for
Iran.


LOAD-DATE: November 04, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1996 Independent Print Ltd

                              468 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            November 3, 1996, Sunday

IRA summit may end weeks of speculation

BYLINE: David McKittrick Ireland Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Page  4

LENGTH: 659 words


Security sources in Northern Ireland yesterday insisted, in the teeth of
republican denials, that a large-scale and potentially momentous meeting of the
IRA may be held over this weekend.

With no real indications that another IRA ceasefire is likely to occur soon,
speculation centres on the possibility of an intensified terrorist campaign with
an escalation of violence in both Britain and Ulster.

Such a meeting may represent a move to put an end to the confusion and lack of
clarity which has recently been evident in republican ranks. Few people, either
inside or outside the republican movement, have a clear idea of what its
strategy is.

The reports of an IRA "summit" originated with ITN, which said the organisation
would hold an army convention with up to 100 senior IRA personnel present.  Army
conventions are extremely rare, with only two held in the past 30 years, in 1969
and 1986. Even the IRA's August 1994 ceasefire did not necessitate such a
gathering.

The holding of such a meeting would give rise to suspicions of widespread
dissatisfaction within the grassroots of the IRA, since members are normally
content to leave even the most important strategic decisions in the hands of the
organisation's army council.

Sinn Fein president Gerry Adams said he had no knowledge of plans for an IRA
convention this weekend and was sceptical about the reports. But sources in the
security field said they believed a meeting was scheduled.

Some six weeks ago reports that an IRA convention was being planned were
accompanied by speculation that a new ceasefire would be discussed. This
interpretation was quickly undermined, however, by the double IRA car bomb
attack on Army headquarters in Lisburn, Co Antrim.

One soldier was killed and 30 people injured in that incident, the first major
IRA attack in Northern Ireland since the IRA ceasefire ended in February of this
year. Most IRA activity has, however, been in Britain, with the bombs at
London's Canary Wharf and in Manchester.

The Lisburn attack was evidently intended to take as much life as possible, yet
it has not been followed by any attempt to revive the type of campaign seen up
until 1994, with dozens of IRA incidents each month. As a result there is
widespread uncertainty about the organisation's intentions and ambitions.

At the same time as these sporadic attacks were occurring, Gerry Adams has been
demanding republican entry into the political talks in Belfast.  In response the
British and Irish governments and almost all others involved are adamant that
there should be no entry without an IRA ceasefire.

A ceasefire is, however, highly improbable in the absence of some British
Government moves aimed at convincing the IRA that London has had a change of
heart and is prepared to bring Sinn Fein into talks without insisting on
preconditions such as arms decommissioning.

The republicans are very aware that their former political alliances with
elements in Ireland and the US have been badly damaged by the absence of a
ceasefire. But the feeling is widespread that little serious business is likely
to be done with John Major's government.

Within the past few days Ronnie Flanagan, who takes over as Chief Constable of
the RUC tomorrow, has said he did not believe the IRA intended to call another
ceasefire in the near future, though he believed theywould eventually. "Our fear
is that in the coming months there are liable to be more terrorist attacks in
the province. We have nothing to indicate another ceasefire is imminent," he
said.

A man appeared in court yesterday charged in connection with last month's
bombing of Army headquarters. Michael Gerard Rogan, 36, a kitchen designer from
Easton Avenue in north Belfast, was accused of conspiring to cause an explosion
likely to endanger life or cause serious injury.

He was remanded in custody until 20 November by Belfast Magistrates' Court.


LOAD-DATE: November 05, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1996 Independent Print Ltd

                              469 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           November 5, 1996, Tuesday

Mayhew dampens Unionist talks fear

BYLINE: David McKittrick Ireland Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Page  2

LENGTH: 415 words


Sir Patrick Mayhew, the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland, last night
sought to calm Unionist concerns over a conduit for talks which it has opened
with Sinn Fein by insisting that the Government was saying nothing in private
that it was not already saying in public.

Speculation yesterday centred on the immediate and long-term intentions of the
IRA, the implications of any new ceasefire for political talks, and Unionist
suspicions that the government might contemplate a deal with the republicans.

In what amounted to a key government characterisation of the channel of
communication, which involves the SDLP leader John Hume, Sir Patrick said: "If
somebody represents to us that a restatement of our policy, in language that is
clear and unequivocal would be helpful, then we will obviously want to consider
that."

Sir Patrick's comments did not succeed in dispelling distrust within David
Trimble's Ulster Unionist party, and were greeted with disbelief by the Rev Ian
Paisley. A spokesman for the UUP, Jeffrey Donaldson said: "Given the evidence of
the weekend, we would be very suspicious that there is a form of tic-tacking
going on between government and Sinn Fein. Whether it's through Mr Hume or other
intermediaries one cannot be sure."

Mr Paisley said: "The more they say they are not involved the more I think they
are, because they have lied so much in the past. It seems to me an attempt is
being made to buy off the threat of violence in Northern Ireland and the
mainland by getting concessions to the IRA-Sinn Fein so that they can find an
easy way into the talks.

"It's going to be another colossal sell-out and another colossal conditioning of
the people to accept IRA - Sinn Fein on their terms."

But at the same time as the talk of contacts filled the air, the new RUC Chief
Constable, Ronnie Flanagan, delivered the latest in a series of police warnings
that more "spectacular" IRA attacks were to be expected in Ulster and in
Britain.

He added, however, that he believed an internal debate was going on within the
republican movement. On reports that a full-scale IRA "army convention" had been
held at the weekend, he was less sure than some security sources have been of
late, commenting: "I think there was a meeting of sorts.  I am not going to say
it was a convention."

In Irish Taoiseach, John Bruton, said he knew nothing of an IRA convention, but
believed serious rethinking was going on within republicanism.


LOAD-DATE: November 05, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1996 Independent Print Ltd

                              470 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           November 5, 1996, Tuesday

Mayhew moves to calm fears of Unionists

BYLINE: David McKittrick Ireland Correspondent

SECTION: POLITICS; Page  5

LENGTH: 400 words


Sir Patrick Mayhew, the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland, last night
sought to calm Unionist concerns over a conduit for talks that it has opened
with Sinn Fein by insisting that the Government was saying nothing in private
that it was not already saying in public.

Speculation yesterday centred on the immediate and long-term intentions of the
IRA, the implications of any new ceasefire for political talks, and Unionist
suspicions that the government might contemplate a deal with the republicans.

In what amounted to a key government characterisation of the channel of
communication, which involves the SDLP leader John Hume, Sir Patrick said: "If
somebody represents to us that a restatement of our policy, in language that is
clear and unequivocal would be helpful, then we will obviously want to consider
that."

Sir Patrick's comments did not succeed in dispelling distrust within David
Trimble's Ulster Unionist party, and were greeted with disbelief by the Rev Ian
Paisley. A spokesman for the UUP, Jeffrey Donaldson said: "Given the evidence of
the weekend, we would be very suspicious that there is a form of tic-tacking
going on between government and Sinn Fein. Whether it's through Mr Hume or other
intermediaries one cannot be sure."

Mr Paisley said: "The more they say they are not involved the more I think they
are, because they have lied so much in the past. It seems to me an attempt is
being made to buy off the threat of violence in Northern Ireland and the
mainland by making concessions to the IRA-Sinn Fein so that they can find an
easy way into the talks.

"It's going to be another colossal sell-out."

But at the same time as the talk of contacts filled the air, the new RUC Chief
Constable, Ronnie Flanagan, delivered the latest in a series of police warnings
that more "spectacular" IRA attacks were to be expected in Ulster and in
Britain.

He added, however, that he believed an internal debate was going on within the
republican movement. On reports that a full-scale IRA "army convention" had been
held at the weekend, he was less sure than some security sources have been of
late, commenting: "I think there was a meeting of sorts.  I am not going to say
it was a convention."

In Irish Taoiseach, John Bruton, said he knew nothing of an IRA convention, but
believed serious rethinking was going on within republicanism.


LOAD-DATE: November 05, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1996 Independent Print Ltd

                              471 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                November 6, 1996

ISRAEL 'TO BLAME' IN CAR BOMB CASE

BYLINE: Richard Norton-Taylor

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 774 words


THE case against a British-educated Palestinian charged in connection with the
bombing of the Israeli embassy in London in 1994 had its roots in the illegal
occupation of the West Bank, an the Old Bailey jury was told yesterday.

Michael Mansfield QC, counsel for Jawad Botmeh, said Israeli forces and Jewish
settlers had deported Palestinians, confiscated their land, and even waged a
"terrorist war". The Israeli government had "no moral or legal right . . . doing
what they are doing", he said.

"This case is not about the Israeli embassy . . . It's the other way round.
It's about what's going on there. We can't examine the evidence in this case
without some understanding of where it's coming from and in particular where
Jawad is coming from."

Mr Botmeh, aged 28, of Bloomsbury, central London, has denied conspiring to
cause explosions. Mr Mansfield yesterday drew the jury's attention to a passage
in the indictment which referred to conspiracy relating to acts in Britain.

He came from a family "struggling against all the odds", Mr Mansfield said.
There had been "brutal deaths" in the family.  "An important factor in the case
was his fears about what was going to happen to his family after the Israeli
government announced its intention to expand Jewish settlements." Mr Botmeh had
never made any secret of his campaigning for an independent Palestine.

The jury heard that Botmeh was born in Bethlehem and educated at Leicester and
Nottingham universities. His father, who funded his education, is a bank manager
in Ramallah in the West Bank, and his mother is employed by the UN Works and
Relief Agency.

Mr Mansfield handed the jury a map of the West Bank and photographs of Mr
Botmeh's family village of Batir, five miles from Jerusalem. He described the
recent history of Israel, the peace process, the continuing Jewish presence in
the West Bank city of Hebron, and the recent visits of President Chirac of
France and Malcolm Rifkind, the Foreign Secretary, who sharply criticised the
policy of the Israeli government.

Mr Botmeh told the court that Palestinians had been subjected to a "sense of
repression, isolation, and degradation".  Britain had given him "a sense of
freedom".

Samar Alami, aged 30, of South Kensington, west London, and Mahmoud Abu -Wardeh,
aged 25, of Putney, west London, have also denied conspiring to cause
explosions.

A car bomb exploded outside the Israeli embassy in London in July 1994, causing
damage estimated at pounds 5 million.

The trial continues today.

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              472 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           November 7, 1996, Thursday

My movie, right or wrong; Neil Jordan's romantic film about a hero of Irish
republican historyhas been labelled by some of the British press as an apology
for IRA violence in the Nineties. But what does such hysteria say about us?

BYLINE: Jack O'Sullivan

SECTION: ESSAY; Page  20

LENGTH: 1865 words


"I am," says Neil Jordan, "the most peaceful person you can imagine." But he
doesn't look peaceful. Chain-smoking, hair awry, bleary-eyed and apparently
containing volcanic emotions, he is the very opposite of an easy-going Irishman.
More the angst-ridden, tormented pop star; more Bob Geldof than Val Doonican.

It isn't difficult to see why this award-winning director is on edge.  Jordan is
fast becoming the Oliver Stone of British cinema, touching the untouchable,
questioning the unquestionable. And now he is on enemy territory, facing the big
guns of the British press who are ready to blow out his latest and possibly his
finest picture.

There have already been calls for Michael Collins to be banned. Indeed, so much
has been written about it, in such hysterical terms, that you'd think it was a
bomb. You'd think it had actually killed people.

Neil Jordan grew up in the Dublin suburb of Clontarf, where Brian Boru won a
rare Irish victory in 1014. His film is about Ireland's other military genius:
Michael Collins, the father of modern guerrilla warfare, whose revolutionary
tactics of selective assassination and mayhem informed Mao and Guevara and
destroyed British power in southern Ireland after the First World War. Collins,
perhaps more than any other individual, can claim credit for the establishment
of today's Irish Republic.

Jordan's study traces his life from the Easter Rising of 1916, when British
troops put down a rebellion centred on Dublin's General Post Office. In the
following years, support for an Irish republic grew from an obsession of the
lunatic fringe to conventional thinking. Meanwhile, Collins's men assassinated
key figures in the colonial security apparatus.

He eventually accepted a truce and agreed a treaty with Lloyd George in 1921,
which partitioned the country. A civil war ensued, in which Collins fought
former colleagues who opposed the deal and wouldn't lay down their arms. He
himself was shot dead in 1922 at the age of 31, on a country lane by an unknown
gunman, and thus enjoys the inestimable advantage of leaders who die young.

The picture we get from Jordan of the "big fellow", played by Liam Neeson, is of
a pragmatic romantic - ready to commit the most callous acts for Irish freedom,
but shrewd enough to know when the killing should stop.  His life haunted
Britain, his untimely death still divides Ireland. The events of this film - the
killings carried out by Collins's men, the atrocities committed by British
soldiers - will shock many in Britain. But anyone with even a grandparent from
Ireland knows these stories. What's new is that they have been put on film.

For screening this humiliation of Empire, Jordan is in trouble. There are also
questions about certain liberties he has taken with historical facts. But the
most damaging accusation is that his heroic representation of Collins (who had
British intelligence agents shot in their baths and their beds) has canonised
republican terrorists and thus given history's stamp of approval to today's men
of violence.

Is it true, I ask Jordan, well on his way to filling the ashtray, that he has
produced an apologia for republicanism?

"What do you mean by republicanism?" he fires back.

Well, I say, people in Britain tend to use the term as shorthand for a
nationalism that's prepared to use violence.

"I thought," says Jordan, "republicanism referred to a country without a
monarch. That's what the word means, doesn't it?"

I try another tack: let me be straight - they think the film supports violence.

"No one has said that who has actually seen the film."

He's probably right. Much of the debate has taken place among outraged
commentators who have yet to see it.

So what is the legacy of this man who waged war and made peace in such a
determined manner? To his detractors, Collins deployed the gun in Irish politics
so successfully that generations of Irishmen have been unable to resist the
urge. Does Jordan agree?

"I regard Collins as a truly heroic figure. He achieved what was always the
impossible dream of Fenianism. He brought the British Empire to the point where
it had to come to terms and discuss the reality of Irish independence.  On the
other hand, he negotiated a treaty which was a huge advance on what had been
offered previously. And, having done that, he tried to turn around his entire
movement, what people now call the IRA, to build a nation and a democracy. Even
in fighting a civil war, he established an unarmed police force and a free state
army that was responsible to the legislature.  You have the transformation of
what is basically a militarist to an American democrat. To me, that is heroic
and remarkable.

"This movie was made about then. It was not made about now and its only
relevance to today is accidental. But if you want to draw a comparison between
Collins and Gerry Adams, then I would say that when the ceasefire broke down
this year, Collins's response would have been to split the republican movement.
He had decided to go with the political process."

Jordan dismisses the notion that this film provides succour for violence in
Northern Ireland: "There are no connections between then and now.  One of the
reasons I made this film was to rescue that period from the shadow thrown over
it by the war of attrition that has gone on in the north of Ireland for the last
20 years. There was a genuine idealism in those years. In the 1918 general
election, Sinn Fein won 80 per cent of the vote. They fought the war against the
Empire with huge support. Whereas the situation of the Provisional IRA in the
island of Ireland is that they actually have the antipathy of probably 96 per
cent of the people."

So why do some people want the film banned? "They are outraged that I, as an
Irish person, am making this film with American money, giving me the type of
freedom to tell this story in a way that doesn't need the stamp of approval of
the Conservative establishment in this country."

But aren't they rightly concerned that by romanticising the heroes of
republicanism, he might strengthen today's men of violence?

"So you are saying that any examination of the birth of the Irish Republic, the
birth of the country I live in, would lend credence to the republican men of
violence? That's a ludicrous position.

"People tend to denigrate you if you dwell in any depth on issues of Irish
politics in the Irish past. They're scared of broaching these subjects, so they
try to connect you to the IRA in some way. It's a kind of smear.  It's quite
dangerous because it drives movies like Michael Collins, which are innocent with
regard to contemporary politics, into a position in which they would never
otherwise find themselves. It's so counterproductive."

The irony is that Jordan and his film are, in many ways, fiercely opposed to the
use of violence in Irish politics. "I've never supported the IRA.  I've loathed
them for years," he says, lighting another cigarette. "I don't imagine or even
want a united Ireland. Why? Because there are a million and a half Protestants
up there who don't want it."

Critics have also largely missed the central focus of the film: the demonising
of Eamon de Valera, a man once sanctified in Ireland, who took up arms against
the treaty. He dominated the country for 50 years after Collins's death, and
represented a rigid, uncompromising nationalism, social conservatism and
Anglophobia.

De Valera, the prim, humourless ideologue, is anathema to Jordan. How better to
signal that than to cast Alan Rickman in the role? Jordan has chosen an
Englishman, of all people, who specialises in villains -remember his sinister
terrorist leader in Die Hard - to play the high priest of Irish nationalism
against Liam Neeson's Michael Collins. The audience knows whose side it should
be on.

Neil Jordan, it must be said, is obsessed with Eamon de Valera, who stands for
all that was worst about the introverted society of his youth. He cannot forgive
him for starting the civil war by opposing the treaty that Collins signed.

"De Valera made a series of disastrous decisions," says Jordan. "He's a figure a
bit like Salazar, the Portuguese dictator. Not entirely a democratic figure. He
belonged to the Thirties, he was a curious mixture of cardinal and politician.
Through De Valera, large areas of Irish public life were handed to the Catholic
church. It was kind of disgraceful.

"De Valera dominated the landscape I grew up in. He was as much a part of it as
the rocks. I've written a few books in which he figures as some austere,
godlike, not entirely benign presence. If history gives you a villain, you can't
ask for a more fascinating individual. I suppose I grab it with both hands."

In Collins, Jordan has found an alternative father-figure for the nation, one
that allows Ireland to maintain its love affair with its now distant revolution
and liberation from the Empire, but one who also sought to halt the cycle of
violence.

"Collins was not an Anglophobe. He understood the British mentality.  He had
great affection for people like Birkenhead with whom he negotiated .  Churchill
had tremendous admiration for him. He was a pragmatist, not at all wedded to
republican absolutism. There are reports he offered Edward Carson the Unionist
leader of the time the presidency of a two-state Ireland. He was also a bon
viveur. Sadly, the ideologue, De Valera, won the day."

But what if Collins had survived the assassin's bullet? "You can ask that
question endlessly and it's all speculation. But I do believe Ireland would not
have been neutral in the Second World War. Neutrality drove a further wedge
between the North and the South. It definitely separated the Unionist
perspective further from the 26 counties because they had been through the war
and we hadn't. Because Ireland did not go through that experience and didn't do
the rebuilding that Britain and Europe experienced in the Fifties, the country I
grew up in was the same as the Thirties.  It didn't really change till 1968."

At which point, Neil Jordan was 17, and, like many in his generation, hated De
Valera's narrow vision of a quaint, rural Ireland. "I wanted to be in England
when I was growing up. There was rock'n'roll. People had sex, freedom. You
watched any movies you wanted, read any book. To me, England was everything a
city could mean to a country boy."

In short, Michael Collins, far from being a call to republican arms, is,
perhaps, the slightly selfish cry of a child of the Sixties. Jordan wants to
honour history and then get on with the future, be it music, film, books, drugs
or sex. His is the proud, confident voice of modern southern Ireland telling
Britain that the empire is over, and the IRA that the war is over.

Jordan's film, though a brave exploration of a difficult subject, is thus
self-serving for his generation. It moulds history to its own ends and
understandably makes Collins, not De Valera, its hero. His voice deserves to be
heard, not drowned out by hysteria.

'Michael Collins' is reviewed by Adam Mars-Jones in the Tabloid, page 7


LOAD-DATE: November 07, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1996 Independent Print Ltd

                              473 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                            November 8, 1996, Friday

THE 'MICHAEL COLLINS' DEBATE;
SHOULD MOVIE ABOUT IRA HERO BE RELEASED IN BRITAIN?;
DEBATE OVER THE RELEASE OF MICHAEL COLLINS FILM IN BRITAIN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1694 words


YES

Mo

Mowlam MP

Shadow Northern Ireland secretary

Controversy is raging in many papers and on television over the new film Michael
Collins, which is released today.

It was therefore refreshing to read the measured and reasoned review of the film
in the Daily Mirror yesterday.

As I am only too aware, anything to do with the troubled history of Ireland
raises strong emotions from all sides. There have been calls to ban the film,
dismissing it as IRA propaganda, mostly from people, I hazard a guess, who have
not actually seen it.

I am not a believer in censorship and think it can often have the reverse effect
to that intended.

Instead of starving something of the oxygen of publicity it can produce a
propaganda coup - as happened with the broadcasting ban on Sinn Fein, for
example.

But more importantly, we should be able to tackle issues and win the arguments
through discussion and debate, not hide behind censorship.

Are we really saying that the people of this country should be unable to see a
film about their own past that the rest of the world can watch?

I don't think we should underestimate the public - people are capable of making
up their own minds.

I am not a film critic. I am not here to debate the film's merits as a piece of
cinema.

The film contains some uncomfortable questions for everyone. It does not flinch
from showing violence committed by all sides - British on Irish, Irish on
British and Irish on Irish.

What interests me is how we face and learn from these questions as, 75 years on,
we face new difficulties.

I can understand the problems and high emotions the film raises, for different
reasons, in both the Republic and Northern Ireland. But surely it is better to
debate them rather than bury them.

We must not be afraid to look at our own history if we are to have any hope of
understanding the present and of building a better future.

But learning from the past does not mean living in it.

The message I took away from the film, the lesson I learn from the life and
death of Michael Collins, is that violence breeds violence. It degenerates into
an ugly spiral that damages everyone and that in the end no one can win.

The only way forward is through dialogue, compromise and commitment to the
democratic process and this demands the greatest courage of all.

NO

Sam

Malcolmson

Ex-RUC officer left paralysed by IRA

This film is pure, undiluted propaganda. There is a car bomb scene which is
clearly meant to identify with the IRA's present campaign and that is
unacceptable.

When news of the film's release and TV footage of the glitzy, glamorous stars at
the premiere were shown on tv I felt sick in my stomach.

I immediately contacted members of the Disabled RUC Officers' Association (I am
a past chairman) and some of the women who have been left husbandless by
terrorists because I knew how they would be feeling.

They were outraged.

Does director Neil Jordan understand how terrible it is for families to know
that millions of people are going to the cinema to see how their loved ones were
shot by IRA men?

One of our members is a woman who was shot in the back in 1976.

The IRA cowards didn't have the nerve to look her in the face when they opened
up on her and her husband. She has been left in terrible pain.

Yesterday she said to me: "Sam, I really fear for the young people of this
country.

"This film is trying to seduce them into thinking it is OK to use violence to
achieve political ends.

"It may as well be part of a terrorist recruiting drive, because it shows
terrorists as heroic and brave.

"If the film makers could see the reality of violence they wouldn't put this
film out.

"If they had to live in constant pain, or with paralysis, blindness or brain
damage they wouldn't be so keen to promote the romanticism of an IRA leader."
This film will inflame passions and grievously offend poor widows and orphans
who have lost their husbands or daddies to violence.

Day after day, our members toil away with little quality of life, while
terrorists are rehabilitated and re-educated by the Government.

They have done wrong. Terrorism is wrong. Promoting or supporting terrorism is
wrong.

One Association member told me that yesterday, while Michael Collins was all
over the TV she was taken back to the day she was caught by an IRA bullet.

How can you justify that?

This film should not be shown on a single screen at a single cinema.  It should
be banned.

Interview by CONOR HANNA

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HISTORY - OR PROPAGANDA? Liam Neeson as IRA hero Michael Collins
provoked a fierce controversy

                            Copyright 1996 MGN Ltd.

                              474 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                November 9, 1996

Director defends sexually explicit road-crash film

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 391 words


THE director of a controversial film which tells the disturbing story of a
couple being sexually aroused by car crashes yesterday defended his work,
insisting it was "not depraved".

Mr David Cronenberg, speaking after the first showing of Crash in this country
as part of the London Film Festival, insisted the film was "experimental and
complex but not a social danger".

Critics have said the film, which depicts scenes of graphic sex and shots of
car-crash victims with horrific injuries, is wicked and perverted and will
encourage copycats.

The film, based on the novel by British writer J G Ballard, has been given a
special licence for two showings but the British Board of Film Classification
has not yet decided whether it will be granted a certificate for general
release.

Tory MP Harry Greenway, a former headmaster, said it would be appalling if the
film was given the go-ahead.

Mr Alexander Walker, film critic of the Evening Standard, has said the film
contained "some of the most perverted acts and theories of sexual deviance I
have ever seen propagated in mainline cinema."

Distributors Columbia TriStar have said the film will open in January next year.
Mr James Ferman, director of the British Board of Film Classification, said:
"The board is still in the process of looking at it."

Mr Cronenberg yesterday admitted he had been prepared for controversy but
insisted the film was not immoral or dangerous.

q Meanwhile, the £25m film, Michael Collins, opened in Britain yesterday as
controversy raged on about its historical accuracy and potential to disrupt the
chances for peace in Northern Ireland.

In Belfast, where strong reactions were feared, cinemagoers, Protestant and
Catholic alike, remained calm. In London, a British-Irish cross-party peace
group, New Dialogue, leafleted queues at early screenings warning that the film
may play into the hands of the IRA.

Critics have complained that the film has a scene with a car bomb, a weapon
unknown to the Irish republicans of the 1920s, and an armoured car shown firing
at defenceless civilians was a fiction.

Mr Jordan said: "I tried not to take sides because I didn't want to make goodies
and baddies.

"The film is as accurate as I could make it. I did study history so I know what
that entails."

Crash course 15

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1996 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              475 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           November 9, 1996, Saturday

Australia bans Gerry Adams over IRA links

BYLINE: Robert Milliken in Sydney

SECTION: NEWS; Page  8

LENGTH: 469 words


A political storm broke in Australia yesterday after the federal government
announced that it was banning Gerry Adams, the president of Sinn Fein, and David
Irving, the right-wing British historian, from visiting the country because both
men were not of good character.

It was the third time that Mr Irving has been refused a visa to enter Australia,
where he had planned a speaking tour to promote his controversial view that the
Holocaust never happened. But it was the exclusion of Mr Adams, on what was to
have been his first Australian visit to promote his biography, that caused the
greater outcry, particularly among Australians of Irish descent. Civil liberties
groups also attacked the Adams ban as a violation of free speech, and accused
the conservative Liberal-National coalition government, led by John Howard, of
caving in to pressure from the British government.

Announcing his decision to refuse visas to both men, Phillip Ruddock, the
immigration minister, said that they had failed a test of good character under
Australia's Immigration Act. Mr Ruddock cited Mr Irving's 1992 conviction in
Germany for defaming the memory of the dead, his deportation from Canada in 1992
and from Germany in 1993 and his 1994 jail sentence in Britain.  "Taken
together, they reveal a consistent pattern of behaviour that led me to believe
that Mr Irving is not a person of good character," he said.

Leaders of Australia's Jewish community welcomed the ban, and said it would have
been "catastrophic" to let Mr Irving in at a time when Australians were already
involved in a fiery debate on racial issues involving Asian immigration and
aborigines.

As for Mr Adams, Mr Ruddock said that he continued to be associated with the
Provisional IRA, an organisation that "conducted criminal terrorist acts and
bombings", and that the Immigration Act allowed him to refuse visa applications
to people who were members of criminal organisations.  Asked if Canberra had
been lobbied by the British government, Mr Ruddock said: "I am not able to
comment on what may or may not have occurred."

The ban on Mr Adams took many people by surprise. Mr Howard has made much of the
fact that his government wants to promote a new climate of free speech. That,
together with Mr Adams' recent visit to the White House, had led to a belief
that the Sinn Fein leader would be allowed entry. But Mr Howard is one of
Australia's most conservative political leaders who would be inclined
instinctively to support the British government.

Mr Irving accused Australia of acting illegally and said he was consulting his
solicitor.

Dodie McGuinness, of Sinn Fein's national executive, issued a statement saying:
"At this point in the search for a restored peace process . . . this decision is
most unhelpful."


LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1996 Independent Print Ltd

                              476 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               November 11, 1996

MP's move to thwart terrorist attacks

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 157 words


TORY MP Nigel Waterson is hoping to pilot a Bill through the Commons to stop
foreigners using Britain as a base to plan terrorist activities and other
serious offences abroad.

His Bill would also enable action against international fraudsters, organised
football hooligans, and drug barons based in Britain.

Mr Waterson, MP for Eastbourne, came fourth in the ballot for MPs to have a
chance to get legislation on to the Statute Book.

His Bill, which he will present to the Commons next week, has Government
backing.

He said last night: "My Bill will deter potential terrorists from operating
here, but it will not prevent us harbouring genuine dissidents from oppressive
regimes, nor stop them undertaking genuine political opposition."

His Bill would give British courts the right to prosecute only if the activity
involved was an offence both in Britain and the country where the act was
planned to take place.

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1996 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              477 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 12, 1996

RESOURCES: C4/FIRST EDITION: TALES OF THE CITY;
Manchester's city centre is being rebuilt after it was bombed earlier this year.
Emily Moore looks at the plans

BYLINE: Emily Moore

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN EDUCATION PAGE; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1094 words


On June 15 this year a 3,300lb IRA bomb destroyed much of Manchester's town
centre. More than 200 people were injured and 1,000 square metres of shops and
offices were destroyed.  pounds 500 million of damage was done. But out of
tragedy comes opportunity. This is the first chance to redesign a British city
centre since the second world war.

Why do we need town centres? Towns developed in Britain in Roman times - from 43
AD. They were originally set up as administrative centres where people could,
among other things, pay their taxes. Since then, town centres have played an
important role. They are the place for people to meet, to share ideas, to buy
and sell goods and to work.

Town centres must offer good shopping facilities but also social and cultural
activities - otherwise they become ghost towns at night.

Over the past 20 years there has been a lack of investment in towns. The rise of
out-of-town shopping centres, with a huge choice for shopping and lots of free
parking, has meant that many people with cars choose to do their shopping there
instead of going 'into town'. But these centres threaten the community of a
town.  People without cars, especially old people, can find themselves with
nowhere to shop, and nowhere to go. Children and teenagers have nothing to do in
the evenings and at weekends. This leads to boredom, and boredom often leads to
crimes such as vandalism.

How is Manchester going to build a new city centre?

Manchester City Council held a competition, which was funded by the Government,
to see which architects could come up with the best plans for the city centre.
Ideas were sent in by 27 of the world's top architects - of these, five design
teams were shortlisted and given pounds 20,000 each to develop their plans. They
worked with landowners, environmentalists, transport experts and property owners
before making models of their designs. The winners, announced last week, were
EDAW - an urban design group based in London, working with six other
architectural companies.

What was special about EDAW's plan?

The judges felt that EDAW's plan offered the best chance to get Manchester back
on its feet in the shortest time. The judges liked the linked pedestrianised
spaces. These are walkways (no cars allowed!) that link main sites of the city
centre. All the walkways will be easily accessible by day and night. A new
square is planned near one of Manchester's most famous old buildings, the Corn
Exchange.

The work will begin next spring and most of it is planned to be completed by the
year 2000.

Have we redesigned cities in Britain before?

Yes, after the terrible bombing of the second world war (1939 -1945), Britain
had a lot of rebuilding to do. In the 1960s and '70s it was fashionable to knock
down old shops and streets to build modern shopping centres in town centres.
However, when rebuilding after disasters, Britain has tended to be rather
nostalgic. It has often rebuilt what was destroyed rather than wipe the slate
clean and start again. For example, four-fifths of the City of London was
destroyed in the Great Fire of 1666 - but the city was rebuilt on exactly the
same tangled pattern of twisting lanes that helped the fire spread! The
architect Sir Christopher Wren (1632-1723), who designed St Paul's Cathedral,
strongly protested.

He drew dignified and beautiful designs for rebuilding the whole city, but they
were never used because the merchants wanted a 'quick fix' so they could get
back to work.

The chosen design for Manchester also has its critics. Owen Luder, the president
of the Royal Institute of British Architects and one of the judges of the
Manchester City Centre competition, said that the plan by another competitor,
Manchester First, 'showed the greatest vision, but it simply could not have been
delivered in the available time'. This plan would also have made some of the
most valuable area in the city into parkland.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              478 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                          November 14, 1996, Thursday

Foster picked to produce masterplan for London

BYLINE: Marcus Binney

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 469 words


Central tourist sites may be closed to traffic.

SIR NORMAN FOSTER is to produce a plan for central London that will include
extensive pedestrianisation and widening of pavements. Taxi drivers will hate
it, but pedestrians and cyclists will have much-improved conditions.

Westminster planning committee last night chose Foster and Partners as the team
of consultants to advise on improvements to Trafalgar Square, Parliament Square,
Whitehall and the Victoria Embankment. Sir Norman recently advocated a scheme
for closing the road between Horse Guards Parade and St James's Park.

He won against fierce competition from his arch rival, Lord Rogers, and other
leading practices including MacCormac Jamieson Pritchard, the conservation
architect Donald Insall, and Llewelyn-Davies and EDAW, two of the runners-up in
the recent competition to replan the centre of Manchester after the IRA bomb
blast. Sir Norman's victory over his former partner Richard Rogers is the latest
round in an intense architectural rivalry. While Sir Norman is the clear leader
in world terms, with offices in Berlin, Frankfurt, Hong Kong and Tokyo, Lord
Rogers has kept the edge in Britain.

Ennobled recently as a Labour peer he has remained a favourite architect of Tory
ministers, notably John Gummer, who has approved Lord Rogers's proposals for a
20-storey block of luxury flats on the South Bank, and Michael Heseltine and
Virginia Bottomley, who as millennium commissioners chose him to design the
giant domed tent at Greenwich for the millennium festival.

Westminster's decision will come as a cruel blow to Lord Rogers, who has made
the replanning of central London a personal crusade for the past ten years. At
the Royal Academy he exhibited proposals for a visionary remodelling of the
Victoria Embankment, suggesting it should be closed to traffic in front of
Somerset House, creating a giant river side promenade. More recently Lord Rogers
has put forward detailed proposals for removing traffic from three sides of
Trafalgar Square and turning Northumberland Avenue into London's answer to
Barcelona's Ramblas, with its wide central walkway.

The contract for the redesign was highly sought. A triumphant Sir Norman stood
in Trafalgar Square yesterday and showed his audience two blank pages in his
sketch book. "We have no preconceptions, no designs. We come to the task with an
open mind," he said.

"Certainly our proposals will contain a strong element of pedestrianisation. My
team includes those responsible for the highly successful scheme of paving in
Leicester Square. We will complete our plans in 12 months and be holding an
exhibition next summer."

Ironically, it is Foster's blank sheet of paper, compared with Lord Rogers's
elaborate plans, that may have won him the commission.


LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1996 Times Newspapers Limited

                              479 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          November 16, 1996, Saturday

'Jackal' quizzed on UK shooting

BYLINE: Jason Bennetto Crime Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Page  5

LENGTH: 314 words


Anti-terrorist officers from Scotland Yard are to question "Carlos the Jackal",
once the world's most wanted man, about the shooting of a leading businessman in
London more than two decades ago. The Metropolitan Police officers have
travelled to Paris where he is awaiting trial.

"Carlos", Ilich Ramirez Sanchez, 47, is wanted for the 1973 shooting of Joseph
Sieff, then president of Marks & Spencer and vice-president of the Zionist
Federation in Britain.

Mr Sieff was attacked at his home in St John's Wood, north London. He survived
thanks to exceptionally strong teeth which reduced the bullet's impact, and to
his wife, who turned him over on his stomach to stop him choking. He was
paralysed for a time, but recovered almost fully and lived for nine years.

Carlos reportedly told Al Watan al Arabi, a Paris-based magazine, in 1979 that
he had been the gunman. "I usually fire three times around the nose," he said.
"But . . . only one bullet went off, though I fired three times."

Carlos allegedly hid the gun at the west London flat of a Basque woman, one of
several girlfriends in London, where it was later found.

A Scotland Yard spokeswoman said: "We have officers in France liaising with the
French police in connection with a man in custody in France.  This is part of an
on-going inquiry into terrorist activities in the United Kingdom in the 1970s."

Police sources discounted suggestions that the action had been prompted by the
release of a new book about Carlos. It is understood that the family of Mr Sieff
have been pressing the police to make further inquiries.

There was no immediate suggestion that Carlos would face charges in Britain,
however.

The Venezuelan-born self-styled revolutionary is accused of killing at least 83
people. He was captured in Sudan in 1994 and is awaiting trial in Paris for up
to 15 murders.


LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1996 Independent Print Ltd

                              480 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          November 16, 1996, Saturday

Howard dealt double court blow; Dozens prepare to leave jail as ruling by the
High Court overturns decision on sentencing

BYLINE: Patricia Wynn Davies Legal Affairs Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Page  2

LENGTH: 606 words


Dozens of prisoners were preparing to leave jail last night after courts in
Britain and Strasbourg delivered a double blow to Michael Howard, the Home
Secretary.

In a test ruling in the High Court in London, three judges opened the way for
the immediate release of two prisoners, the freeing of up to 50 more over the
weekend, the recalculation of the sentences of at least 800 others - and a
potential compensation bill that could run into millions.  Preparations for the
releases began after the court laid down that all time spent by prisoners on
remand should count against concurrent sentences, overturning a legal
interpretation dating from 1982.

In Strasbourg, the European Court of Human Rights ruled that the UK had violated
the rights of a Sikh independence campaigner by unlawfully holding him in jail
without trial on grounds of "national security" pending deportation to India,
where he faced torture and possible death.

While Mr Howard will seek to regain the political initiative by backing next
week's Private Member's Bill to outlaw conspiracy or incitement to commit acts
of terrorism abroad, the double defeat came at the end of what was already a
bleak week. The Court of Appeal ruled on Wednesday that he must reconsider the
naturalisation applications of the Egyptian-born Mohammed al-Fayed, chairman of
Harrods, and his brother Ali, who had not been treated fairly.

In yesterday's High Court case, Lord Bingham, the Lord Chief Justice, Lord
Justice Rose and Mr Justice Blofeld swept away the current rule under which
prisoners jailed for more than one offence could count only the period of remand
which applied to the longest sentence they received.  Until yesterday's ruling,
months of other remand time could not be taken into account at all.

The two prisoners who brought the case, Michelle Evans, 22, who was at Brockhill
Prison, Worcestershire, and Paul Reid, 19, at Onley Young Offenders Institution,
Rugby, walked free within minutes of the judges declaring they should be freed
forthwith.

Soon afterwards, the Sikh activist Karamjit Singh Chahal was celebrating an
emotional reunion with his wife Darshan and teenaged children Kirantreet and
Dikaramjit after Mr Howard authorised his release from Bedford jail within an
hour of the ruling by the Strasbourg court.

Mr Chahal had been held in prison for six years and three months without knowing
the allegations against him after a request for political asylum was turned down
by the former Home Secretary Kenneth Clarke, but the accusation that he was a
security risk meant that his right to challenge his detention in the UK courts
was severely limited.

The Strasbourg court said it was unnecessary to consider the "untested but no
doubt bona fide" allegations that Mr Chahal was a terrorism risk; the only
relevant question was whether substantial grounds had been shown for believing
he would be ill-treated in India.

The court ruled by a majority vote of 12 to 7 that deportation would put him at
risk after considering evidence from Amnesty International, the US State
Department and the Indian National Human Rights Commission.  David Burgess, Mr
Chahal's solicitor, said: "We are very, very pleased.  We think it is a
courageous decision by the court," adding: "It's as much an indictment of the UK
courts as it is of the Home Office."

John Wadham, director of the human rights organisation Liberty, said: "We are
delighted by the court's decision, which exposes the supine nature of our legal
system. The Government's trump card of 'national security' has consistently
overriden individual rights."


LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1996 Independent Print Ltd

                              481 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               November 18, 1996

Trimble's threat over beef;Trimble hints that he is ready to topple Major

BYLINE: By Murray Ritchie European Editor And Calum Macdonald;

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 695 words


ULSTER Unionist leader David Trimble yesterday gave his strongest signal yet
that his party could side with Labour to bring down the Government, with the BSE
crisis as a possible catalyst.

Mr Trimble said there were circumstances under which his party would be prepared
to back a Commons motion of no confidence in the Government which, if lost,
would mean its downfall.

Labour welcomed his statement, saying the party would be prepared to table a
confidence vote if it felt it was winnable.

Meanwhile, Scottish Secretary Michael Forsyth is heading for a showdown with the
Northern Ireland Office in his high-profile battle to safeguard the Scottish
beef industry.

The UUP has traditionally supported the Government, but is becoming increasingly
frustrated with ministers' handling of the BSE crisis and the Northern Ireland
peace talks.

Mr Trimble's latest warning comes after John Major was given another sharp
reminder last week of how fragile his Commons majority is. The UUP voted with
Labour on Wednesday night in the beef debate but the Government scraped home by
one vote.

Since John Major's Commons majority has again dropped to one - and is virtually
certain to be eliminated in the Barnsley East by-election next month - the votes
of the Ulster Unionists are crucial.

The UUP leader has twice this year warned the Government not to take the support
of his party for granted, saying there was "no automatic commitment".  But
yesterday's threat was the clearest sign yet of his growing frustration with the
Government and comes at a time when Mr Major is at his most vulnerable.

Mr Trimble, who also indicated his frustration at what he called the
Government's "dithering" over the peace talks and its "yearning" to see Sinn
Fein enter the process despite renewed IRA violence, refused to say under what
circumstances the UUP would back a Labour motion of no confidence.

But he said on BBC TV: "There may be circumstances where we would vote against
the Government on a confidence issue."

A Labour spokesman

Continued from Page 1

welcomed Mr Trimble's statement, but insisted the issue of the Ulster peace
process would not play a part in any decision to call a confidence motion.

The cause of the Ulster Unionists' rebellion in the BSE debate was their anxiety
to see the Government press for the European beef export ban to be lifted on
animals in Northern Ireland which are certified BSE-free and fed mainly on
grass.

If UK Ministers table a formal request for early exemptions covering grass-fed
cattle, this could put Mr Forsyth on a collision course with the UUP, which is
confident that Irish farmers would be exempted from the ban before the Scots,
allowing them to invade the £120m-a-year Scotch beef export market.

As EU farm ministers gather in Brussels today for talks, including discussion on
the global export ban on British beef, the latest twist in the beef saga
involves Northern Ireland's acknowledged lead in having "traceability" of beef
animals computerised and ready for quick checking on an electronic data base.

It is this trump card which Ulster Unionists believe will allow their farmers to
lead Britain out of the beef ban.

For the last three weeks, the pre-conditions governing a partial lifting of the
ban have been the subject of negotiations between Government officials and the
European Commission.

However, The Herald understands they exclude any requirement for records to be
computerised. This crucial element has deliberately been left out of the formal
pre-conditions, a fact which observers believe could be down to pressure from Mr
Forsyth.

Scottish farmers, increasingly worried at their Ulster rivals' confidence,
dispute claims that computerisation helps to prove the safety of beef.

"We should not be blinded by the word computer," said Mr Sandy Mole, Scottish
NFU president.

The talks today in Brussels will be attended by Lord Lindsay, Scottish Office
agriculture minister. No request for a lifting of the ban is expected. Mr
Douglas Hogg, the English farm Minister, will brief the council on latest
developments in the crisis.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1996 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              482 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                           November 18, 1996, Monday

LANDMINE ATTACK FOILED AS CEASEFIRE HOPES FADE

BYLINE:  Deric Henderson and Chris Parkin, PA News

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 764 words


An IRA landmine attack in Londonderry has been foiled as lingering hopes of a
new ceasefire faded tonight.  Police found a hole dug into a bank on the side of
a country road close to where they believe terrorists preparing for an ambush
had been hiding.  The discovery was disclosed just hours after the SDLP leader
John Hume said he was no more than hopeful at this stage the Provisionals would
declare a new truce.  Mr Hume, who has been having talks with the Sinn Fein
leader Gerry Adams in an effort to secure a renewed ceasefire, admitted: "I
cannot place it on a higher plane than hope at the present time." However,
Deputy Irish Prime Minister Dick Spring today welcomed as "significant" remarks
about the peace process by senior Sinn Fein strategist Martin McGuinness.  He
said the comments in a speech last week, which prompted an apparently approving
reaction from Ulster Secretary Sir Patrick Mayhew, were "important, and going in
the right direction."

The site of the bomb trap in Derry and just a mile from the border with the
Irish Republic confirmed growing fears in Belfast and London that the IRA is
preparing for a fresh strike against the security forces.  Sinn Fein is to
review the political process at a private meeting of party delegates in Co Meath
at the weekend when Mr McGuinness will deliver a keynote address.  But with the
Government not prepared to yield to their demands for immediate entry into the
multi-party talks process at Stormont, ministers hold out little hope of a
restoration of the truce.  Police in Derry tonight said they had prevented an
attack after officers noticed "suspicious activity" in the Springtown
Road-Groarty Road area early last Saturday morning.  The scene is about half a
mile from the Catholic Ballymagroarty housing estate.  A series of searches were
mounted during which a command wire - painted green - as well as insulating tape
and pliers were found.  An RUC spokesman said: "There was also evidence that
people had been concealed in a nearby shrubbery. It appears terrorists were
planning a landmine attack." No explosives were found and nobody was arrested.

Sir Patrick Mayhew and Mr Spring are to meet in Belfast on Wednesday.  With the
Stormont talks deadlocked again over the critical weapons decommissioning issue,
the discovery of fresh terrorist activity in Derry at a time when Sinn Fein is
pressing hard for movement on the British side will add to the dismay by the
governments in London, Dublin and Washington as to the future direction of the
republican leadership.  John Major is to have discussions with representatives
of the loyalist organisations at Downing Street on Wednesday.  Even though there
is no immediate threat to the Protestant paramilitary ceasefire, plans for
another IRA attack six weeks after the no-warning bombing of the army's Northern
Ireland HQ are is bound to unnerve leaders of the UDA and UVF.  David Ervine, of
the Progressive Unionist Party which is linked to the UVF, told PA News: "All
this hype of de facto ceasefires or imminent ceasefires frankly pales into
insignificance when something as defined as this is found.  "The message is loud
and clear. The Provos are at war."

Speaking in Dublin today, Mr Spring stressed that he had no knowledge of an
imminent IRA ceasefire.  But he added: "I am of the view that Martin McGuinness
and others in the leadership of Sinn Fein are trying to ensure that there is a
cessation of violence - and that is important.  "The speech was significant and
it was important and it was certainly in the right direction." Mr McGuinness's
speech pinpointed the terms for a renewed ceasefire and was met by a
reaffirmation from Sir Patrick of Britain's commitment to a comprehensive
agreement to resolve the Northern Ireland conflict.  Mr Spring said: "I have no
indications whether a ceasefire is imminent or otherwise. But I think if there
is anything we can do to bring it about, we should do it immediately and
urgently.


    Meanwhile, Scotland Yard today urged motor traders to report any suspicious
transactions which might involve terrorists trying to acquire transport.
Commander John Grieve, head of the Anti-Terrorist Branch, said: "We need to hear
from anyone who has sold, or worked on, a motor vehicle in suspicious
circumstances. This could be at an auction, at premises, or at a private sale.
The sort of vehicles we are interested in range from lorries and box vans to any
make of car." He urged anyone with information to ring the free, confidential
anti-terrorist hotline on 0800 789 321.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1996 The Press Association Limited

                              483 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                          November 21, 1996, Thursday

BAD YEAR FOR PEACE HOPES

BYLINE:  John Deane, Chief Reporter, PA News

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 881 words


The discovery of a huge car bomb outside the RUC's HQ in Londonderry is another
demoralising blow to all those fighting to save the peace process.  The alert
was sparked just before midday when the so-called IRA Continuity Army Council
warned it had left a 600lb bomb in the boot of a car outside the police
building.  The device was successfully defused. But the incident adds to the
lengthening list of executed bombings and foiled attacks which has blighted
Ulster and the mainland in a troubled year.
    On February 9 the IRA signalled the end of their ceasefire in emphatic style
with the bombing of South Quay in London's Docklands. The detonation of a huge
bomb hidden aboard a low-loader lorry, shortly after the IRA formally announced
its ceasefire was at an end, killed two people and injured many more.
    Initially there were hopes that the Docklands bomb - made up of about a
tonne of home-made explosives - would prove a one-off attack and the terrorists
would step back and gauge the impact on the political process before launching
further operations.  But those hopes were shattered on February 15 with the
discovery and defusing of a 5lb Semtex bomb left in a holdall in a telephone box
in Charing Cross Road, central London.
    On the evening of February 18, IRA man Edward O'Brien was blown up and
killed by his own bomb when it accidentally detonated and ripped apart the bus
on which he was travelling as it passed along Aldwych, central London.
    In the early hours of March 9, a "small, improvised device" exploded in Old
Brompton oad, Fulham, west London, causing minor damage. The IRA later admitted
responsibility.
    On Wednesday April 17, an explosion rocked an empty house at The Boltons, an
exclusive area of Earl's Court, in the capital, moments after a coded message
was passed to a news agency. There were no injuries.
    On the evening of April 24, two devices were placed at the south side of
Hammersmith Bridge in west London and an IRA warning was telephoned to the AP
news agency. There were small explosions when the detonators went off, but the
bombs themselves did not explode. There were no injuries and no damage was
caused.  But the next day Scotland Yard issued an urgent bomb warning to the
public after disclosing that twin devices represented probably the biggest high
explosive bomb planted by IRA terrorists in mainland Britain.  Scotland Yard
said that together the devices contained upwards of 30lbs of sophisticated high
explosives, almost certainly Semtex.


    On Saturday, June 15, the IRA struck outside of the capital for the first
time in its renewed mainland campaign, bringing horror and mayhem to the streets
of Manchester with a huge bomb which ripped through the city centre, injuring
about 200 people, several seriously.  It later emerged that the bomb was made up
of between one and one-and-a-half tonnes of home-made explosives, probably fired
by a small quantity of Semtex high-explosive. It was possibly the biggest bomb
the Provisionals ever set off on the mainland.
    On Friday, June 28, the terrorists switched tactics again. They fired a
volley of three mortars at the Quebec barracks in Osnabruck, Germany. There were
no injuries, but several buildings were badly damaged. It was the first time
that British servicemen on the Continent had been targeted for more than six
years.
    July 13 and a 1,200lb car-bomb devastated the Kilyhelvin Hotel at
Enniskillen, injuring 17 people. It came after a week of mounting tension and
rioting sparked by the Drumcree stand-off and the RUC's controversial decision
to allow Orangemen to march through a Catholic area. The Irish Continuity Army,
responsible for planting today's bomb, was behind the hotel bombing.
    September 29 - Security forces made safe a car-bomb made up of 250lbs of
home-made explosives in Belfast. Again, the Irish Continuity Army said it was
behind the car bomb.
    October 7 and the IRA itself indulged in its first major attack in Ulster
since calling a halt to its ceasefire, sparking concerns that the peace process
might be over in all but name, and fears of an imminent Loyalist backlash.  The
terrorists breached checks at Thiepval Barracks, Lisburn, Co Antrim, the Army's
Northern Ireland HQ, what should have been the most secure installation in the
province.  Two no-warning bombs were detonated in the heart of the base,
injuring 31 people including two children. One soldier, Warrant Officer James
Bradwell, later died.  The first bomb went off in a car park and the second -
just five minutes later - appeared to be designed to catch casualties being
taken to the Army medical centre a short distance away.  The IRA later admitted
responsibility in a telephone call using a recognised codeword to RTE, the Irish
Republic's broadcasting network, in which it said that each bomb was made up of
800lb of explosives.
    Just this Monday, a land-mine attack was foiled in the Springtown Road -
Groarty Road area of Londonderry.  A hole had been dug into a roadside bank as
part of apparent preparations for a strike. Command wire painted green was also
discovered close to shrubbery where police believe terrorists may have been
hiding.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1996 The Press Association Limited

                              484 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 23, 1996

MCGUINNESS SAYS CEASEFIRE WITHIN REACH

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 814 words


MARTIN McGuinness, the senior Sinn Fein strategist, last night gave his clearest
indication yet that a renewed IRA ceasefire was close.

Mr McGuinness said he believed a ceasefire would be called if the IRA received a
promise from the Government that it would be allowed to enter all-party talks on
the future of Northern Ireland shortly afterwards.

His comments also signalled a realisation in the republican movement that a
ceasefire would have to be declared permanent.

Mr McGuinness, interviewed by BBC Radio Ulster on the eve of a key Sinn Fein
conference in Co Meath, went further than republicans usually do when discussing
terrorist actions.

He condemned the foiled car bomb attack, by the hawkish republican splinter
group the Continuity Army Council, on an RUC station in Londonderry on Thursday.

He said he hoped the group would desist from any further action.

John Hume, leader of the Social Democratic and Labour Party, earlier said he
throught a ceasefire was within reach, but Unionists accused him of being duped
by Sinn Fein.

John Major denied secret talks have taken place with Mr Hume in an effort to
bring forward a ceasefire.

Mr McGuinness said he would be prepared to go back to the IRA on the basis of Mr
Hume's proposals to the Government.

Mr Hume has suggested the IRA should be offered a place at the negotiating table
soon after declaring the permanent cessation of violence.

Mr McGuinness said: "If we can achieve all that we have identified, which we
believe is very reasonable indeed, then we are prepared to do that again. I
think there would be considerable hope that we could manage to succeed a second
time around.

"But it will be much more difficult, of course, because of the very great
distrust which exists between the British government and the IRA."

Unionist politicians have already condemned talk of any backroom deal between
Sinn Fein and the British government leading to a possible truce.

Mr Hume said earlier he believed the IRA was ready to renew the ceasefire it
abandoned in February if Britain agreed to his proposals that the Governemnt set
a rigid timetable for the peace talks.

Both Britain and Ireland have said that Sinn Fein will not be allowed into talks
until the IRA declares a full ceasefire.

The Government and Sinn Fein have both denied an Irish newspaper report
suggesting that the IRA was operating an unofficial ceasefire to get Sinn Fein
into the talks.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              485 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 26, 1996

LAW: WRIT LARGE

BYLINE: Marcel Berlins

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGE; Pg. T17

LENGTH: 1067 words


AS YOU have read on other pages, the Lord Chancellor's visit to Strasbourg
yesterday coincided with the result of a case before the European Court of Human
Rights which, unusually, the British government won. No, I'm not saying the
judges were nobbled into giving a favourable decision in the Visions Of Ecstacy
case just so that Lord Mackay could have a happy start to his away-day in
Strasbourg. But was it pure coincidence? Let me put it this way. Until a few
weeks ago, the court's ruling in another UK case was also down to be announced
yesterday, that of Mr Chahal, a Sikh who had been in detention in Britain for
six years awaiting deportation. Suddenly, the Chahal judgment was taken out of
yesterday's list and brought forward by 10 days; the Government lost that one
and had to release Mr Chahal. With that embarrassment out of the way, Lord
Mackay's visit could go ahead without the fear of an adverse court ruling
spoiling the party.

THE GOVERNMENT'S obdurate refusal to abolish the mandatory life sentence for
murder has always puzzled me. A compulsory sentence which treats a multiple
cop-killer or terrorist bomber in exactly the same way as a mercy-killer putting
an end to the suffering of a loved one is just plain daft, and I've hardly met
anyone who thinks otherwise, including quite a few Tory MPs and lawyers. The
argument, such as it is, for retention always includes an assertion that
retaining the mandatory sentence was a quid pro quo for abolishing the death
penalty in 1965, that to get rid of the mandatory would be reneging on a
Parliamentary bargain, betraying a solemn promise to the people. Given that
Parliament breaks promises as often as it breathes, that always seemed a thin
proposal. But now the very foundation of that argument has been totally
destroyed. In a Criminal Law Review article, Louis Blom-Cooper QC and Professor
Terence Morris have looked at all the Parliamentary debates of the time and, for
the first time, been able to study the Cabinet papers and other government
documents released under the 30-year rule. They conclude that the bargain, the
quid pro quo, the solemn "compact" between Parliament and the people, even a
vague understanding, are all total myths, with "no substance whatsoever". So
much for that argument. Incidentally, I don't think I've heard Labour
specifically promise to lift the mandatory life sentence. Will it?

WHAT a jolly wheeze at th OJ trial, with the man himself being called to give
evidence by the plaintiffs, his opponents, the families of his - oops, or
someone else's - victims. It seems weird to me, especially as OJ will probably
also be called to give evidence on behalf of the defendant - ie, himself. So the
jury may be asked to decide between OJ and OJ, if there are any discrepancies
between his two bits of evidence. If you take this American custom to its
logical conclusion, it would be possible to have a civil trial in which there
was only one witness on each side, that witness being the same person.
Alternatively, if there were lots of witnesses for the defendant the plaintiff
could call them all to give evidence. Why bother with subtle distinctions of
plaintiff and defendant? A witness is a witness.

ITHINK the Law Society has received too little public acclaim for perpetuating
one of the greatest overspends in legal history. Working from an unpromising
base - after all, we're only talking about a minor computing system - the
Society managed to achieve a double of rare distinction. Not only did it
underestimate how much the REGIS system would cost by a factor of four (it said
pounds 2.5 million; the real figure is likely to be pounds 10 million or more),
it also got the time wrong by at least three years. It was supposed to be in
operation now; it won't be until 1999. Moreover, this kind of misjudgment was
achieved without any fingers in till, syphoning off of funds or other
impropriety; nor was there any earthquake, hurricane or civil war delaying the
project. The achievement was totally the Law Society's own. Or was it? I wonder
if it has been taking lessons from the British Library.

Mind you, this is the Law Society that, only a few years ago, paid pounds 17,000
to have a sumptuous table built for commitee meetings; it proved unsuitable and
had to be chopped up into little tables, at further cost. Of course it's a
different bunch in charge now, so we may, sadly, see flashes of boringly
responsible decision -making.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              486 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 29, 1996

KURD FREED AFTER EURO RIGHTS RULING

BYLINE: Owen Bowcott And Richard Norton-Taylor

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 694 words


A KURDISH man who had been imprisoned for two years without trial because he was
deemed to be a threat to national security, was today celebrating his freedom
following a government defeat in the European Court of Human Rights.

The decision to release Sezai Ucar, aged 27, was taken by Home Office lawyers
assessing the implications of a Strasbourg judgment earlier this month.

Other detainees may be released in the coming days. Mr Ucar has been given
"exceptional leave to stay" in Britain. The test case concerned Karamjit Singh
Chahal who had spent six years and three months in Bedford jail while the
Government tried to deport him on the grounds that he was a threat to national
security.

Ministers alleged he was a Sikh separatist terrorist who had conspired to carry
out attacks in the Punjab. Mr Chahal denied involvement and was never charged
with any criminal offences.

He was released after the court ruled that he had been deprived of his legal
rights and that his life would be in danger if he was returned to India.

Mr Ucar, who was also held for "other reasons of a political nature" was
released late on Tuesday afternoon. He had faced deportation on the grounds that
his "presence was not conducive to the public good" - the normal term for those
alleged to be involved in terrorism.

Mr Ucar is in his late 20s and had lived in London. He was allegedly involved in
the ERNK, the political wing of the Kurdish separatist PKK movement. He had been
in Rochester prison, Kent, for two years but had never faced criminal charges.

It remains unclear whether a second Kurd, Bozan Ates, held on similar grounds at
Belmarsh prison, south-east London, has been released.

Ragbhir Singh Khalsa, 40, a Sikh newspaper editor, who has been in Winson Green
prison for the last 18 months, is still waiting to hear whether or not he will
be freed.

He is facing deportation under the 1971 Immigration Act. Mr Khalsa's solicitor,
Mandeep Singha Bassi, said: "The Secretary of State has told us he is now
reviewing the national security cases.

"The minister has admitted in Parliament that any evidence he has against
Ragbhir would not be admissible in a court of law.  He is only being held
because his newspaper has criticised the Indian government for human rights
violations."

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              487 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                            December 1, 1996, Sunday

CALL A NEW CEASEFIRE, HUME TELLS IRA

BYLINE:  Deric Henderson, PA News

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 266 words


SDLP leader John Hume today urged the IRA to keep peace hopes alive and declare
a new ceasefire.  He also called on John Major to make a move to create
conditions which would allow all sides in Northern Ireland to come to the
negotiating table once the violence stopped. Had the all party talks at Stormont
started after the August 1994 truce, Mr Hume said it was his strong conviction
there would have been lasting peace by now.  The Prime Minister still wanted to
see that happen.  The SDLP leader told his party's annual conference in
Cookstown, County Tyrone: "His government can achieve it by reiterating in the
clearest possible terms the nature, objectives and time frame of the talks,
together with confidence building measures that can improve the atmosphere at
the talks themselves." The MP for Foyle, who played a pivotal role in helping to
broker the 17-month IRA ceasefire which collapsed with the Docklands bombing
last February, is keeping the British and Irish governments informed of his
discussions with the Sinn Fein president Gerry Adams.  But even though President
Clinton has confirmed in Washington that achieving a genuine and permanent peace
in Ireland is still one of his main priorities, there are still no signs the IRA
are prepared to end their campaign of violence.  Security chiefs in Ulster and
Britain fear the terrorists could be getting ready for new attacks - it is
understood there has been a change of leadership - which would almost certainly
provoke an immediate loyalist paramilitary backlash and end lingering hopes of
another ceasefire.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ADVANCED-DATE:  November 9, 1996, Saturday

                  Copyright 1996 The Press Association Limited

                              488 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                December 3, 1996

OBITUARY: MICHAEL O'HEHIR: THE VOICE OF IRELAND AT PLAY

BYLINE: David Hadert

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGE; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 880 words


FOR almost 50 years Michael O'Hehir, who has died aged 76, was the voice of
Irish sport for thousands of far-flung Irishmen.  He was eventually recognised
in Britain as a television racing commentator, but it was his radio commentaries
on Gaelic football and hurling that first made his name among his
fellow-countrymen, wherever they were.

In England, he shared 35 Grand National commentaries with Peter O'Sullevan; but
it was O'Hehir who had to describe the shambles of the 1967 National when many
of the field came down in a mighty pile-up. He recalled later that he had not
been able to identify one set of colours as the jockeys were weighing out for
the race, so he checked with the jockey wearing them, whose horse, he usefully
discovered, was called Foinavon. As the horses came down like chargers at the
battle of Balaclava, O'Hehir coolly described their fate -and, luck of the
Irish, it was Foinavon which somehow sidestepped the melee and galloped on to a
100-1 victory.

O'Sullevan recalls another example of O'Hehir's supreme unflappability. They
were sharing a 1974 TV commentary from the Curragh in Ireland and there was an
IRA bomb scare. The stands had to be evacuated, but the two O's were abandoned
in their perch up on the roof of the stand. O'Sullevan had persuaded the
engineers to rig up an unofficial TV set so that he could see how his horse
Attivo fared in the Northumberland Plate at Newcastle. Attivo won, but a
stewards' inquiry was called. "Please God the stands don't blow up before you
know whether your horse keeps the race," said O'Hehir, unworried.

He was born Michael Hehir and as an 18-year-old schoolboy applied for a
commentating job with Radio Eireann in 1938. That year he commentated on the
All-Ireland football final and for the next 50 years his broadcasts on the event
were essential listening and formed a link with home for Irish emigrants across
the world. He actually changed his name to O'Hehir to give it a more Irish ring.

At the beginning of the 1960s, he became head of sport for RTE, Ireland's new TV
network. In 1963, he was chosen to commentate on President Kennedy's state
visit, and by chance he was on a racing trip to America when Kennedy was
assassinated and gave a masterful, marathon broadcast of the Kennedy funeral,
rubbing shoulders with Richard Dimbleby, who called him "the man from the Grand
National".

His Irish racing roles were many, including setting up the Irish Form Book in
1950. He also officiated at several tracks and for a time managed Leopardstown
racecourse. He loved a tilt at the bookmakers.

His commentating career was cut short in 1985 when he suffered a stroke, and he
never fully recovered. Such was his standing that the Irish president, Mary
Robinson, paid tribute to him at the recent launch of his autobiography.

He is survived by his wife Molly, and three sons and two daughters. One of his
sons, Tony, is a television commentator very much like his father, while
another, Peter, continues to produce the Irish Form Book.

David Hadert

Michael James O'Hehir, commentator, journalist, born June 2, 1920; died November
24, 1996

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              489 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                December 7, 1996

LETTER: A CHOICE OF BOMB OR BUG

BYLINE: Jean Stead

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGE; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 587 words


THE extension of the powers of searching and bugging under the new Police Bill,
to which Hugo Young rightly objects (Jack Straw is wrong, wrong, wrong, December
3) has little to do with attempts to control environmentalists and other
non-violent lawbreakers. It has everything to do with Northern Ireland, and the
attempts to contain terrorism in mainland Britain and to prevent more bombing
attacks.

Because Labour has a bipartisan policy with the Government on Northern Ireland,
it has had little choice but to agree to swallow what would otherwise be
unacceptable restrictions on other people's freedom.

This does not mean to say that the outcry about the proposals is wrong. But the
gradual encroachment on our civil liberties is an inevitable result of the
unresolved conflicts in Northern Ireland. When Sir Kenneth Newman became
commissioner at New Scotland Yard after being head of the RUC in Belfast, he
told me that the research into and experiments in controlling urban terrorism in
Northern Ireland would become "necessary" in the rest of Britain.  He was right.
The IRA bombing has forced strains on the police forces and the intelligence
services as well as the public. It has twisted the very heart of the legal
system itself.

This is a danger we have to watch, for its consequences could be as dire as
those of terrorism.  But who is going to argue against phone-tapping and
house-searching if lives can be saved? Not the Prime Minister or the Labour
leaders, and who can blame them?

If it is not to be left to a few liberals like Hugo Young to defend our
individual freedom, there is a need for Labour to be more honest about the
reasons for its support for the expansion of police powers and for a wider
public argument to be promoted.

Jean Stead.

New End Square,

London NW3.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              490 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                            December 8, 1996, Sunday

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 1626 words


What the papers say:

SUNDAY TIMES CABINET TELLS CLARKE TO BACK DOWN: Kenneth Clarke, the chancellor,
was under intense pressure from cabinet colleagues last night to back down in
the Tory civil war on Europe.  'MUMSY' BAILS OUT MARK THATCHER WITH £700,000
PRESENT: Baroness Thatcher has paid out more than £700,000 from her private
fortune to help clear up the tangled business affairs of her son Mark.  FREED
IRA KILLER STARTS CAMPAIGN AGAINST TERROR: Sean O'Callaghan, the IRA killer who
saved the life of the Prince and Princess of Wales after turning police
informer, has been freed from jail and has vowed to campaign against terrorism.
City: BRITISH GAS PLANS TO SELL TROPHY FIELD: British Gas is likely to sell the
whole of Morecambe Bay, Britain's biggest gas field, as it tries to resolve its
row with North Sea gas producers over take-or-pay gas contracts worth tens of
billions of pounds.  DTI CLOSE TO CENTRE OF CITY INSIDER DEALING RING:
Investigators from the Department of Trade and Industry have identified two
little-known Monaco-resident British financiers who, it believes, are at the
centre of a widespread City insider-dealing ring.  £180M LIKELY FOR BA SLOTS:
British Airways, the world's most profitable airline, is set for a £180m
windfall from the sale of the first batch of take-off and landing slots that it
has to sell to satisfy the conditions imposed by the government on its alliance
with American Airlines.

NEWS OF THE WORLD EASTENDER REID IN SEX BRIBES SCANDAL: TV favourite Mike Reid
seduced budding actresses by promising them parts in EastEnders.  ROAD RAGE
LOVER HELD: Police hunting the killer of road-rage victim Lee Harvey yesterday
arrested his fiancee.  MPs GET HALF THE YEAR OFF!: MPs are notching up a record
SIX MONTHS' holiday a year.  Sport SPURS SWOOP TO TIP SCALES: Tottenham have
made a dramatic last-minute bid to snatch Liverpool defender John Scales.  WAR:
Bryan Robson last night declared war on rebel Brazilian superstar Emerson and
blasted: You can rot in Rio.

SUNDAY MIRROR PRINCE EDWARD TO DUMP SOPHIE: Prince Edward has decided to break
up with his long-time girlfriend Sophie Rhys-Jones ... after the Queen warned
him that the Royal Family cannot have another divorce.  NEW YEAR MISERY FOR
HOMEOWNERS: Home buyers are facing another rise in mortgage rates in the New
Year ... if not sooner.  'ROAD RAGE' VICTIM'S GIRL QUIZZED OVER HIS MURDER: The
fiancee of road-rage victim Lee Harvey was arrested yesterday in connection with
his death.  Sport SPURS TIP THE SCALES!: Tottenham made a dramatic £3 million
bid last night to snatch John Scales from the grasp of Leeds.  TOP GUNNERS
TARGET BOBAN: Premiership leaders Arsenal have launched an £8 million swoop for
AC Milan midfielder Zvonimir Boban - after failing to land his team-mate George
Weah.

PEOPLE NICKED! EASTENDER MICHELLE SCREAMS AS POLICE DRAG HER LOVER AWAY: This is
the dramatic moment when distraught EastEnders star Michelle Collins felt her
life falling apart.  'ROAD RAGE DEATH' GIRL IS ARRESTED: The beautiful former
model girlfriend of "road rage" murder victim Lee Harvey was dramatically
arrested yesterday.  TOUPEE OR NOT TO PAY?: Cash-strapped baldie Burt Reynolds
owes a hair-raising £80,000 to his wig maker.  Sport SUGAR FAILS TO SNATCH
SCALES!: John Scales snubbed a desperate Spurs bid last night to steal him from
Leeds.  MACCA-RONI!: Juventus are preparing a £12 million move for Liverpool ace
Steve McManaman.

MAIL ON SUNDAY GIFT OF LOVE: She is the baby whose tiny life unites three
generations - and makes medical history.  MAJOR IN NEW ROW OVER EU DOUBLE-TALK:
John Major came under renewed fire over Europe last night.  CHARLES TO DIANA:
JOIN US FOR CHRISTMAS LUNCH: Prince Charles has offered an olive branch to
Princess Diana by asking the Queen to invite her to a pre-Christmas lunch at
Buckingham Palace.  Sport JUNINHO IN CASH PROBE: Brazilian fraud investigators
are examining the £4.75 million transfer of Juninho to Middlesbrough.  TIM BOWS
OUT: Tim Henman's great run in the Compaq Grand Slam Cup came to an end in the
semi-finals yesterday when he was beaten 7-6, 6-3, 6-1 by three-times Wimbledon
champion Boris Becker in Munich.  WHITTINGHAM SHOCKS LIVERPOOL: Liverpool
slumped to their first home defeat in more than a year when a Guy Whittingham
goal secured Sheffield Wednesday a 1-0 victory at Anfield.

EXPRESS ROAD RAGE FIANCEE ARRESTED: Police arrested the fiancee of murder victim
Lee Harvey yesterday.  CLARKE'S TURN FOR U-TURN IN TORY CRISIS: Kenneth Clarke
is set to perform a dramatic U-turn on Europe in an attempt to stop the Tory
Party breaking in two.  LOVING MOTHER GIVES BIRTH TO OWN GRANDCHILD: A mother
who vowed to do everything she could for her children has become the first
surrogate grandmother by giving birth to her daughter's baby.  Sport LAST-GASP
VIEIRA BOOSTS GUNNERS: Patrick Vieira clawed Premiership Arsenal back from the
brink of a Highbury defeat when his injury-time equaliser denied Derby County.
HEAVENS ABOVE: BORIS BATTERS OUR TIM: Tim Henman's glorious week in the Compaq
Grand Slam Cup in Munich came to an end when he went down 7-6, 6-3, 6-1 to Boris
Becker in a semi-final in front of 11,000 fanatical Germans.  FRANCIS IN CHASE
FOR £5M JAMIE: Jamie Redknapp will be the next Liverpool star to leave Anfield,
with Spurs favourites to win the chase for his signature.

OBSERVER CLARKE THROWS A LIFELINE TO SINKING MAJOR: Kenneth Clarke, the
Chancellor, has thrown the drowning John Major a life-line by signalling he
might accept a careful Cabinet compromise on Europe in which the Prime Minister
could suggest Britain is unlikely to join a single currency in the first wave.
FALSE MEMORIES 'WRECK 100,000 FAMILIES': More than 100,000 families have been
'blown apart' by psychoanalysts who have falsely convinced clients they were
sexually abused in childhood.  IRA 'WILL UNLEASH BOMBERS' IF TALKS FAIL: The IRA
is poised to launch a blitz of terrorist attacks throughout Northern Ireland and
mianland Britain if no progress is made at tomorrow's talks between Irish Prime
Minister John Bruton and John Major.  City: HESELTINE BREAKFAST CLUB PLAN FLOPS:
A plan to form a lobby group to promote the privatised industries, backed by
Deputy Prime Minister Michael Heseltine and spearheaded by British Airways
chairman Sir Colin Marshall, has flopped.  STRONG POUND ADDS £45M TO LLOYD'S
BILLS: Thousands of hard-hit Lloyd's Names face an additional £45 million bill,
on top of the settlements already agreed, because of currency fluctuations since
the rescue package was calculated.  REUTERS SHELVES PLAN FOR SPECIAL DIVIDEND:
Reuters has shelved plans to return some of its £866 million cash pile to
shareholders because it cannot find a way to treat all its investors equally.

SUNDAY TELEGRAPH HOWARD SEEN OFF IN FIGHT WITH CLARKE: Michael Howard, the Home
Secretary, led an attempted revolt against the Government's "wait and see"
policy on a single currency - but was defeated in a tense Cabinet meeting by the
Chancellor, Kenneth Clarke.  FIANCEE OF 'ROAD RAGE' MURDER VICTIM ARRESTED: The
fiancee of "road rage" victim Lee Harvey was yesterday arrested by police
hunting his killer.  WEATHER FORECASTS OUT 'HALF THE TIME': The Royal
Meteorological Society is to be asked to investigate "misleading" claims made by
the Met Office about the accuracy of its forecasts.  City: BAT SEEKS PARTNER
AFTER CU TALKS FAIL: BAT Industries is looking for a merger partner for its
financial services division despite the failure of talks with Commercial Union
10 days ago.  FAR EAST BOUNCE TO BUOY MARKETS: A technical bounce in south-east
Asia should help steady nerves in London when markets open tomorrow.  NIKE SIGNS
UP BRAZIL FOR 400M: Nike, the global sportswear group, has signed the world's
biggest sports sponsorship deal with the Brazilian football team.

SUNDAY BUSINESS GERMANS PRESS BRUSSELS TO BAN UK TAX HAVENS: The European
Commission is planning to shut down British off-shore tax havens in Jersey,
Guernsey and the Isle of Man, after allegations that £40 billion of German
capital has been transferred to the islands to avoid the payment of tax.  GETTY
IS BRITAIN'S BIGGEST CHARITABLE DONOR: Paul Getty Jnr, the son of the former
oilman now resident in Britain, has become the nation's biggest living
charitable donor.  NEW GENERATION OF DIGITAL TV SETS EMERGE: The next generation
of television sets which will revolutionise the use of television will begin
rolling off the production lines in Britain within 12 months.

INDEPENDENT ON SUNDAY 'MY SON WAS ALIVE AT 4PM - HE COULD HAVE BEEN SAVED':
Startling new evidence has emerged to question the coroner's finding that the 96
victims of the Hillsborough disaster all died instantly at 3.15pm and could not
have been saved by the medical rescue services.  M25 ROAD RAGE MURDER SUSPECT
NOYE HAS CAR SENT TO CYPRUS: A Land Rover Discovery belonging to Kenneth Noye,
named by police in connection with the M25 "road rage" killing earlier this
year, has been shipped to Northern Cyprus.  HOWARD FACES CABINET SHOWDOWN:
Michael Howard, the Home Secretary, had a fierce Cabinet clash with Chancellor
Kenneth Clarke over the European single currency last week.  City: EMI SEEKS
MERGER WITH MCA: EMI, the music group which is home to George Michael and the
Spice Girls, has approached Seagram about merging all or part of its business
with the latter's MCA Music division.  POUND IN FOR MORE STRIFE: The foreign
exchanges are set for further turmoil this week, with sterling in disarray after
Tory party strife and the dollar suffering from comments from Federal Reserve
Chairman Alan Greenspan about "irrational exuberance" in the markets.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1996 The Press Association Limited

                              491 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               December 10, 1996

Compromise that must not be made

BYLINE: Catherine Macleod

SECTION: Pg. 19

LENGTH: 938 words


AUGUST 1994 should have been a watershed in Northern Ireland politics. A
ceasefire was announced to the delight of the population who took to the streets
to celebrate, the Northern Ireland peace process got underway, and there was
generally much optimism that "the bad old days" of bombs and violence were gone
for good.

However, the IRA bomb at Chelsea Harbour in February this year brought that
ceasefire to an end, the political peace process was in tatters though the
people on the streets of Northern Ireland wanted peace as much as ever. Is it
naive to suggest that their wishes should be foremost, that politicians should
have worked ceaselessly to make sure they restored peace in Northern Ireland.

Tony Blair will go to Belfast at the end of this week to confirm the high
priority he will give to the Northern Ireland question if Labour wins the
General Election whenever it is held.

He will go to some length to dismiss any idea abroad that he does not take the
issue seriously. He will confirm he is no longer predisposed to any particular
solution, just that it will have to have the support of the political parties
and the people. Mr Blair's aides say he takes the Northern Ireland peace process
"very seriously", that he will put it high on the agenda, just as high as the
present Prime Minister, John Major.

Will he be any more successful than John Major? The Prime Minister has devoted a
great deal of his Prime Ministerial tenure to solving the problems in Ireland.
His friends say no-one could have tried harder, or taken more political risks to
further the peace process. He was even prepared to alienate Tories and Ulster
Unionists over the Joint Framework Documents.

However, the mood has changed and all the players in the peace process know it.

Yesterday John Bruton, the Irish Taoiseach, was in London as part of a
presidential tour of European capitals ahead of next weekend's EU summit in
Dublin. He is desperate to re-establish the peace process but his expectations
were said to be low. His expectations were so low because he had acknowledged
political reality, that John Major could and would do nothing to jeopardise the
political tightrope on which he is now finely poised at Westminster.

John Major's Government is not finished yet. The Wilson-Callaghan Governments
survived for almost three years in the seventies without a working majority in
the Commons, and though Labour are now indicating they will consider a vote of
no confidence sooner rather than later, the opportunity to do so will not arise
immediately.

If Labour does move a vote of no confidence it will be the Ulster Unionists who
will control the outcome. Tony Blair knows that, he is paying the leader of the
Ulster Unionists a visit in Northern Ireland on Friday, but nobody is more aware
of the vital role of the Unionists than the Prime Minister.

Last night, listening to Mr Bruton and Mr Major, it was difficult to tell if
there were any differences in their positions but apparently once their language
was decoded there were almost insuperable differences. Mr Bruton was still
seeking Sinn Fein's entry to multi-party talks as soon as possible, as distinct
from Sinn Fein's demand to enter the talks immediately after a new ceasefire,
while John Major has called for time in which to judge the IRA by "word and
deed".

The Irish still insisted the talks could resume early in the new year, the Prime
Minister would give no such commitment.

It is increasingly unlikely the talks will resume since any hint of a move would
infuriate the Unionists.

Already the deputy leader of the Ulster Unionists, John Taylor, who has
previously cosied up to Labour, has intervened to bolster Mr Major saying he
could see no reason why they would oppose him in a confidence vote.

The North Down MP Robert McCartney would walk out of any talks if Sinn Fein
walked in, closely followed by Dr Ian Paisley and the DUP. Then it would be
extremely hard for the Ulster Unionists to stay in the talks, like it or not.
If the Ulster Unionists withdrew their support Mr Major would have to call a
General Election.

What an indictment of the political process. Politicians often complain of a bad
press, sometimes with justification. If the British Government treats the
Northern Ireland peace process with such contempt, that pandering to Unionists
to keep them in Government is more important than the security and aspirations
of the people of Northern Ireland, parliamentary democracy will be seriously
undermined. No criticism should be too harsh or too cynical if politicians were
prepared to make such a compromise.

It would be inconceivable with a General Election at the most five months away
for these conditions to prevail in any part of mainland Britain. If public
security was endangered by parliamentary arithmetic the clamour and outrage can
only be imagined, but of course it may be that British politicians are allowed
to be as tardy as they are on Northern Ireland because the mainland British
electorate is apathetic.

1994 was certainly memorable in South Africa. Irreconcilable differences were
overcome to begin to dismantle the evils of apartheid, and though it would be
foolish to suggest the transition to a democratically elected government was
without its problems, there is a confidence the problems will one day be
overcome. Surely, if in South Africa with its political difficulties, there is
such optimism, it should not be too much to expect it in Northern Ireland. The
will to succeed should extend far beyond keeping a tenuous hold on Government.

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1996 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              492 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               December 12, 1996

Palestinians found guilty of bombs plot

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 277 words


TWO Palestinian terrorists were convicted at the Old Bailey yesterday of
plotting to bomb Jewish targets in Britain in a bid to sabotage the Middle East
peace process. Jawad Botmeh and Samar Alami used their English university
educations to make the high explosives for their bombing campaign.

The two will be sentenced on Monday. A third defendant, Mr Mahmoud Abu-Wardeh,
was cleared of taking part in the conspiracy.

Both Botmeh and Alami showed no emotion as the jury returned their verdicts.

Two car bombs rocked the Israeli Embassy in Kensington Gardens and a Jewish
charity in north London in July 1994.

"Mercifully no-one was seriously injured but they were grave acts of terrorism,"
Mr Justice Garland had told the jury when summing up the two-month trial.

Botmeh and Alami were members of a Palestinian terror cell in Britain.

They believed that Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat was misguided in his
attempts to come to any accommodation with Israel and wished to hinder the
process, Mr David Calvert-Smith, prosecuting had told the court.

Alami, 30, of South Kensington, central London; Botmeh, 28, of Bloomsbury,
London; and Mahmoud Abu-Wardeh, 25, of Putney, London, had all denied conspiring
to cause explosions between 1993 and 1995.

Nearly a year after the bombs, a cache of arms and bomb ingredients was found
hidden in a safe deposit in Acton, west London.

Mr Calvert-Smith alleged that the safe-deposit unit had been rented by Samar
Alami 10 days before the Israeli Embassy bomb went off in London. Her
fingerprints, together with those of Jawad Botmeh were found inside the unit,
said prosecution.

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1996 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              493 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          December 12, 1996, Thursday

Two guilty of embassy bombing

SECTION: NEWS; Page  6

LENGTH: 395 words


Two Palestinian terrorists were convicted at the Old Bailey yesterday of
plotting to bomb Jewish targets in Britain in a bid to sabotage the Middle East
peace process.

Jawad Botmeh and Samar Alami used their English university educations to make
the high explosives for their bombing campaign. The two ex- students will be
sentenced on Monday. A third defendant, Mahmoud Abu- Wardeh, was cleared of
taking part in the conspiracy and released on order of the judge, Mr Justice
Garland.

Both Mr Botmeh and Mr Alami showed no emotion as the jury returned their
verdicts after six and a half hours of deliberations.

Mr Alami, 30, of South Kensington, central London, Mr Botmeh, a businessman, 28,
of Bloomsbury, central London, and Mr Abu-Wardeh, 25, of Putney, south- west
London, had all denied conspiring to cause explosions between January 1993 and
May 1995. They also denied possessing an explosive substance - Triacetone
Triperoxide - of a nature likely to endanger life or cause serious damage on or
before 25 May 1995, and possession of firearms.

The jury were not asked to return verdicts on the possession charges against Mr
Botmeh and Mr Alami after they were convicted of the bombing plot. But Mr
Abu-Wardeh was cleared of all the charges. Mr Abu-Wardeh nodded to the jury as
they cleared him of all charges against him. He hugged his co-defendants before
leaving the dock.

Two car bombs rocked the Israeli Embassy, in Kensington Gardens, west London,
and a Jewish charity in north London in July 1994 - causing millions of pounds
of damage. "Mercifully no one was killed or seriously injured but they were
grave acts of terrorism," Mr Justice Garland said when summing up the two month
trial.

Mr Botmeh and Mr Alami were members of a Palestinian terror cell in Britain.
They believed that Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat "was misguided in his
attempts to come to any accommodation with Israel and wished to hinder the
process", David Calvert-Smith, prosecuting, had told the court.

Earlier in the trial Mrs Nadia Zekra, a mother of two, who was originally
accused of planting the bomb, was found not guilty on the orders of the judge
after he described the evidence against her as suspect. Mr Justice Garland
accepted a defence submission that Mrs Zekra, 49, who had denied causing the
explosion, had no case to answer.


LOAD-DATE: December 12, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1996 Independent Print Ltd

                              494 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          December 14, 1996, Saturday

Fears of IRA bomb attack

BYLINE: Colin Brown Michael Streeter and David McKittrick

SECTION: TITLE; Page  1

LENGTH: 299 words


Security forces are on alert throughout the United Kingdom amid fears of a new
IRA bombing campaign.

There has been greater vigilance at key sites such as the City and the Canary
Wharf complex in London, and military installations across the country. Senior
politicians in Northern Ireland and at Westminster have been warned they could
be assassination targets.

And in recent weeks security has also been increased at potential targets in
Northern Ireland, including Belfast International Airport.

The threat was underlined when the IRA tried but failed last Wednesday to blow
up a security forces vehicle in Belfast with a Semtex mortar.

This week, the head of Scotland Yard's Anti-Terrorist Branch, Commander John
Grieve, warned of these "dangerous months" and urged people to be on their
guard.

"Unfortunately, it is a reality of life that we need to be continually aware of
the threat of terrorism, particularly from the Provisional IRA," he said.

Police forces across Great Britain are also showing extra vigilance.  A
spokesman for Greater Manchester Police, which had to deal with a huge IRA bomb
last June, said it was deploying a "high-profile" police presence to reassure
the public.

Tony Blair, on a visit to Ulster yesterday, emphasised that he would not play
politics with the peace process and he promised that when in office he would be
"straining every sinew" to move it forward.

Ministers believe the IRA will put off a renewal of the ceasefire until days
before a general election to put the maximum pressure on a possible incoming
Labour government. They are convinced that hopes of an extended Christmas
ceasefire will be dashed by the IRA. One minister said: "They have become highly
active and are clearly planning attacks."


LOAD-DATE: December 16, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1996 Independent Print Ltd

                              495 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               December 18, 1996

YARD GRILLS THE JACKAL OVER TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: Kate Watson-Smyth

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 387 words


OFFICERS from Scotland Yard yesterday questioned the jailed terrorist, Carlos
the Jackal, about the shooting of a British businessman and the bombing of a
London bank during the 1970s.

The three officers interviewed Carlos at a Paris jail about the attempted
assassination in December 1973 of Joseph Edward Seiff, late chairman of Marks &
Spencer, outside his London home, and the bombing of the Hapoalim bank in London
in January 1974.

But Carlos, whose real name is Illich Ramirez Sanchez, refused to admit
involvement and dismissed the investigations as "Zionist provocations", it was
disclosed last night.

In 1979, Carlos reportedly told Al Watan al Arabi, a Paris-based magazine, that
he had been responsible for both incidents.  But since his arrest in August
1994, he has claimed the interview was a fake.

Sieff, who was vice-president of the Zionist Federation in Britain which gave
aid to Israel, survived after a gunman shot him in the face. The Popular Front
for the Liberation of Palestine, which Carlos backed at the time, claimed
responsibility for the shooting.

Last month, Carlos refused to leave his cell to meet the British investigators,
complaining of his treatment by prison officers.

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              496 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               December 18, 1996

Comedians back prisoner's appeal

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 413 words


Some of Britain's most famous comedians were last night performing at a show in
aid of a campaign to free a man convicted of an IRA bombing.

Stand-up comics Eddie Izzard, Jeremy Hardy, and Rob Newman were lending their
names to the campaign for Gilbert "Danny" McNamee, who is currently serving a
25-year prison sentence.

He was jailed in 1987 for conspiracy to cause explosions, including the 1982
Hyde Park bombing which killed four members of the Household Cavalry.

But his supporters claim new evidence has come to light which proves the 36
-year-old physics graduate from Crossmaglen, Northern Ireland, is innocent.

Hardy said he was convinced McNamee was the victim of a miscarriage of justice.

"There is loads of evidence," he said. "The prosecution case is completely in
ribbons.

"Most of the evidence is very technical but the most compelling piece of
evidence is that someone else has already admitted it.

"The IRA have consistently said Danny is nothing to do with them. The man who
made the bombs has also admitted it."

Asked what he thought of the person responsible for the Hyde Park bombing, Hardy
added: "I don't want to get sidetracked by that but, yes, I am happy to condemn
that."

The show, called Unusual Suspects, began at 7.30pm at The Grand in Clapham,
London.

Organisers were expecting a capacity crowd of more than 1000 and hoped to raise
£10,000 for the Danny McNamee Campaign.

Mr Paul May, chairman of the campaign, said McNamee had been the victim of a
miscarriage of justice and always maintained his innocence.

McNamee had no connections with the IRA and the fingerprints found on the Hyde
Park bomb, alleged to be McNamee's, had now been proven to belong to someone
else.

The campaign also claims that the judge's summing-up was a virtual direction to
convict, and that he failed to prevent the prosecution smearing McNamee by
falsely declaring his defence was paid for by the IRA.

In 1991, the Court of Appeal refused McNamee leave to challenge his conviction,
ruling that his original trial had been fair.

Mr May added that McNamee's solicitor Gareth Peirce had sent Home Secretary
Michael Howard documentation of the new evidence in September 1994 but was still
waiting for a reply.

Mr May added that one person had already been convicted in the Irish Republic of
making the Hyde Park bomb and sentenced to 10 years.

The man has insisted he, and not McNamee, is guilty.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1996 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              497 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                          December 18, 1996, Wednesday

PERU HOSTAGE TERROR CONTINUES

BYLINE:  Enda Brady, PA News

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 1259 words


Two hundred hostages, including a senior British diplomat, were being held
tonight by terrorists who stormed a party given by the Japanese ambassador in
Peru.  The hostages were trapped inside the Japanese ambassador's residence in
Lima, after about 30 terrorists struck at about early today.  This evening the
gunmen set a deadline for their demands to be met and threatened to start
killing the hostages, including foreign minister Francisco Tudela.  But the
deadline apparently passed without them carrying out their threat.  Married
father-of-two Roger Church, the deputy head of mission at the British embassy in
the Peruvian capital Lima, was one of those caught up in the incident.  He was
able to telephone colleagues at the British Embassy to tell them he was unhurt.
"But he wasn't able to say whether any other members of the British community
are involved," said a Foreign Office spokesman.  Britain's Ambassador to Peru,
John Illman, 56, had attended the party but left shortly before the terrorists
took over the building.  Some of the guerrillas, who were demanding the release
of imprisoned rebels, had slipped into the embassy dressed as waiters carrying
champagne and hors d'oeuvres.  A mystery blast rocked the building this
afternoon and smoke was seen rising above the 30ft perimeter wall in the smart
San Isidro district of Lima, shortly after the explosion at 2pm.  Seconds later
shots were heard, witnesses said. Peruvian radio said the explosion in one of
the embassy's walls was small. The terror attack began around 1am when Marxist
guerrillas from the Cuban-inspired Tupac Amaru Revolutionary Movement fired a
rocket and sprayed gunfire into the building, before scaling walls and entering
during the ensuing chaos.  The hostages - including many high-ranking diplomats
from all over the world attending a reception to honour the Japanese Emperor's
birthday - were forced to lie face-down on the floor for about 40 minutes.  BBC
correspondent Sally Bowen was among them, but was later released.  She said in a
report that she had been eating and drinking in an elegant marquee on the lawn
when the explosions occurred.  "It looked like a fairly standard diplomatic
reception, nothing very exciting," Ms Bowen told BBC's The One O'Clock News.
"The guerrillas came in and announced who they were, told us to keep our heads
down or we would be shot.  "That gun battle lasted for about 30-40 minutes. They
discovered that I was a journalist and they discovered one other journalist
there as well.  "They wanted to get their message out. The commander of the
guerrillas gave us an interview for about 15 minutes." Mr Church has been deputy
head of mission in Lima since August 1994. He has been with the Foreign Office
since 1965.  The Foreign Office said: "We are very concerned about the situation
in Lima and hope that the Peruvian authorities will be able to resolve it
quickly and peacefully.  "Our ambassador and his staff in Lima are in the
closest touch with the Peruvian authorities." The statement added that in London
the "usual emergency arrangements" for dealing with incidents of this kind were
in place and Britain stood ready to consider any request from the Peruvians for
assistance.

The Foreign Office statement confirmed that Mr Illman had been at the party but
left before the attack began.  "We are seeking to establish whether there are
any other members of the British community there," it said.  "Our ambassador and
his staff in Lima are in the closest touch with the Peruvian authorities." The
statement added that in London the "usual emergency arrangements" for dealing
with incidents of this kind were in place and Britain stood ready to consider
any request from the Peruvians for assistance.  The carefully planned attack
began around 1am GMT today when the Marxist guerrillas fired a rocket and
sprayed gunfire into the building, before scaling walls and entering during the
ensuing chaos.  The hostages - including many high-ranking diplomats from all
over the world attending a reception to honour the Japanese Emperor's birthday -
were forced to lie face-down on the floor for about 40 minutes.  Some of the
estimated 30 guerrillas, who are demanding the release of imprisoned rebels, had
slipped into the embassy dressed as waiters carrying champagne and hors
d'oeuvres.  BBC correspondent Sally Bowen said in a report soon after her
release that she had been eating and drinking in an elegant marquee on the lawn
when the explosions occurred.  "It looked like a fairly standard diplomatic
reception, nothing very exciting," Ms Bowen told BBC's The One O'Clock News.
"There was a sudden explosion shortly after eight o'clock. It was followed by
very intensive automatic gunfire.  "At that point most people decided that
discretion was the better part of valour and threw themselves on the grass.
"The guerrillas came in and announced who they were, told us to keep our heads
down or we would be shot.  "That gun battle lasted for about 30-40 minutes. They
discovered that I was a journalist and they discovered one other journalist
there as well.  "They wanted to get their message out. The commander of the
guerrillas gave us an interview for about 15 minutes."

The Foreign Office later confirmed that a male member of the British Embassy
staff was among the hostages.  He was able to telephone from the Japanese
Embassy to say he was unharmed, but was unable to confirm whether other members
of the British community were there.  According to Peruvian radio, the explosion
in one of the embassy's walls is believed to have been small.

The Foreign Office said later in a statement that it was believed one member of
the British Embassy staff was held at the Japanese ambassador's house.  "We are
very concerned about the situation in Lima and hope that the Peruvian
authorities will be able to resolve it quickly and peacefully," the statement
said.  "We believe there is one member of the British Embassy staff at the
Japanese Ambassador's house."

The statement confirmed that the British Ambassador John Illman had been at the
party but left before the attack began.  "We are seeking to establish whether
there are any other members of the British community there," it said.  "Our
ambassador and his staff in Lima are in the closest touch with the Peruvian
authorities." The statement added that in London the "usual emergency
arrangements" for dealing with incidents of this kind were in place and Britain
stood ready to consider any request from the Peruvians for assistance.

"It looked like a fairly standard diplomatic reception, nothing very exciting,"
Sally Bowen, a journalist who was attending the party, told the BBC's One
O'Clock News.  "There was a sudden explosion shortly after eight o'clock. It was
followed by very intensive automatic gunfire.  "At that point most people
decided that discretion was the better part of valour and threw themselves on
the grass.  "The guerrillas came in and announced who they were, told us to keep
our heads down or we would be shot.  "That gun battle lasted for about 30-40
minutes. They discovered that I was a journalist and they discovered one other
journalist there as well.  "They wanted to get their message out. The commander
of the guerrillas gave us an interview for about 15 minutes.  "I didn't actually
see any British nationals, which doesn't actually mean that there aren't any
there. I believe that the Canadian ambassador is amongst the hostages and the
number two at the American embassy."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1996 The Press Association Limited

                              498 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          December 19, 1996, Thursday

City police tighten security ring; Armed road blocks multiply amid growing fears
of an IRA Christmas bomb campaign

BYLINE: Charlie Bain

SECTION: NEWS; Page  8

LENGTH: 584 words


On London Wall in the heart of the capital's financial centre, seven officers
from the City of London Police's armed response unit are screening vehicles at a
road block. Two of them are have semi-automatic rifles. One has a German
Shepherdstraining at the leash.

Around the corner, at one of the eight entry points on the City's "ring of
steel" security cordon, a uniformed officer flags down a light blue Ford Transit
van. The driver fumbles nervously with some bright pink invoice papers and gives
his name, destination and employer. On a mast above him are two cameras, one
trained on his number plate, the other on his passenger seat. After about 45
seconds he has moved on.

Such scenes have been commonplace in the square mile of the City this week as
security forces are on full alert amid growing fears of an IRA Christmas bombing
campaign. Yesterday, the police presence was particularly apparent. At a number
of entry points, officers were stopping traffic regularly and armed roadblocks
were set up at random.

"Since the end of the cease-fire in February, we have to take the threat of a
terrorist attack seriously and at the moment I perceive that threat to be very
high," Commander Judy Davison of City of London Police said.  "The City is a
vulnerable place and the prevention of terrorism is our number one priority."

The security cordon was erected in July 1993 in response to the IRA bomb in
Bishopsgate which triggered one of the highest-profile police operations in
Britain for decades. The road checks are only a small part of the City of London
Police's security initiative, which has had a considerable effect on the quality
of life for residents and workers.  Since 1993 there has been a 16 per cent drop
in all types of crime.  At the same time, traffic levels have been reduced and
the streets are safer to cross and less filled with exhaust fumes.

The weapons employed against terrorism are an effective mixture of camera
technology and liaison with the local community. At entry points, 27 cameras
photograph the number plate of every vehicle and the face of every driver.
Another 13 snap vehicles leaving the City and 47 at key points enable police to
track suspicious vehicles.

There are also 1,265 private cameras manned by security guards ready to alert
police at the slightest hint of danger. This Camera Watch scheme came into being
after a private closed circuit television camera detected the Bishopsgate
bombers walking towards the Bank of England after parking the truck packed full
of explosives. "We suddenly realised we could have access to hundreds more
cameras if we contacted these businesses and worked with them," Chief Inspector
Chris Wheeler, the force's crime prevention officer, said.

This month, the Corporation of London announced that it would extend the ring of
steel early next year to cover 75 per cent of the city. In February work will
begin on installing a new system enabling cameras not only to read vehicle
number plates but to check them against other data within four seconds.

Chief Superintendent Paul Eskriett, head of operational support for the force,
says that there is no room for complacency: "The terrorist has many advantages
and we'll never be able to make the City 100 per cent secure. But we have the
advantage of a relationship with the local community which we've built up over a
period of time . . . Our job is to stop anyone from getting killed and I hope we
can continue to do that."


LOAD-DATE: December 19, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1996 Independent Print Ltd

                              499 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                          December 19, 1996, Thursday

SAS EXPERTS FLY TO PERU AS FEARS GROW FOR EMBASSY HOSTAGES

BYLINE:  Charles Miller and Gavin Cordon, PA News.

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 661 words


Crack SAS anti-terrorist troops and Scotland Yard negotiators were in Peru to
help with the embassy hostage crisis tonight.  The move came amid mounting
concern for the safety of up to 490 diplomats and VIPs held by terrorists in the
Japanese Embassy in the capital Lima.  Marxist guerillas, who are demanding the
release of hundreds of jailed comrades, have threatened to kill their hostages
one by one.  They include diplomat Roger Church, 50, who is the deputy head of
mission at the British Embassy.  The small group of British military and
civilian specialists includes half a dozen SAS troops - among the world's
fremost experts in hostage crises.  They are there primarily to offer advice to
the British Ambassador John Illman, 56, and the Peruvian authorities.  However,
if the terrorists begin to kill the hostages, they could be used as the
spearhead of an international rescue operation.  There is a precedent for such a
move - SAS troops were used alongside German anti-terrorit experts to rescue
terrified passengers from a Lufthansa airliner hijacked by Middle Eastern
terrorists at Mogadishu in 1977.  Also included in the team are expert hostage
negotiators from Scotland Yard, who will advise the Peruvian authorities on how
to deal with the terrorists.  The formation of the team was approved by Foreign
Secretary Malcolm Rifkind, who reported on the latest developments at today's
meeting of te Cabinet.  Whitehall sources stressed the team provided a wide
range of skills developed as a result of Britain's experience of dealing with
similar situations in the past. The first members arrived in the Peruvian
capital on Wednesday and the rest were expected to reach the Lima tonight.  The
Peruvian authorities were consulted ahead of its deployment, although there was
no specific request for assistance from the Lima government.  "We are
strengthening the ambassador's team with a number of experts skilled in handling
incidents like this one," said a Foreign Office spokesman.  "They are being sent
to advise the ambassador and liaise as necessary with the Peuvian authorities."
Since the 1970s the SAS has led the world in developing techniques to rescue
hostages seized by terrorists.  Following the murder of 11 Israeli athletes at
the Munich Olympics in 1972 by Black September gunmen, the SAS constructed the
ultimate training centre known as the "Killing House".  The house has 10 rooms,
which are designed differently to create a variety of scenarios, such as an
airliner cabin, an office or a cellar.  The SAS troops storm into the building
by a variety of means knowing they have just four seconds to "take out" the
terrorists and free the hostages using live ammunition.  High profile successes,
including the Mogadishu rescue and the storming of the Iranian Embassy in London
in 1980 where six guerrillas were holding 21 people hostage, confirmed the SAS's
skills.  Five guerrillas died in the Iranian Embassy shoot-out and, although the
terrorists killed two civilians, 19 others were rescued.  The crisis erupted on
Tuesday night when 30 armed terrorists disguised as waiters got into a reception
at the Japanese Embassy and launched an attack with rockets, machine guns and
grenades.  Mr Illman had left the party only minutes before the terrorist attack
was launched.  But Mr Church, 50, was among those captured by the Cuban-inspired
Tupac Amaru Revolutionary Movement.  The father-of-two helped ease tension
inside the embassy by arranging for medical supplies to be brought in.  He was
allowed to call the British Embassy three times and assured his wife Kathleen he
was unhurt.

Mr Church, who phoned the British Embassy four times on Wednesday, had yet to
ring today, an Embassy spokeswoman said.  "We don't know if this is a change of
policy or due simply to the batteries on his mobile running out," she added.  Mr
Church was believed to be bearing up well to his ordeal after his second night
in captivity.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1996 The Press Association Limited

                              500 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                           December 20, 1996, Friday

HUNT FOR IRA BOMB LORRY;
POLICE FEAR HUGE BLAST;
POLICE ARE HUNTING A LORRY WHICH MAY CONTAIN A HUGE IRA BOMB

BYLINE: Jeff Edwards Chief Crime Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 520 words


Police are hunting a lorry which may contain a huge IRA bomb.

The seven-and-half ton Ford Iveco is thought to have arrived from Northern
Ireland earlier this year with fertiliser and other bomb- making equipment.

It was spotted in north London, but vanished just before police seized 10 tons
of home-made explosives, guns and ammunition in September.

The lorry, white with blue curtain sides, has a 1985 or 1986 British
registration plate - C or D.

It has traces of faded, unreadable sign-writing on the cab doors. Bars under the
platform are red.

The lorry is believed to have been used to deliver part of the seized arsenal to
a lock-up unit rented by the Provos in Hornsey, north London.

Undercover police have searched lorry parks and factory estates throughout
Britain, but have failed to find it.

One officer said last night: "We know it was in the area of the weapons cache at
the right time.

"It may have been scrapped to destroy evidence, or had its identity changed and
sold.

"But it is possible it was prepared as a bomb, then hidden for later use."
Police are on full alert for a pre-Christmas IRA bomb attack.

Scotland Yard Anti-Terrorist Branch head Commander John Grieve said: "We are
appealing to members of the public to help us trace this lorry.

"We believe it was used at some stage to transport bomb-making equipment -
possibly innocently."

Anyone with information should phone the free, confidential Anti-Terrorist
Branch Hotline on 0800 789 321.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HAVE YOU SEEN IT? Police computer image of the lorry

                            Copyright 1996 MGN Ltd.



---- End of Request ----
Download Request: Select Items: 1001 - 1500
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  20:58:58

