



Download Request: Select Items: 1501 - 2000
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  21:01:38
Send To:







Terms: (terror! )


Source: UK Publications
Project ID: None



                               1 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                          December 21, 1996, Saturday

REVENGE FEAR AFTER IRA HOSPITAL SHOOTING

BYLINE:  Sian Clare, Chris Parkin and Melissa Kite, PA News

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 1970 words


Ulster was put on the alert tonight for a return to the "abyss" amid predictions
of a loyalist backlash over the IRA shooting in a children's hospital.  Senior
politicians united in a plea to the loyalist gunmen to stick to their ceasefire
despite IRA provocation.  But David Ervine, leader of the Progressive Unionist
Party which has close links to the loyalist paramilitaries, issued a chilling
warning that retaliation was now highly likely.  He pledged to do everything in
his power to prevent a revenge attack, but warned: "They will probably succeed."
His warning came as police across the UK asked the public to be vigilant ami
fears of an IRA Christmas bombing campaign.  IRA gunmen shot and injured a
policeman guarding a senior member of Ian Paisley's Democratic Unionist Party as
he visited his son in a Belfast children's hospital on Friday night.  The RUC
officer was shot in the foot as he stood in the corridor outside the intensive
care ward where former Belfast Lord Mayor Nigel Dodds was visiting his
desperately sick seven-year-old son at the Royal Children's Hospital in the
Falls Road.  Today RUC Chief Constable Ronnie Flanagan said he was appalled by
this latest attempt to murder members of the security forces.  And he appealed
to the public to be on the alert, warning that the gunmen might now turn their
fire on the public.  "While so far the attacks have been directed against us,
they bring about a great risk to the public who should be on their guard at this
time," he said. The police are warning people to be "particularly vigilant",
especially after the recent discovery of bombs and explosives across the
province.  And in Liverpool, police armed with sub-machine guns mingled with
Christmas shoppers in the city centre today in a high-profile campaign against
terrorism and organised crime.  London's Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir
Paul Condon has warned that the IRA could strike on the mainland at any time and
the targets could include the New Year sales.

Tonight, the RUC said a man had been arrested in connection with the hospital
shooting.  He was detained after a car, believed to have been used by the
gunman, was found abandoned on the Falls Road in west Belfast.  Police said the
shot officer was not seriously hurt. He was treated in hospital then released on
Friday night and was recovering well.  Four shots were fired in the attack and
one hit an incubator which was empty, the police said.  The IRA claimed
responsibility in a coded message to a local radio station. It insisted its
target was Mr Dodds's guard and not the politician himself.  Tonight Sinn Fein
President Gerry Adams issued a statement saying that the shooting was a matter
of regret for him.  In a clear attempt to distance himself from the attack, he
said: "The IRA has denied it was targeting Democratic Unionist Party councillor
Nigel Dodds. I accept that denial.  "But the incident has undoubtedly added to
the trauma of families visiting the hospital - especially the Dodds family as
they care for their gravely-ill son Andrew.  "Unfortunately, this is not a
unique occurrence - all armed groups have conducted armed actions on hospital
property and the British Army are in control of part of the Royal Hospital
complex.  "Despite this, and despite the provocative behaviour of the RUC and
the British Army in West Belfast and the British Government and Unionist
arrogance, this incident is a matter of regret for me," Mr Adams said.  But Mr
Dodds poured scorn on the claim that the bullets were not meant for him.  The
DUP secretary requested the police guard when his son was admitted to the
hospital in the heart of Republican west Belfast six weeks ago because he feared
an attempt on his life.  Recovering from the shock of the shooting today, he
sai: "I don't believe anything the IRA says. An organisation that can sanction a
shooting in a children's hospital is capable of anything.  "I don't know what
the exact motives of these people were, but clearly they knew our movements.
They were intending to kill as many people as they could." Mr Dodds was now
reviewing his personal security along with other unionists politicians, but it
is understood he will continue to visit his son.  A security review is also
under way at the hospital but managers insist there will be no armed guards on
wards.  Meanwhile, Mr Ervine sent alarm bells ringing today with his warning of
a return to loyalist violence in the wake of the hospital shooting.  The
Government has praised the loyalists for resisting the temptation to take up
arms after the IRA abandoned its ceasefire in March.  But today Mr Ervine said
the IRA attack was a bid "to draw the loyalists back to war".  And asked if
there would be a loyalist backlash, he said: "It would be wrong for me to tell
lies and the answer to that is we will and I will do everything in my power and
our power to avoid it, but they probably will succeed." Pressed again whether
this meant there would be retaliation from loyalist paramilitaries, Mr Ervine
said: "Well I wish I could say otherwise, but I think we were very fortunate to
avoid it on many many occasions." He added: "I think that people like myself who
have constantly argued that a democratic path must be followed and that we must
evaluate every opportunity, I fear rather that we are likely to be marginalised,
certainly for the foreseeable future." Asked what would happen now, Mr Ervine
told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "I think we take a dark deep look into the
abyss." Deputy Prime Minister Michael Heseltine condemned the attack as
"appalling" and led calls for the loyalists to show restraint.  "The fact is the
loyalists have not responded and they have done all they reasonably can to
maintain the atmosphere of peace which has been so welcomed by the people of
Northern Ireland," he said.  Ulster security minister Sir John Wheeler said it
was vital that nobody was drawn into retaliation for the shooting.  And he
pledged no effort would be spared in tracking down those responsible.  "It is
incredible that just days from Christmas vil men were prepared to enter an
institution dedicated to the healing of sick children with murderous intent," he
said.

The Rev Ian Paisley, leader of the Democratic Unionist Party, also urged the
loyalists not to strike back.  "I would say to anyone thinking of that - put
that out of your mind. That must not be done. It doesn't achieve anything and,
at the end of the day, the position becomes even worse. No one should take the
law into their own hands." He said his party members had been briefed by police
over the past few weeks about a possible IRA spectacular and that he had taken
increased measures for his own personal security.  Dublin Cabinet minister
Brendan Howlin expressed the hope that the IRA was not about to embark on a
fullscale campaign of violence.  "Hopefully, it is not the start of a
reactivated campaign. I think the general horror of everybody in the country
should be heard by those who are thinking of continuing on the path of violence.
"We can't allow the people responsible for last night's actions to call the
shots. The nation of Ireland, the people of Northern Ireland and Britain as
well, as a whole want peace." And Mr Howlin, the Environment Minister, warned
that the hospital attack was a blow to the peace process.  Ulster Unionist
councillor Nelson McCausland said the attack confirmed that the "honeyed" words
of IRA and Sinn Fein spokesmen meant absolutely nothing.  Mr McCausland, who was
in the children's intensive care unit at the time of the shooting, said he had
been astounded that even the IRA would mount such an attack.  "It was clear
evidence that there has been no change of heart within the Republican movement
and those who tell us that the Republican movement is changing will have to
think again.  "The evidence is that the IRA has rejected peace, has recommitted
itself to terrorism, that the bomb attacks earlier in the year may well continue
and really one is very disappointed." And US Congressman Joe Kennedy warned that
President Bill Clinton may lose interest in Northern Ireland if there was a
return to fullscale violence.  He told the BBC's Inside Politics programme: "I
do believe that if we saw a long-term return to violence, if we began to see the
IRA bombs again and counter bombing by loyalist forces ... I think at a certain
point President Clinton and the attention of the US will simply go elsewhere
where they feel they can actually make a difference in bringing peace to a
community."

Irish Prime Minister John Bruton tonight said the shooting created a credibility
problem for the whole republican movement.  And he also called on Sinn Fein to
face up to the issue of accountability for actions by their IRA allies.  Mr
Bruton said in a statement: "Whatever the details, the use of lethal force in a
children's hospital a few days before Christmas by an IRA unit creates a
credibility problem for the whole Republican movement.  "There is also the
related issue of accountability for violence in general.  "If Sinn Fein wants to
be accepted into talks as part of a political process based on accountability
under the rule of law, then they are going to have to face up to the question -
when, and how and to whom should the individual members who directed and carried
out last night's operation, and other IRA operations in recent months be
accountable ?" The Irish premier went on: "If, for instance, a similar operation
to last night's one was carried out two years ago in a children's hospital in
Sarajevo, rather than in Belfast, world public opinion would demand that the
perpetrators and directors of it be made account for themselves before the
Tribunal in The Hague.  "Sinn Fein must face up to the same issue of political
and legal accountability for IRA actions. Evasive word games will not suffice.
"The South African example shows that we need truth AND reconciliation. If Sinn
Fein wants lasting reconciliation, they must also show that they are willing to
see the IRA account truthfully for their actions over recent years."

The Prime Minister sent a message of support to Mr Dodds.  Mr Major said it was
beyond belief that the attack took place in a children's hospital. But he said
he believed it had shown what the Government was up against.  Mr Dodds said:
"The intention to kill anyone is deplorable, in a children's hospital it beggars
belief. It's so inhuman and depraved."

Deputy Prime Minister Michael Heseltine condemned the attack as "appalling" and
urged loyalists not to retaliate.  "Sadly, there is inherent in the Sinn
Fein/IRA world that belief in violence which has dogged the quiet enjoyment of
the people of Northern Ireland all my political life," he told BBC Radio 4's
Today programme.  He said he hoped the loyalists would not retaliate.  "The fact
is the loyalists have not responded and they have done all they reasonably can
to maintain the atmosphere of peace which has been so welcomed by the people of
Northern Ireland," he added.

The area around the hospital remained sealed off tonight and there was a heavy
police presence.  One eye witness, who was visiting a sick relative in the
hospital, said he heard three gunshots.  "I was in visiting a cousin's child
across from the intensive care ward.  "I heard what I thought sounded like three
metal trays being dropped. We thought nothing of it and were told we could stay
in the ward.  "But then one of the security guards came in and said someone had
been shot."

Later the RUC said a man had been arrested in connection with the shooting of
the policeman guarding Mr Dodds.  The man was detained after a car, believed to
have been used by the gunman, was found abandoned on the Falls Road in west
Belfast.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1996 The Press Association Limited

                               2 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                           December 23, 1996, Monday

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 1611 words


What the papers say:

TIMES: CAR BOMB SPELLS END OF LOYALIST CEASEFIRE: The loyalist ceasefire
appeared to be in ruins after a notorious republican was injured by a booby-trap
car bomb in the Ardoyne area of north Belfast.  £700M MILLENNIUM PROJECT HAS
ONLY WEEKS TO BE RESCUED: Tory and Labour leaders were warned they have only
weeks to settle a political battle that threatens to scupper plans for the
Millennium Exhibition.  CATHOLIC CHURCH 'WILL NOT TAKE BISHOP BACK': Roderick
Wright, former Bishop of Argyll and the Isles, will never be allowed to return
to a Roman Catholic Church post in Scotland, even if he repents, gives up
Kathleen MacPhee, his divoced lover, and provides support for his illegitimate
son by another woman, according to the Archbishop of St Andrews and Edinburgh,
the Most Rev Keith O'Brien.  City: FEES SMASH £1bn BARRIER: Fees earned by the
City this year from takeover deals and other mergers will easily top the £1
billion mark for the first time, including bonuses to individual professionals
that will create a raft of new millionaires.  TUC REVEALS THE PLIGHT OF THE
'FORGOTTEN ARMY': Despite four years of falling unemployment, there remains a
"forgotten army" of 750,000 long-term unemployed - people out of work for more
than 12 months.

TELEGRAPH: ULSTER FEARS THE LOYALIST TRUCE IS OVER: The loyalist ceasefire in
Northern Ireland appeared to be over last night after a bomb exploded in the car
of a Belfast republican.  LABOUR LEADERS MAY SHELVE MOVES TO ABOLISH HUNTING:
Labour is considering postponing a vote on the abolition of fox hunting, deer
hunting and coursing for at least two years while a panel of experts decides
whether they should be banned.  BRITISH NURSES HELD FOR SAUDI MURDER: Two
British nurses are being detained in Saudi Arabia in connection with the murder
of an Australian nurse at a military hospital.  City: NORTHERN PINS HOPES ON
APPEAL: Directors of Northern Electric went into an emergency board meeting last
night after the £782m hostile bid from American CE Electric was thrown into
chaos over the weekend.  NATWEST SUSPENDS 18 OVER NORWICH FLOAT: The Personal
Investment Authority is investigating a number of cases of insurance advisers
suspected of trying to cash in illegally on free shares to be issued in the £4
billion float of the insurance giant Norwich Union.

INDEPENDENT: LOYALISTS BLOW CEASEFIRE AWAY: Northern Ireland was last night
feared to be lurching towards escalating violence as loyalist groups broke their
two-year ceasefire with a bomb attack on a leading Belfast republican.  HELP
WANTED - MOTHER TERESA NEED NOT APPLY: Homeless charities are issuing a plea to
volunteers for next Christmas - a few more cleaners and drivers, please, and a
few less Mother Teresas of Soho.  LABOUR MPs' BY-ELECTION PLOY MAY DRIVE MAJOR
INTO MINORITY: John Major could be heading a minority Government within a month
as Labour backbenchers prepare for a Christmas coup which could lead to a
by-election defeat for the Conservatives.  City: NEW NORTHERN BID DEADLINE
DISPUTED: BZW, the investment bank advising Northern Electric, is today expected
to seek leave to appeal against a Takeover Panel ruling which extended the final
deadline for a £782m hostile takeover bid for the company by US-controlled CE
Electric from Friday until lunchtime tomorrow.  PENSION FUNDS HIT OUT AT
GREENBURY CODE ON TOP PAY: Britain's big investors yesterday launched a surprise
attack on the effectiveness of the Greenbury code of practice on executive pay.

FINANCIAL TIMES: BLAST PUTS ULSTER BACK ON BRINK OF ALL-OUT CONFLICT: Northern
Ireland was on the brink of a return to full-scale conflict after a leading
republican was injured in a bomb attack widely seen as marking the resumption of
loyalist terrorism.  BONN MINISTER ATTACKS 'UNFAIR' EU TAX HAVENS: Germany wants
the European Union to stamp out allegedly unfair national tax practices which it
says give foreign financial centres competitive advantages.  NORTHERN ELECTRIC'S
FATE HINGES ON APPEAL OUTCOME: The survival of Northern Electric as an
independent regional electricity company depends on the result of an expected
appeal to the Takeover Panel that it should not be penalised for the actions of
its investment banking adviser, Barclays de Zoete Wedd.  Companies and markets:
TWO PREDATORS STALKED W.H. SMITH: Two UK companies have considered bids for W.H.
Smith, the high-street retailer, in the past six months.  INVESTOR TEAM AIMS TO
BUY WELCOME BREAK: Michael Guthrie, former chairman of BrightReasons, the
restaurant chain, is leading a team of venture capital investors seeking to buy
Welcome Break, Granada Group's motorway service chain.  APPLE'S PRODIGAL SON
RETURNS AFTER NEXT ACQUISITION: Steve Jobs, the young man who captured the
world's attention in the 1970s by founding Apple Computer with his friend
Stephen Wozniak, is back at the company.

GUARDIAN: BOMB PUTS ULSTER ON BRINK: Northern Ireland was on a knife-edge last
night as it waited to learn if the attempted murder of a leading republican
signalled the end of the loyalist paramilitaries' two-year ceasefire and the
resumption of tit-for-tat killing.  UNIONISTS FALL OUT OVER GOLDSMITH "DEAL":
The nine Ulster Unionist MPs whose votes may decide John Major's fate were last
night engaged in a fierce internal row over allegations that their party leader,
David Trimble, had negotiated a secret deal with the billionaire leader of the
Referendum Party, Sir James Goldsmith.  MI6 TOLD CABINET CHIEF OF SERB LINK: Sir
Robin Butler, the Cabinet Secretary, was warned by MI6 that the Tory party was
secretly receiving funds from Serb sources at the height of the war in the
former Yugoslavia, the Guardian has learned.  City: FAMILIES MISS OUT ON WORK:
Britain's growing army of jobless single parents means that three million
children will spend Christmas in a household without a wage earner, the Labour
Party said last night.  LAST-DITCH FIGHT IN NORTHERN TAKEOVER: Northern Electric
is set to mount a last-ditch attempt today to ward off the £782 million hostile
bid from American utility C E Electric by appealing against a Takeover Panel
ruling that allowed the bid to be extended until tomorrow.

EXPRESS: CEASEFIRE IS BLOWN APART: Ulster's shattered peace hopes hung by the
slenderest thread last night after Loyalist paramilitaries apparently ended
their two-year ceasefire.  MAJOR: EUROPE COULD BREAK US: John Major issued a
veiled hint yesterday that the Tory party split on Europe was so big it could
break up the party.  Sport: JERKAN GOT ME SENT OFF SAYS ANGRY WRIGHT: Ian Wright
last night blamed Nikola Jerkan for his controversial dismissal at Nottingham
Forest.  ENGLAND ROBBED: England saw victory snatched away in one of the
greatest Test match finishes by the wide that never was.

MAIL: CRASH FILM GO-AHEAD MAY SINK CENSORS: Censors are poised to approve the
'sex and wrecks' film Crash for full release ... The move will create an uproar
and dramatically increase pressure for the board to be replaced with a tougher
and more accountable body.  CAR BOMB PUTS ULSTER ON VERGE OF BLOODBATH: Ulster
was on the brink of a new round of blood-letting last night after loyalist
paramilitaries tried to murder a prominent republican once described as an 'IRA
Godfather'.  SPICE GIRLS HIT NO 1 AS SHOPS CHART SALES BOOM: The Spice Girls
shot to the top of the charts yesterday, fulfilling booies' expectations of
being No.1 for Christmas.  Sport: ENGLAND'S KNIGHTMARE: Nick Knight could not
mask his frustration as an outraged England were denied victory by just one run
in yesterday's historic Test finale.  RED ALERT FOR WENGER: Arsenal's title
challenge is being undermined by referees over-reacting to the club's poor
disciplinary record, according to manager Arsene Wenger.

MIRROR: WONDER BALD: Oasis idol Liam Gallagher reveals his new morning glory - a
near bald hairdo.  LINFORD'S SORROW: Olympic sprinter Linford Christie flew back
to Britain devastated by the street murder of his crooked brother.  PEACE HOPES
HIT: The Northern Ireland peace process suffered a devastating blow when a car
bomb shattered a two-year ceasefire by Loyalist terrorists.  Sport: HERE'S TO
YOU MR ROBINSON: England were furious after being cheated out of an historic
Test victory.  DWIGHT CHRISTMAS: Dwight Yorke and Savo Milosevic ended
Wimbledon's amazing 19-game unbeaten run - and heralded their own bid for the
Championship.

SUN: MRS FALDO'S BOOZY TENNIS HUNK SACKED: A hunky tennis coach who had a fling
with Nick Faldo's wife Gill has been sacked over a boozy brawl at his club's
Christmas do.  TEST HISTORY AS ENGLAND ARE ROBBED: England's cricketers failed
to win the First Test against Zimbabwe by a single run yesterday - in a match
that made history.  Sport: SHIVER ME ZIMBERS: England were furious at the
outrageous decision they believe cost them a First Test victory.  SHIVER ME
WIMBERS: SAVO ENDS DONS' RUN: Savo Milosevic's two-goal blast ended Wimbledon's
19-game unbeaten run.

STAR: BYE BYE BOYZ: Boyzone pin-ups Ronan Keating and Stephen Gately are
secretly planning to go solo - forcing Britain's biggest-selling band to SPLIT.
MERRY XMAS BRITAIN. YOU'VE EARNED IT, SAYS MAJOR: Buyant John Major turned on
the festive cheer yesterday to tell Britain: "Have a good Christmas you deserve
it." POP! PROUD DAD SAVO BURSTS JOE'S BALLOON: Proud dad Savo Milosevic put
Aston Villa in party mood last night as he took his team-mates out on the town.
JOIN ME AS NO 2 NIGEL PEARCE: Nigel Clough will make his return to Nottingham
Forest permanent by becoming Stuart Pearce's right-hand man.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1996 The Press Association Limited

                               3 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               December 24, 1996

Alert as IRA targets election;Mainland bomb fears

BYLINE: By James Mckillop;

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 883 words


THE rapidly deteriorating peace process in Northern Ireland is creating
unprecedented problems for British police and security forces in the run up to a
General Election.

The possible break up of whatever peace now exists in the Province could not
have come at a worse time for those responsible for enforcing law on the
mainland.

A fresh outbreak of sectarian killings in Northern Ireland is bound to lead to
attempted outrages on the mainland, especially in the period around a General
Election, intelligence sources confirm.

While Britain's top anti-terrorism officer was warning the public in cities to
remain alert for a possible terrorist attack on the mainland even on Christmas
Eve, his major concern and that of MI6's most senior officials is concentrated
on what the IRA might be contemplating in the next few months.

Commander John Grieve, head of Scotland Yard's anti-terrorism branch, has warned
last-minute shoppers not to be complacent. He feared that the IRA could be
planning a "spectacular" to capture headlines throughout the world.

Police and intelligence forces might have scored major successes against would
-be IRA bomb attacks on the mainland in recent months, and as a result they fear
that the public could become complacent.

"That would just be falling into the terrorists' trap," an intelligence source
said last night.

"Their main aim is to capture coverage on television bulletins and banner
headlines in newspapers world-wide. You can never take it for granted that
because in the past they have held off from an attack in the immediate period
around Christmas Day, that will always be the case."

However, a major concern for the security forces is the forthcoming General
Election. Potential political targets requiring protection will increase many
fold.

The security around party leaders will be tightened to an unprecedented extent.
However, there are many others, including back benchers, who will also require
protection from a possible IRA attack.

"The situation is serious," said one source. "While plans have been in existence
for some time over the protection of certain individuals during an election, the
events over the weekend not only mean these plans will have to be reviewed ...
they will have to be upgraded."

Commander Grieve emphasised that intelligence on possible IRA operations was
possibly as good as it has been by issuing the description of a 6ft tall man
with wide, staring eyes they want to trace in connection with an October raid on
lock-ups in Shepherd's Bush, London.

He was captured on CCTV cameras 24 hours before masked men, armed with bolt
cutters, broke into 55 out of the 200 or so self-storage lock-ups.

He had no doubt that the IRA was involved in this operation and that it was in
the 55th lock-up they found what they were looking for.

It could have been Semtex, arms, detonators, or timing devices they recovered.

Intelligence sources say it is important that the IRA know that they are on
their tail. Even more important if they feel the public is watching their every
move.

Loyalist paramilitary groups were last night under universal pressure not to
call off their ceasefire and plunge Northern Ireland into a renewed sectarian
war.

They remained silent on their intentions and made no claim of responsibility for
the bombing which injured leading republican Eddie Copeland in Belfast's
Ardoyne.

No-one believed the loyalists did not carry out the attack - but there was a
glimmer of hope that they would hold to their two-year-old cessation, at least
for the time being.

The Combined Loyalist Military Command will decide which way to jump - war or
peace - but it may be the IRA that makes up their minds for them.

Another attack from the IRA, and loyalist gunmen are almost certain to be
unleashed.

Irish Opposition leader Bertie Ahern claimed that the ''bleak and sombre"
position in Northern Ireland showed up the political inadequacy of Britain's
handling of the peace process.

Mr Ahern, head of Fianna

Fail, Ireland's biggest political party, also directed intense criticism at the
IRA for the shooting of the policeman. He called the attack "a heinous and
inhuman act" as well as a direct attack on democracy. He urged the IRA to
declare an immediate ceasefire.

Ulster remained on a knife-edge awaiting developments. The security forces
stepped up operations while republicans increased their personal precautions.
Joint Garda-Army patrols were stepped up along the southern side of the border
as part of contingency plans to counter the threat of loyalist bombers.

Ulster Secretary Sir Patrick Mayhew led the pleas to the loyalists not to return
to tit-for-tat violence.

"What has brought them great influence in the talks is their restraint. If they
go back into tit-for-tat violence, they will suffer, as will the people of
Northern Ireland, very considerably indeed."

Sinn Fein president Gerry Adams called for all paramilitary groups to exercise
restraint at Christmas.

o About 100 terrorists were released yesterday from Northern Ireland's jails to
spend Christmas with their families. About 20 men serving sentences in the
Republic for IRA-linked offences were also freed for Christmas.

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1996 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                               4 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               December 26, 1996

No Headline Present

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 499 words


Seer warns of a year of near disaster

A METEOR the size of a small planet will narrowly miss the earth next year and
the royal family will be targeted by a terrorist bomb attack, according to
Scotland's leading mystic.

These are just two of the gloomy forecasts made by Highland seer Swein MacDonald
for the forthcoming year.

The seer who predicted the Braer oil tanker disaster four years ago, just days
before it happened, says that 1997 will bring much "tension, aggression, stress,
strain, and worry".

Mr MacDonald also correctly foretold the outbreak of war in the Falklands in
1982.

Among his New Year predictions the soothsayer, who claims to have the ancient
Celtic gift of second sight, claims:

o A terrorist bomb attack on the royal family in June which will result in
"injuries but no deaths".

o A possible return to war with Argentina over the Falklands.

o A "colossal" earthquake in Los Angeles which will result in hundreds of deaths
and a huge loss of land into the sea.

o Tony Blair's new Labour will romp home to a landslide election victory but he
will not last long at No 10.

o Unemployment will rise dramatically.

o And a huge meteor will narrowly miss the earth, causing fierce storms and
tidal waves.

But the good news is that the end of year will see many "changes for the
better".

Mr MacDonald, 64, speaking from his small croft in Ardgay, Sutherland, said: "I
am not at all looking forward to the coming year. I see a lot of pain and
suffering."

"I think the royal family are in grave danger. I see something like an explosive
going off at a private function in June. It will be planted long before they
arrive."

A spokesman for Buckingham Palace refused to make any comment on the grim
warning, despite Mr MacDonald's correct forecast of the marriage split between
Prince Charles and Princess Diana in 1992.

The crofter also sees a possible resumption of the war between Britain and
Argentina over ownership of the Falklands.

He said: "I see problems over land ownership in the Falklands once more. A war
could erupt there again.

"The biggest earthquake Los Angeles has ever seen will happen in July. I see
multiple fatalities in that one. Large chunks of land will be lost there, too.

"There will be a change of government after the General Election. But it will
soon become clear that the promises that have been made cannot be kept and the
new leaders will not last long."

In one of his more dramatic predictions he claims that Earth will come very
close to complete destruction.

"A huge meteor will fall from outer space and will head towards the earth. It
will be the size of a small planet and will be completely out of control.

"It will not hit earth, but it will come very close and cause a tidal wave and
major storms all over the world."

Mr MacDonald, a stonemason by trade, says he began having his visions after a
load of bricks fell on his head 28 years ago.

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Swein MacDonald: claims second sight.

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1996 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                               5 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                           December 29, 1996, Sunday

RACE AND RELIGION: A GENTLER FACE OF ISLAM

SECTION: THE OBSERVER NEWS PAGE; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 3574 words

HIGHLIGHT: Islamophobia, a hatred of all things Muslim, is gripping Britain,
according to the country's top race-relations think tank. Who is to blame for
this intolerance and do we need new laws to religious freedom? Barry Hugill and
Martin Brightreport.


B RITAIN has become a nation of Muslim haters. Where the targets were once Jews
or blacks or Asians, Muslims with their associations with fundamentalist
terrorism and summary justice have become the new hate figures for the Nineties.

And Islamophobia is in danger of becoming institutionalised unless the law is
changed to outlaw religious as well as racial discrimination.

'In 20 years it has become more explicit, more extreme, more pernicious and more
dangerous . . . (it) is part of the fabric of everyday life in modern Britain,
in much the same way that anti-Semitic discourse was taken for granted earlier
in this century.'

These claims might appear extreme, but they are not propaganda from Islamist
activists or fundamentalist Muslim clerics. They come from a report of the
Runymede Trust, a race-relations think-tank, compiled by a committee including
the Bishop of London, Richard Chartres; Rabbi Julia Neuberger; and Professor
Akbar Ahmed, a Cambridge don and Britain's leading Muslim academic.

The report concludes that British Muslim demands for a change in the law to
recognise religious discrimination should be taken seriously.

Its findings challenge liberal orthodoxy which, while defending the right to
religious freedom, would take issue with the practices of some Islamic states,
not least the Iranian fatwa on Salman Rushdie, supported by many British
Muslims. In the last week, those looking for examples of Islamic brutality have
been supplied with plenty of examples. In Saudi Arabia two British nurses are
facing execution by the sword, while in Afghanistan the latest rough justice
from the Taliban saw a murderer shot in front of a crowd of 10,000. Every week
the media carry reports of Islamist atrocities in Algeria, bombs in France and
terrorist threats against Israel and the West.

Last week, at the Masjid Ibraheem, a mosque in Upton Park, east London, talk
quickly turns to Islamophobia. The hundred or so young British Muslims gathered
in this converted car showroom have decided to spend the Christmas break
learning more about their own religion during a lecture tour organised by Young
Muslims UK.

The speaker is Yacub Johnson, a gently-spoken British convert who explains that
the basis of Islam is 'looking after your parents, relatives, neighbours and the
rest of creation'.

When he has finished, questions show that his audience has not been reading the
same propaganda: 'How can we explain to our Western friends that Islam is not a
terrorist or fundamentalist religion?'; 'Are you affected by the bombardment of
anti-Muslim feeling that comes from the media?'; 'Do you believe Prince Charles
when he says he respects Islam?'; 'Are you shocked by Islam's position on women,
slavery, punishment?'

For these young people - the children and grandchildren of Muslim immigrants
from the Indian sub-continent - fear and distrust of Islam is an everyday
reality.

Winding up, one of the organisers asks tantalisingly: 'Why does no one blame
Catholicism for the terrorist acts of the IRA?'

'You can see that it has the same roots as anti-Semitism,' says Johnson, who
lectures to young Muslims. 'Many Muslim immigrants have chosen to keep their
heads down and work very hard and as a result many have got on very well. That
has caused resentment in places like the East End.'

There are now over a million Muslims in Britain and the second and third
generations are not so prepared to keep their heads down.

The alternative Christmas lectures are part of a rediscovery of Islam among
Britain's Muslim youth. And one of the key campaigns for Young Muslims UK is to
give religious discrimination the same status in law as discrimination on
grounds of race and gender.

'There are laws protecting Jews and Sikhs because they are recognised as ethnic
groups, but there is nothing protecting Muslims. How can you prove that you are
being discriminated against when the state doesn't recognise the form of
dsicrimination,' says Dilwar Khan, who helped organise an alternative Christmas
lecture at the East London Mosque in Whitechapel, which attracted over 300
people a day.

Young Muslim UK spokesman Nozmul Hussein points to the problems faced by Muslim
women who wear traditional dress in the workplace. 'Islamophobia affects young
Muslims, it affects our women and it affects our children. The problems we had
with race relations in this country 50 years ago, we are now facing with
religious discrimination.'

Some young British Muslims have undoubtedly turned to the wilder fringes of
Islamic radicalism. The anti-Zionist, homophobic Al-Muhajiroun movement, closely
linked to Islamist dissident organisations in London, has found ready recruits
on the campuses of British universities.

'The media only highlight some aspects of Islam,' says Khan. 'When you ask an
English person what they think about Islam, they say "You oppress women and chop
off thieves' hands". What about the other side?'

The other side is Yacub Johnson's caring Islam. But mad mullahs, campus jihad
and the Islamic hordes battering at the gates of Europe will always make for
better copy than 'looking after your parents, relatives, neighbours and the rest
of creation'.

And there are plenty of real examples of Islamic violence to satisfy the mildest
Islamophobe. As the Middle East historian Fred Halliday has pointed out:
'Islamists espouse gross racist generalisations about Jews, the West and Hindus;
they are committed to a long-term struggle with the West, seen as decadent and
aggressive, and to a militant, intransigent conflict with the historic enemy.'

Islamophobia is a word used in the Middle East to describe the hostility of the
West to the Arab world. In the black ghettos of the US it is used by born-again
Muslims to justify their demands for an exclusively Islamic state. And,
increasingly in Britain, it is the battle cry of militants urging holy war
against the infidels.

Islamophobia depicts Islam as 'cruel, fanatical and barbaric'. Elements of it
have been around for centuries but it took its modern form around the time
Communism collapsed. In newspapers here, and in the US, commentators began to
refer to the 'new menace to the West'.

The Runnymede report makes it clear Islam itself is not beyond reproach: 'In a
liberal democracy it is inevitable and healthy to criticise and condemn,
sometimes very robustly, opinions and practices with which we disagree. It is
legitimate to criticise policies and practices of Islamic states, especially
when they do not subscribe to human rights. Similarly, it is legitimate to
criticise the treatment of women in some Islamic countries.'

So what then differentiates an Islamophobe from a critic of certain aspects of
Islamic practice? Essentially, it boils down to a refusal to accept that Islam
is anything other than monolithic and unchanging. From this stems the failure to
distinguish between Islam in Britain and Islam in other countries.

The Algerian fundamentalists slitting the throats of women who do not wear
traditional dress are perceived to be cousins of our own small shopkeepers. And,
in turn, no difference is seen between the throat-slitters and the Muslim women
they are killing.

It is almost certainly true that the majority of non-Muslims have no idea of the
difference between Sufism, Shiism or Sunnism, or are able to differentiate
between Islamic modernism and revivalism. The phobic, however, when told the
differences would disregard them.

The phobic uses a number of recurring metaphors to refer to Muslim communities
within Europe, including: fifth column, bridgehead, enclave, Trojan Horse and
enemy within. Sir Alfred Sherman, a former adviser to Margaret Thatcher, has
written about the 'Muslim threat to Christian Europe' and the 'gradual Muslim
colonisation of western and central Europe'.

Bernard Levin holds similar views: 'Do you realise that in perhaps half a
century, not more, and perhaps a good deal less, there will be wars in which
fanatical Muslims will be winning? As for Oklahoma, it will be called
Khartoum-on-the-Mississippi, and woe betide anyone who calls it anything else.'

Such language, concludes the committee, is 'extreme, pernicious and dangerous'.
Dangerous because it fuels the flames of racism against the one million British
Muslims. And it is a factor in the discrimination suffered by Muslims. Jews and
Sikhs, for example, are recognised in law as ethnic groups and thus protected
under the Race Relations Act - Muslims have no such recognition.

It is pernicious to claim one minority group suffers more discrimination than
another (it is no consolation to an Afro-Caribbean beaten up by white thugs to
be told Asians are statistically more likely to be attacked), yet the majority
of people killed by racist violence in recent years have been Muslims. 'It
cannot be seriously doubted that Muslim communities in Britain suffer from
racist violence and harassment even more than do other minority communities,'
concludes the committee.

The Runnymede Committee is concerned that media obsession with the most extreme
forms of Islam will lead to further discrimination, but underlying its report is
a second, unstated fear. The more all Muslims are dismissed as fundamentalists,
the riper the pickings for extremist organisations such as Al-Muhajiroun with
its call for Khilafah (Islamic government) in Britain.

Walk round the Asian part of any British city and read the flyposters. It may be
the television age, but the Muslim militants are proving there is still a mass
audience for the old-fashioned public meeting.  In London, Leicester, Bradford
and Blackburn - indeed, any place with a sizeable Muslim population - a struggle
is taking place for the hearts and minds of the young. It is most marked in
colleges and universities, but is now spilling over into schools.

For the zealots of Al-Muhajiroun, Islamophobia is a gift from God. Talk of rag
-heads, mad mullahs and urban-turbans makes it so much easier for them to
convince young British Muslims that 'global reawakening of the Muslim Ummah
(world Islamic government)' is imminent and with it the rightful slaughter of
Jews and homosexuals.

As history shows, intolerance breeds intolerance.

The roots of Islamophobia:

Islam and conquest

Mohammed and his successors, the Umayyad caliphs, were extremely sucessful
military leaders. In the century following the death of the Muslim prophet in
AD632, Arab armies conquered the Byzantine and Persian empires and spread the
Muslim faith as far as Spain in the west and India in the east. Pride in these
military conquests is an important part of Muslim identity .

Islam and Christianity

Much Islamophobia takes its inspiration from a traditional hostility between
Christian Europe and the Islamic world further east. In the eleventh century the
Christian nations of Europe began a series of military operations to seize
Jerusalem from Muslim control. The Crusades are still seen as a great affront to
Muslim pride. As recently as 1683 the Muslim forces of the Ottoman emperor
Suleiman reached the gates of Vienna.

Islam and jihad

Strictly speaking, all Muslim men are committed to take part in jihad (holy war)
to convert non-believers to Islam. In the colonial period most Muslim scholars
moderated their view of jihad - it was no longer necessary where Muslims were
permitted to practise their religion. Most Muslims today understand jihad in its
metaphorical sense.

Islam and tolerance

Muslims recognise all the prophets of the Old Testament. They also view Jesus as
a prophet but do not believe he is the son of God. Christians and Jews living
under Muslim rule are to be treated with respect although the Koran says they
should pay a special tax. Muslims often point to the fact that many Jews forced
to flee the Christian Inquisition in Spain found refuge in Muslim countries.

Islam and women

Men and women are equal in the eyes of God, according to the Koran. But the
treatment of women differs greatly across the Islamic world according to local
cultures. There is nothing in the Koran which says that women have to cover
their heads or faces, although it does urge women to dress modestly in front of
men they do not know.

Many property and marital rights guaranteed to Muslim women since the seventh
century have only been won by Western women in the last century. Nevertheless, a
woman's word is still regarded as inferior to a man's in Islamic courts.

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               6 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               December 31, 1996

Northern Ireland closer to Scotland, claims Trimble

SECTION: Pg. 9

LENGTH: 414 words


ULSTER Unionist leader David Trimble said yesterday that the province might
consider closer links with an independent Scotland than with England.

However, he added that he did not think that would happen, as he did not believe
Scots would quit the Union.

"But if Scotland leaves England, we then have a choice as to which we go with,"
he said in an interview for BBC Radio Scotland.

"And of course the human, social, geographic, and economic ties between the
people of Northern Ireland and Great Britain lie more with Scotland than with
England.

"But I don't think the situation is going to arise, because I don't think the
people of Scotland as a whole are going to break up the Union."

The Union was the "foundation" of the benefits that all its component countries
had derived from their 300-year-old relationship together, "and I don't think
that's going to break up on the whim of a few parties", he said.

Mr Trimble also spoke of his concerns at Labour's plans for a devolved Scottish
parliament with powers to vary income tax.

Ulster unionists would "caution against that", he said. "Taxes and benefits and
expenditure go side by side."

Both Scotland and Northern Ireland benefited from the present system, where
equal taxation entitled them to equal levels of public expenditure. "Once you
differ on the fiscal side, you destroy the argument for equality of
expenditure," he said, adding that arguments for higher public spending could
only be made on the basis of equality of taxation.

Tax differences between Scotland and England could reopen the question,
threatening the unity of the UK.

Meanwhile, Mr Trimble also suggested a suspension of multi-party talks before
the forthcoming General Election, saying that it was already having an influence
on the nature of the talks.

o Next year will be a defining one for the Northern Ireland peace process, Sinn
Fein's chief negotiator Martin McGuinness said yesterday.

As fears rose of renewed IRA violence to mark the start of 1997, Protestant
paramilitaries - who tried recently to kill two senior republicans in Belfast
and Londonderry - were urged not to get drawn into all-out conflict.

Loyalist representatives are working on the assumption that the Combined
Loyalist Military Command truce of October 1994 is still holding.

Mr McGuinness called for inclusive talks and said: "We have seen in recent weeks
a slide back into conflict. That needs to be arrested."

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1996 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                               7 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                January 1, 1997

Cowardice of the bombers.  Terrorists must never be allowed to triumph

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 385 words


THE bomb attack in Assam on the Delhi-bound Brahmaputra Mail, in which at least
60 people have died so far, is being blamed on Bodo tribal guerrillas who have
been waging a violent separatist struggle against India since the early 1980s.
It is a timely reminder that, while the IRA has made us familiar with both the
activities and mentality of terrorists, we in Britain are not alone in the world
in suffering from the actions of people, unwilling, or possibly unable, to use
the ballot box to secure their ends, who claim to be freedom fighters.

When you have troubles of your own those of others become less important, and
when the outrages happen in places one has hardly heard of, if at all - Assam,
Nagaland, Mizoram, Manipur, and Tripura do not spring readily to mind, let alone
occur in everyday conversation as might Northern Ireland - the temptation to
shrug one's shoulders, turn the page, or switch television channels is
overpowering. This outrage, of course, happened in India, a country where, as
elsewhere in the East, life is allegedly cheap. But life being cheap does not
condone the bombers, the most cowardly of all "freedom fighters" since they
seldom put themselves at risk and invariably place their bombs where

people with no reason to expect such dangers are killed or maimed.

The situation in Assam is not new. Some 1000 people have died since the animist
Bodos began their struggle. Assam may appear to us a remote spot well beyond our
daily ken, but it is the same for Delhi which is accused of indifference to the
prevailing poverty and corruption. Perhaps a country can be too big, too
ethnically mixed for its own good. It is worrying to be told that the incidents
which have plagued the region over this past month, of which the attack on the
train is the worst, do not necessarily represent an escalation of violence but
are the result of reduced vigilance at the end of the year. Security forces in
the region, redeployed during the General Elections in April and May last year,
were apparently not restored to full strength afterwards. As one analyst said:
"The year end is a good time to let off a bang." The Bodo tribe may have a case
for independence. It should be considered on its merits, even if granting it
opens floodgates, not because of a bomb.

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1997 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                               8 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                January 3, 1997

Lockerbie's lost lesson

BYLINE: Gerard Seenan

SECTION: Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1008 words


Gerard Seenan looks at how

airport security is still very much a lottery in many countries despite

the technology being available

AT 7.19pm on December 21, 1988, radar contact with PanAm's Boeing 747, the
Clipper Maid of the Seas, was lost. Seconds later, the plane exploded killing
270 people, 11 from the small town of Lockerbie. There are numerous theories on
who planted the bomb in the aircraft's hold and where it was planted. The
families of those killed at Lockerbie are currently seeking legal advice on Lord
MacKay's refusal to re-open the Fatal Accident Inquiry. They believe the inquiry
must be opened again, or a fresh inquiry begun, after the German's government
insisted that there was no evidence to support the theory that the bomb was
planted in Frankfurt.

No-one has yet stood trial for the killings, the two men fingered by the FBI and
the Scottish police in 1991, Abdel Baset Ali Mohamed al-Megrahi and al -Amin
Khalifa Fhimah, have been the subject of a long-running extradition battle
between the British authorities and Libya. They are said to be innocent by MPs
like Tam Dalyell.

Their innocence is backed by the most persistent theory surrounding the
Lockerbie disaster: the "Maltese Double Cross". This theory says the bomb was
planted on an unwitting drugs courier by pro-Iranian terrorists as part of an
FBI drugs sting.

The FBI were double crossed: what they believed to be drugs was in fact a bomb.
Like most of the theories which surround what happened in Lockerbie it is based
on facts backed by conjecture, but there are some concrete facts to emerge from
the tragedy.

After hearing 61 days of evidence, Sheriff Principal John Mowat, QC, reported a
series of recommendations. One of these recommendations was for increased
airport security, particularly increased screening of baggage on international
flights. Nine years on, most countries have failed to introduce such screening.

Britain has a better track record than most, setting down some of the most
stringent security systems in the world. For the last two years reconciliation
of all hold luggage has been compulsory on international flights, this applies
similarly to transfer baggage. New rules requiring international flights to be
screened for explosives will also be introduced this year. However, British
passengers flying from UK airports could still be in danger, particularly when
their journey involves transfer at a foreign airport.

A new report by Holiday Which? magazine says that, worldwide, most airports have
not introduced the luggage-screening equipment necessary to detect the type of
plastic explosives used to blow up PanAm flight 103. Screening procedures are
inadequate and around 8000 unaccompanied bags can still be found on
international flights each day.

There are only 25 CTX5000 security machines capable of detecting plastic
explosives in use around the world; 10 of these have been installed in
Manchester Airport at a cost of £14m. Airlines and airports appear reluctant to
introduce more of such screening machines for two reasons: cost and the time
taken to screen baggage. A CTX5000 machine costs $ 1m and is capable of
screening only 250 bags per hour, less than the number of passengers on a
standard jumbo jet .

In comparison to the US, Britain has learned far more lessons from the Lockerbie
disaster. Up to the end of September last year, only four US airports - Atlanta,
Atlantic City, JFK and San Francisco - had introduced screening systems like the
CTX5000. Immediately after last July's TWA800 crashed off New York, killing all
230 people on board, President Clinton said security would be increased to cover
"every plane, every cabin, every cargo hold, every time". This was broadly what
Sheriff Mowat recommended in 1991.

Across Europe baggage screening varies enormously from country to country: in
Belgium all baggage has to be screened and reconciled, but in many other
European countries only between five and 10% of hold luggage is screened -
although this may be increased for "high-risk" flights to areas such as the
Middle East. On a world scale, the security procedures surrounding baggage are
even more inept. In Africa many countries have no screening at all, with the
exception of Egypt, Morocco, South Africa and Zimbabwe, screening is generally
inadequate.

One of the greatest problems surrounding airport security is the lack of any
international body to set up and enforce security standards or to carry out
regular inspections.

The standard of luggage screening varies not just from country from country, but
from airline to airline: it may be safer to travel to one country with one
carrier than it would be with another.

The international aviation body Icao has laid down some rules for baggage
handling and reconciliation.

However, these rules are not mandatory and they cannot be enforced, member
countries can opt out at will with no penalties for doing so.

The Department of Transport regulates and enforces security standards at British
airports and it also inspects the security procedures used by British Airports
abroad. Airlines are responsible for making sure these regulations are enforced
wherever they operate and must increase security procedures at foreign airports
if they do not meet these standards.

Passengers travelling with UK airlines do so under the benefit of these strict
regulations, but UK passengers travelling with foreign airlines may not be so
well protected. The comprehensive study carried out by Holiday Which?
recommends that at international body backed and paid for by airport taxes
levied by Governments - who are most often the actual target of terrorist
attacks on aeroplanes - should be set up.

Airports and airlines must also shoulder some of the blame: Manchester Airport
estimates that the cost of installing its £14m CTX5000 security system
translates to an additional cost of 44p per passenger. Surely that is not too
great a price to pay for increased safety.

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1997 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                               9 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 7, 1997

LEADING ARTICLE: ULSTER'S DEAD END POLITICS;
Progress is impossible unless there's a ceasefire

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGE; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 920 words


THE EFFECTS of the extended general election campaign are dire enough in
mainland Britain. But they pale into insignificance when compared with the
consequences in Northern Ireland. Here, we face nothing more threatening than
negative poster campaigns and radio interviews with tetchy politicians. There,
the long suspension of normal political life has become positively lethal.

Yesterday morning, terrorists drove up to the Northern Ireland High Court
building in Belfast and launched a rocket attack on a security post. The
previous day a 250lb explosive device was discovered and disarmed in South
Armagh. On New Year's Eve the IRA abandoned a gigantic 1,000lb bomb in the
grounds of Belfast castle. Five days before Christmas they tried to murder a
loyalist politician while he was visiting his sick son in hospital.
Fortunately, no one has yet died as a result of any of these incidents, a fact
which has led some to speculate that they are all carefully contrived warnings
rather than genuine attacks. But it can now only be a matter of time before
someone again perishes at the IRA's hands. The public's luck is sure to run out
soon.

There are still four months before the general election is scheduled to take
place. Rightly or wrongly, but wholly predictably, a politically beleaguered
Conservative government in London is not going to take any kind of Northern
Ireland initiative this side of polling day. If a Labour government is elected,
further weeks will have to pass before any fresh moves are made. So the Northern
Ireland peace process is therefore likely to remain in suspended animation for
at least the first half of 1997. One may regret this, but realistically there is
not much that anyone can do about it.

For the IRA to crank up the violence at such a time is a particularly fatuous
tactic. No good can come of it in any way. The IRA are not going to bomb their
way into political negotiations. They have even succeeded in alienating the
long-suffering John Hume. The British government is certainly not going to make
concessions in these circumstances. Nor is the Irish government, which could
face an election itself this autumn. And it seems deeply unlikely that renewed
shooting and bombing is going to win votes at the elections for Sinn Fein. All
that will happen is that people will get killed, that the atmosphere of fear
will deepen, and that the prospects of a principled settlement will diminish. To
call yesterday's attack "regrettable", as Gerry Adams did, is just a cop-out.

As ever, the IRA acts from motives which most people find hard to understand,
much less to support. But they are clearly intent on provoking a response either
from the security forces or from the loyalist paramilitaries. They are doing so
because their view of the world and perhaps their existence as an organisation
depend upon the continuation of confrontation. They need to promote an embattled
atmosphere within the nationalist population of Northern Ireland, partly in
order to justify the continuation of their bombing campaigns and partly in order
to maximise Sinn Fein's vote.

There could hardly be a better example of the bankruptcy of the IRA's approach.
They are offering dead end politics of the most uncompromising kind. Such
actions make it impossible for other parties to treat Sinn Fein as anything
other than a pariah. The IRA must be able to see this, and therefore must see it
as acceptable. Yet the only way forward for republicanism and for Northern
Ireland is exactly opposite to the one now being followed. It is for a ceasefire
to be reinstated. Without that, even slow progress is impossible.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              10 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                January 10, 1997

FOREIGN DIGEST

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 399 words


28 feared dead

in plane crash

MONROE, Michigan: A commuter plane carrying 28 people has crashed and burned in
a snowy field outside Detroit, apparently killing everyone aboard.

The twin-engine Embraer 120, operated by Cincinnati-based ComAir, went down just
before dusk in overcast weather as it approached Detroit Metropolitan Airport.
It crashed near a farmhouse 25 miles south of Detroit.

Doctor held

CALCUTTA: Police in Assam have arrested an Indian doctor, Dhaniram Baruah, who
claims to have transplanted a pig's heart, lungs, and kidneys into a patient who
later died. The results are expected today of a post-mortem examination which
will confirm if his claim is true.

Rushdie veto

ROME: Iran has twice come close to resolving the Salman Rushdie affair but a
settlement was blocked each time by a single European Union country, Foreign
Minister Ali Akbar Velayati said yesterday. In an interview with an Italian
newspaper he strongly hinted that Britain had blocked a deal. Mr Rushdie has
been under a fatwa, or death edict, issued by the late Ayatollah Khomeini in
1989 over The Satanic Verses. A Foreign Office spokesman said: "We demand the
lifting of the fatwa and nothing less than this will do."

Militants jailed

PARIS: A Paris court sentenced 26 members of an alleged militant Muslim support
network to up to eight years in jail on charges of ordering attacks in Morocco.
Meanwhile, police investigating last year's bomb attacks in which eight people
died arrested five people in the Lyons region.

Sorry, Ma'am

COPENHAGEN: A Swedish newspaper apologised for a rival publication which caused
a furore in Denmark by criticising Queen Margrethe for smoking. The
Gotebors-Posten news- paper lit up the skyline in Copenhagen with an electronic
billboard saying: "Our readers beg the queen's pardon".

Bogey's licked

WASHINGTON: The United States Postal Service is to star Humphrey Bogart in a
32-cent stamp due out in June, the third in its Legends of Hollywood series.
"Here's licking at you, kid," it said in a play on his famous line from the
classic film Casablanca.

Strike looms

SEOUL: South Korea's main labour union group, which claims 1.2 million members,
has called for the biggest strike in the nation's history from Tuesday in a bid
to force the government to dump a new labour law allowing firms to dump workers.

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1997 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              11 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                           January 16, 1997, Thursday

ANGER AS EIRE SETS A TERROR SUSPECT FREE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 379 words


The DUP has slammed the Eire government for refusing to extradite a terrorist
suspect to Germany.

Dublin Justice Minister Nora Owen said yesterday that she had been forced to
release the wanted man - Belfast-born James Anthony Corry - because of the terms
of Eire's 1965 Extradition Act.

Corry, a 27-year-old actor, is wanted by German police investigating a mortar
bomb attack on a British Army barracks in Osnabruck last June.

"Effectively, the Irish government has said that anyone carrying an Irish
passport and declaring Irish citizenship has an immunity certificate from
extradition and prosecution," said DUP spokesman Ian Paisley jnr.

Roisin McAliskey, the pregnant daughter of former mid-Ulster MP Bernadette
McAliskey, is in custody in Great Britain pending the hearing of an application
for her extradition to Germany in connection with the same attack.

Corry was arrested in Eire in November and appeared in court for proceedings
relating to the German extradition bid.

Ms Owen has freed him after being presented with a declaration of his Eire
citizenship.

The minister said she had been obliged to authorise the release because German
law did not permit the extradition of its own nationals.

This meant that it was not possible for the Dublin authorities to permit the
extradition of an Eire national to Germany.

A statement from Ms Owen's department said legislation dictated that
"extradition shall not be granted where the person claimed is a citizen of
Ireland, unless the relevant extradition provisions otherwise provide."

The statement said that there was no reciprocal arrangement in place between
Eire and Germany for the extradition of nationals.

The freeing of Corry - one of five people sought in connection with the
Osnabruck attack, in which buildings were damaged - marked the latest in a
series of legal problems to bedevil extradition applications lodged with Eire
during the Troubles

Most hitches have affected extradition bids by the United Kingdom and, despite a
number of law changes aimed at easing the position, a number of difficulties
have persisted.

In Dublin. Corry's release was seen as an inevitable new embarrassment for the
coalition government of Prime Minister John Bruton.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1997 Century Newspapers Limited

                              12 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Standard (London)

                                January 17, 1997

BRITAIN ACCUSED OF HARBOURING NEW YORK BOMBER

BYLINE: Colin Adamson

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 667 words



THE United States today joined growing international condemnation of Britain for
providing a haven for terrorists.

In a move that is bound to anger Prime Minister John Major, the US network
television channel NBC has reported that American security forces are
particularly dismayed that an Arab terrorist suspected of playing a leading role
in the New York Trade Centre bombing is able to slip in and out of London
without detection to meet with his lieutenants.

Called by the CIA 'a major threat,' Osama Bin Laden, the 39-year-old renegade
son of a Saudi billionaire, is feared to have been using these clandestine
meetings to carry out further attacks on the West.

CIA director John Deutch said of Bin Laden, who is also believed to be behind
two bombings of US servicemen in Saudi Arabia: 'He is a person who is a threat
to Americans throughout the world.'

The accusation that Britain is taking too soft a line with international
terrorists follows similar attacks by the French.

Bin Laden is said to operate like a successful international businessman,
subsidising and backing acts of terror against the West. He flies by private
jet, in and out of London, has Swiss bank accounts and puts out instructions to
his lieutenants on the Internet. His fortune is estimated at £200million and he
controls 400 followers.

He built training camps in the Sudan, educating scores of volunteers in the
techniques of terror.  US intelligence says he was behind an attempted
assassination of Hosni Mubarak and helped plan the attack on a military barracks
in Saudi Arabia that killed 19 American service people.

Bin Laden is now in Afghanistan conducting his own war against the Saudi
monarchy and the United States, according to Washington sources.

He has been called 'an impresario of terror' by the CIA.

The Prime Minister has already promised tougher action against terrorist groups
and their sympathisers using Britain as a haven.

Last year Mr Major said: 'If there is evidence to support criminal prosecution,
we will use the law."

Britain had a tradition of taking in people who feared persecution abroad but 'a
very delicate balance" had to be kept when people then used Britain as a base to
campaign against their home government, he said.


LOAD-DATE: January 21, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1997 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              13 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                            January 19, 1997, Sunday

TERROR SQUAD FOIL VIDEO BOMBS BLITZ;
A PLOT TO HIT LONDON WITH LETTER BOMBS DISGUISED AS VIDEO CASSETTES HAS BEEN
FOILED BY POLICE

BYLINE: Kim Sengupta

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 494 words


A deadly plot to hit London with letter bombs disguised as video cassettes has
been foiled by police.

One officer was shot during a raid on a Danish bomb factory, believed to be part
of a bomb campaign aimed at this country by Neo-Nazi terrorists.

Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist branch has been working closely with police
forces in Denmark, Germany and Sweden.

It is believed that extreme-right wing gangs in the UK and Germany had organised
the attacks, keeping themselves at arms-length by posting them from Scandinavia.

Security forces in Sweden intercepted three primed letter bombs at the port of
Malmo, where they had been taken to be posted to addresses in London.

The explosive packages had been assembled in the Danish city of Nivaa.

Danish police Commander Per Larsen said: "They were disguised as video tapes and
were to be sent to addresses in London.

"I will not at this point say anything about the intended recipients." Police
are examining links between the extremist Danish National Socialist Movement and
a British fascist group, Combat 18.

The man accused of shooting a Danish policeman during the raid in Nivaa has been
named as Thomas Derry Nakaba.

Danish-born Nakaba, 26, whose father is Japanese, is known to have links with
extreme-right wing groups in Britain, including Combat 18.

Five others, all Danish and aged between 20 and 22, were arrested.

Police also recovered 12 sets of detonators and plastic explosives intended for
future attacks.

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1997 MGN Ltd.

                              14 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 20, 1997

SPORT STARS ON LETTER BOMB LIST

BYLINE: Jon Henley In Helsinki And Owen Bowcott

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 960 words


LEFTWING activists and sports personalities married to blacks in Britain were
targets of a neo-Nazi letter bomb campaign organised from Copenhagen, Danish
officials revealed yesterday.

A number of intended victims in London have been warned about parcels containing
detonators capable of blowing off fingers.

After the arrest of seven young rightwingers on Saturday, both Danish police and
Scotland Yard declined to name any of the targets.

Thomas Derry Nakaba, aged 26, the alleged ringleader of the Danish group, who
all appeared in court in Copenhagen yesterday, is thought to have close links
with the extreme-right British paramilitary group Combat 18.

Nakaba, who is half-Japanese, was also charged with attempted murder after
allegedly shooting an officer in the groin as police raided his home. They were
acting on information from Scotland Yard's Special Branch through an
international criminal information liaison centre in Wiesbaden, Germany.

The six men and one woman, aged between 20 and 26, were arrested in Copenhagen
and Nivaa. They were part of an extreme-right group co-operating with similar
groups abroad, police commander Per Larsen confirmed.

"This looks like international terrorism," he said. "We would describe it as
among the most dangerous we have seen on Danish soil."

The court remanded five of the seven in custody for 27 days and freed two on
bail.

The raids uncovered neo-Nazi literature, a pistol and shotgun, a small amount of
explosive and 12 detonators.

Earlier on Saturday, Swedish police in Malmo intercepted three primed letter
bombs allegedly brought by Nakaba from Nivaa and posted to London addresses.

"They were intended for people known as left-leaning and for sports people
married to blacks," the Danish justice minister, Frank Jensen, told the
Berlingske Tidende newspaper.

The former Olympic swimmer Sharron Davies, now a TV presenter and married to
black athlete Derek Redmond, declined to comment, saying only: "It's a police
matter."

Earlier reports suggested the letter bomb targets may have been other members of
Combat 18 involved in an internal feud.  Formed from dissident members of the
British National Party, the group has recently been under heightened police
surveillance.

In January 1995, a police raid on several Essex homes unearthed copies of the
group's magazine, which included a death list and a bomb-making guide.

The death list included the names of the Metropolitan police commissioner, Sir
Paul Condon, and several MPs, including the Liberal Democrat leader Paddy
Ashdown.

Marc Wadsworth, a member of the London-based Anti-Racist Alliance, who had been
warned that he was on a death list, said yesterday there had been an increase in
racist abuse and a return to violence by the extreme right.

Denmark's free-speech laws have drawn a number of neo-Nazi groups to the
country.  The biggest of these, the National Socialist Movement, yesterday
denied any involvement with those arrested.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              15 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                January 21, 1997

Right back in the firing line

BYLINE: Margaret Vaughan

SECTION: Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1217 words


Neo-Nazis are adopting new tactics to lure younger people to join their violent
and bitter campaign of terror. Margaret Vaughan investigates

THEY like to see themselves as Hitler's heirs in our own country. They are no
more than thugs. They are the members of Combat 18, a neo-Nazi group linked to
the foiled letter-bomb campaign - targeting mixed race couples - which was
exposed at the weekend.

The television presenter Sharron Davies and her husband, the former Olympic
athlete Derek Redmond, were among those destined to receive a bomb in the post.
Scotland Yard, which has infiltrated neo-Nazi groups in Britain, tipped off
Danish police and undercover officers joined the police raid on a house in
Copenhagen.

Five suspects are now in custody accused of plotting the letter-bomb campaign
and two others, one a woman, were given bail.

The only one to be named was Thomas Derry Nakaba, 26, who is half-Japanese. He
has also been charged with shooting a policeman during the raid on his home.

The letter-bombs were concealed in video cassettes which were posted in Malmo, a
Swedish port city. They contained detonators capable of blowing off the fingers
of anyone attempting to open them. The devices had been assembled in the seaside
village of Nivaa, eight miles north of Copenhagen. Another 12 detonators were
found during the raids, as were neo-Nazi literature and symbols, a nine
millimetre pistol, and a pump-action shotgun.

Danish government ministers have confirmed that they were alerted to the group's
activities by Scotland Yard and a police intelligence clearing house in
Wiesbaden, Germany.

Detectives had followed Nakaba to Malmo, a short ferry-ride from Copenhagen,
where he posted the three devices. They were retrieved by Swedish police.

Nakaba has known links with Combat 18. Danish police believe he was running a
cell organising the letter bomb campaign but was controlled by Combat 18's high
command, as they like to style themselves.

It is not the first time Combat 18 have used mail terrorism to spread their
creed of hate. In 1995, Asian families in Leicester and elsewhere received
racist, threatening, and abusive cards and razor blades in the post.

But the operation in Denmark shines a murky light on the wider network links of
neo-Nazism.

According to Tony Robson, editor of the anti-fascist publication Searchlight -
which investigates and logs the activities of such groups - Combat 18 has links
with other ultra-right groups all over Europe, in Scandinavian countries, the
US, and South Africa.

Combat 18 first emerged in 1992. It pulled together a repellent rag-tag army,
made up of hardcore neo-Nazis, recruited from extremist football hooligans, the
Loyalist movement, and other far-right hot-head fringe groups in the UK.

The underground group has a violent paramilitary reputation. It was behind the
1995 riot by English fans in Dublin which resulted in the match being abandoned.
It takes the number in its name from Adolf Hitler's initials - A being the first
letter of the alphabet, H the eighth.

Unable to recruit and spread their repellent creed as quickly as they wanted,
they created a music scene and began to control it. Various neo-Nazi rock groups
emerged. They used lyrics and music to get their politics across to young people
at concerts held in smaller towns throughout the country. Big money began to be
made.

They would run their own bar, make cash out of merchandising and sell drugs.  It
became a very profitable and well-ordered business. Where there's muck, as the
saying goes, there is often a lot of brass. But it started to become attached to
sticky fingers.

Large sums of money disappeared. Around £120,000 was unaccounted for. There was
a split in Combat 18 ranks. Some severe violence was meted out - impromptu
justice.

So Combat 18 has split into factions. Robson believes that the main targets for
the letter-bomb campaign were probably members of one of the factions. The fact
that some letters were sent to others, including a mixed-race sporting couple,
may have been some "fun" on the side. They may still be targets but he thinks
the main intention was revenge by one faction against the other: "Certainly two
or three years ago, Combat 18 had a list with a lot of mixed -race couples on
it. And, of course, people are still at risk from these lunatics. But it is our
belief that two of the bombs were aimed at British Nazi groups."

The breakaway faction is now linking up to an American Nazi grouping and
probably aims to be its offshoot in the UK, Robson says.

This visible tip of a growing iceberg of neo-Nazism has, in recent years, spread
right through the Nordic region, across Europe, and has been accompanied by an
upsurge of racist violence.

The musical sub-culture has become its vehicle. In Sweden, for example, more
than 40 neo-Nazi or white power bands have emerged over the last two years.
Police monitoring the rise of the movement estimate there is at least one neo
-Nazi concert a month in Sweden, attracting crowds of up to 1000 at the big
events.

With names like True Blood, Steelcapped Strength, and Odium, these bands preach
from the stage against blacks, Jews, and homosexuals. Somalia Kickers was named
after band members who attacked, kicked and stamped on two Somalis in a country
town.

Concerts across Scandinavia, mainland Europe and the UK are organised in secret.
The bands' CDs may be manufactured in Taiwan and sold through mail -order
networks advertising in right-wing extremist publications.

"I think Nazi music has played a very important role in this rising tide of
neo-Nazism," says Robson. "Before they tried to get members by speaking, by
papers, but you don't attract young people by talking. Music works."

An investigation by the London-based Institute for Jewish Policy Research found
the level of neo-Nazism in Sweden was unusually and worryingly high: "The
neo-Nazi elements have found effective means of establishing a racist sub
-culture which has seen remarkable growth in the past years," the Institute said
in its 1996 Anti-Semitism World Report. "In fact, not since the war has
neo-Nazism been as self-confident as it it now."

Denmark's liberal freedom of speech laws have made it something of a neo-Nazi
haven, much to the irritation of neighbouring Germany where Nazi tracts and
paraphernalia are banned.

German groups have been able to post banned literature to German addresses from
Danish post boxes, including a list of 280 German leftists and liberals to be
"punished".

In 1995, Nazis from several countries were allowed to march in the Danish town
of Roskilde, west of Copenhagen, in protest against the arrest locally of the
German-American neo-Nazi leader Gary Lauck. He was later extradited to Germany
and jailed for four years for pumping banned extremist propaganda into Germany.
Lauck's material praised Hitler as the greatest of all leaders and described the
Nazi slaughter of millions of Jews as a myth.

And Nazi apologist Thies Christophersen published books and pamphlets denying
the holocaust from his home just north of Denmark's border with Germany for many
years until forced to move in 1994, at the age of 78, by protest demonstrations.

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Under threat: Sharron Davies, Derek Redmond, and son Elliot were
destined to receive a letter bomb.

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1997 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              16 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 22, 1997

INSIDE STORY: COMBAT FATIGUED;
The letter-bomb campaign aimed at prominent mixed-race couples suggests a
resurgence of the neo-Nazi group called Combat 18. But in fact, says Stuart
Millar, it is a desperate act by a minor movement fallen into disarray. QBY:
Stuart Millar

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGE; Pg. T6

LENGTH: 1920 words


WHEN the time comes for someone to sit down and write the short history of
Combat 18, this week will feature prominently.  After a period of apparent
inaction, Britain's most notorious Nazi extremists have burst back into the
public imagination in a plot loaded with ruthless violence and unbridled terror;
a letter-bomb campaign apparently targeted at homes of prominent sportspeople
and leftwing politicians. The hitlist has not been officially revealed, but is
widely understood to include Sharon Davies and her husband Derek Redmond. It
appeared that the long -promised race war had arrived, and C18 was about to live
up to its slogan: "White Revolution is the Only Solution".

The story also hinted at the long tentacles of Europe's extreme right,
stretching across borders in a shadowy world of conspiracy. The intercepted
letter bombs were sent from Denmark, where violent Nazis can be found in
abundance. At the weekend, Danish police charged seven youths in connection with
the campaign, after being tipped off by Scotland Yard.

But in the cold light of history, this latest episode will be rightly seen as
heralding the fact that Combat 18 is a spent force, riven by internal feuding
and on the point of returning to the gutter from whence it came.

This week, the rag-tag rump of thugs and hangers-on who still claim allegiance
to the cause were in a state of panic. Since holding a council of war on Sunday
they have gone to ground, fearing they too are about to be raided by police.
Combat 18 has long alluded to its terrorist potential, not least through its
close association with banned Ulster loyalist organisations.  But its belated
attraction to brutal murder is born out of desperation, not strength; proof that
its members are cornered rats, not rampant English lions.

Despite a knack for vivid self-promotion, the group has never managed to achieve
the levels of widespread violence it promised, save for a few isolated
incidents. In the short term, however, observers warn that a C18 with its back
to the wall will be a dangerous, unpredictable beast. Material obtained by the
anti -fascist magazine Searchlight shows the bombing campaign was aimed at six
targets, rather than three, as the authorities said.  Moreover, most of these
targets were opponents inside the far right, the aim being to settle old scores
rather than open a new front in the race war. The campaign was instigated last
week as the organisation crumbled into disarray.

"They know it is all over for them, and they appear willing to kill so they can
go down as martyrs," says Peter Brighton of Searchlight. "It's incredible that
the authorities here know who are behind this but are letting these people walk
the streets."

The end has been a long time coming. In 1992, a group of fanatics broke away
from the British National Party determined to use violence to live up to one
ideal: "We must secure the existence of our people and a future for white
children." Over the following months, C18 (the numbers refer to the numerical
position of Adolf Hitler's initials in the alphabet) was linked with incidents
across the country, from intimidation to direct action. The more established
fascist parties were forced to disassociate themselves from these tactics, not
from a sense of outrage but because they were rapidly losing members to C18,
while loyalists were finding themselves in the novel position of being the
victims in race-related tactics.

One of the organisation's first acts was to seize control of the lucrative and
burgeoning Nazi music industry, under the banner of the late and unlamented skin
band leader Iain Stuart Donaldson's network, Blood and Honour. It then
instituted a reign of terror to silence opponents and shut down independent
minded skinhead fanzines and bands which refused to cooperate, creaming off the
vast, tax-free profits to be ploughed back into its more political enterprises.

But the wheels fell of the bandwagon in 1995 when C18 was blamed for the crowd
violence in Dublin which halted England's football friendly against Ireland. The
organisation's involvement was marginal, but while C18 later claimed the riot
was a protest against the Anglo-Irish peace process, the real effect was to
finally focus the authorities' attention on the small band of extremists.

IN THE aftermath of Dublin, one name became famous: Charlie Sargent. Known
affectionately as Ginger Pig, Sargent (his real name is Paul), was elevated to
notoriety as the ruthless leader of a phenomenon many onlookers regarded as the
most potent threat to British democracy for decades. After three years of
inaction, the police began to crack the whip.

By last year the pressure of this attention had reached such intensity that C18
was effectively out of action, with the organisation suffering almost constant
setbacks. In February Sargent was arrested along with his most violent and
trusted lieutentant, Will Browning, who has been named in numerous racist
attacks, after police raided their homes. They are due to appear at the Old
Bailey in March charged with possession of materials - including compact discs
of skinhead music - likely to incite racial hatred.

Across the far-right, this was greeted as a sign that C18's period of dominance
was coming to an end, pitching the group into a series of bloody internecine
battles. Last month, these reached such a pitch that Sargent was expelled -
retired, by his account - as he rounded on his closest supporters. Many
hard-core fascists have questioned how he managed to cultivate an image of
gun-runner and drug-dealer, safe from prosecution, and have come to the
conclusion that he is a police spy.

There is also the small matter of pounds 80,000 of profits from the skinhead
music scene which have gone missing under his command. According to sources
within the movement, Sargent was one of those earmarked to receive an unwelcome,
and deadly, package from Denmark.

The result is that rival Nazi groups have emerged out of the shadows, waiting to
take over from C18. Searchlight has revealed the emergence of one young
pretender, known as British Hammerskins. Its organiser, Mark "Jaffa" Jones came
to prominence as a mercenary fighting for Croatian fascists in the former
Yugoslavia in 1992.  Photographed carrying powerful weapons, he stated his
desire that Croatia become the first National Socialist country after Germany.

The most glittering prize for whichever faction wins the civil war certain to
follow C18's demise is the multi-million pound Nazi music scene, currently in
the midst of a rebirth unprecedented in its 30 -year history. As the birthplace
of Nazi music, British bands are enjoying huge popularity across Europe,
creating a vast tax -free business that allowed C18 to plough thousands back
into the scene, rendering police raids to seize gear and racist material largely
ineffective.

In the meantime, anti-fascist campaigners are happy to sit back and watch the
organisation which promised to lead Britain into race war violently implode. As
one activist told Searchlight: "Things looked really good for C18 two years ago.
We had control of the vast majority of Britain's Nazi and fascist right, we ran
the music scene, we were in close contact with our comrades in the Ulster
paramilitaries and money was pouring in . . . Now we are in a shambolic state
and our international links are with the nobodies of the movement."

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              17 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 22, 1997

INSIDE EUROPE: COMMENT: PUT HEAT ON NAZIS

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FOREIGN PAGE; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 707 words


Politiken

WHENEVER Jonni Hansen does the goose-step or pronounces on the greatness of
Adolf Hitler from his fortress outside Copenhagen, the response is a combination
of revulsion and tolerance. "Good Lord," is the deprecating reaction, "the
Danish Nazi party leader and his few fellow-believers are just one bizarre sub
-culture among so many others."

But after last week's violent episodes in Denmark and Sweden (including the
discovery of letter bombs in Sweden apparently destined for leftwing activists
and black sports stars in Britain, and a shoot -out in Copenhagen in which a
policeman was wounded) we must take the Nazis much more seriously.

Far-right extremists are arming themselves, here and elsewhere.  Society, not
least the police, must do likewise. For years the importance of the microscopic
Nazi movement has been played down by politicians, police and the media and for
good reasons. Everybody has been convinced that the Danish people are so
thoroughly inoculated against Nazi infection that such a criminal ideology will
never become a factor in politics.

That view is not wrong, but it cannot stand alone. Although there is an immense
(and reassuring) difference between the conditions that led to a Nazi mass
movement in Germany in the 1920s and 1930s and contemporary Denmark, today's
Nazis do not have to become a mass movement to inflict irreparable damage on the
society they infest.

The plans that have been discovered show that like other terror groups, the
international neo-Nazi movement can create the desired attention, insecurity and
uproar (and hence influence politics indirectly) with the help of a small
network of well-organised lunatics willing to do anything, including terrorist
acts.

Letter-bombings in Austria and Britain in recent years all bear the hallmarks of
the extreme right wing. The Danish police must give higher priority to
surveillance of them and neo-Nazi circles.

Society has a right to expect the forces of law and order to follow these
groups' activities minutely, in collaboration with international police
agencies.

The principles of freedom of speech and association also apply to the enemies of
democracy but we must not be naive. If it can be proved that the Danish Nazi
party is systematically using violence to achieve its ends society must not
hesitate to use existing constitutional powers to ban it.

Copyright Reserved The Guardian/Politiken

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              18 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                           January 23, 1997, Thursday

BATON GUNS VITAL - RUC

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 368 words


The RUC is to challenge recommended guidelines on the use of plastic bullets.

Senior officers and rank and file members have expressed concern about proposals
from Her Majesty's Inspectorate of Constabulary that the system be brought into
line with England and Wales where officers fire plastic baton rounds to defend
lives not property.

Chief Constable Ronnie Flannagan said his officers had to contend with the
threat of terrorists using riots as cover for gun and bomb attacks.

"Our officers face, and are likely to face, in the field, public disorder which
is totally different in character to that faced by forces in Great Britain."

A spokesman for the Police Federation, which represents 11,000 RUC officers
said: "This proposal is totally unrealistic. What are we expected to do if they
attempt to burn down places like the Waterfront Hall in Belfast.  Stand by and
watch it?"

The Secretary of State had asked HMIC to look at the issue of plastic bullets as
part of its annual review of the force.

Last year, nearly 7,000 plastic bullets were fired by riot police in the
aftermath of the Orange Order stand-off at Drumcree when the force was faced
with widespread violence across the Province.

In yesterday's report, HMIC expressed concern that current guidelines include
protection of property and detection of crime as possible justification for
firing baton rounds.

The report conceded that the use of plastic rounds had saved lives and reduced
injuries during serious disturbances but said that 16 people had been killed by
the bullets since records began in 1972 and 511 had been injured since 1981. The
report recommends:

The RUC guidelines on use of baton guns should reflect the Association of Chief
Police Officers' manual of guidance in which officers may fire plastic bullets
to defend lives but not property.

Authority levels for the issue and control of plastic baton guns should be
reviewed to make senior officers more responsible for their use.

Consideration should be given to deploying baton gunners in dedicated teams
which have evidence gathering capability rather than deploying them individually
and leaving them to act independently.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1997 Century Newspapers Limited

                              19 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 23, 1997

NEWS IN BRIEF: EXTRADITION PLEA BY MCALISKEY FAILS

BYLINE: Owen Bowcott

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 280 words


TWO High Court judges yesterday rejected an appeal by Roisin McAliskey, daughter
of the former MP for Mid-Ulster, against being extradited to Germany to stand
trial for an alleged IRA mortar bomb attack.  Lord Justice Kennedy, sitting with
Mr Justice Mance, ruled that the fact Germany did not send its citizens abroad
for trial did not invalidate its request to extradite a British citizen.

Ms McAliskey, aged 25, is pregnant and has been in custody since November. She
is wanted in connection with a mortar attack on the British army barracks in
Osnabruck last June.

The judges rejected a claim on McAliskey's behalf that, under the European
Convention on Extradition, Germany's move was "unlawful and improper" because
there was no reciprocal arrangement.  If accepted, the judges ruled, the
argument would lead to the "surprising result" that Britons could commit crimes
elsewhere then come back to Britain confident they could not be returned to face
trial.

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              20 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 23, 1997

GENERAL BROUGHT TO BOOK OVER MEMOIRS;
Gulf war commander refuses to accept inclusion in blanket ban on SAS authors
visiting bases. David Fairhall reports

BYLINE: David Fairhall

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 2200 words


BRITAIN'S most decorated soldier, the Gulf war commander General Sir Peter de la
Billiere, refused yesterday to accept that he is banned from attending reunions
of his old regiment, the SAS, because he has written about their secret
exploits.

Other authors of bestselling books about the SAS have received letters from the
Ministry of Defence barring them from regimental bases, even to attend
remembrance services.

An MoD spokesman said: "The restriction applies to all those who have acted
against Special Forces' interests by publishing information about them."

But Sir Peter responded: "Both of my books were cleared by the MoD and the SAS
before publication. I have not received and do not expect to receive such a
letter."

Later he said: "This afternoon, for the first time, I have been informed by the
Ministry of Defence that all authors of books mentioning Special Forces and
written since the Gulf war, whether cleared by the MoD or not, are only welcome
on Special Forces property by invitation.

"I should add that ex-servicemen do not expect to visit any military
installation except by invitation."

An MoD spokesman emphasised yesterday that there are "no exceptions" to the ban
on grounds of rank, literary merit, or the extent of military disclosures.

"We will not admit to property occupied by the UK Special Forces any former
personnel who have acted against the Special Forces' best interests by
publishing information about them," he said.

"We would not wish to present those concerned with any further opportunity for
information gathering."

The general was accused of "opening the floodgates" to a succession of books
about his elite regiment with his publications - Storm Command, about the Gulf
war, and Looking For Trouble, his memoirs.

There have been 11 such books in total, seven of them bestsellers. This has
angered serving SAS officers, who regard secrecy as an important weapon in their
unconventional armoury.

The ban was introduced informally last year, and reinforced for serving soldiers
with written contracts binding them to confidentiality.

The fact that Sir Peter has not received a letter bluntly spelling out the new
rules is a tribute to his distinguished war record.

One defence source suggested he had already barred himself from SAS society by
resigning last year from the regimental association. But Captain James Rennie,
author of a book about undercover special forces operations in Northern Ireland,
described the general's treatment as a "gross public humiliation".

The former SAS sergeant Andy McNab, who wrote probably the most successful of
the exposures, an account of Bravo Two Zero patrol's unsuccessful exploits
behind Iraqi lines in the Gulf war, backed the MoD's move because "it shows
everybody is the same and will be treated the same".

In a BBC radio interview, he said: "Eighteen months ago, if an officer wrote a
book it was 'memoirs' and if a soldier wrote a book it was 'revelations'."

Tom King, the former defence secretary, said there was "a real problem" over the
number of SAS books being published. He was not surprised the MoD had taken a
stand, because it had a responsibility to ensure that SAS techniques were not
revealed and lives put at risk.

The shadow defence secretary, David Clark, said Sir Peter's books were much more
autobiographical than the others, and the MoD had probably over-reacted. "I
can't help feeling that because certain officers have got away with it in the
past by publishing books, where the other ranks have been punished, that on this
occasion Sir Peter is being made a scapegoat."

Tory MP Winston Churchill, grandson of the wartime prime minister, said the
MoD's actions towards Sir Peter were a "ridiculous over-reaction . . . very
heavy handed".

He added: "I believe Sir Peter has been treated badly. This is a ridiculous
over-reaction on the part of Whitehall.

"They would have done better maintaining the present position, namely, that it
is up to base commanders to decide who to invite and not invite on base."

Downing Street insisted the move was "not a matter of personalities" but an
attempt to ensure that writings about the SAS did not affect "one of the
greatest weapons in their armoury" - secrecy.

Sir Peter, aged 62, the most decorated man in the army until he retired five
years ago, set up the SAS's renowned counter-terrorist force in response to an
attack on the Munich Olympic Games in 1972 which left 11 people dead.

He was educated at Harrow and joined the Durham Light Infantry as a young
officer, serving in Japan and Korea. He first joined the SAS in 1956 and served
on operations in Malaya where he quickly received a mention in despatches.

Just three years later he was awarded the Military Cross for leading a troop
during an assault on the 10,000ft-high mountain Jebel Akhdar in Oman. He then
served in Aden with a rebellion in the Radfan hinterland and a bloody campaign
in the town's narrow alleyways where the SAS began to operate in plain clothes.

Such was Sir Peter's success that he was awarded a bar to his MC and his
reputation grew. He commanded A Squadron SAS from 1964-66 and eventually
commanded the entire SAS Regiment.

He was back in Oman from 1969-74 where he commanded operations to put down a
communist-inspired insurrection and won the Distinguished Service Order for what
colleagues referred to as "almost mythical" exploits.

With the counter-terrorist force in place, he oversaw the famous operation to
break the siege at the Iranian Embassy in 1980.  He commanded British forces in
the 1982 Falklands conflict and held regional commands in Britain before being
appointed to lead the Gulf war operation.

He spent a year as the defence secretary's Middle East adviser before retiring
in 1992 and joining Flemings Bank.

Who dares writes: from battle zone to bestseller

Bravo Two Zero by Andy McNab (1993): Bestseller reputed to have made its author,
a former SAS sergeant, a millionaire. He gives a detailed personal account of an
operation mentioned in De la Billiere's book, a Scud-hunting patrol behind Iraqi
lines that went desperately wrong when it was discovered by the Iraqis.

The One That Got Away by Chris Ryan (1995): Ryan, another former SAS sergeant,
who was billed as "the true hero of the Bravo Two Zero mission", was the one
member of Andy McNab's patrol to escape, across the desert into Syria. Another
bestseller.

The Operators by James Rennie (1996): Blow-by-blow account of undercover war
against the IRA in Northern Ireland, by former army captain who spent a year
with 14 Intelligence Company, "Britain's most secret military unit". Purports to
reveal every operational detail, right down to the radio codes.

The Nemesis File by Paul Bruce (1995): One of the latest to jump on the SAS
publishing bandwagon, "Paul Bruce" claims to have been a member of an SAS
assassination squad in Northern Ireland.  Virtually no one believes him, but the
book still sells.

Storm Command by General Sir Peter de la Billiere (1992):

The book that began the boom in SAS memoirs, by the commander of Britain's
forces in the Gulf war - himself a much-decorated veteran of undercover
operations in Malaya, Borneo and Oman. His book on the Gulf conflict revealed
for the first time the extent of SAS operations behind Iraqi lines, particularly
the hunt for Scud missiles.

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              21 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                January 23, 1997

RUC Chief Constable protests at new guidelines banning firing to protect
property;Challenge on plastic bullets

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 594 words


Recommended new guidelines in the use of plastic bullets in Northern Ireland are
to be challenged by the RUC.

Her Majesty's Inspector of Constabulary has proposed that the system be brought
into line with England and Wales, where officers fire plastic baton rounds to
defend lives but not property. In Ulster RUC officers can fire in both
instances.

The proposal is to be opposed by the rank and file and the Chief Constable,
Ronnie Flanagan.

Mr Flanagan said in Belfast yesterday: "Our officers face, and are likely to
face, in the field of public disorder which is totally in different in character
to that faced by forces in Great Britain."

He said his officers had to contend with the threat of terrorists using riots as
cover for gun and blast bomb attacks.

Last year nearly 7000 plastic bullets were fired by riot police in the aftermath
of the Orange Order stand-off at Drumcree, when violence erupted throughout the
Province.

Mr Flanagan said he looked forward to the day when the use of plastic bullets
would no longer be necessary.

A spokesman for the Police Federation, which represents 11,000 RUC officers,
said: "This proposal is totally unrealistic. What are we expected to do if they
attempt to burn down places like The Waterfront (Belfast's new £32m conference
and concert hall). Stand by and watch it?''

In yesterday's report, Her Majesty's Inspector of Constabulary calls for a
review of the guidelines over the use of plastic bullets.

He says he is concerned that the current guidelines include protection of
property and detection of crime as possible justifications for using plastic
baton guns.

While the report says that use of plastic bullets has saved lives and reduced
injuries during serious disturbances, it says that 16 people have been killed by
the bullets since records began in 1972, and 511 have been injured since 1981.

Yesterday's report recommends:

oThe RUC guidelines on use of baton guns should reflect precisely the
Association of Chief Police Officers' manual of guidance, under which officers
may fire plastic bullets to defend lives but not property

oAuthority levels for the issue and control of plastic baton guns should be
reviewed to make sure senior officers are more actively involved in
responsibility for their use

The inspector supports use of the guns as a valuable tactical option for the
police, for example in controlling rioters armed with petrol bombs.

But his report warns: "There is a risk that in those areas where baton guns are
routinely issued, they will be treated as a piece of everyday equipment.

"The issue and potential subsequent use of these weapons should be regarded as a
major step, carrying with it the potential to escalate as well as defuse public
disorder."

Northern Ireland Secretary Sir Patrick Mayhew welcomed the report and said he
would be considering its recommendations carefully, as well as discussing the
findings with the RUC Chief Constable and other interested parties.

The Chairman of the Police Authority for Northern Ireland, Pat Armstrong, also
defended the use of plastic bullets to defend property.

"When police officers are protecting our lives and property and they are
confronted with petrol bombs and the threat of terrorist ambush, they must have
adequate protection. I cannot believe the people of Northern Ireland would want
the police to stand by and watch as isolated communities are left at the mercy
of the mob or their homes, schools and places of work destroyed by rioters."

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Ronnie Flanagan

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1997 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              22 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            January 26, 1997, Sunday

Bloody Sunday: the ghosts that won't lie down

BYLINE: David McKittrick

SECTION: BRITAIN; Page  5

LENGTH: 816 words


It was one of the blackest of the many black days of the troubles, and this week
republicans and others from all over Ireland and further afield will gather in
the city of Londonderry to mark its 25th anniversary.

"Bloody Sunday", when paratroopers shot dead 13 civilians in the Bogside, has
already gone into Irish history as a fatally formative moment, a violent
occasion which generated much more violence and which convulsed Anglo- Irish
relations.

Many events have been organised to commemorate the anniversary, from lectures
and debates to tours of the city and a meeting entitled "Secrets and Lies"
chaired by Seamus Deane, author of the Booker Prize shortlisted novel Reading in
the Dark and a native of the city.

They provide yet another illustration of the cultural and political gap between
the Irish and the British. As so often, the Irish insist on dwelling on past
incidents the British would much prefer to forget.

Extraordinarily, new evidence and information is still emerging about the events
of that bleak afternoon of 30 January 1972. Hundreds of forgotten eye-witness
statements have surfaced; so have recordings of the day's Army and police radio
messages and other material.

Yet there is still no clear and convincing explanation of how and why it all
happened. The civil-rights march that began it all was illegal but in itself
largely peaceful, though the inevitable teenagers threw the inevitable stones at
troops, in what was par for the course for the city then.

The Paras, possibly the most aggressive unit in the Army and very often at the
centre of controversy in Northern Ireland, were sent in. They were new to
Londonderry, and were evidently led to expect they might confront IRA gunmen.
Within a couple of hours they shot 26 men and youths, killing half of them.

In the aftermath, nationalist Ireland erupted. Bernadette Devlin, the firebrand
young nationalist MP at Westminster, ran across the floor of the Commons and
flew at the Home Secretary, Reginald Maudling - drawing blood. A huge crowd
burned down the British embassy in Dublin. Hundreds of recruits flocked to join
the IRA. Loyalist paramilitary groups flourished in the confrontational
atmosphere.

Violence mushroomed. In the three years before Bloody Sunday 250 people were
killed: in the 11 months after it there were 470 deaths. The second aspect to
Bloody Sunday was the reaction of the authorities. The only possible
justification for the shootings would have been if the Paras and the IRA had
engaged in a firefight, yet there was no sign of this.  No soldiers were
wounded, no arms or bombs recovered.

The Widgery report into the shootings, by the then Lord Chief Justice, convinced
few with its assertion of a "strong suspicion" that many of the dead had handled
weapons or bombs.

The Widgery report always suffered from a credibility problem, and time has not
been kind to it. The most recent new evidence supports the view that it was
aimed not at unearthing the truth but primarily at defending the soldiers'
actions.

One of the most potently enduring images of the day was of the priest waving a
white handkerchief while helping ferry the injured to safety.  He was Father
Edward Daly - later to become the Catholic Bishop of Derry.

Dr Daly saw not only the events of the day but also their lasting impact: "A lot
of the younger people in Derry who may have been more pacifist before 30 January
1972 became quite militant as a result of it.

"People who were there and saw what happened were absolutely enraged and just
wanted to seek some kind of revenge for it. In later years many young people I
visited in prison told me quite explicitly that they would never have become
involved in the IRA but for what they witnessed, and heard of happening, on
Bloody Sunday."

Governments rarely apologise, and the morale of security forces and the
continuing republican violence makes it unlikely that this Government, or the
next, will agree to some show of public penitence.

But in the absence of such a sign, Bloody Sunday looks set to remain, in
nationalist eyes, a historic wrong. According to Dr Daly: "I forgive those
responsible for Bloody Sunday - as a Christian I have to. But I do feel that
some acknowledgement, an admission of the innocence of these 13 people who were
murdered, would help put to rest this awful incident."

n Yesterday 500 people marched through London to mark the anniversary of the
shootings, led by Sinn Fein's chief negotiator Martin McGuinness, writes Decca
Aitkenhead. Mr McGuinness, who said that Bloody Sunday remained an "open sore"
in the minds of Ulster Catholics, confirmed that he would be standing for
Parliament in the forthcoming Westminster election, although his party's
abstentionist policy would not change and he would not take his seat if elected
for Mid Ulster.


LOAD-DATE: January 27, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1997 Independent Print Ltd

                              23 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                January 27, 1997

Multi-party meetings on political future look likely to be put on ice ;Election
fear for Ulster talks

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 728 words


The Government could be getting ready to wind up the multi-party talks on the
future of Northern Ireland, it was claimed last night.

The sides are due back at Stormont today for the first full session of talks
this year, but with no sign of an end to the deadlock on decommissioning and a
General Election not far off, the possibility of an adjournment before March is
now likely, said Ulster Unionist MP John Taylor.

A Government spokesman insisted no decision had been made, but most of the
parties now believe the talks will stop in the near future.

Mr Taylor, the Ulster Unionist deputy leader, said: "From the Prime Minister
downwards, very few people expect much progress during the next few months and
I'd expect the discussions will be coming to an end fairly shortly. Not
suspended, but adjourned."

With police chiefs warning of more IRA violence following an attempt on the
lives of three off-duty soldiers in Ballynahinch, County Down and the apparent
thwarting of a rocket attack in Dungiven, County Londonderry where five men were
arrested and weapons seized, London and Dublin have virtually given up all hope
of any substantive political movement before an election.

The big fear is the threat of the loyalist paramilitaries ending their ceasefire
because of the developing republican campaign of violence although it has not
yet claimed a life after three months.

The RUC said it was a miracle none of the three Grenadier Guardsmen was killed
when a bomb exploded as they examined their Peugeot 309 after leaving a disco.
The car was wrecked. One soldier was treated for superficial cuts to his head
and body, and the other two for shock.

In Dungiven, RUC officers were attacked and their cars damaged by a crowd
leaving a Roman Catholic church when they moved in to arrest two men after
finding a rifle and an improvised grenade not far from the town's health centre.
Three other men were also held.

East Londonderry Unionist MP William Ross said: "There is no doubt an ambush of
some sort was foiled. It's just a pity that other people saw fit to attack the
police."

Assistant RUC Chief Constable Freddie Hall who spoke to officers investigating
the Ballynahinch attack claimed there could have been multiple deaths if the
device had exploded just two minute later when the disco finished.

"My reaction is one of disbelief. Disbelief that anybody could place a bomb in a
public car park like this and disbelief nobody was killed," he said.

"Indeed if it had been two, three or even five minutes later when the disco was
closing, mass murder would have been a consequence."

Officially, the loyalist ceasefire is still holding but only just, and the next
terrorist fatality by the IRA will almost certainly signal an end to the
Combined Loyalist Military Command truce. Their political representatives will
be back at the negotiating table tomorrow as well, but they too believe it is
only a matter of time, possibly days, before chairman George Mitchell de -clares
an adjournment.

Mr David Ervine, of the Progressive Unionist Party, which is linked to the UVF
said: "I can't see it going on much longer.

"What can it achieve? Very little, I'm afraid because, although there are people
in there who want to make progress, I can't see any chance of an agreement on
decommissioning between the Unionists and the SDLP.

"Nobody wants to be seen to be going soft on the Provisionals, certainly not
with an election coming up and its looks very like we are nearing wind-up time."

UK Unionist leader Robert McCartney also believes is only a matter of time
because of the failure to find a solution on guns.

He said: "George Mitchell has clearly indicated it is not possible for any
further progress and with the imminence of an election the talks will be wound
up with the Government declaring it is not final, but a suspension. That in my
view, will merely merge into termination."

Sinn Fein's chief negotiator, Mr Martin McGuinness, who is among leading
republicans standing at the election said the peace process could not move
forward until it was out of the way.

Britain, he claimed, wanted Sinn Fein to be on its knees at the negotiating
table, but he hoped there would be a new government in power which would end
what he described as the delaying and stalling tactics.

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: The remains of the soldiers' car lies in a Ballynahinch car park. A few
minutes later the area would have been full of people leaving a disco.  Picture:
BRIAN LITTLE

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1997 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              24 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                February 8, 1997

VIOLENCE TO CONTINUE, WARNS IRA

BYLINE: David Sharrock Ireland Correspondent

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1027 words


THE IRA yesterday marked the first anniversary of the bombing of Canary Wharf
and the ending of its 17-month ceasefire by dismissing reports that it is waging
a "phoney war" and warning that the violence will continue until after a general
election.

In a briefing in Dublin to journalists from the BBC and RTE, the Irish state
broadcaster, a representative of the IRA leadership stressed that it remained
supportive of Sinn Fein chiefs Gerry Adams and Martin McGuinness.

Last month the IRA in Belfast revealed to an Irish language newspaper that the
ceasefire ended a year ago because of the real threat of a split in the movement
between the militarists and those anxious to pursue a political route.

The logic of yesterday's briefing appears to confirm that position by
effectively ending speculation that an IRA ceasefire might be called some weeks
before the general election in order to maximise Sinn Fein's vote.

The briefing was revealed shortly after three IRA attacks on police and troops
in Lurgan, Co Armagh, Dungannon, Co Tyrone, and near Belfast International
Airport.  There were no injuries.

The IRA's message was: "Our cessation of violence is off. There is no phoney
war, but we are still interested in a permanent settlement." Resolution of the
Northern Ireland conflict required "meaningful negotiations without
preconditions".

The IRA had demonstrated through its ceasefire declared in August 1994 a
"willingness to engage, but the British government and John Major did not".
Because there was no evidence of any change by the British in advance of a
general election, a ceasefire before then was "most unlikely".

After that it was down to the next British government, but the representative
said the IRA had no preference between the parties in Britain.

Shortly after the briefing was revealed, Mr Adams released a statement. "It is
my firm view that the efforts for peace don't have to be put on hold until after
the election. It is still not too late to rebuild a credible peace process and
that progress is still possible if John Major is prepared to go the extra mile
for peace," it said.

But that would mean granting Sinn Fein automatic entry into the Northern Ireland
multi-party talks and with discussions deadlocked over arms decommissioning it
is expected that Stormont talks will be adjourned soon.

* Anti-terrorist officers yesterday called for information about a truck they
believe may have been involved in IRA activities on the mainland. The police
also called for information from the public about suspicious tenants and motor
vehicles, writes Duncan Campbell.

The Anti-Terrorist branch is anxious to trace a red Ford Transit open back truck
with a Y or A registration. It is believed to be maroon with a black bonnet
outlined in gold.

The police believe the truck may now be in innocent hands but wish to trace it
in connection with IRA activity in London last summer.

The police declined to reveal any specific incident with which they believed the
vehicle might be connected. Descriptions of the vehicle were circulated to
police stations in London and elsewhere in the country three weeks ago, but it
has yet to be traced.

The appeal for information comes close to the anniversary of the docklands
bombing in which two people died.

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              25 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           February 8, 1997, Saturday

This is no phoney war, says the IRA

BYLINE: David McKittrick and Jason Bennetto

SECTION: NEWS; Page  5

LENGTH: 492 words


The IRA declared yesterday that it was on a war footing and that it is highly
unlikely to announce a new ceasefire in advance of the general election.

The ominous statement came as intelligence sources warned that extra IRA
terrorists and explosives have probably been brought over to Britain to
replenish the organisation's arsenal following a series of successful police
operations.

Security and police sources also believe the IRA is poised to carry out further
attacks on the mainland and are baffled as to why the terrorists have not yet
attempted a fresh strike.

The warnings came on the eve of the first anniversary of the Docklands bomb in
east London, which destroyed the 17-month ceasefire, killed two people and
caused damage costing millions of pounds.

The IRA statement was a confirmation of the security force assessment that more
terrorist attacks are on the way, probably in both Northern Ireland and in
Britain.

IRA spokesmen yesterday contacted several journalists in Dublin to spell out the
organisation's position. Their message was a familiar one: that the conflict was
continuing for the moment, but that the IRA was nonetheless interested in a
permanent settlement.

They denied recent media speculation that they were involved in a "phoney war",
a theory which has been aired in the wake of almost a dozen shooting, bombing
and mortar attacks which have failed to inflict casualties on the security
forces.

The IRA said resolution of the Ulster conflict required "meaningful
negotiations" without preconditions insisting on the prior decommissioning of
paramilitary arms. It said it remained supportive of Sinn Fein and that party's
leadership, adding that there had been no move away from the position adopted by
Gerry Adams and Martin McGuinness, the party's president and vice-president.

Meanwhile, Scotland Yard yesterday appealed for information about a truck which
it believes may have been used by the IRA in London during the summer.

There were varying descriptions of the Y or A registered Ford Transit pick-up.
Some highlighted a maroon loading bay with a gold Romany design, others a black
cab with a bonnet outlined in gold. A distinctive feature that has been noted is
the door panels, which carry a red circular belt with a gold buckle.

The descriptions of the truck were circulated to police stations three weeks
ago.

Commander John Grieve, head of the Anti-Terrorist Branch, urged anyone with
information to contact a confidential telephone hotline on 0800 789 321.

David Veness, the Yard's assistant commissioner, said: "A year on from South
Quay Docklands , events have shown that the threat of terrorism is here for the
foreseeable future."

Two soldiers escaped injury yesterday when IRA gunmen opened fire on their
unmarked vehicle near Antrim. Three shots were fired near a roundabout not far
from Northern Ireland's International Airport.


LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1997 Independent Print Ltd

                              26 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            February 9, 1997, Sunday

IRA 'set on pre-election hit'

BYLINE: David McKittrick

SECTION: NEWS; Page  1

LENGTH: 193 words


Senior security sources believe the IRA is intent on at least one high-profile
"hit and run" attack in Britain in the run-up to the general election, writes
David McKittrick, Ireland Correspondent.

With the IRA's "England department" hard hit by a series of important arrests
and seizures of material last year, they believe attacks will come not from
terrorists based in England but in quick strikes from across the Irish Sea.

While today marks the anniversary of the Canary Wharf bomb which killed two men
and ended the IRA cease-fire last February, the IRA has little record of marking
such dates with more attacks. Nonetheless, security forces are on a high state
of alert in Britain and in Belfast, where a stream of IRA attacks on army and
police have, in recent weeks, narrowly missed inflicting casualties.

Meanwhile, considerable police resources in Northern Ireland are being diverted
into dealing with public order problems posed by loyalist protests.  In the most
prominent dispute, loyalists have picketed Catholic mass-goers in the mainly
Protestant Co Antrim town of Ballymena for more than 20 weeks.  Focus, page 17


LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1997 Independent Print Ltd

                              27 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          February 13, 1997, Thursday

Soldier shot dead by IRA sniper

BYLINE: David McKittrick Ireland Correspondent

SECTION: TITLE; Page  1

LENGTH: 474 words


A soldier was shot dead by a sniper in South Armagh last night as the IRA
continued its escalation of violence in Northern Ireland.

He was hit in the back by a single high-velocity bullet as he checked a car at a
permanent vehicle checkpoint in Bessbrook, a village which houses one of the
main British Army bases in the area.

A woman in the car was injured. She was taken to Daisy Hill hospital in Newry,
suffering from lacerations to her head from flying glass. Two other people were
treated for shock.

The soldier's death will increase fears that Northern Ireland is sliding back
towards full-scale violence in the political vacuum before the next general
election. The most immediate concern is that loyalist groups will now break
their already strained ceasefire.

The shooting is the latest in a series of attacks as the IRA has steadily
cranked up its campaign of violence. The fact that a soldier was killed may put
paid to reports that the terrorists were engaged in a "phoney war" aimed at
demonstrating their violent capabilities rather than actually taking life.

The soldier was the second to die since the ending of the IRA ceasefire a year
ago last weekend. The first military fatality came last October when Warrant
Officer James Bradwell died in an IRA bomb attack at the Army headquarters at
Lisburn, Co Antrim.

Up to now, South Armagh, which is regarded as an IRA stronghold, had played no
part in the renewed campaign. This attack will therefore be seen as an ominous
sign that the IRA is gradually re-activating all its units. The likelihood of
attacks in Britain is also regarded as high.

The use of what was clearly a high-powered rifle will confirm County Armagh's
reputation as one of the most dangerous areas for the security forces. It also
appears to confirm that they have yet to develop effective counters to the
lethal activities of IRA snipers in the region.

The attack was condemned by the Northern Ireland Secretary, Sir Patrick Mayhew,
as "a coward's attack which pointed up the cynical contrast between the words of
peace and the crimes of murder." John Major said "the total hypocrisy of Sinn
Fein's talk of peace is yet again fully exposed".

The MP for the constituency, the SDLP deputy leader Seamus Mallon, said: "Given
the level of violence in recent weeks it was inevitable that lives would be
lost. A man's life was taken in a cold pre-meditated way."

The shadow Northern Ireland Secretary, Marjorie Mowlam, said: "This is a sad,
sad day in the efforts to bring peace to Northern Ireland. I plead with the
loyalist paramilitaries not to plunge the people of Northern Ireland into a
downward spiral of violence."

Earlier, a high-powered assault rifle was found in a nationalist housing estate
in Lurgan, Co Armagh.

Fisk in Ireland, page 18


LOAD-DATE: February 13, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1997 Independent Print Ltd

                              28 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               February 15, 1997

Geoffrey Biddle

SECTION: Pg. 20

LENGTH: 383 words


Scotland Yard explosives officer Geoffrey Biddle, who regularly risked his life
tackling IRA bombs in London in the early 1970s, including one targeted at
former prime minister Edward Heath, has died at the age of 79.

Commander John Grieve, the head of Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist branch, said
yesterday that Biddle died on February 3.

The booby-trapped bomb targeted at Heath by the IRA was spotted tightly jammed
under a parked car outside Heath's London home in November 1975.

In an obituary notice in yesterday's Guardian, Grieve recalled how Biddle was
called to deal with it. In order not to trigger the booby-trap mechanism, he had
to ensure the pressure between the bomb and the car was maintained.

He inched the bomb round until the neck of the bag in which it was contained was
facing him, then he cut the cord around the bag's neck and disarmed the device.

The bomb was of the same kind as one that exploded in an earlier IRA attack in
the 1970s, killing another Scotland Yard explosives officer, Grieve wrote.

In a tribute in the Daily Telegraph, Mr Heath praised Biddle for his cool
nerves.

In 1975, a small explosive device sent to a woman by her jilted lover blew up in
Biddle's face as he tried to disarm it, scorching his eyebrows and wrist.  But
there is no other record of him ever being injured.

Grieve said a Scotland Yard officer who investigated the IRA attack against
Heath told Biddle he had "guardian angels fluttering on his shoulders".

Biddle joined Scotland Yard in 1964 on leaving the army, where he had been an
ammunition officer.

News pictures from March 1973 show Biddle and a colleague removing explosives
after a foiled IRA car bomb attack outside Scotland Yard's own headquarters.
Two other IRA bombs elsewhere in London exploded the same day, killing one man
and injuring more than 200 other people.

In another incident, Biddle cut the wires to the batteries in another IRA bomb
within seconds of the time set for its detonation.

He was made a member of the Order of the British Empire in 1973 in recognition
of his work and in 1976 was awarded the George Medal, one of Britain's highest
bravery awards.

He retired in 1981. His wife Lilian died in 1987 and he is survived by their
daughter and son.

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1997 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              29 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             March 2, 1997, Sunday

World's leading Nazi advises British fascists; The BNP will have its first
election broadcast since 1983, writes Chris Blackhurst

BYLINE: Chris Blackhurst

SECTION: NEWS; Page  3

LENGTH: 1024 words


The ultra-right British National Party will field 50 candidates in the
forthcoming general election, enough to qualify for a party political broadcast.

Part of the cash raised for the BNP's election fighting fund came from a recent
rally in London where the guest speaker was William Pierce, the US neo-Nazi
leader and the man credited with providing the inspiration for the Oklahoma
bombing, which killed 168 people and injured 500.

In Mr Pierce's fictional book, The Turner Diaries, white supremacists park a
lorry bomb outside a federal building. The description was followed almost to
the letter in the 1995 Oklahoma bombing. Mr Pierce's work is expected to feature
heavily in the trial of Timothy McVeigh over the attack, which is due to start
later this month.

The BNP's intention to go on national television and radio for the first time
since 1983 has been confirmed by the party's organiser, Richard Edmonds.  The
news, and Mr Pierce's support, will fuel fears that the extreme right is
planning a show of strength after years of internal feuding and disarray.

Yesterday, it was revealed that Combat 18, the violent neo-fascist group, was
targeting celebrities and politicians, including Anna Ford, the broadcaster, and
Vanessa Redgrave, the actress.

BNP candidates, many of whom have convictions for racist violence, will stand in
areas of high racial tension. As well as qualifying for five minutes of airtime,
the party is promising to distribute two million leaflets in the constituencies
it is contesting.

These include Bow and Bethnal Green in east London, where the BNP's leader and
former National Front chief, John Tyndall, will stand, and Eltham in south-east
London, site of Stephen Lawrence's murder, where Ian Dell will represent the
BNP. Mr Edmonds himself is standing in Southwark. In east London, the party's
election agent is convicted bomber Tony Lecomber.

Mr Pierce distributes extreme racist literature and broadcasts across America
from a barbed-wire compound in the Appalachian mountains. In an interview with
the Independent on Sunday, he said he found "quite flattering" the description
bestowed on him by Tony Robson of Searchlight, the British anti-racist group, of
"the world's leading professional Nazi".  He added that he had "known John
Tyndall for the last 25 years and we are keen friends".

According to Searchlight, Mr Pierce was among those who stumped up around pounds
80,000 to enable the BNP to mount an effective election campaign.

Mr Pierce, thought to be a millionaire because of the popularity of The Turner
Diaries and his numerous other books and magazines, said he supported the BNP.
He had attended a pre-election rally in London and his works were sold by the
British party.

"The BNP has got the best programme in Britain," he said. "Our own published
views are a little bit different from theirs but that is because you do not have
freedom of speech in Britain. As a consequence, the BNP's platform is a little
bit restrained. I would express things differently - if anything, the BNP is a
little too conservative."

At the meeting in London, attended by 300 BNP activists, Mr Pierce spoke about
his own National Alliance organisation in the US and the need, if electoral
success was to come, "to re-educate the mass media".

When it appeared in 1978, The Turner Diaries attracted little attention.  Mr
Pierce, a softly-spoken former physics professor, was dismissed as another
right-wing crank. On the quiet, though, he was building a reputation as a guru
for white supremacists and extreme libertarians. The FBI believes he was a
mentor for The Order, a heavily armed right-wing terrorist group that attacked
synagogues and murdered Alan Berg, a Jewish talk show host.

The FBI has long wondered where Mr Pierce acquired the cash to buy his 400 acres
in West Virginia. The agency suspects he was the beneficiary of some of The
Order's activities. At his hideaway he has built a two- storey "Cosmotheist
church", emblazoned with an inverted CND peace symbol, from where he preaches
his racist message.

He describes the 20th century as "a disastrous century for whites. In the 19th
century whites were firmly in control". As the millennium approaches, he
believes it is time for whites to reassert themselves. Among his bogeymen is
Bill Clinton, whose "new security team consists entirely of Jews".

America's troubles, he maintains, are caused by people who no longer feel a
sense of kinship with other Americans. "The main reason for this is the increase
in what liberals and the media fondly call 'diversity': that is, the great
increase in the number of people with different roots, people who look
different, think differently, behave differently and have different values."

Mr Pierce is kept under close watch by the US authorities, not least because he
owns weapons, including a semi-automatic rifle. That vigilance has increased
since Oklahoma.

In his novel, which he wrote under a pseudonym, he tells how a lorry containing
fertiliser and a petrol detonator is parked outside a federal building in a
state capital. It explodes at 9am - the same time as the real lorry in Oklahoma
City, which was also packed with fertiliser and petrol.

The killers in the book, a bible for the far right, regret the deaths - but they
are necessary to overcome "the Jewish-liberal-democratic-equalitarian plague
which afflicts us".

Mr Pierce said he expected his book "will be waved around a lot at the trial to
convince the jury there was a big conspiracy to overthrow the government".

In London, Mr Edmonds refused to specify where the BNP's money came from.  "We
are educating poor people and we get our money from our supporters, who, broadly
speaking, are poor people," he said. He added: "There may be one or two
exceptions."

Mr Edmonds said the BNP admired Mr Pierce: "He is educating and liberating
people in the US in the same way we want to educate and liberate people in this
country."

Mr Edmonds confirmed: "We have the 50 candidates which entitles us to a party
political broadcast."


LOAD-DATE: March 03, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1997 Independent Print Ltd

                              30 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                             March 2, 1997, Sunday

THE NIGHT HEZZA HAD A CHINESE MEAL WITH THE TYCOON WHO HID AN IRA BOMBER;
GUEST AT CONSERVATIVE PARTY FUNDRAISING SUPPER WAS FOUND GUILTY OF HARBOURING
IRA TERRORIST

BYLINE: Nick Pisa, Terry O'Hanlon And Andy Gardner

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6, 7

LENGTH: 1694 words


The Conservative Party fundraising supper was quite a bash.

There was lobster, suckling pig, duck and sea bass. There was wine and
champagne.

There was Michael Heseltine, the Deputy Prime Minister, and Tony Newton, the
Leader of the House of Commons.

There was also the man convicted of sheltering one of Britain's most feared
terrorists.

Irish-born building tycoon Thomas Mohan, 49, mingled freely with the top
politicians and more than 100 other local businessmen at the Lian Chinese
Restaurant in Witham, Essex.

Ticket-only guests paid pounds 50 each for a seven-course banquet, with the
proceeds going to Tory Party funds.

None of them knew that in December 1980 their dinner-suited fellow guest was
convicted at the Old Bailey in London under the Prevention of Terrorism Act.
Mohan was found guilty of harbouring Gerard Tuite, a fanatical IRA terrorist.

Police believe Tuite was responsible for the murder of Airey Neave, the
Conservative Shadow Northern Ireland Secretary blown up by a booby-trap car bomb
in a House of Commons underground car park in 1979.

Later the rival Irish National Liberation Organisation claimed responsibility
and Tuite was never charged with the crime.

But at his Dublin trial on other terrorist charges in 1982 the most dramatic
evidence produced was a hit list recorded on a cassette found under floorboards
at an address in Greenwich, south east London, where Tuite stayed.

On the tape a voice with a distinct Northern Ireland accent was heard slowly
reciting the names and addresses of prominent people - including Mr Neave.

Other names listed included former Home Secretary William Whitelaw and former
Foreign Secretary Lord Carrington.

Tuite used Mohan's former home in Norfolk Gardens, Braintree, Essex, as a base
to plan a series of bomb outrages in the South-East of England in 1978.

They included attacks on a gas plant in Greenwich and an oil depot in Canvey
Island, Essex.

Police also suspected him of a Christmas car-bomb blitz in London when four
vehicles were blown up and another defused.

In the 1978 Christmas blitz the IRA blew up cars outside the Oasis swimming
baths in Holborn, followed by two more in Bedford Square and another outside the
YMCA near Tottenham Court Road.

Only prompt action by the police - all leave was cancelled because of the IRA
threats - prevented death and serious injuries.

Tuite, a master of disguise, was one of the most experienced and feared IRA men.

He staged a daring escape from Brixton Prison in December 1980 while awaiting
trial for planning the London bombings.

He and two other prisoners burrowed through three cell walls to freedom. He
escaped to Ireland where he was on the run for more than a year before he was
recaptured.

While he was at large Scotland Yard launched one of its biggest ever manhunts
for Tuite.

Wanted posters were put up in pubs all over Britain as police appealed for help
in tracking him down. Two years later he was jailed for 10 years by a Dublin
court for possessing explosives at a flat in Greenwich, south east London.

He was the first person to be convicted in the Irish Republic for a terrorist
offence in England.

Tuite, 41, is now free. And last summer security sources in Britain warned that
he was involved in planning a new wave of violence against civilian and security
targets in the UK.

Mohan now lives in a luxury house named Tara in the quiet Essex village of
Felsted with his wife Patricia, who is also a director of one of his companies.

To locals he is known as a self-made millionaire and father-of-three with
interests in building, construction and golf and leisure businesses.

But 17 years ago an Old Bailey jury was told that Patricia's brother was a key
IRA figure in Ireland who had sent a man known as Gerry Fossett - an alias for
Tuite - to stay with the Mohans at their Essex home.

Prosecutor Michael Worsley told the court Mohan knew Tuite was involved in the
bombings but had not told the police.

In his defence Mohan told police he was "terrified of Gerry" and did not talk
because he feared "ending up upside down in a dustbin".

He admitted if he had spoken up he could have prevented the bombings.

Sentencing him, trial Judge Charles Lawson QC told Mohan: "You have lived here
since you were 11 and have a duty to this country and a loyalty to it."

Since the Grand Hotel bomb in 1984 at the Tory Party Conference in Brighton
security has been watertight for politicians.

But Mohan's presence at last week's banquet, attended by two of Britain's senior
Tory figures, was not deemed a risk.

One businessman who attended the function said: "Michael Heseltine spoke about
the Government's economic policies and the way forward for Britain. There was
also an auction to raise money.

"There was a portrait of the Prime Minister, lunch for two at the House of
Commons, porcelain and an antique clock and they raised quite a lot of money for
the local Tory association."

Last week Scotland Yard warned that the IRA may try to bomb Parliament before
the next General Election, expected in eight weeks' time.

The Commons Serjeant at Arms, Peter Jennings, told staff: "The Palace of
Westminster remains at a high level of threat.

"The IRA continues to take an active interest."

Last night Thomas Mohan refused to make any comment.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GUEST: Heseltine BOMBER: Tuite GUEST: Newton;; TERROR VICTIM: Airey
Neave was blown up in his car (left)

                            Copyright 1997 MGN Ltd.

                              31 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             March 3, 1997, Monday

ALBERT HELPS IRA SUSPECT;
ALBERT REYNOLDS INTERVENES IN PREGNANT IRA TERRORIST ROW

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 187 words


Ex-Premier Albert Reynolds has intervened in the row over pregnant IRA terror
suspect Roisin McAliskey.

He has been in touch with German Chancellor Helmut Kohl to assure him that
McAliskey, 25, will stand trail in Germany if she is given bail and allowed have
her baby outside prison.

Britain claims the Germans have urged she be detained in custody until she is
extradited. The Germans say it is matter for the British courts.

McAliskey denies involvement in an attempted mortar attack on a British military
base in Germany.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1997 MGN Ltd.

                              32 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             March 4, 1997, Tuesday

French justice stops at the prison gates, say Arabs

BYLINE: Mary Dejevsky

SECTION: INTERNATIONAL; Page  9

LENGTH: 929 words


Ever since the Paris bombs in the summer of 1995, there has been tension between
France and Britain over the activities of a number of North African Muslim
activists living in Britain. The French authorities suspect that some Islamic
fundamentalist groups are using London as a base not only for propaganda, but
for terrorist attacks in France as well.

They cite the case of Rachid Ramda, an Algerian exile currently in prison in
Britain, who is appealing against a court decision that he should be extradited
to France. The French claim that he is an organiser and treasurer of the 1995
bombing campaign and resent what they see as British reluctance to hand him
over.

Claims have come to light, however, that appear to cast serious doubt on the
quality of French justice as it applies to Muslims detained in connection with
terrorist or extremist offences. An open letter from detainees held at the
Fleury-Merogis prison accuses the authorities of discrimination, severe
maltreatment, religious persecution and psychological pressure.

"We Muslim prisoners, labelled 'Islamists'," the handwritten document said,
"have decided to break our silence and bring to public notice . . .  the
excesses to which we have long been subjected."

There follow seven specific allegations. They include what is described as the
"Machiavellian methods" of the police in manufacturing, planting or destroying
evidence; physical maltreatment - including beatings of prisoners and sleep
deprivation - and the intimidation of detainees' families who are held or called
in for questioning without the statutory warrant.

Some police officers are accused of forcing Muslim prisoners to commit acts of
"blasphemy", such as "stamping on the Koran", while others are said to have
warned prisoners that they will be marked men after their release. "One officer
told one of us: 'When you get out of prison you will be a dead man'."

The majority of allegations concern the Police Judiciaire - the main criminal
investigation branch of the police - but others are also implicated.

Individual doctors are accused of issuing false medical reports to cover up the
results of beatings, and journalists, "with rare honourable exceptions", are
accused of hushing up what is going on and broadcasting "film of arrests that
violates the confidentiality of legal investigations".

The prisoners also protest about the use of informants, confessions extracted
under duress and complicity between certain lawyers and magistrates.

They claim that electronic tags are unlawfully attached to prisoners during
transfer, and that prisoners are subjected to repeated strip-searching and are
regularly "roughed up and humiliated".

In an allegation that is particularly pertinent to the Rachid Ramda case, they
say that prisoners are held for very long periods "sometimes illegally" without
charge, and that there are some who have spent more than a year in
Fleury-Merogis prison "after extradition from other European countries who have
still not been questioned".

A spokesman for the Police Judiciaire, which is subordinate to the Interior
Ministry, dismissed the allegations as "old" (the open letter is dated 31
October) and said he found them "not very credible . . . without much
foundation".

The fact that they had not been reported in the French press, he suggested,
showed that they were "generally not taken seriously". Specifically on the
period of time prisoners are held without charge, another police source said
this was due to the "particular nature" of the French justice system.

He said he was familiar with the letter and had seen earlier, more virulently
worded protests as well. In all cases, he said, the allegations were too
unspecific to warrant an inquiry. If a named individual had made a specific
complaint, he said, this would have been investigated, but no such complaints
had been received. In other words, as far as the police are concerned, there
have been no investigations because there have been no complaints.

One of the charges in the prisoners' letter, however, is that the authorities
try to prevent information about the plight of Muslim prisoners from coming to
light.

In France, where the interest of many civil liberties groups tends to stop at
the prison gate and where anyone in jail (especially if thought to have Islamic
connections) is already guilty in the public mind by association, such an
information gap can be sustained more easily than in the United Kingdom.

Fears about the effect of the bombings on elementary civil liberties first arose
after the introduction in Paris and other cities of the quasi- military state of
alert, Vigipirate, in the summer of 1995.

Hundreds of young men of North African appearance were summarily stopped and
searched each day. Those without valid papers were detained. There were dawn
raids on housing estates in which dozens were held. Many were released without
charge, days or weeks later.

Many others, however, were not so fortunate. No one has yet been charged either
with the 1995 bomb attacks or the attack last December at Port Royale metro
station in Paris.

The Muslim prisoners of Fleury-Merogis claim that French justice works at
different speeds: "One for Corsicans - dialogue and firmness wheeling and
dealing ; another for Basques - political and judicial barter with Spain
exchanges of Basques for Islamists ; a third for Kurds - somewhere in between;
and a fourth for Muslims - persecution, hatred and repression without end."


LOAD-DATE: March 04, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1997 Independent Print Ltd

                              33 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                 March 6, 1997

Labour vow on terror

BYLINE: By Desmond McCartan

LENGTH: 400 words


in London

LABOUR is promising two changes to the UK's main anti- terror laws if it wins
power.

But Home Secretary Michael Howard attacked the Labour leadership for abstaining
on the renewal of the Prevention of Terrorism Act last night and said it was
"unfit to govern".

He pointed out that Labour leader Tony Blair had never voted for the Act.

"If any proof were needed that Labour cannot be trusted with responsibility for
the safety of our citizens, then their disgraceful actions today provide it," he
claimed.

A dozen Labour MPs and SDLP MP Seamus Mallon voted against the extension for a
further 12 months, while South Down's Eddie McGrady acted as one of the tellers
for the rebel vote.

The renewal Order was approved by 304 votes to 13, a government majority of 291.

Shadow Home Secretary Jack Straw rejected Mr Howard's challenge to change tack
and back the measure.

The Home Secretary poured scorn on Labour's decision last year to abstain on
"this most fundamental measure for the protection of the people of this
country".

He recalled that, from 1989 to 1995, Labour had opposed the renewal of the Act.

"We still face an exceptional threat from terrorism. The spate of recent attacks
in Northern Ireland speak for themselves." Mr Straw said Labour supported
special anti- terrorism legislation and that, in government, "so long as a
terrorist threat remains and there is no lasting peace, we shall maintain and
operate the powers ... with two changes."

They would be:

To introduce a judicial element to the extension of detention orders, taking
responsibility for these orders away from the Home Secretary; To end exclusion
orders, under which a person in one part of the UK can be banned from entering
other parts.

Shadow Northern Ireland Secretary Dr Marjorie Mowlam said the Canary Wharf bomb
had "shattered a thousand hopes and dreams and took the lives of two men.

"We will not vote to leave the people of Britain and Northern Ireland without
the protection the anti-terrorist legislation gives them." Ulster Unionist MP
Ken Maginnis called for the re-introduction of the broadcasting ban on
interviews with terrorists.

And he told the Commons that it was necessary to develop fully a counter
-terrorism strategy.

"We must make the decent people who eschew violence, aware of their obligation
to oppose the terrorists."


LOAD-DATE: November 24, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1997 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              34 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                            March 6, 1997, Thursday

LABOUR FLAYED OVER TERROR LAW;
          UNFIT TO GOVERN JIBE AS ACT IS RENEWED

BYLINE: Trevor Mason

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 317 words


Labour was branded "unfit to govern" by Home Secretary Michael Howard last night
as its leadership again abstained on special powers to combat terrorism.

The annual order renewing the Prevention of Terrorism (Temporary Provisions) Act
was approved by 304 votes to 13, a Government majority of 291, despite
opposition from some Labour leftwingers.

Shadow Home Secretary Jack Straw rejected a challenge by Mr Howard to change
tack and back the measure and called for a more permanent law in place of the
present legislation which needs to be renewed every year.

Mr Howard poured scorn on Labour's decision last year to abstain on "this most
fundamental measure for the protection of the people of this country".

The Home Secretary recalled that, from 1989 to 1995, Labour had opposed the
renewal of the Act which applies in both Northern Ireland and in Great Britain
and includes powers to make exclusion orders, powers of detention for up to
seven days and powers to stop and examine people entering or leaving Great
Britain or Ulster.

"We still face an exceptional threat from terrorism.

"The spate of recent attacks in Northern Ireland speak for themselves."

A united House would "send the clearest possible message to the terrorists that
their actions cannot and will not be tolerated, that they cannot win, that the
bomb and the bullet will never triumph over the wishes of the vast majority who
want peace and democracy."

Mr Straw said Labour supported special anti-terrorism legislation.

"In government, so long as a terrorist threat remains and there is no lasting
peace, we shall maintain and operate the powers within the Prevention of
Terrorism Act, with two changes."

He said these would be to introduce a judicial element to the extension of
detention orders and to end exclusion orders.

The SDLP's Seamus Mallon voted against the legislation.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MICHAEL HOWARD attacked abstainers

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1997 Century Newspapers Limited

                              35 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 March 6, 1997

Howard calls Labour 'unfit to govern' in terrorism Act row

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 422 words


Labour was branded "unfit to govern" by Home Secretary Michael Howard last night
as its leadership again abstained on special powers to combat terrorism.

The annual order renewing the Prevention of Terrorism (Temporary Provisions) Act
was approved by 304 votes to 13, a Government majority of 291, despite
opposition from some Labour left-wingers.

Shadow Home Secretary Jack Straw rejected a challenge by Mr Howard to change
tack and back the measure and called for a more permanent law in place of the
present legislation, which needs to be renewed every year.

Mr Howard poured scorn on Labour's decision last year to abstain on "this most
fundamental measure for the protection of the people of this country".

He said: "A united House tonight will send the clearest possible message to the
terrorist that their actions cannot and will not be tolerated."

But Mr Straw said that, by abstaining last year, Labour "helped ensure the
renewal order went through and we shall do so again this year".

Mr Howard recalled that, from 1989 to 1995, Labour had opposed the renewal of
the Act - which applies in both Northern Ireland and on the mainland and
includes powers to make exclusion orders, powers of detention for up to seven
days and powers to stop and examine people entering or leaving Britain or
Ulster.

Last year, in "an abrupt change of policy", Labour had "no view" to express on
the order.

"Could anything more clearly demonstrate the fact that they are wholly unfit to
govern?" he asked.

Mr Howard said of the need for the powers: "We still face an exceptional threat
from terrorism. The spate of recent attacks in Northern Ireland speak for
themselves."

Mr Straw said Labour supported special anti-terrorism legislation.

"In government, so long as a terrorist threat remains and there is no lasting
peace, we shall maintain and operate the powers within the Prevention of
Terrorism Act, with two changes."

He said these would be:

oTo introduce a judicial element to extending detention orders, taking
responsibility for these orders away from the Home Secretary

oTo end exclusion orders, under which a person in one part of the UK can be
banned from entering other parts.

Mr Straw said there should be a period of consultation to draft a single,
permanent piece of anti-terrorism legislation to deal with both a lasting peace
in Northern Ireland and further emergency situations.

Scots Labour MPs Tam Dalyell and Denis Canavan voted against the measure.

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1997 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              36 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Standard (London)

                                 March 07, 1997

SCOTLAND YARD PUT ON ELECTION TERROR ALERT

BYLINE: Justin Davenport

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 880 words



SCOTLAND Yard is preparing its biggest ever anti-terrorist offensive in the
run-up to the General Election with a series of public appeals.

Intelligence services are braced for a "spectacular" attack on the mainland, and
security surrounding MPs and political events over the coming weeks is expected
to be at an all-time high.

Today the Yard's anti-terrorist squad made a direct appeal to Londoners for help
in tackling terrorism.

A full-page colour advertisement in the Evening Standard is part of the first
anti-terrorist advertising campaign conducted by a police force in mainland
Britain.

The £230,000 campaign also included the first anti-terrorist advertisements to
be carried in the classified section of a newspaper, also in the Standard.

Police designed the advertisements, carried earlier this week, to appeal
directly to car dealers and owners of private rented accommodation in the
capital in an attempt to detect preparations for IRA operations.

The appeals come as anti-terrorist officers prepare for an election campaign
when senior Cabinet members and MPs will be most vulnerable to an attack.
Intense security surrounds the Conservative Party Central Council conference in
Bath next week which is expected to be attended by hundreds of delegates,
including high-ranking party officers.

A Yard spokesman refused to comment on any specific danger but said: "The threat
of a terrorist attack is high and is ongoing. It could come at any time.

"In the past, terrorists have used commercial premises and lock-ups to store
equipment. They also have to live somewhere so we are targeting those renting
residential property and if anyone sees anything, we urge them to call us."

Earlier this month, security was stepped up at Parliament amid MI5 fears of a
pre-election IRA outrage.

Weeks before the 1979 election, Tory MP Airey Neave, one of Margaret Thatcher's
closest colleagues, was murdered by an Irish National Liberation Army car bomb
as he drove out of the Commons underground car park.

Last month, anti-terrorist sources warned that the IRA was back to full strength
on the mainland with active service units ready to strike at any time. The IRA
warned then that there would be no ceasefire before the election.

Anti-terrorist sources believe the IRA may choose to mount a major bomb attack
to demonstrate to a new government that it still possesses the capability to
strike at the heart of the British establishment.

IRA hardliners want a "spectacular" in revenge for recent successes by Scotland
Yard and MI5 which culminated in the arrests of two suspected terrorist teams
last year and the shooting of suspect Diarmuid O'Neill in Hammersmith.

Scotland Yard has urged anyone with useful information to contact its
anti-terrorist hotline on 0800 789 321. A £1million reward is on offer for any
tip-offs leading to convictions.


LOAD-DATE: March 10, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1997 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              37 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             March 9, 1997, Sunday

Daughters of Ireland; PROFILE : Bernadette and Roisin McAliskey; The mother
nearly died for her beliefs. Now the daughter is the cause celebre. Ros
Wynne-Jones reports

BYLINE: Ros Wynne-Jones

SECTION: COMMENT; Page  21

LENGTH: 1499 words


In 1981 in the Republican heartland of Northern Ireland, a nine- year-old girl
wakes up to the sound of gunfire. Standing in the doorway of the bedroom she
shares with her younger sister is a masked gunman. In the kitchen she can hear
her father, Michael McAliskey, struggling with the bolts on the back door as he
is shot several times. In the bedroom next door her mother, Bernadette, is shot
nine times and left for dead.  Minutes later, she hears English voices and then
she is carried from her room by a young British soldier.

In 1997, the same British soldier is sitting across the table from her at
Belfast's Castlereagh interrogation centre. She knows he's the same soldier
because he takes her back over every second of her parents' shooting.  "We can
end all this violence, Roisin," he tells her. "Just give us the names we want."

Today, Roisin McAliskey, who is facing extradition to Germany for questioning
over the IRA bombing of the Osnabruck military base, is a category A prisoner in
Holloway. The 25-year-old politics graduate is weeks away from giving birth to a
baby doctors expect to be premature and which will almost certainly be taken
from her hours after the birth as Holloway's mother and baby unit is not
equipped to cope with category A prisoners.  She has not been charged with any
offence but by the Home Office's own admission she has been strip-searched 75
times in the past four months and cannot leave her cell at all without a
"shadow". She has consistently been refused bail.

Roisin's story begins before she was born. When her mother, Bernadette
McAliskey, was as heavily pregnant as her daughter is now, she was touring
political platforms calling for Irish civil rights, already Britain's youngest
woman MP.

Bernadette Devlin, as she then was, took her seat in the Commons in 1969 on her
22nd birthday and made her maiden speech within an hour. She wasn't nervous.
"What I remember about that day is not what I said in some speech, it was that
because of my election there was a riot in Derry and a man was beaten to death
by the police at his own fireside. Sam Devenney paid in his blood for my seat at
Westminster. That's what I remember."

McAliskey is impatient. She has a policy, more usually reserved for vampires, of
not allowing journalists or policemen over the threshold of her home, so we are
sitting in a motorway service station about an hour's drive from Belfast. She is
furious at a sense of powerlessness she isn't used to. The veteran civil rights
activist is fighting the most important political battle of her career, for the
liberty of the child born in the same month that internment without trial came
to Northern Ireland. It's all part of the same narrative to her, which has at
its core what she sees as endemic British racism towards the Irish.

In January 1972, when she was the same age that Roisin is now, she was
addressing a civil rights rally in Londonderry as shots rang out behind her. "I
remember it in slow motion," she says. "I hear myself telling people to stand
their ground. Even as I'm saying this my brain registers this is wrong and
dangerous advice. I tell everyone to get down and get under a lorry. Then I tell
everyone to leave without standing up and slowly everybody moves off except a
small group a few yards away from me. I think they must be paralysed by fear and
I'm talking to them, saying don't be afraid, just walk slowly away, no one is
going to get hurt. Then, as I'm talking, I realise they are all lying still
because they are dead."

The day after Bloody Sunday, as it came to be known, McAliskey was called to
Parliament to debate an emergency motion on Northern Ireland. Fresh from the
barricades she was determined to be heard as an eye-witness to the events of the
previous day. Her contribution to that debate has gone down in history. "I sat
there and listened to the lies coming from the mouth of the Home Secretary,
Reginald Maudling. I had my hand up for three hours, but the Speaker never
called me. When he closed the debate I got up on three points of order but they
still wouldn't allow me to speak."

McAliskey seems to gather strength as she recalls the frustration of being
ignored after a sleepless night comforting the relatives of the Bloody Sunday
dead. "I walked down calmly to the fancy bit in the middle and I bowed to the
Speaker. Then I walked over and I caught the Home Secretary by the throat and
gave him a smack in the gob. At that point a Tory leapt up and hit me an
unmerciful blow and then another MP jumped up and cuffed him, knocking him on to
the lower bench. I left quickly, leaving a whole pile of MPs literally boxing on
the floor of the House." She laughs mischievously.  "I believe Hansard recorded
the incident as a 'disturbance'."

It is a historic moment that Michael Howard, the current Home Secretary and the
figure mother and daughter see as pivotal to Roisin's continued incarceration,
might care to note.

McAliskey's unparliamentary behaviour was one of only two occasions, she says,
that she has ever used violence to make her point. The other was at Bogside at
the height of the Troubles when she was breaking stones for demonstrators to
throw - and her involvement there led to a six-month prison sentence. "I wasn't
allowed to throw anything because I have such bad hand-eye co-ordination." She
is only half-joking.

"I have resisted violence because I have always found another space in which I
could operate without having to take up the same cudgel as the opposition," she
continues. "But if I ever come to a point where I have no room left to stand,
where I am unable to think of a non-violent resolution, I don't know what I will
do." She does not condemn others for using violence, she finds it
"understandable".

McAliskey says she has raised her two daughters, Roisin and Deidre, and her son,
Fintan, to find that space away from violence and to respect other people's
right to their own beliefs. Yet one of the only pictures of Roisin and
Bernadette together is at Dominic "Mad Dog" McGlinchey's funeral in 1994 where
the two women carried his coffin with Sinn Fein vice-president Martin
McGuinness. McAliskey denies it was political. "He was a family friend and his
sons are like brothers to my children. Surely even we are allowed to bury our
dead?" As she speaks she unconsciously scratches the bullet scar on her elbow
from the Loyalist shooting she and her husband miraculously survived. She is
convinced of Roisin's innocence and says she is certain that she has never even
been to Germany. But what if she is wrong? "I have said that I find the use of
violence understandable," she says. "That would go for Roisin, too. Frankly, I
can think of more traumatic things than finding out that my daughter is a
terrorist."

She is fiercely proud of her children. "Roisin was a funny, clever child," she
says. "In her first week at kindergarten all the kids had gone for eye tests and
injections and then they were sitting in their classes and the teacher says:
'God is all around us.' Roisin puts up her hand and says: 'Please, Miss, he's
not in the cupboard because I've looked and I've had my eyes tested today.' "

She is excited because tomorrow is a visit day and she will see her daughter
again, but it is a small comfort. Sean McCotter, the father of Roisin's unborn
child, is now allowed to sit in the same tiny room as her and two guards, but
other visitors have to contend with a thick partition. McAliskey is used to
having to shout to be heard but she admits the heavy perspex has got the better
of her. "The guard who sits on my side has gone deaf listening to me," she
sighs.

She says that despite conditions Roisin won't let prison get her down.  "It was
the same when I was in jail," she says. "I knew I could cope, but there were
other women there who couldn't and that was what really got to me. Roisin's the
same. She'll still be doling out the smart-alec comments that I've been on the
receiving end of for so many years." For the first time, Bernadette McAliskey
sounds as if she's trying to convince herself.

The interlinking story of mother and daughter is far from over: Roisin and her
unborn child have become a cause celebre in Ireland and America as a campaign
headed by her mother and Guildford Four solicitor Gareth Peirce gathers
momentum. Things may yet come full circle if there is any truth in the rumour
that Roisin is considering standing for the Mid- Ulster seat Bernadette occupied
in the 1970s.

What angers McAliskey is the depressing familiarity of the present. "I wouldn't
be so paranoid as to suggest that what is happening to Roisin is down to who her
mother is, that she is being punished because she is my daughter," she says
quietly. "All I see is that nothing has changed.  When a young pregnant Irish
woman can still be imprisoned for four months without charge . . . in 25 years
where have we really got to?"


LOAD-DATE: March 10, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1997 Independent Print Ltd

                              38 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                           March 12, 1997, Wednesday

AHERN ATTACKS BRITISH STAND

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 210 words


Eire opposition leader Bertie Ahern last night directed strong criticism at both
the IRA and Britain for obstructing the Northern Ireland peace process.

He told an American audience of impatience in Ireland over the absence of a
renewed IRA ceasefire "and their casual brutality".

But the Fianna Fail party chief added: "We are also impatient with the selective
regard of the British government for human rights."

Speaking in Boston, Massachusetts, Mr Ahern singled out Home Secretary Michael
Howard for particular attack.

Citing Britain's refusal so far to authorise a new inquiry into the Army's
shooting dead of 14 men on Bloody Sunday, and to refuse bail to pregnant IRA
bombing accused Roisin McAliskey, Mr Ahern declared: "One of the major obstacles
that the peace process has faced in the past two years has been the constant
petty tyranny of the British Home Secretary."

Mr Ahern also defended America's ambassador to Ireland, Jean Kennedy Smith.

Describing her as "a living link between the two US presidents, who have meant
most to Ireland, President Kennedy and President Clinton", he said: "She has
been criticised by those who think that American foreign policy on Ireland
should be subservient to British interests."

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BERTIE AHERN

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1997 Century Newspapers Limited

                              39 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            March 13, 1997, Thursday

PRESIDENT OPENED ALL DOORS;
MARY TELLS OF TOUGH DECISION;
CHRONOLOGY OF MARY ROBINSON'S PRESIDENCY

BYLINE: Richie Taylor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 427 words


December 1990: Mary Robinson becomes Ireland's first woman president when she is
inaugurated in Dublin.

1992: The President makes three visits to Belfast and Derry to help the peace
process.

1993: She causes outrage on both sides of the border when she shakes hands with
Sinn Fein leader Gerry Adams in Belfast.

December 1994: The President visits Enniskillen for the funeral of Peter Wilson,
son of former senator Gordon Wilson, whose daughter was killed by an IRA bomb
blast in the town.

June 1995: Mrs Robinson visits Enniskillen again, this time for the funeral of
Gordon Wilson himself.

October 1995: Deeply affected, the president highlights the plight of Rwanda's
starving people during a working visit to the poverty- stricken African country.

June 1996: She becomes the first Irish head of state to pay an official visit to
Britain, where she was met by Queen Elizabeth.

March 1997: Mrs Robinson shocks onlookers when she appears in informal dress at
a meeting with Pope John Paul in the Vatican.

March 1997: The President reveals that she has decided with "great reluctance"
not to seek a second term.

COMMENT: Page 6

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HUSBAND: Nick Robinson

                            Copyright 1997 MGN Ltd.

                              40 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 15, 1997

SCOTTISH 'FREEDOM FIGHTER' JAILED BY DUBLIN COURT

BYLINE: David Sharrock Ireland Correspondent

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 840 words


THE Scottish National Liberation Army's founder and leader, a former British
soldier, was jailed for two years in Dublin's Special Criminal Court yesterday.

Adam Busby, aged 48, who has two grandchildren, has lived in Dublin for years,
claiming to be the leader of the SNLA. He pleaded guilty to sending a "message
of menacing character" to the Press Association and the Daily Record in Glasgow
in January 1995.

Other charges against Busby of having improvised incendiary devices addressed to
the Labour leader, Tony Blair, and the shadow Scottish secretary, George
Robertson, in 1995, were dropped.

Busby escaped extradition to Britain in 1984 where he was wanted for causing
criminal damage to an army truck. The Irish courts ruled that the alleged
offence was political.

The self-styled Scottish freedom fighter was jailed for two years for what must
go down as one of the most incompetent acts of terrorism ever perpetrated.

In January 1995 he issued a statement headlined "Headquarters communique of the
Scottish National Liberation Army" by taking it to a photocopying and business
supplies shop in Dublin and requesting that the shop fax it for him to five
media outlets in Scotland.

The fax used the codeword "spear" and referred to Operation Flame and Operation
Hammer.

It contained a "hit list" of targets in Scotland, including the Clydebank MP
Anthony Worthington and three regional councillors.

The fax also referred to "a rapid escalation in number and scale of our
operations", and threatened random no-warning attacks on what it called English
colonists in Scotland, including night-time petrol bombing of their homes.

In spite of the quality of the threats, the Scottish newspapers ran Busby's
communique, and a special unit of Strathclyde Police was set up, with assistance
sought from Dublin's special detective unit.

Busby was quickly arrested and picked out by the shop assistant as the man who
sent the faxes. No evidence was ever uncovered to substantiate the reality of
operations Flame or Hammer.

Det Insp Peter Maguire told the court that Busby had joined the Scottish
National Party at the age of 16 but quickly became bored with it and joined the
Argyll and Sutherland Highlanders regiment.

He had 15 previous convictions in Scotland for which he had received a number of
prison sentences.

The court was told yesterday he had no record of employment and had been living
in a number of down-at-heel bedsits in Dublin's north inner city.

Busby, bearded and wearing glasses, looked much healthier after 10 months on
remand at Portlaoise prison.

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              41 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            March 20, 1997, Thursday

Trains, planes and automobiles: who pays?; Election countdown

BYLINE: Colin Brown, Chief Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Page  7

LENGTH: 555 words


A British Midland 737 jet has been lent to the Tory party by Sir Michael Bishop,
chairman of the company, to transport the Prime Minister and his campaign team
with accompanying journalists to the key marginals in the West Country and the
north of England.

John Major is also using a Bristow's Sikorski helicopter to hit the campaign
trail for day trips to enable him to return to London at night.

However, unlike his predecessor, Mr Major will also use privatised rail
transport to give his personal backing to the policy which has been heavily
criticised, particularly over the cuts in services by South West Trains.

Baroness Thatcher refused to travel by trains, which the security services
feared were more open to possible terrorist attack.

The Major "battle bus" will meet the Prime Minister at his campaign sites, to
ferry him and his famous soapbox to public meetings in towns across the country.

The campaign is costing the Tories more than pounds 20m, including poster
advertising, and much of it is being funded by personal donations from business
leaders, including some from abroad.

But the personal backing of businessmen such as Sir Michael will help keep the
costs down. "He is being very generous," a Conservative Party source said.

Party sources said that Mr Major would be taking his campaign to the four
corners of Britain - England, Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland.

The bus, which was wheeled out in 1992, and the jet will be equipped with
high-tech kit to enable him to keep in touch with the business of running the
government at No 10. He often also uses the equipment to keep in touch with the
latest Test cricket scores.

There are on-board televisions to check on daily news coverage, and Downing
Street has a sophisticated telephone system which can "patch" calls almost
anywhere in the country. The advent of the mobile telephone has intensified the
pace with which the Prime Minister will face questions on events.

Mr Major's personal protection officers who go with him everywhere, even on
party business, are also equipped with satellite telephones, which can come in
useful where there are gaps in the cellular network.

The battle bus will be followed by two Wallace Arnold coaches carrying the
press. The sight of three coachloads of media people caused chaos in 1987 when
they descended on Harry Ramsden's Yorkshire chip shop with Lady Thatcher. Tory
organisers have learned from such experiences, but they believe that the scenes
of Mr Major facing student hecklers in Luton this week will help rekindle fears
of "old Labour" militancy.

The party chairman, Brian Mawhinney, got security clearance for the public
walk-abouts to overcome safety fears.

The battle bus is bomb and bullet proof, and carries an array of office
equipment. Secretaries are available to rewrite speeches on board, with printers
and computer systems linked to the research base at Conservative Party
headquarters in Smith Square.

The Prime Minister will be accompanied by Sheila Gunn, his personal press
secretary, Howell James, his chief policy adviser, and speech writers.  Lord
Cranborne, Leader of the Lords, will co-ordinate the Government's business,
while Mr Major is away, operating from Downing Street through the election
business unit.


LOAD-DATE: March 20, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1997 Independent Print Ltd

                              42 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            March 27, 1997, Thursday

IRA bombs its way into the election

BYLINE: DAVID McKITTRICK

SECTION: TITLE; Page  1

LENGTH: 657 words


As the IRA presses the firing-buttons of bombs in the north of England, Gerry
Adams and Martin McGuinness press the flesh, seeking election in West Belfast
and Mid-Ulster.

There is an election on, but in republican terms there is also a war on. If the
IRA can manage it, there will be more incidents in both England and Northern
Ireland, if only to send the message that it remains dangerous.

Yesterday's two early- morning bombs near Wilmslow railway station injured no
one, but were intended to signal that the IRA has not gone away, and that people
may be killed in the course of this election.

In the old days, incidents like these were supposed, in republican fantasy, to
have the effect of driving the British out of Ireland. Few republicans today
believe they are heading for victory. Bombs are seen as positioning mechanisms,
aimed at placing the republican movement in the strongest position for
negotiations with the next government.

Some senior republicans believe that they should have by now adopted an unarmed
strategy, but those running the show believe in a blend of ballot-box and bomb.

Those who want to move to another ceasefire are acquiescing in this approach.
They may disagree with it, but they consider themselves bound by the republican
version of collective cabinet responsibility.

Yet at a deeper level, the two tendencies agree on one fundamental, for both
believe it will all end, sooner or later, not in victory but at a conference
table. The disagreement is not on whether to arrive there but on how and when.

The next British government will receive advances from the republicans holding
out the prospect of a renewed ceasefire in exchange for guaranteed and speedy
entry into talks.

Sinn Fein will say there should be no lengthy "decontamination" period and no
pre-conditions about advance decommissioning of weaponry. It will ask for a
time-frame for negotiations, with movement on issues such as prisoners.

Most republicans assume another ceasefire will probably come into being within
the next 12 months. But there will be many hurdles. A new government with a
slender majority, whether Labour or Tory, may be anxious to court Unionist MPs,
who will certainly campaign strongly against the idea of doing business with
republicans. Then there is the loyalist marching season: another disastrous
summer could sour the atmosphere completely.

All that will come after the election, but for the moment things are not going
entirely to the republican plan, since if the IRA had its way the politico-
violent mix would contain much more violence than at present. Its problem has
been that the security forces in both Britain and Belfast have in the past year
had an unprecedentedly high success rate in foiling IRA operations.

Will yesterday's attacks represent a one-off? Not if the IRA can help it. If
there are no more attacks it will be due to the efforts of the security forces,
for the IRA will be trying hard to put itself in the forefront of this election
campaign.

On the electoral front, things look reasonably promising for the republicans.
Sinn Fein holds no seats at the moment, but Messrs Adams and McGuinness are
favourites to win West Belfast and Mid-Ulster. They are trying hard to win seats
while the IRA tries hard to bomb Britain, in order to give the next government
the unmistakable message that republicans continue to wield too much political
and paramilitary muscle to be ignored.

A man was in serious condition in hospital last night following what appeared to
be an IRA attack on an RUC station at Coalisland, Co Tyrone.

Local people reported that an explosion at the base in the mostly nationalist
town was quickly followed by gunfire and later a series of loud cracks, as
flares were fired into the air. A spokesman at Dungannon hospital said a
19-year-old youth had been admitted with serious gunshot wounds.


LOAD-DATE: March 27, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1997 Independent Print Ltd

                              43 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            March 27, 1997, Thursday

Party leaders snipe over peace process; Return of the bombers

BYLINE: Fran Abrams, Steve Boggan and Colin Brown

SECTION: NEWS; Page  4

LENGTH: 601 words


Before the dust from the Wilmslow bombings had settled, sniping broke out
between the major parties as both Labour and the Tories apparently broke a
cross-party agreement not to make political capital out of terrorist acts.

Tony Blair was reported to be "livid" over accusations by Michael Howard, the
Home Secretary, that Labour could not be trusted to be tough on terrorism.
However, it emerged later that the deputy Labour leader, John Prescott, had
attacked the Tories over the peace process earlier in the day.

During a campaign visit to Luton airport yesterday, Mr Prescott was stopped at
the terminal by a Labour supporter, originally from Northern Ireland, who asked
what a Labour government's policy towards the province would be. Mr Prescott
told him: "We are going to sit down and talk. In that sense there is no
difference between us and the Tories."

But he added: "The peace process broke down when Major decided in order to stay
in power he had to do all sorts of deals over Northern Ireland."

Mr Howard put out a statement saying that Mr Blair had never once voted for the
renewal of the Prevention of Terrorism Act. "His vote - and the votes of his
party - show that you cannot trust Labour to be tough on terrorism," it said.

Aides of Mr Blair responded by releasing details of an agreement struck between
the two parties last week on how to act in the event of a terrorist attack
during the election campaign. The agreement, which was similar to others
followed over a number of years, said that no spokesman should overreact to any
incident, and that any outrage expressed should be directed towards the
terrorists.

Mr Blair gave vent to his anger in a letter to the Prime Minister accusing Mr
Howard of "an extraordinary act of attempted opportunism: As you know we have
given you and your government strong bipartisan support in your search for peace
in Northern Ireland.

"It seems to me that making political capital out of a terrorist attack is an
extremely irresponsible way for a Home Secretary to act. I doubt that those who
have suffered from today's and previous IRA attacks will understand this
extraordinary act of attempted opportunism."

The Tory party chairman, Brian Mawhinney, hit back, writing to Mr Blair to
protest at Mr Prescott's comments. He referred to Mr Prescott's suggestion
yesterday that the peace process broke down when the Prime Minister decided to
do "deals" over Northern Ireland in order to stay in power.

Dr Mawhinney said in his letter: "To make such a suggestion at any time, let
alone on a day when it seems terrorist violence has once again scarred the face
of mainland Britain, is breathtakingly irresponsible and shows a cavalier
disregard for the sensitivities of politics in Northern Ireland.

"Since you have, on many occasions, insisted that Labour is pursuing a
'bipartisan' approach to Northern Ireland issues, I am asking you immediately to
disown John Prescott's remarks and make clear that they do not represent the
Labour Party's view."

John Major, on an election visit to Bradford, described the bomb attack as "a
two-fingered insult to democracy".

Calling on Sinn Fein leaders to condemn the bombing without "weasel words", Mr
Major said: "I hope Sinn Fein IRA are not going to conduct their campaign with
the ballot box in Northern Ireland and with bombs on the mainland.  People would
be wise to be vigilant."

Despite increased security fears the Prime Minister said the attack would not
stop the election campaign. "I shall be out there meeting the people," he said.


LOAD-DATE: March 27, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1997 Independent Print Ltd

                              44 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            March 27, 1997, Thursday

Railway failed to update security; Return of the bombers: Crucial amendments
overlooked after privatisatio n

BYLINE: Randeep Ramesh Transport Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Page  4

LENGTH: 449 words


Senior civil servants were left in the dark about who to contact in the event of
a terrorist attack last year because British Rail procedures were not updated
after privatisation, according to documents obtained by The Independent.

The Home Office manual of counter-terrorist contingency plans was reviewed last
year. When officials sought to update their lists, they discovered that many
numbers and job positions had changed dramatically after the sell-off of British
Rail.

In a letter dated 29 October 1996 to Iain King, the security project manager for
British Rail, from the Department of Transport, civil servants ask for
"amendments" to the manual that are "required in the light of privatisation and
fragmentation of the rail industry".

"Some of the references have now been superseded and I would be grateful for
your advice on who now employs the relevant personnel," adds Mike Haley, a civil
servant from the DoT.

Insiders say that many procedures are reviewed before Christmas, a time
traditionally when terrorists target the mainland. Railway sources were quick to
point out that anti- terrorist police take charge of operations and they would
co-ordinate any reaction to a terrorist attack.

A spokeswoman for the Home Office said: "These documents are regularly reviewed
and updated."

Railways are a prime target for terrorists. The only fatality occurred in
February 1991, when a bomb exploded in Victoria station, in London.

The only explosion on a train occurred on a commuter train from London to
Ramsgate in spring 1993. Police identified which train was carrying the device
and they stopped it at Kent House and had just managed to evacuate the train
when the device exploded.

The railway network is the only completely fenced network in the world, but in
many places this provides inadequate protection from a determined bomber.

Yesterday's attacks were aimed at taking out Britain's two main rail arteries.
Three bombs were placed in two locations - one on the West Coast line at
Wilmslow, Cheshire - the other at Doncaster, on the flagship East Coast route.

All were defused by controlled explosion - although commuter services in the
North West were thrown into confusion and the East Coast line was paralysed for
most of the morning. There were no fatalities.

The bombs were intended as a surgical strike on the country's rail network - a
tactic the IRA used at Clapham Junction in 1991, when services ground to a halt
and 1 million commuters were stranded.

London's extensive rail network is now covered by surveillance cameras and there
is a police presence on many platforms to deter terrorist attacks.


LOAD-DATE: March 27, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1997 Independent Print Ltd

                              45 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            March 27, 1997, Thursday

EASTER BLITZ ALERT AFTER RAIL BOMBS;
BLAST BRNGS TRAVEL CHAOS;
IRA BLOW UP RAILWAY LINE IN WILMSLOW

BYLINE: Jeff Edwards, Paul Byrne And Patrick Mulchrone

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 520 words


Britain is bracing itself for an Easter bombing blitz after the IRA blew up a
railway line yesterday.

Anti-terrorist detectives fear the attack may herald a new mainland campaign and
are on full alert for a giant lorry bomb over the holiday period.

A Scotland Yard source said: "The IRA are planning a big one. There are several
hit squads in place and they've had the signal to go into action."

The terrorists struck with two 2lb devices on the main London to Manchester and
Glasgow rail route at Wilmslow, Cheshire, after a garbled phone warning.  The
second bomb went off 30 minutes after the first and was designed to kill
emergency services staff who rushed to the scene. Miraculously, no one was hurt.

The blasts, which smashed signalling equipment, were heard by 100 evacuated
residents sheltering in a leisure centre just yards away.

One of them, Emma Sutherst, 23, said: "Everyone fell silent. We were shocked
anyone could do this to our little town."

Special Branch officers say Provo teams have surveyed main junctions and bridge
complexes in London, Crewe, Doncaster and the Midlands.

They fear the IRA may try to sever a section of line with a giant 'bridge
buster' device.

British Transport Police are now to step up patrols in special trains filled
with sharpshooters. Bomb warnings were also made at the railway station in
Doncaster, Yorks, causing major disruption although no device was found.

FURIOUS Tony Blair protested to Premier John Major last night after the Home
Secretary branded the Labour leader soft on terrorism.

Michael Howard's cynical bid to score political points reneged on a six day pact
between Tories and Labour to direct any criticism over such attacks at the
terrorists.

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ATTACK: A remote-controlled robot hunts for more bombs on line
yesterday

                            Copyright 1997 MGN Ltd.

                              46 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            March 27, 1997, Thursday

EASTER BOMB BLITZ ALERT;
IRA RAIL ATTACK IN WILMSLOW

BYLINE: Jeff Edwards, Paul Byrne And Patrick Mulchrone

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 667 words


Britain is bracing itself for an Easter bombing blitz after the IRA blew up a
railway line yesterday.

Anti-terrorist detectives fear the attack may herald a new mainland campaign and
are on full alert for a giant lorry bomb spectacular over the holiday period.

One Scotland Yard source said: "The IRA are planning a big one. There are
several hit squads in place and they have had the signal to go into action."

The bombers struck with two 2lb devices on the main London to Manchester and
Glasgow rail route at Wilmslow, Cheshire, after a garbled phone warning.

The area is home to numerous TV and sporting stars, including Manchester United
boss Alex Ferguson.

The blasts, which smashed signalling equipment, were heard by over 100 residents
sheltering in a leisure centre just yards away. Miraculously, no one was hurt.

Witness Emma Sutherst, 23, said: "Everyone fell silent. We were shocked anyone
could do this to our little town."

Special Branch officers say Provo teams have surveyed main junctions and bridge
complexes in London, Crewe, Doncaster and the Midlands. They fear the IRA may
try to sever a section of line with a giant 'bridge buster' device.

British Transport Police are now to step up patrols in special trains filled
with squads of sharpshooters.

Yesterday's attack was seen as an attempt by the terrorists to paralyse one of
the UK's busiest rail routes.

Bomb warnings were also made at the railway station in Doncaster, Yorks, causing
major disruption although no device was found.

Last night Prime Minister John Major called the attack a "two-fingered insult to
democracy at the start of the general election campaign."

He challenged Sinn Fein president Gerry Adams to condemn the incident without
"weasel words".

Labour's Tony Blair labelled the blast "an evil act" and Lib Dem leader Paddy
Ashdown added: "This is a futile attempt by the IRA to bomb themselves into the
election campaign."

Sinn Fein chief negotiator Martin McGuinness last night refused to condemn the
attack.

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ATTACK: A remote-controlled robot hunts for more terrorist bombs
yesterday Picture: ANDY STENNING

                            Copyright 1997 MGN Ltd.

                              47 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                            March 27, 1997, Thursday

Blair accuses Howard of electioneering over bombs

BYLINE: Philip Webster, Political Editor, and Nicholas Watt, Chief Ireland
Correspondent

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 510 words


Home Secretary criticises Labour leader over record on IRA terrorism

THE long-standing bipartisan approach to terrorism broke down in acrimony last
night after a furious dispute between Tony Blair and Michael Howard within hours
of an IRA bombing in Cheshire.

The Labour leader accused the Home Secretary of trying to make election capital
from the two bombs, which were designed to block the country's two main
north-south rail arteries. The bombs exploded close to the centre of Wilmslow.
Nobody was hurt.

A coded warning was also issued about a bomb at Doncaster station, which sparked
an evacuation and shut down the main east coast line. No device was found.

After the Home Secretary issued a statement through Conservative Central Office
criticising Mr Blair's record on terrorism, the Labour leader said that Mr
Howard had breached the understanding that the parties would stand together in
the face of terrorism. Mr Howard said Mr Blair had not once voted for the
renewal of the Prevention of Terrorism Act. "His vote and the votes of his party
show that you cannot trust Labour to be tough on terrorism."

The dispute developed as the IRA sent a chilling warning that it would step up
its terrorist campaign in Britain and Northern Ireland unless Sinn Fein was
allowed to join the Stormont talks after the general election. The IRA said: "We
have demonstrated again and again that we retain the capacity and resources to
continue to strike against those who are maintaining British occupation."

Mr Howard's attack on Mr Blair surprised Westminster observers and it was later
disclosed that Mr Howard and Jack Straw, the Shadow Home Secretary, had met last
week and agreed to maintain the bipartisan approach during the election
campaign.

Mr Blair said in a statement: "For anyone to try and make political capital out
of a terrorist outrage is unacceptable. For the Home Secretary to do so is
reprehensible." He demanded an apology.

The Tories hit back by pointing to remarks yesterday from John Prescott,
Labour's deputy leader, in effect blaming Mr Major for the break down in the
peace process. He said: "The peace process broke down when Major decided in
order to stay in power he had to do all sorts of deals over Northern Ireland."
Tory sources said it was a "bit rich" for Mr Blair to ask for an apology when
his deputy was so openly calling into question Mr Major's integrity.

Brian Mawhinney, the Tory party chairman, called Mr Prescott's remarks
"breathtakingly irresponsble" and wrote to Mr Blair last night asking him to
disown them.

Mr Blair last night wrote to the Prime Minister accusing Mr Howard of "an
extraordinary act of attempted opportunism". He said: "Nobody detests terrorism
more than I do and nobody is more determined to defeat terrorism and bring the
killers to justice."

Mr Straw wrote to the Home Secretary accusing him of breaching a private
agreement between the parties on how to react to terrrorist incidents during the
election campaign.

* Leading article, page 23


LOAD-DATE: March 28, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1997 Times Newspapers Limited

                              48 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 28, 1997

MINI BERLIN WALL TORN DOWN AS MANCHESTER'S REVIVAL NEARS COMPLETION IN WAKE OF
BOMB

BYLINE: Martyn Halsall

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN CITY PAGE; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 427 words


VICTORIAN commodity traders knew Manchester's Royal Exchange as the greatest
trading floor in Europe, writes Martyn Halsall.  Today it marks the largest
enclosed scaffolding site in Britain as the city celebrates progress towards the
return to commercial normality after the IRA bomb attack last June.

Senior councillors yesterday reopened Market Street - at a ceremony near the
spot where the bomb exploded - with the removal of a "mini Berlin Wall", above,
which had divided the North-west region's busiest shopping street since the
explosion. "This is a great Easter present for Manchester," said Pat Karney,
chairman of the council's city centre committee.

The ceremony opened a route past the former Marks & Spencer store, within feet
of where the 3,300 lb bomb exploded.

Hundreds of experts worked round the clock to give the Royal Exchange, which
dates from 1860, its interior web after the IRA exploded the biggest bomb on
mainland Britain 200 metres away. Some 50,000 metres of steel tubing were
manhandled into a series of new floors to enable a thorough inspection of walls
and moulded ceilings up to 35 metres high.

Most of the original retailers have returned to the outside of the Exchange but
it will be months before offices inside the building reopen, and 1998 before
audiences return to the theatre occupying most of the old trading floor.

"There are tremendous time pressures to get people in and get them working,'
said Andy Lowther, project manager.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              49 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             March 28, 1997, Friday

A campaign that just can't get started

BYLINE: Colin Brown Chief Political Correspondent

SECTION: ELECTION COUNTDOWN; Page  7

LENGTH: 541 words


The Deputy Prime Minister, Michael Heseltine, got the Prime Minister's name
wrong yesterday, when he was interviewed on the BBC Today programme about Tim
Smith's resignation.

Heseltine: "What John Smith. . . err . . . err . . ."

John Humphrys: John Major.

Heseltine: "John Major - what John Major was talking about . . . " It was a slip
which spoke volumes for a Tory campaign which is having difficulties getting
started.

With the Tories in dire trouble, Mr Major was in Peterborough with his friend
and neighbour Brian Mawhinney, the party chairman, to open a village hall.

So far, it has been a quiet campaign which appears detached from the rough and
tumble of the fight being waged by Central Office.

Earlier this week, Mr Major visited a grant maintained school in Birmingham to
coincide with a press conference in London by Gillian Shephard to raise
education up the agenda.

Some of those on the Major tour were unaware that Mr Heseltine and Mr Mawhinney
at Central Office had changed the attack to the unions. Mr Major went on with
his visit, chatting to sixth formers, but it was overshadowed by the union issue
in the next day's press.

On Wednesday, after the IRA bomb attacks at Wilmslow, Cheshire, Mr Major
attacked IRA-Sinn Fein in an interview at Heathrow, but refused appeals for
interviews on his day out to Bradford, Halifax and Huddersfield, which became a
day-long photo-opportunity.

Mr Major posed with his wife, Norma, at the national museum of photography, film
and television in Bradford. He posed for more pictures in the headquarters of
the Halifax Building Society. He posed on the field at the Huddersfield FC and
refused to kick a football, explaining to photographers: "If you had my knees,
you wouldn't." He still suffers from a car accident he had in Africa before he
became an MP.

Back in London, Michael Howard, the Home Secretary, attacked Labour after the
Wilmslow bombing for its failure to support the Government's anti- terrorist
legislation.

Mr Major remained mute on his tour until an off-the-cuff pep talk to party
workers at the Huddersfield ground, where he urged them to show the
"compassionate" side of the Conservative Party in the election.

The minders accompanying Mr Major's tour say it is early days. The battle bus
will officially roll next week, with the launch of the Tory manifesto.  It may
be then that we will see a different John Major. So far, it has been a charm
offensive, to show his compassionate side.

It is an undemonstrative campaign. He is a patter; he pats the heads of children
but he does not kiss them. "He doesn't kiss babies," said one of the Major team,
as he toured a shopping centre in Cornwall.

He remains the Tories' chief weapon against New Labour's appeal, and it may
still work, as it did in 1992. The anecdotal evidence on the road with the Major
campaign suggests there are still many "don't knows".

The anger bordering on hatred against the Tories in the recession has gone. Mr
Major is greeted with warmth wherever he goes. There is no hyperbole on the
highway with Mr Major. When he announced that Britain was "booming", he added:
"but in a reasonable way". All that may change next week.


LOAD-DATE: April 01, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1997 Independent Print Ltd

                              50 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 31, 1997

CRIME: REALLY HACKED OFF;
It's a fair cop . . . At the end of the day, the journalistic cliche is a fact
of life. In an exclusive three-page report, Guardian writers wax lyrical on the
blindingly obvious

BYLINE: Duncan Campbell

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN MEDIA PAGE; Pg. T19

LENGTH: 1507 words


Another day, another bomb. Bombs, we know by now, have all the hallmarks of the
IRA. Bombers are cowardly. Emergency services rush to the scene. Explosions
leave shards of glass on the road. There is a handy phrase for every aspect of
reporting explosions on mainland Britain. How hard it is to avoid them all and
expand the language of crime reporting.

A couple of weeks ago the arrival of the prison ship, Resolution, provoked
discussion about what is the most suitable name for it. The Home Office made it
clear that it should not be referred to as a 'hulk' but the alternative official
suggestion of 'a floating facility' was derided by Guardian readers. Should it
be so easily dismissed? According to Eric Partridge's excellent Dictionary Of
The Underworld, late eighteenth century prison hulks were known as 'floating
academies', or more specifically as 'Campbell's floating academies', the name
deriving from a prison governor called, ahem, Duncan Campbell, who had a
fearsome reputation among prisoners of the time. One report from 1781 states of
a felon that 'he was sentenced to improve as a pupil to Mr Duncan Campbell's
floating academy for five years.' The dictionary, more than 800 pages of tightly
packed and similarly fascinating derivations, is one of three such books which
have come my way in the last couple of months, the other two being JP Bean's
Verbals (the book of criminal quotations) and Prison Patter, Angela Devlin's
illustrated dictionary of prison slang.

All of which should mean that the language of crime reporting has never been
richer. In fact, the opposite seems true. Since The King's English, Kingsley
Amis's book on the use and misuse of the English language, has just been
published, perhaps we can respectfully add a criminal appendix.

There is a handy set of crime report cliches which are used unchallenged.
People are victims of a brutal murder, suggesting there are often sensitive or
gentle murders; they are stabbed in frenzied attacks, rather than mild-mannered
ones. When the relatives of a murdered or missing person appear at a police
press conference they always make an emotional appeal, presumably as opposed to
a casual, laid-back one. When someone is sentenced in court they always look
impassively from the dock.

There is also a convention for the superfluous word. A trial thus becomes the
longest murder/drugs/terrorism trial in British legal history, when clearly it
is not going to be the longest murder trial in British sporting or any other
kind of history.  At an inquest the deceased is said to have choked to death on
his own vomit, as though there was always a possibility - which perhaps there is
in some circles, who knows - of choking to death on someone else's vomit.

Another criminal cliche which is frequently used, particularly by television
reporters, is coming to terms with, as in 'the people of Little Hambleton are
today coming to terms with the tragic death of 15-year old XXX.' This is a
meaningless phrase.  It is unlikely that the day after a murder anyone affected
personally by it will come to terms with it. And if they do, how does the
reporter know? Do you ask a neighbour 'excuse me, how have you been affected by
the murder of your friend last night?' 'Oh, I'm coming to terms with it this
morning, thanks for asking.' Other phrases for use in missing people stories
have a familiar ring - fears are growing or hopes are fading -but how do you
improve on them? We have previously written about the overuse of the word loner
(which, like most of the above cliches, I've often used myself) and the fact
that murder victims always, according to neighbours, kept themselves to
themselves which is shorthand for 'this is Britain, mate, we never exchanged a
bloody word in all the 15 years he's lived here.' Once a murder has moved into a
court a whole new set of cliches are involved. Thus every few weeks we have
someone described by the prosecution as a Walter Mitty character (essentially, a
liar) or a Billy Liar character (another liar.) There is also the Jekyll and
Hyde character, which usually means a violent psychopath who occasionally wears
a clean shirt.

Judges, when sentencing, like to tell criminals that society has earned a rest
from them but what does this mean? Has society actively earned that rest or will
it just be relieved that that the defendant is locked up? The police have a
number of helpful phrases. Helping with inquiries, which came into use in the
fifties, means, usually, 'he's saying absolutely nothing until his brief gets
there.' After legal advice, they have dropped the old post-acquittal favourite,
we are not looking for anyone else in connection with our inquiries, which means
'the bastard fooled the jury'. Any visit to a suspect's home between midnight
and noon is a dawn raid.

Criminals, of course, have their own helpful cliches when dealing with crime
reporters. Hence the regular use of I'm no angel (I have 16 previous
convictions, including two for manslaughter and three for demanding money with
menaces) but I'm innocent on this occasion.

One former bank robber recalls how the judge in his trial helpfully told the
jury they might find some of the language confusing: when the defendants said
they had been on a job, said the judge, they meant quite the opposite; when they
talked of straightening a policeman, they meant the opposite again. Sheriffs in
Scottish courts and magistrates operating near London stations where trains from
Scotland arrive are all familiar with people who have taken refreshment which is
much more explanatory than the legalistic drunk and disorderly.

One former crime reporter, the late Bill Driscoll, who died in 1991, was
dismissed from one of the many papers where he worked for taking the mick by
writing the unforgettable first line in the report of a murder in
Leicestershire: 'They called him the golden-haired Adonis of the Market
Harborough smart set.' Now that's crime reporting you don't learn in academies,
floating or otherwise.

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              51 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 4, 1997

IRA bomb threats paralyse M-ways ;
 Provos blamed for roads shutdown

BYLINE:  OWEN BOWCOTT

SECTION: The Guardian Home Page; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 525 words


BRITAIN'S central motorway network was paralysed all yesterday by two bombs and
a hoax device - assumed to be the work of the IRA - which closed the M1, M5 and
M6 in the Midlands and inflicted millions of pounds of delays on industry.

Queues of drivers stretched up to 25 miles along the M1 and its feeder roads
through Northamptonshire and Leicestershire. The disruption, which began at 8am,
was not cleared from the M1 until 5.40pm.  But problems on the M5 and M6
continued long into the night, as junctions seven to 10 of the M6 and junctions
one to the M6 link of the M5 remained closed while searches continued.

Earlier, army explosive experts discovered what was described as a "viable bomb
capable of causing loss of life" attached to the top of a pillar supporting the
M6 near Bescot in Walsall. Another device, the detonator of which had fired, was
found nearby. Explosions were heard in the area during the early morning.

What appears to be the latest phase in the IRA's mainland campaign came as a
senior Sinn Fein spokesman dampened down speculation that a ceasefire was about
to be declared ahead of the general election.

Speaking in west Belfast, the party's national chairman, Mitchel McLaughlin,
said: "Obviously the IRA will make their own decision, but I would be very, very
surprised if there was any unilateral initiative in the current circumstances.

"Sinn Fein are not in the business of limited or temporary arrangements. The
political conditions have not been created to justify all this media
speculation."

The alert began at around 8am when warnings were telephoned to businesses using
authenticated IRA codewords. Police immediately cleared the motorways.

Junction one of the M5, the M6 between junctions seven and 10 and the M1 between
junctions 16 and 20 were all closed. Traffic jams were worst in the East
Midlands and Northamptonshire.

The Freight Transport Association estimated that the disruption had caused up to
pounds 3.5 million of losses. "This is a very high cost to British industry," a
spokesman said.

The roads hit by the bomb scares are among the country's busiest.  Up to 120,000
vehicles a day use the affected sections of the M6. The attack follows the IRA's
pattern of hitting economic targets, particularly major key transport routes.

John Major, campaigning in the Scottish borders, laid the blame for the chaos at
the door of the IRA. "It was intended deliberately to cause trouble," he said.

Northamptonshire's chief constable, Chris Fox, described the attacks as a "cold,
calculated attempt at disruption". Around 100 people had to be evacuated from
nearby buildings while the hoax device underneath the M1 was dealt with by an
army bomb disposal squad.

In Walsall, the police moved 500 residents from around Bescot after the first
telephone calls were made to two hotels. The caller had an Irish accent.

William Wallace, aged 53, a self-employed lorry driver carrying frozen chips
from France to Deeside, said: "I have lost two hours already and if I lose the
same amount of time again this will cost me personally at least pounds 500."


LOAD-DATE: October 30, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              52 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             April 4, 1997, Friday

TERROR JAM;
IRA BOMBS CAUSE 100 MILES OF CHAOS;
IRA BRING CHAOS TO BRITAIN'S MOTORWAYS

BYLINE: Bill Daniels

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 680 words


The IRA tried to blow up two of Britain's motorways yesterday.

They caused gridlock chaos for hundreds of thousands of motorists as 100 miles
of jams built up.

Two bombs were found 100 yards apart on the M6 near Walsall, West Midlands.

The detonator on one went off but it failed to explode the bomb.

West Midlands assistant chief constable Bob Packham said: "Had the bombs gone
off they could have caused considerable loss of life and damage".

Police sealed off nearly 30 miles of the M6 and M5 around Birmingham and the M1
in Northamptonshire.

A search was still going on late last night. The M6 was expected to remain
sealed off throughout the night

The first device was found after two warnings with an IRA codeword were phoned
to hotels in Walsall at 8am.

Officers found a package attached to a concrete pillar.

Two controlled explosions were carried out by bomb disposal experts.  The
detonator had gone off just after 9am but the explosive was not triggered.

The second bomb was found 100 yards from the first, police confirmed last night.

A suspect box in an M1 underpass in Northants was destroyed in two controlled
explosions.

It was later confirmed the box was not a bomb. As the chaos spread, homes, shops
and offices were evacuated, rail lines closed down, and town centres seized up.

Commuters faced hours of delay last night as rush hour traffic was brought to a
standstill.

Over 200 people were evacuated from their homes near Junction Nine of the M6 at
Bescot, Walsall, and took shelter in a supermarket.

A police helicopter warned residents to evacuate the area.

Trains between Birmingham and Walsall were halted because the line passes under
the M6.

There was also a bomb alert at Birmingham New Street station but police failed
to find anything suspicious.

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: M6 GRIDLOCK: Northbound traffic stuck on the M6;; M5 DESERTED: The
closed -off junction of the M6 and M5

                            Copyright 1997 MGN Ltd.

                              53 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 5, 1997
                              Correction Appended

A PROPHET FROM THE DARKNESS;
Eamon Collins spent six years in the IRA, masterminding assassinations,
recruiting new members and learning all the secrets of the organisation. He has
now turned his back on his former compatriots, and has written a searing memoir,
KillingRage, which reveals for the first time the tawdry, anarchic workings of
the Irish Republican Army

BYLINE: Kevin Toolis

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN WEEKEND PAGE; Pg. T16

LENGTH: 8614 words


On a frosty morning in January 1981, two motorcyclists drove into the
Warrenpoint customs station that straddles the border with the Irish Republic,
and knocked on the office door. One of them was waving customs documents so, as
was routine, the reception staff opened a security door into the building.

Once inside, the motorcyclists produced guns, stuck one in the ear of a clerk
and demanded to know the whereabouts of the office of a senior customs official
and part-time Ulster Defence Regiment major, Ivan Toombs. The frightened clerk
readily pointed out the office door and the gunmen walked in shouting Toombs's
name.

Toombs was sitting behind his desk as the gunman, nicknamed the Iceman, took up
a two-handed firing position ready to kill Toombs from a distance of four feet.
The Iceman pulled the trigger but the gun jammed. Toombs made a desperate dive
for his briefcase, where he kept his personal weapon. The Iceman lunged at him -
the two men now struggling for life and death across Toombs's desk. The Iceman
called out to his companion for help. The other IRA gunman came running. Once in
the room, the second IRA gunman shouted 'Stand back', and the Iceman pulled away
from Toombs. The gunman fired five rounds into Toombs and then ran back to
control the reception staff in the outer office. The Iceman cleared his jammed
weapon and then fired two rounds into the head of the dying Toombs, now sprawled
like a carcass on the floor. The gunmen left.

Toombs's murder was just another going-on, another 'stiffing' in the IRA's long
war. But it marked the first successful operation for Eamon Collins, who worked
beside Toombs as a customs official, shared a car with his future victim, and
who set Toombs, his Protestant neighbour, up for assassination. 'When you are
stalking someone, it's almost like a primitive predatory animalistic sense takes
over. You stalk someone like an animal would stalk its prey. I think it is a
very basic instinct. You have this incredible sense of tension, and all your
instincts are being used to their maximum - you cannot let the other person
realise they are being watched. You are a stalking animal, you know human beings
are in a sense animals.  It's as simple as that, and as horrific,' says Collins.

Although he never pulled the trigger, Collins was the 'finger man', an IRA
intelligence officer who selected people to be shot. Toombs's was just the first
of many killings that Collins engineered in six intensive years of IRA activity,
as he rose higher and higher in the ranks of the Republican paramilitary
organisation.  Now, having broken away from his former comrades, Collins has
written Killing Rage, a searing account of the journey that began with Toombs's
stiffing and continued through six years of clandestine, intimate murder, until
Collins broke under RUC interrogation, betrayed his one-time comrades, retracted
his confession, and finally began his long climb to a kind of personal
redemption.

Killing Rage is a document of an assassin; a descriptive guidebook on how to
gather enough information to kill a man and an exposition of the moral cost that
such deeds extract from the narrator's psyche.

Writers don't usually kill anyone, and never in the same numbers as Collins.
Writers never go to the funeral of the man they have targeted for murder in
order to select new victims for killing. They never glance across a maternity
ward, as Collins did, at the husband of the woman his own wife had befriended,
and think about how easy it would be to slip a bomb under this Protestant
enemy's car as he visits his newly-born child in hospital.

Collins has turned traitor on the IRA and betrayed its inner secrets: the
remorseless gathering of the piecemeal information process, the litany of petty
betrayals by embittered neighbours, the casual encounters on the road, the
identifying of houses, number plates, cars, victims, and the slow closing-in for
the kill.

I met Collins in a small Dublin hotel in an over-stuffed bedroom as anonymous as
the houses from which Collins and his one-time IRA compatriots planned and
implemented the death of other men. In appearance, Collins is an almost elfin
man. Short and pudgy, the 43-year-old recently survived a triple-bypass
operation. He does not look like a killer.

Dressed in a heavy black-leather jacket, Collins has the air of a frustrated
polytechnic revolutionary. He is a lecturer rather than a communicator, a
socially awkward ranter. He is the type of fellow-student who would have
dogmatically ground away at Hegel in the pub to better his socially superior,
sexier, though intellectually shallower classmates. He has developed a
bombastic, jargonistic pattern of thought - a form of student -Marxist doggerel
which automatically excludes, dismisses the personal as irrelevant to the
inevitable onward march of history.

In the Eighties, Collins, in the company of a one-time intellectual mentor,
visited the Soviet Union as an ideological tourist, and planned another
fellow-traveller tourist trip to Vietnam to find out about conflict - just
before he was arrested and charged on five murder counts. I doubt if Collins was
ever fun at parties at his alma mater, Queen's University, or particularly good
with the women.

If he had been born in Britain, Collins's criminal record would probably have
been restricted to a few self-congratulatory breaches of the peace at student
demos, before he settled down somewhere to a life of quiet, pent-up frustration
as the disgruntled militant. But in Ireland, where the past continually reworks
itself in the present, Collins's anger found far deeper channels to run in. The
title of his book is apt; there is an undercurrent of rage in his character that
is easily sparked.

'Toombs was a decent man. I never felt any dislike for him. He was a soldier; I
was in the IRA. It was a particular moment in our history - the prisoners were
having a terrible time in the H-Blocks - and he was a good target; a major in
the UDR.

I went to his funeral and I felt quite moved by what Archbishop Eames said.  But
it was a successful operation and I had had enough of farting around.' Amid the
throng of the funeral crowd, Collins tried to glean information on Toombs's
military colleagues so that they could be killed too.

In 1985, Collins was arrested by the RUC and imprisoned for two years. He broke
under interrogation and committed the cardinal Republican sin: he betrayed his
comrades and turned Queen's Evidence.  He later retracted, but the wound could
not be healed. He is cast out, an apostate. A natural dissident, he nevertheless
finds the predictable anger and personal hostility of those he has denounced
somehow incomprehensible. In the small hotel bedroom, his voice boomed out: 'The
IRA have denied me the right to make my case. I am making my case, alone,
without support. I have stood on my own two feet. What I am saying to the
Republican Movement is - you acted towards me as a group, as a destructive
group, a bullying group. It is me saying to you (the IRA) that no one will deny
me the right to make my case.'

While the intellectual incongruity of publishing a book, engaging in a civilised
editorial process, and appealing to the judicial sense of fair play of a bunch
of killer mechanics hanging out in the IRA bars of Dundalk seems obvious to
others, publishing the book is also an act of blind courage. Collins has already
survived a death sentence by the IRA, when he was forced into exile away from
his beloved home town of Newry. The death sentence was informally removed, but
that did not stop a republican neighbour from throwing a petrol bomb into
Collins's car as part of the 'people's spontaneous anger' at the release of
paratrooper Lee Clegg.

Collins, at one time a significant IRA player, is betraying the IRA not only to
the British but to the wider world. If IRA members hated Collins before as a
tout, a traitor, then they will hate him all the more profoundly still for
exposing the grubby self-interested inner workings of their patriot game of
stiffing off -duty members of the RUC. It's hard to read the book without
feeling total contempt and disgust for the majority of the part -time labourers/
part-time gunmen, patriots, opportunistic thieves, self-justifying killers -the
bold Fenian men - depicted in it. Killing Rage is therefore a dangerous firework
to be throwing around at the feet of, as Collins personally knows, erratic,
ill-disciplined gunmen.

And yet, for all this, Collins remains imprisoned by his past. Our interview was
the first time any outsider beyond his publisher had talked to him about the
book. I would have thought he would have been more curious. At the end of our
interview, I suggested a drink in the downstairs bar but he was eager to be
gone, eager to catch the three o'clock train north, eager to escape the
foreignness of Dublin and return to the tight, hermetic, cramped world of Newry,
a nondescript dorp grown into a sprawling town by its proximity to the border,
where Collins was born and bred, and whose green lanes he patrolled seeking out
neighbours to kill.

Many of us cast our past behind. We move from our birth home, our job, our first
relationship, to somewhere else, but Collins is implacably rooted to the 'land
of his ancestors', the same narrow little trench, the same tight matrix of
familial loyalties and the consequent Catholic/Protestant communal hatreds that
created the little world of Newry, whose greater population is less than 25,000.

Collins's final break with the IRA came when the organisation expelled him from
Newry under pain of death. If I was ever in the same situation, I hope I would
escape. I would want to deny the gunmen their power and leave; save myself, damn
them to their twisted murders, and find a new life. But Collins was incapable of
that.  Beneath the rhetoric, Collins is a home boy.

Collins voluntarily returned to the orbit of the border IRA, their universe, to
live in the daily shadow of the gunmen, to live in the fear of the hunted,
checking under the car every day, checking out every hostile whisper. He lives
there still.  Perhaps the book and its coming impact will protect him from harm.
I hope so.  Collins says nationalist Catholic Newry is home, but it sounded to
me like a prison of continual watchfulness, a prison where the maw of the past
is, in deed and thought, still working its way through the present. Book or no
book, I doubt if Collins will ever escape it.

Collins comes from farming stock; his beloved father, Brian, was a border cattle
and horse trader, an iconoclast wheeler-dealer who looked to his well-to-do
Protestant neighbours for trade, social company and bonhomie. Brian Collins's
allegiance was to the pound sterling and the punt in his pocket rather than the
political systems that issued them. Collins's mother, Kathleen Cumiskey, was
more typically a devout Catholic and, by default, a nationalist.

His parents' marriage was stormy, and when he was five his father left.
Collins, along with his mother, went to stay with his maternal grandfather. His
descriptions of this gnarled disciplinarian are harsh, and the impact of this
fall from grace in Catholic Ireland of the Fifties was profound.

'I experienced the pain of that in the same way any child would experience the
pain of it,' he said tightly. A year later, his parents reunited, but the
fissure of difference within their marriage never did.

Whether he knows it or not, there is throughout Collins's account of his life an
underground torrent of anger directed at a succession of male authority figures,
lost fathers whose affection and respect he craved and who subsequently betrayed
him in the same sense as his own father must have by abandoning the family.

Collins was middle class. His family were well off, and by no means identified
themselves with the downtrodden Catholic underclass or with the IRA. He was 15
when the Troubles broke out again in 1969. In that year, paradoxically, he spent
a week at a British Army Junior Soldiers' training camp in Wales. At 16, he left
school and worked as a clerk for the Ministry of Defence in London before
homesickness - that haunting burden - drove him to take the boat back.

In 1972, Collins attended Queen's University to study law, and actively
disdained the IRA as 'brainless cannon-fodder'. By his own account, he felt more
British than Irish. And then he visited home, just 60 miles away, one weekend.

Coming back after a night out, Collins noticed his father's car stationary at
the end of the lane that led to the family farmhouse. Shadowy figures were
running around in the darkness. Earlier in the day, his father had been stopped
by soldiers and the 'jelly-sniffer' dog had gone mental over some spilled
creosote - an agricultural chemical - in the boot of the car.  Collins ran down
the lane towards his father's car. Suddenly he heard the cocking of rifles and
glimpsed in the half-light a red beret - it was the soldiers.

'Get your fucking hands on your head, you Irish bastard.'

'Get your legs out, you Irish cunt.'

They spread Collins's legs so far apart he fell flat on his face. One of the
soldiers then rammed his rifle so far down Collins's throat he began to choke.

'I'd blow your brains out for tuppence, you Irish cunt.'

The soldiers smashed their way into the family home and Collins could hear his
mother, crippled with rheumatism, screaming from her bedroom: 'Where's my son?
Where's my son. I want my son! I want my son!'

Collins, his father and his brother John were all thrown in the back of an army
Jeep and got a hammering from the drunken squaddies. Collins's face was smashed
into a radio that was on the floor, his back battered by rifle butts; someone
tried to jam a rifle barrel into his anus. He was ordered to sing God Save The
Queen and The Sash - and the soldiers kept up a frenzied rhythm with rifle-butt
blows on his back. 'Provo cunt. Irish bastard.'

The family were released without charge the following day, but everything had
changed.

'Sometimes I would think the soldiers had made an understandable mistake.  Other
times I would feel a surge of rage and its power would unbalance me: I would sit
alone in my room and think with pleasure of blowing the heads off those scum.'
The killing rage had been unleashed.

From 1972 to 1978, Collins drifted. He was a failure, he flunked out of Queen's,
his world closed in, he was profoundly depressed, his relationship at the time
ended, he lived inside himself, alienated from the world.

Ideologically, he came under the influence of the Revolutionary Communist Group,
which taught him that killing for a cause was good. In the cauldron of the late
Seventies in Northern Ireland, as the IRA prison process began to accelerate, it
was not difficult to identify that cause. Collins went on H-block protest
marches and was mesmerised by the poverty and protests he saw. He felt shame and
guilt at his relative position of privilege. He wanted to immerse himself in the
cause of the risen people. 'Eiroimid Aris! Tiocfaidh Ar La!' - 'We will rise
again. Our day will come' - were seductive if atavistic crowd slogans. The price
of fulfilling them would be paid later in the blood of men.

In 1978, Collins joined Her Majesty's Customs and Excise to get off the dole,
earn money to buy books and live a little better. In his heart, though, he was
already committed to the IRA. After two hours on the job, he realised that his
was an ideal position from which to gain intelligence on members of the British
security forces so the IRA could whack them. His first gift to ingratiate
himself with the gunmen across the border, like a bride with a dowry, was
information on Ivan Toombs.

Soon Collins was a full-time IRA member. He was a relative rarity in the
Provisionals; a sort of intellectual from a left-wing ideological base.

Influenced by the Revolutionary Communist Group, Collins saw the agitation
around the 1981 Hunger Strike, and the chaotic street protests, as a means to
build a mass socialist movement. He joined the IRA hoping to shape its overall
strategy, tilt the organisation away from its green nationalist roots to
'revolutionary socialism'.

Although he never directly shot anyone, he was a prolific killer, later charged
with the murders of five men. I asked him if he ever got personal satisfaction
from one of those kills.

'No, I always felt fucking awful. The only time I had a feeling of success was
when the unit (of killers) was safely delivered across the border. I felt
success for them and a high in the sense that we had done something. But for me
personally, the killing of people was usually a very grotesque and sometimes
botched-up fucking mess.'

Collins was cunning, insightful and, unlike other men, possessed of a
determination and intellect that, could turn the most fragile imperceptible
human weakness into a hit. Learning of a Catholic RUC man in his sixties, Albert
White, who lived in the nationalist town of Newry, Collins followed him to mass
in the cathedral one Sunday evening, determined to extirpate this walking
affront to the IRA's domination of the town. He trailed White to his home and
then arranged to send in a gunman, Frankie (not his real name), who Collins
himself had recruited, to stiff White as the policeman returned to watch Brazil
play in the 1982 World Cup. 'He was a target because he was the office manager
of the CID. Anyway, he was killed outside his house. He was getting out of his
car. He must have been really looking forward to the game - he had heart
disease, just like my father. He had an umbrella in his hand, and he tried to
fend Frankie off pathetically with an umbrella, right?.

'And there's Frankie banging away with that Browning, what a ferocious weapon.
Christ, what a stopper! And then his wife runs after Frankie. She had just seen
her husband being shot and she is screaming, 'You bastards, you bastards.' And
she has something in her hand - maybe a gun, but she was too hysterical to let
off a shot. It's horribly sad. When you actually hear the details of these
things - how they can be such a bodged-up mess. There's nothing heroic about it,
is there?'

What did Frankie think? 'Frankie thought he was cock of the walk - and that is
what he was in IRA gunmen's eyes. But not in mine.'

Collins was no longer practising the art of revolutionary socialism from an
armchair. Murdering folk had a whole new set of parameters, whose fluidity
changed depending on the day, the mood and the personal aspirations of the
gunmen involved. After Toombs's killing, Collins had recruited Frankie - who
would prove to be a cool -headed shooter - and they targeted another UDR man,
Norman Hanna.

In his own mind, Collins was fighting a moral war where the choice of targets
was restricted to active members of the British security forces - even if the
IRA did shoot them dead in front of their wives.  As they were targeting Hanna
by following him to work, they found that, unlike most security force members,
Hanna never checked under his car, never varied his routine.  The files they
obtained on him stated he had left the UDR six years before.

Under their own self-declared rules, Hanna should not have been a target. But
Frankie wanted to kill him anyway, simply because he wanted a kill. Collins
assented, persuaded on the tenuous evidence that Hanna had been seen manning a
UDR checkpoint weeks before. His own pride at not being seen to be a waverer in
the macho world of the IRA gunman condemned Hanna to death. Hanna was shot dead,
carrying his lunchbox, in front of his wife and kids. Frankie pumped eight
bullets into him as Hanna's child in the car screamed, 'Daddy, Daddy . . .
Daddy.' The news reports confirmed that Hanna had indeed left the UDR six years
before.

Collins's written description of his emotions that night echoes James Joyce's
short story, The Dead:

'I lay in my bed that night next to my young wife. She was sleeping peacefully.
I thought of Hanna's wife sleeping alone. I felt pressed down in my bed by the
dead man's weight. I could not sleep. In the street I could hear late-night
drinkers returning home raucously. I felt an extraordinary pain that would not
go away.  Every now and then I would fall off, but would wake after what seemed
a few minutes. In my sleep I moved in darkness, but the darkness seemed to have
a form; like the mouth of a beast. I was inside the beast. Awake, the images
were worse. I could see Frankie shooting him; see his lunchbox dropping to the
ground, see Frankie's English football scarf catching the arc of blood that
sprayed the air. I had never felt so empty. I had chosen this way and I could
not turn back. I remember touching my wife, kissing her hair, crying silently. I
was crying for Hanna, perhaps, for his wife and child, but mostly for myself,
for what I had become.'

Collins's moral descent was only beginning. In its statements, the IRA assumes
all the jargon of military command: 'The South Down Command carried out today's
assassination of a British soldier . . . our volunteers successfully withdrew .
. . the South Armagh Brigade claims responsibility for the ambush of Crown
forces.'

In reality, according to Collins, all this military hyperbole boils down to a
few embittered dole-cheats, living along the border, who have festering murder
in their hearts and who plot killings in between trips to the bar and video
store. His portrait is of an organisation where the mythic and the mundane run
alongside each other in the outhouses of South Armagh or the shabby houses of
Dundalk.

The IRA, he reveals, is run by an informal anarchy, a loose federation of the
riff-raff down the local pub, who feel themselves empowered by their own
blood-vengeance interpretations of history.  And who enact their own glorious
moment in history by ever less justifiable stiffings, crueller murders, before
retreating across the border for R&R and a few bottles of Guinness.

In one telling passage, he recalls an upstairs room still smelling of the traces
of stale sweat, the stale terror of a murdered interrogatee, while below, in the
kitchen, the man's killers calmly sat supping tea and sandwiches. Or how the
IRA's chief interrogator, head of the 'nutting squad', John Joe Magee, could
joke between mouthfuls of how he told one blindfolded prisoner, groping his way
along a hallway, that he was nearly home before finally 'blowing that fucker
away'.

In a later operation, in October 1983, Collins's IRA unit mistakenly targeted an
entirely innocent man, a Catholic, Sean McShane, who was standing in a bookie's,
filling out a bet, when the IRA shooter walked up to him, stuck a gun to his
head and blew his brains out. Collins later found out that McShane's 'crime' -
the reason why he had targeted him - was selling second-hand car parts to RUC
officers at their police stations. On the basis of a few sightings of McShane's
car near police stations, he had concluded he was an RUC man and therefore a
suitable candidate for slotting. But, by then, Collins was too far gone, too far
down the road of blood.

'I was arrested soon afterwards, and held for two days. When I came home, I saw
my child - my first-born son. And I picked him up and I thought to myself,
'Jesus, here I am. I've got a son who needs me and I've been responsible for an
innocent man's death - a man who's never even had the opportunity to have a
child. And I don't give a fuck.' This was a point of serious crisis. I thought,
'Am I his father? Is this what I have to offer my son - the death of somebody
else who never have had the opportunity to be a father?" Collins did not turn
back. Death had became his way of life, his everyday business, his reason for
being. And there was worse yet to come.

Collins's IRA unit had used a vulnerable man, Brian McNally, on several minor
operations and then dismissed him from the IRA.  Despite his dismissal, Frankie
used McNally again to gather information.  McNally, who was of limited
intelligence, became entrapped by the police and fed the IRA false information
that was designed to lure Frankie over the border into a police ambush. Frankie
smelt a rat, and McNally himself was lured to an IRA safe house in Dundalk,
where he was murdered.

'Frankie took this vulnerable guy, who could be twisted and turned by the cops
or by the IRA, and just used him. McNally was crushed in between - a fucking
unfortunate idiot whose life was taken for no reason. Frankie turned around to
me and said McNally's last request was for a cigarette and a letter to his
mother - even though the IRA helped him dictate it. Frankie said McNally
finished the letter by saying: 'I've reconciled myself to my comrades and may
the Lord have mercy on my soul.' And then Frankie smiled.

'I felt sick. I couldn't believe what I was hearing. They used that letter to
exonerate themselves for the murder of that man.

It was a Dantesque ring of fucking drama.

I had become involved in incredible darkness and horror.

'These were the depths of depravity I had sunk to. A week after, I even told
someone who I was wanting information out of, 'Fucking forget about it, he was a
tout.' I had to do something to stop myself falling headlong into this pit. But
it was more and more difficult . . . it was impossible.' In the end, that moral
decision was taken away from Collins. On February 28, 1985, an IRA unit
unconnected with Collins mortar-bombed Newry police station. One of their crude
mortars landed on the roof of a makeshift canteen - the explosion killed nine
police officers.  Collins was arrested and screamed and shouted at for the next
five days. Teams of police interrogators, some of them fundamentalist Christians
who quoted passages from the Bible about the fate of sinners, hammered away at
him.

Collins's intelligence and his moral doubts made him vulnerable. He broke under
the onslaught and confessed. He turned on the IRA, naming his comrades,
detailing fastidiously every name, every IRA operation, now running into
hundreds, he could recall.  There was a wave of arrests. Collins fell under the
spell of a new father figure, a senior RUC man, who coaxed out every memory and
persuaded Collins to turn supergrass, turn Queen's Evidence.  Collins willingly
confronted his former associates in the police cells. He was charged on five
counts of murder and 45 other serious offences.

Under pressure from his family, Collins retracted his evidence. Simply retract
and all will be forgiven, he was told, and he could once more enter the close
Republican fold. He did retract, many of his comrades were released, but his
absolution was partial; Collins was forever branded in Republican eyes as a
betrayer.

In prison, he was, in his own words, a 'self-pitying wretch', burdened with
guilt for this arch offence against the Republican creed. This is a guilt he
still carries in some form today. 'I really hurt the Republican Movement. I
betrayed them in 1985. I admit that. I was wrong. But let me tell you something
- I am just fucking human and I couldn't help it in 1985. I apologised to the
Republican Movement again and again in prison. Was that not enough? Was that not
apology enough? Or did the Republican Movement want their pound of fucking
flesh?' In the little hotel room, Collins's voice, insistent, angry, was again
booming out over my shoulder to some audience hidden beyond, some IRA tribunal,
a final Court of Appeal, that would clear his name, understand his predicament,
forgive him as a father would. I wondered how many times in his head he had
played his defence before such a court. Of course, there is no such court and
Collins, both then, and now more so, is cast out. 'The Republican Movement is a
religion to everybody in it - it's inescapable. It's a form of fanaticism,' he
admits.

In prison, Collins's natural dissidence came to the fore; he would not kowtow to
the IRA prisoner command structure. Like a bad child, his copy-book was blotted.
At his trial, he was successful in challenging the admissibility of the
statements - all true - he had made in police custody, claiming they were the
result of inhuman and degrading treatment. He beat the rap and was released.

Others, based on the information Collins had given the RUC and on their own
admissions while in police custody, would spend the next ten years in prison.

Outside, Collins volunteered to go and see the nutting squad in Dundalk to be
debriefed; he confessed, again and again. But it was never enough. The IRA, his
mates, former friends, his cousin, issued an execution order against him, saying
they would kill him unless he left Newry. Collins was an embarrassment to them.
He fled.

In a sense, Collins is still psychologically in thrall to the IRA. He believes
he was cast out unfairly, betrayed by men who sat on their arses sipping
Guinness while he was risking his neck to murder members of Her Majesty's Crown
Forces. His attempts at atonement for breaking under RUC interrogation were
rejected. And the pain of that rejection has stirred him into writing Killing
Rage. The book's publication is an act of Lutheran defiance, the stand of an
outcast who will be heard regardless of the consequences to himself or to his
enemies - a prophet in the darkness.

I asked Collins what would be his attitude if one of his sons came to him and
told him he had joined the IRA. 'I've already had one of my sons - he's 12 -
expressing certain feelings. He showed me a drawing he did last week. It was a
graffiti art project and he did beautiful Gaelic writing, Tiocfaidh Ar La,
Republican flags, Kalashnikovs. And he says that is what he sees on the walls of
the town, and he told me he was going to take that into school, to show his
teacher. And I said to him, 'I want to speak to you about this. I don't want you
taking that drawing into school.' ' 'Why not?' ' 'Listen, when you were two, and
your mother was five months pregnant, the IRA put me out of our home.  I was
told I would be executed at their convenience, whenever they had finished their
shopping at the local superstore or finished with their video for the night, or
maybe when they got time in between - they would shoot me if I had not left the
north of Ireland. That's the IRA. And I have nothing to do with the IRA anymore,
and the things that I did for the IRA I'm pretty much ashamed of. I don't want
you catching on to any of the phrases.

' 'And don't forget it was people associated with the IRA who put our car on
fire and your mother, as a social worker, had to go into the same communities
and take care of their sick mothers and had no car to do so. And it was our
neighbours who sat back and did nothing and collaborated in that.' 'I had to
explain that to him.  It wasn't easy for me, but it had to be done.  I don't
want my children ever joining the IRA - I won't let them join the IRA and I hope
to live long enough to prevent them ever joining the IRA. I deeply regret the
deaths of all the people that I was involved in. I can't turn the clock back,
but if I could, I would not have joined the IRA. I don't believe that killing
will contribute in any way to peace or to freedom or to liberating my community.
The horrific thing for me at present is that the IRA has actually become more
coercive and oppressive of the Nationalist community than the British or the
RUC.

I don't believe there's anybody who deserves to die - certainly not by my hand
or by my rationale. I can't justify the killing of anyone - I haven't been able
to do so since 1985, and I've been totally and completely consistent in that.'
Collins's consistency will not, of course, restore the fathers he murdered to
their children.

Collins wants to return to the land. He is trying to restore the old farmhouse
at Camlough, his mother's father's house, where he lived as a five-year-old and
where he lost his first 'father'. The house is derelict, the drains are all
astray, the fences broken. He wants to see his children there laughing and
playing. And he wants to live among, not murder, the Protestant neighbours who
have shared this land with his own family for generations. Perhaps he will.

'Are you afraid the IRA will kill you?'

'Well, I think about it now and again, but I don't let it dominate my life.  No,
I'm not afraid of them. I don't want to die, but at the same time I've come
close to death on many occasions. Fear is a very bad reason for not doing
something. You'll never experience freedom, you'll never experience anything
better if you let fear dominate your life.'

In the hotel bedroom, Eamon Collins was looking at his watch, his mind already
running ahead, calculating the time to the station and the train to the beloved,
accursed place he calls home. And then he was gone.

Perhaps Collins is right. Perhaps there will be peace sooner rather than later
in Ireland, and perhaps the wounds of history, refreshed in blood so blindly by
men like Collins, will slowly heal. And perhaps there may be an end to this
terrible Irish intimacy of murdering your neighbour.

Killing Rage will be extracted in G2 next week, and will be published by Granta
on April 7 at pounds 15.99. This title can be ordered through the Guardian by
ringing our free credit-card hotline on 0500-600 102; e-mailing us on
bid@mail.bogo.co.uk; faxing us on 0181- 324 5678; or by writing to Guardian
Books, 250 Western Avenue, London W3 6XZ. Kevin Toolis will present a four-part
Radio Four documentary history series, Witness, beginning on March 29 at 4pm.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: April 7, 1997

CORRECTION:  EAMON Collins: In the interview with ex-IRA man, Eamon Collins,
which appeared in Saturday's Weekend magazine, a photograph appeared on page 18
which was said to be the young Collins, aged 12. In fact this was Alan McCrum,
who was killed by an IRA car bomb in Bambridge, in March 1982. We wish to
apologise, especially to the family and friends of Alan McCrum for this
unfortunate error.

                   Copyright 1997 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              54 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            April 5, 1997, Saturday

London grinds to a halt as IRA bomb threats spread

BYLINE: Ian Burrell, Mark Rowe and Matthew Brace

SECTION: NEWS; Page  5

LENGTH: 471 words


Bomb warnings telephoned to police yesterday afternoon and believed to be from
the IRA brought central London to a standstill, causing extreme transport
congestion.

Five mainline railway stations were evacuated, stretches of four Underground
lines were suspended and King's Cross Underground station - arguably the city's
busiest with 10,000 passengers passing through it each weekday evening rush hour
- was cleared after warnings were received at 3.15pm.  Experts combed the
stations for suspect devices.

Although police would not confirm whether the warnings contained a codeword, it
looked like the latest in the IRA's campaign to cause maximum disruption in the
lead-up to the general election.

Earlier yesterday, police officers met to review the terrorist attacks and
alerts which caused transport chaos twice in the past 10 days.

Following more searches, the M6 was reopened just before 3pm yesterday after a
30-hour closure estimated to have cost industry pounds 70m. The AA said the
planting of two bombs on the M6, later claimed by the IRA, and two hoax devices
on the M1 led to "the worst incidence of traffic congestion seen in this
country". The security operation, which began at 8am on Thursday, is believed to
have disrupted the journeys of almost a million motorists.

John Grieve, National Co- ordinator for Anti-Terrorism, and members of his
Metropolitan Police team met specialist officers from the North-west and
Midlands to plan against more attacks on the transport network. Business leaders
said that the cost of the motorway disruption ran at about pounds 2.5m an hour.
Every day 180,000 drivers, including 77,000 lorries, use the three stretches of
the M6, M1 and M5 that were closed.

The knock-on effect of taking this traffic off the motorways was felt across the
Midlands. Tony Bradley, policy director of the Birmingham Chamber of Commerce,
said: "The effects will be mainly felt by the freight industry and distributors
but also right across the country. This is the crossroads and the most important
link of Britain's motorway network and I'm a little surprised this hasn't
happened earlier."

Geoff Dossetter, of the Freight Traffic Association, said large lorries cost
pounds 1 a mile to run, so if they have to make a 100-mile detour on unsuitable
roads, costs escalate. "Modern life is delivered on the back of a lorry, so this
has been mind- numbingly horrendous," he said.

r Police in the Irish Republic discovered a second underground firing range
hidden in woodland at an IRA training camp in County Monaghan, near the border
with Northern Ireland, writes Alan Murdoch

The tunnels were found two miles into a forest during a four-week Garda search
backed by Irish Army soldiers in the Knockatallon area, near the village of
Scotstown.


LOAD-DATE: April 07, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1997 Independent Print Ltd

                              55 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             April 6, 1997, Sunday

IRA wrecks Grand National; 60,000 racegoers evacuated, 20,000 stranded after
Aintree bomb alert

BYLINE: Louise Jury, David McKittrick and Alan Murdoch

SECTION: TITLE; Page  1

LENGTH: 532 words


Sixty thousand racegoers were evacuated from Aintree yesterday when bomb
warnings sent with recognised IRA codewords forced the abandonment of the 150th
Grand National.

The wrecking of the world's greatest steeplechase was the climax to 10 days of
disruption, in which the Provisionals have thrown the national rail and motorway
systems into chaos.

An estimated 20,000 people were stranded in Liverpool when their cars and
coaches were marooned inside the racecourse. With most of the city's hotels
full, it meant a night in emergency accommodation.

Merseyside's town halls and police joined forces, providing hot meals and
shelter for those unable to get home.

The 100 horses left at the Aintree course during evacuation were rescued after
four hours after the RSPCA and racecourse officials persuaded police to let them
be removed.

The IRA's action was bitterly condemned by politicians of all parties as well as
by owners, trainers, jockeys and racing fans, thousands of whom had travelled to
Liverpool from Ireland as well as from all over Britain.

"I am appalled that the IRA seems to be threatening hundreds of thousands of
people and causing such disruption," John Major said. "This is further
demonstration of their contempt and disregard for the lives and interests of
ordinary people."

The Labour leader Tony Blair said he was "horrified". "The Grand National is a
tremendous sporting event," he said. "It has been deliberately ruined by a
cynical terrorist act, perpetrated by people whose intention is to introduce
terror into the election campaign."

The Irish Prime Minister John Bruton said last night: "Have the leaders of the
Republican movement stopped to think how their actions will make Irish people
all over the world feel this evening?"

The ease with which such a great sporting event was ruined is likely to mean
extra security at this afternoon's Coca-Cola Cup Final at Wembley where a near
capacity crowd of 75,000 is expected to see Leicester City play Middlesbrough.
"Obviously we are asking everybody to be extra vigilant," said Martin Corrie, a
Wembley Stadium spokesman.

At Aintree yesterday, jockeys were preparing to mount and some horses were
already in the paddock for the 3.45pm start when the warnings were broadcast
over the public address system. As thousands streamed away in what was probably
the largest mass evacuation in the history of sport, bomb disposal experts
carried out a series of controlled explosions around the Aintree stands.

The Princess Royal was taken to safety by Special Branch officers.  Labour
frontbenchers John Prescott and Robin Cook and Hollywood actor Gregory Peck,
celebrating his 81st birthday, were also at the race.

Trainer Jenny Pitman broke down in tears as she described how she had to abandon
her horses. "These people are lunatics. We must not give into them," she said.

Last night bookmakers were waiting to hear whether the race could be run on
another day before deciding whether bets would stand. Malcolm Palmer, of Corals,
said bets would be valid if the race took place tomorrow, unless a refund was
requested.

Reports, pictures, page 3


LOAD-DATE: April 07, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1997 Independent Print Ltd

                              56 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             April 6, 1997, Sunday

A great day dawned with brandy, but ended a wake

BYLINE: Stan Hey

SECTION: NEWS; Page  3

LENGTH: 474 words


Nobody could have foreseen this: the one day of the year where sport permeates
every household in Britain being so catastrophically disrupted by terrorist
action. From schoolchildren with their love of horses, to office "sweeps", to
housewives sticking a pin into the racing pages, the Grand National exerts a
hold on our popular consciousness like no other event. The question everyone
will now be asking is, can it ever be the same again?

The day had started in true festival style with free bacon sandwiches and
coffees laced with the Grand National sponsors' brandy, as a clutch of early
birds defied the cold wind to watch the traditional workout of the National
horses on a stretch of the course from the start down to the Melling Road.

Despite warnings of a terrorist attack voiced in certain newspapers last week
nobody at the course could have believed that this day would turn into one of
National mourning. The two days racing prior to yesterday had produced record
crowds. By lunchtime an estimated 60,000 racegoers had assembled at the Aintree
course to celebrate the 150th running of the great race.

A marching band of Scots Guards played jaunty music to welcome the fans and at
1.20pm the Princess Royal unveiled a bronze bust of BBC commentator Peter
O'Sullevan, known to all in racing as The Voice, who was about to embark on his
50th and final commentary on the race before his retirement.

With the two main stands, the Queen Elizabeth II and the County, not to mention
the vast corporate hospitality enclosures, packed to the brim, the Aintree
course was set for a festival day. Ironically, the regular protests of animal
rights activists, who had created some of the disruption which caused the
abandonment of the 1993 race after two false starts, had not been much in
evidence and racing began on time at 1.45, with an estimated 400 million
television viewers around the world settling down for this afternoon of
spectacle.

With the first three races going to long price outsiders, punters had already
suffered a shock, but just as the build-up to the big race had begun the first
ominous warning came over the public address system.

"Commence Operation Aintree!" was the message. Bewildered racegoers gradually
began to take heed and as police and security guards moved in to usher the
crowds out of the grandstands and bars, a terrible silence fell on the course.

The process of evacuation took a good three-quarters of an hour, as first the
racecourse buildings and marquees and then the car-parks were cleared.  Within
an hour came news of the inevitable abandonment of yet another Grand National.

The bitter irony of this disruption, of course, is that this is a day welcomed
as passionately in Ireland as it is in Britain. What began as a celebration
ended as a wake.


LOAD-DATE: April 07, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1997 Independent Print Ltd

                              57 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             April 6, 1997, Sunday

New IRA strategy is 'non-lethal disruption'

BYLINE: David McKittrick Ireland Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Page  3

LENGTH: 480 words


The Grand National disruption appears to represent a carefully- calculated new
phase of IRA strategy in its campaign of violence in England.  With just a few
telephone calls, one of Britain's great sporting institutions was thrown into
disarray.

The IRA have thus managed to place themselves, yet again, at centre-stage.  The
intended message is that the Irish question can be expected to continue to
intrude into the political, social and economic life of Britain.

It can now be seen that the recent bombs at Wilmslow station and in the motorway
system were not sporadic and impulsive acts of terrorism. The intention was to
make the point that the authorities have to be on their guard not just against
major bombs in urban centres but also against generalised disruption.

Since actual bombs were used in the Wilmslow and motorway incidents, the
security authorities clearly had to take the Aintree telephone calls seriously.
The railway and motorway bombs were aimed not only at causing disruption, but
also at ensuring that the big race would be called off.  Given the coded
warnings, together with the recent explosions, police had little option but to
evacuate the course.

Security sources in Britain have for some months been speculating that the IRA
had ambitions to attack the country's infrastructure, possibly targeting water
and electricity utilities.

The Grand National bomb warnings appear to represent a slight variation on this
approach. The dislocation of rail, road and now horse-racing are evidently not
primarily aimed at taking life. The aim was one of non- lethal disruption.

This ties in with the circumstances of the general election campaign.  The IRA's
political manifestation, Sinn Fein, hopes to win up to three of the 18 Northern
Ireland seats.

Sinn Fein president Gerry Adams and two of his right- hand men, Martin
McGuinness and Pat Doherty, are among those in contention. All of them look like
possible winners, yet in all three constituencies - West Belfast, Mid-Ulster and
West Tyrone - the results may be close. Since some floating nationalist voters
may be alienated by IRA killings during the election campaign, republican
political strategists may be arguing internally that the IRA should try to aim
for disruption rather than deaths.

The Grand National's abandonment yesterday may therefore be an illustration of a
compromise struck between the violent and the political aspects of the
republican movement. The IRA may have decided to concentrate on incidents which
will probably be non-lethal.

Sporting events have not normally been targeted by the IRA, but the organisation
is renowned for the way in which it constantly adds new targets to its agenda.
The authorities will now face a major re-think on how to safeguard not just the
Grand National but all future major sporting fixtures.


LOAD-DATE: April 07, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1997 Independent Print Ltd

                              58 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                             April 6, 1997, Sunday

IRA PLANS 'COPTER BOMBING;
CLAIM THAT IRA PLAN HELICOPTER BOMBING CAMPAIGN DURING ELECTION

BYLINE: Patsy Mcardle

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 640 words


Ruthless IRA godfathers are planning a "bombing spectacular" in Britain before
the General Election.

The Sunday Mirror can exclusively reveal that Provo bosses intend to hijack a
helicopter for a dramatic sky-bombing operation.

But instead of targeting the Houses of Parliament or a civilian population
centre, it is believed the terrorists aim to bomb an Army base.

An airborne attack would continue the IRA campaign which began with the Midlands
railway bombs, last Thursday's motorway mayhem and yesterday's cancellation of
the Grand National.

The terrorists hope that a helicopter operation would impress their capabilities
on the British government and public.

A Provo source hinted at the possibility of the attempted air strike when he
told the Sunday Mirror yesterday: "This will be something that has not been
experienced before. It should bring home our ability to take the war off the
ground."

A similar plan was drawn up in Ulster during the height of the terror campaign
in 1985 - but was called off after special security measures were introduced at
premises where private helicopters are kept.

Legislation was also introduced to restrict flights by unidentified aircraft in
the vicinity of military bases along the Ulster border.

The terror attack then was planned for the joint Army-police base at Crossmaglen
- but was thwarted. Now security forces are on alert for another airborne
assault as a result of information picked up by intelligence sources in Ulster.

Meanwhile US Senator Ted Kennedy has warned that without a new IRA ceasefire,
Northern Ireland will sink to the bottom of President Bill Clinton's agenda.

Kennedy said yesterday that a ceasefire was necessary to back arguments for Sinn
Fein to be allowed into the multi-party talks when they resume on 3 June.

The senator wrote in the Irish Times newspaper: "The next British Prime Minister
will certainly be in immediate contact with President Clinton. If a ceasefire
has been in place long enough, opportunities for progress in Northern Ireland
would be high on the agenda.

"Why not act now?"

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1997 MGN Ltd.

                              59 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             April 7, 1997, Monday

Our strategy is minimum threat to life but maximum publicity; What Republican
sources said yesterday about the new IRA campaign

BYLINE: David McKittrick and Richard Edmondson

SECTION: TITLE; Page  1

LENGTH: 437 words


The postponement of the Grand National was part of a new IRA campaign of
disruption and sabotage aimed at causing widespread disturbance without loss of
life, according to Republican sources in Belfast.

One senior republican source told The Independent last night: "This is a
lower-level military campaign aimed at disruption and sabotage more than the
spectacular stuff. It is affecting tens of thousands of people, so it takes on a
British national character. It is a strategy with a minimum threat to the lives
of the civilian population and a maximum amount of publicity coverage and
disruption to the British economy."

The source spoke after it was announced that the 150th Grand National will be
restaged late this afternoon amid unprecedented security for a big sporting
event.

After the search for bombs was completed, the Liverpool course was reopened
yesterday afternoon, ending almost 24 hours of waiting for the thousands of
people evacuated by the alert last Saturday who had been forced to leave their
cars behind.

Security is now being reviewed for next Sunday's London marathon in the wake of
events at the race course.

Michael Howard, the Home Secretary, reacted to the Aintree affair by smashing
the all-party agreement on "terrorist incidents" - outlined in a memorandum
sponsored by his own department which says that when comment is "unavoidable",
politicians should restrict themselves to non-political statements.

But Mr Howard issued a statement yesterday morning, on Conservative Party paper,
saying Labour was not to be trusted on terrorism because, in the wake of
Aintree, Jack Straw, the shadow Home Secretary, had contradicted Marjorie
Mowlam, the party's Northern Ireland spokeswoman, over the time span for
allowing Sinn Fein into talks.

Gordon Brown, the shadow Chancellor, told BBC radio: "I think that all decent
people will regret the fact that . . . when there should be an all- party
consensus to fight terrorism, Michael Howard has degenerated into making
personalised and inaccurate comments about the Labour Party."

The authentication of IRA responsibility for Aintree, coupled with the
explanation of their motivation and the extent of their ambitions, confirms that
the authorities all over Britain will now be compelled to review security at
sporting events and other gatherings.

Republican sources say they expect the next British government to put out
private "feelers" towards the IRA and Sinn Fein within weeks of its election.

Marooned in misery, page 4

David McKittrick, page 19

Sport section, pages 4 and 5


LOAD-DATE: April 07, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1997 Independent Print Ltd

                              60 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 8, 1997

GRAND NATIONAL STAGED TO REJECT POLITICAL GAIN FOR IRA HOAXERS

BYLINE: Owen Bowcott

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 800 words


LORD Gyllene romped home to victory in the Grand National yesterday as the
Aintree steeplechase, postponed for two days after an IRA bombing threat, was
transformed into an act of political defiance.

The Prime Minister switched his schedule to appear at the Liverpool course and
watched as the 14-1 thoroughbred - urged on by a jockey from Northern Ireland -
passed the finishing post without any fresh security alerts.

Despite the heavy police presence, the 150th Grand National retained a festival
atmosphere and attracted 20,000 racegoers.

"The message to the IRA is that you cannot bomb the British out of their
national institutions," John Major announced.  "You cannot bomb the British out
of Northern Ireland and you cannot bomb Northern Ireland out of the UK."

In Dublin, the Irish prime minister, John Bruton, echoed Mr Major. "The Aintree
hoax brought the people of Ireland and Britain together in shared contempt for
the theatrical antics of the republican movement," he said. "A movement which
practises hoaxes in the military sphere will hardly have any scruples about
practising hoaxes in the political sphere."

Even the winning jockey, Tony Dobbin, a 24-year-old Roman Catholic from
Downpatrick in Northern Ireland, spoke after the race of his disappointment at
the disruption of the race 48 hours earlier. "It was shameful," he said.

Earlier in the day, detectives hunting the IRA unit responsible for planting two
plastic explosive bombs under the M6 said they had located the telephone boxes
used to give coded warnings.

The calls were made from public boxes near Birmingham's Rotunda building,
according to West Midlands police, close to where the IRA planted one of its
devastating pub bombs in 1974.

The devices, which brought chaos to the Midlands motorway network for two days
last week, each contained two pounds of explosive, assistant chief constable Bob
Packham revealed yesterday.

"We believe that the calls, which have now been claimed by the IRA, were made
from telephone boxes in Manzoni Gardens, near Birmingham New Street station,"
said Mr Packham.  "The bombs contained 2lb of commercial explosives, probably
Semtex."

Detectives are searching for witnesses who may have been in Manzoni Gardens at
the time and forensic experts have examined the two phone boxes. The calls were
made at 8am on Thursday.

"These (bombs) could have caused loss of life. It was very, very serious. Two
pounds of commercial explosive like Semtex can cause considerable damage. People
must be vigilant but at the end of the day we have got to do our normal business
but take precautions."

Arsonists raze Ulster churches, page 6; Leader comment, page 10; The National,
pages 25 and 28

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              61 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 8, 1997

THE ELECTION: STEERING A FINE POLICY LINE;
Sarah Boseley examines facts behind Tory accusations of hidden U-turns

BYLINE: Sarah Boseley

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1440 words


Devolution

Conservative attack

Labour's manifesto offered the prospect of a Scottish Parliament with tax
-raising powers. Tony Blair on Friday declared Labour would not let it use those
powers for five years.

Labour defence

Our policy on the Scottish Parliament has not changed. We are still promising
the Scots exactly the same as we did last summer - a Scottish Parliament with
tax-varying powers. It would be absurd not to, when even parish councils can
vary revenue. But we're not proposing the use of these powers.

Verdict

No U-turn. Blair said nothing new in Scotland. Labour has said for a couple of
years that the tax-raising powers would not be used for five years - the new
Parliament will not be up and running for three.  Blair's mistake lay in the
language he used - "the sovereignty rests with me as an English MP" - and his
comparison of the Parliament with a parish council.

Single currency

Conservative attack

In February, Robin Cook said "it would take a very sober and serious calculation
to stay out beyond the year 2002", if monetary union was successful. On Sunday,
he said that if Britain does not join in the first wave, "the probability is
that one is looking towards the subsequent Parliament".

That this statement was not in the manifesto published only five days ago
demonstrates how Labour policy is made on the hoof from studio to studio.

Labour defence

There are formidable obstacles to Britain being in the first wave of membership.
It is essential there is genuine convergence without any fudging of the rules.
To exclude Britain's membership forever would destroy any influence we have over
a process which will affect us whether we are in or out, but there are three
preconditions that would have to be satisfied for Britain to join: Cabinet must
recommend, Parliament agree and the people say yes in a referendum.

Verdict

No U-turn. Labour has always said it would join if the economic conditions were
right, and there is a general feeling that will not happen before 2002.

Prevention of Terrorism Act

Conservative attack

Labour voted against the annual renewal of the act from 1983 until 1995, then
abstained in 1996 and 1997. Jack Straw said on Sunday: "We would operate the
Prevention of Terrorism Act."

We all oppose terrorism but this must be accompanied by tough action to give law
enforcers the powers to control the threat.  The PTA provides for those powers
and Labour has opposed them, year in, year out.

Labour defence

We have always supported effective anti-terrorist legislation. Jack Straw said a
Labour government would ensure the police had every appropriate power needed to
defeat terrorism.

Verdict

The U-turn took place 18 months ago, when Labour moved from opposition to
abstention following a fundamental review of the act. Jack Straw is unhappy with
two aspects of the PTA - exclusion orders and powers to detain suspects for four
days without recourse to the courts. Labour would operate a PTA with changes.

The Unions

Conservative attack

Tony Blair declared there would be legislation to give workers the right to be
in a union and make the union entitled to recognition if a majority of the
workforce opted in. Now the scheme is on hold, with David Blunkett suggesting it
might not happen in Labour's first year in office.

Labour defence

Labour has always said it would treat the unions with fairness, not favours.

There has never been any deal to bring in legislation in the first session of
Parliament.

Verdict

Jury still out. The Tories' vociferous charges of secret deals with the unions
have probably put paid to any Employment Rights Bill in the first Queen's
Speech, if it was intended, but no firm plans have been made.

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              62 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 April 8, 1997

Bomb hoaxers target Labour

BYLINE: By William Tinning

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 233 words


TWO suspect packages, believed to be from nationalist extremists and addressed
to Labour leader Tony Blair and Shadow Scottish Secretary George Robertson have
been intercepted in Glasgow.

A police investigation was under way last night. Both packages were hoaxes.

One of the suspect packages was intercepted at the Sun newspaper's headquarters
in Portman Street. It is understood to have been addressed to Mr Blair, c/o the
Sun. Last month, the newspaper announced it was switching its allegiance north
of the Border from the SNP to Labour.

The other package, addressed to Mr Robertson at the Scottish Labour Party's
headquarters at Keir Hardie House, was intercepted by Royal Mail staff in Baird
Street. It is thought it contained a bullet, although police refused to confirm
this.

Police said only that the Army bomb squad had been called to examine the package
and that it had been declared an "elaborate hoax".

The Scottish Labour Party's general secretary, Mr Jack McConnell, said last
night: "Our mission to change Scotland and Britain for the better is too
important to give in to threats and intimidation."

Mr Robertson said that these "fairly sinister warnings" were "undoubtedly the
work of some lunatic nationalist fringe".

Mr Mike Russell, SNP chief executive, said: "We deplore any threat to any
politician and any acts that are anti-democratic."

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1997 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              63 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                            April 9, 1997, Wednesday

FITZGERALD'S WORLD: A SPORTING DAY TO REMEMBER

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 652 words


There was a day and a race, my countrymen.

Yet another Grand National never to be forgotten by those of us who witnessed
it.

An historic race and a day to rival days like the unbelievable fall of the Queen
Mother's Devon Loch when it was almost first past the post or the legendary
failed start and the gigantic aftermath of confusion or, in contrast, that great
good-news Grand National when the immortal Red Rum won it for the third time.

This one could have ranked with the disasters but people, racing folk, punters
and fans alike and the ordinary people of Great Britain and, I stress, Ireland,
just were not prepared to allow the IRA's thugs to destroy what is now not just
a British or even an Irish institution but an international sporting
institution.

It was a wondrous thing to follow the decency and the generosity that manifested
itself everywhere when the thugs and morons struck and, in doing so, shot
themselves in both feet and maybe in the arms as well.

For, combined with the stupid rail and road bombs which inconvenienced several
millions of people who might otherwise have either believed the IRA or
disregarded it as of no great consequence in their daily lives, the attack on
the National incensed British public opinion, left many thousands of citizens of
Eire, and not just the horse- and racehorse-loving millions but ordinary folk,
now faced with a somewhat less than cordial welcome and intense, ongoing
security checks in many places in Britain, damning the bombers.

Hopefully, too, the lesson has sunk in with Eire politicians who, along with
their constituents, will now face the brunt of the increasing wrath against the
IRA, combined, I'm afraid, with the disgust and contempt already being levelled
at all things Irish and, therefore, in eyes of many folk of being of the same
ilk as the terrorists.

The flip-side is that the IRA have now placed themselves far beyond the pale,
even in areas where they were tolerated (occasionally even befriended) by some
before it embarked on that stupid (if, to us, predictable) terrorist Aintree
excursion.

Ironically, its recent undiscriminating bombs may have done the ongoing effort
to defeat the terrorists some good, if only by showing the mainlanders just how
much we have to put up with from the IRA's ongoing undemocratic, arrogant,
murderously selfish war for nearly three decades

And it has, I hope, quashed any attempt by Labour's fellow travellers or
sympathisers to vest the IRA into any kind of acceptability until it finally
agrees to disarmament and renounces slaughter, murder, torture and mayhem.

What other sportsmen or, indeed, sport, I wonder, would have accepted the
hardship, the losses ( both financial and otherwise) attendant on that IRA
attack on the Sport of Kings?

Weren't the jockeys and the trainers, the grooms, horse-box drivers, valets,
officials, the owners, too, simply marvellous in the way they made the best of
things, sharing what little cash or other assets they had, making the very best
of a difficult, even dangerous, lot without complaint and with great courage and
good spirits.

I salute them as I have so often saluted the racing fraternity in the past for
its courage and generosity.

And I salute the fans - especially the Liverpuddlians, great-hearted people, who
responded to the need of so many with alacrity and open-handed open
-heartedness.

And salute as well the many who were working at Aintree in one job or another
who endured hardship, huge and often incomprehensible disruption without
noticeable complaint.

It cannot have been easy for anyone whose lives were disrupted without cause to
have found themselves stranded, often penniless and sometimes without food or
shelter, yet they accepted their lot in a spirit of defiance combined with
exceptionally good behaviour that was a credit to all and sundry who were
involved.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1997 Century Newspapers Limited

                              64 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            April 9, 1997, Wednesday

Athletics: London Marathon on security alert

BYLINE: MIKE ROWBOTTOM

SECTION: SPORT; Page  27

LENGTH: 498 words


Organisers of Sunday's Flora London Marathon yesterday promised high levels of
vigilance after the IRA's disruption of the Grand National.  But Nick Bitel, the
event's chief executive, accepted the race was vulnerable to terrorist
intervention given the numbers of people involved.

"We take the safety and security of runners and spectators extremely seriously,"
Bitel said. "We are not going to discuss specific security arrangements for the
event. But having an event that is held on public roads over 26.2 miles does
mean that you cannot absolutely secure the whole of the course.

"All you can do is take security measures to an appropriate level, and that is
what we are doing. We must not forget that some pounds 11m will be raised next
Sunday for charities around the world. It would be a criminal disgrace for
anybody to target it. It must be a possibility, however, in the light of what
has just happened at Aintree.

"Since the cancellation of the IRA ceasefire we have taken as many security
measures as we consider necessary and worked closely in conjunction with the
police and other agencies to ensure the security of the event.

"We have never believed - I suspect like the National - that we might be a
target, but we realise we run through what must be areas of concern to the
police. You just have to think of some of the landmarks we run past." Among
these, of course, will be Docklands, the target of an IRA bomb of last year.

Next Sunday will present police and transport authorities in the capital with a
nightmarish challenge. Apart from the London Marathon, which is expected to
attract a record number of 28,000 competitors and up to half a million
spectators, there will also be the FA Cup semi-final between Wimbledon and
Chelsea at Highbury, which will kick off at 12.00.

Bitel confirmed that the Football Association did not consult the Marathon
organisers before fixing the time of the match. "No doubt football fans would
have preferred not to travel across London at the same time as half a million
people were stuck on the course," he said.

To add to the complexity of Sunday, an Asian arts festival in Southall is
expected to draw around 100,000 people, many of whom will be arriving in London
on the day.

Meanwhile the marathon has lost one of the main British competitors in the men's
race, Peter Whitehead. The Leeds runner, fourth in the 1995 World Championships,
dropped out on Monday after suffering a back injury during a training run.

Yakov Tolstikov, the Russian who won the event in 1991 and was the fourth
fastest entrant this year, has also dropped out, having chosen to run the Paris
Marathon instead.

The favourite for the men's race, according to William Hill yesterday, was the
Mexican Antonio Pinto, at 7-4, followed by Britain's Paul Evans at 5-2. Evans
was also 7-4 on favourite to finish the top Briton, ahead of Richard Nerurkar,
Gary Staines and the 1993 winner, Eamonn Martin.


LOAD-DATE: April 09, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1997 Independent Print Ltd

                              65 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            April 9, 1997, Wednesday

Rogue advertisers eye city marathon

BYLINE: Ian Burrell

SECTION: NEWS; Page  9

LENGTH: 715 words


The danger of terrorist attack is not the only threat to this weekend's London
Marathon. Organisers said last night that a tight security operation is being
planned to stop the event being hijacked by unauthorised advertisers.

Nick Bitel, the marathon's chief executive, said last night that Britain's
efforts to stage top international sporting events were being undermined by the
lack of legislation against "ambush marketing".

Several international sports companies, including the American sportswear
company Nike, are believed to be planning unofficial campaigns to capitalise on
this year's marathon, which attracts a television audience in the United Kingdom
of 6 million.

Nike yesterday unveiled a new poster in a London-wide campaign aimed to coincide
with the marathon. The company said it was "not trying to hijack" the event.

"We are not an official sponsor but around the London Marathon people are very
interested in running," its spokes-man, Graham Anderson, said.  "It is a
high-profile event and all companies with an interest in running will be down
there."

Ambush marketing is not illegal. Last year Nike bought up every bus-stop poster
site around the course for unofficial advertisements featuring a disabled
competitor. It was the latest in a succession of "ambushes" by Nike, a great
rival of Asics, the official sponsor of the event.

In a previous year Nike hired a huge advertising billboard at a key site near
the Cutty Sark tea clipper in Greenwich, which race organisers then had to
obscure from television cameras.

On another occasion, the sports company sought planning permission for a giant
inflatable running shoe to be attached to a building overlooking a prime site.
Race organisers managed to block the application.

This year, a team of race officials will spend the night before the race
patrolling the perimeter and clearing unofficial advertising. The final sweep
will be carried out just 20 minutes ahead of the runners.  Mr Bitel said: "The
marathon is a difficult event to protect because we are not in a clean stadium.
It is much easier to ambush an open-air event."

In the next three years, more than 20 world and European sporting championships
are due to be staged and the Sports Council recently announced a pounds 3m
lottery- funded kitty to help sports governing bodies bring events to Britain.

Mr Bitel, a London lawyer, said: "Sponsorship is absolutely pivotal to your
ability to stage events. If you cannot keep your advertisers happy because of
the ambushing antics of another company then it will cost you on the bottom
line."

He said many major sporting events, such as the Euro 96 football championships,
were run on tight budgets and made little direct profit.

Mr Bitel said that ambush marketing was a particular problem in Britain because
laws on the subject were weaker than in any comparable country.  Victims of
ambush marketing in Britain have little legal recourse other than through
legislation designed to prevent the "passing off" of one product as another.

The Football Association recently failed to prevent Trebor Bassett, the sweet
company, from using England shirts in their promotions during Euro 96. The FA
has an arrangement with Snickers, made by Mars.

Mr Bitel would like to see American-style legislation introduced to give event
organisers greater protection against ambushing. "They are much stricter in
their protection of intellectual property," he said.

Nike's saturation advertising during Euro 96 convinced 23 per cent of the
population that they were the official sponsor, when in fact it was Umbro. Some
people have been led to think that Britvic are associated with Manchester United
after a poster campaign for the Red Card sports drink featuring an Eric Cantona
lookalike in a red football shirt with the collar turned up.

American Express has also run several campaigns around the Olympics, which is
sponsored by its rival Visa.

Mr Bitel predicted that there could be difficulties in attracting sponsors for
the 1999 Rugby World Cup in Britain after Guinness saturated the last
Steinlager-sponsored event.

Some companies feel that they get better rewards from sponsoring individuals
rather than sporting events.


LOAD-DATE: April 09, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1997 Independent Print Ltd

                              66 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            April 10, 1997, Thursday

Election '97: Redgraves stage warning over British police state

BYLINE: Fran Abrams Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Page  12

LENGTH: 399 words


The spectre of fascism entered the election yesterday when leaders of a campaign
run by the actress Vanessa Redgrave and her brother Corin said Britain was well
on the way to becoming a police state.

Only vigilance stood between us and the death camps of Nazi Germany, the group's
press launch heard. Many politicians were "pinstripe fascists" and somewhere in
Methodist Central Hall, Westminster, there were ordinary citizens who could
easily end up running death camps.

The Charter for Basic Rights, which calls for the repeal of the Police, Criminal
Justice, Asylum and Prevention of Terrorism Acts and the trades union laws, is
fielding just one candidate in Tooting, South London.

In other areas it asks voters to question their candidates on human rights
issues, but suggests that the Liberal Democrats' views are nearer to its own
than those of the other parties.

Mr Redgrave said provisions in the Police Bill which allowed the bugging and
burgling of private homes "constitute the sinews and apparatus of a police
state."

"You may think there is no fascist party here that commands the kind of support
the National Front has in France. But here we have pinstripe fascism. There are
plenty of politicians whose beliefs are identical to Le Pen's," he said.

The Charter's candidate, actor and lecturer Jan Koene, said people should
consider how the Third Reich was able to take power in Germany.

"I'm not saying Britain in '97 is the same as Germany in the '30s. We don't have
as many open fascists yet. But it had to come from somewhere, and that's our
warning."

His election address warns voters to talk in whispers or sign language if they
have to consult a solicitor.

"Under the Police Bill the police can bug the office. Or your doctor's surgery.
Or they can tap your telephone. There are five times more telephone taps per
head in Britain than in the USA or Canada.

"The real messages of Britain that stick with me aren't in the manifestoes," Mr
Koene said. "They are the homeless in Charing Cross Road, the prison ships off
the coast, one in four out of work. The gap between the rich and poor is worse
than it has been since Dickens."

The group claims the support of Harold Pinter, and although Ms Redgrave was in
America yesterday the actress Saffron Burrows, who starred in Karaoke, was at
the launch to give her support.


LOAD-DATE: April 10, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1997 Independent Print Ltd

                              67 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Standard (London)

                                 April 11, 1997

OUR MAN IN TEHRAN RECALLED

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 774 words



BRITAIN is recalling its charge d'affaires in Tehran after calls from the
European Union, the Foreign Office announced today.

The EU sought the withdrawal of ambassadors after a German court found that the
'highest levels' of the Iranian regime had ordered the 1992 murder of four
Iranian dissidents in a Berlin cafe.

The British charge d'affaires, Jeffrey James, would be returning home 'shortly',
the Foreign Office said.

The EU declared that the behaviour of the Iranian authorities had been 'totally
unacceptable in the conduct of international affairs'. It added that no progress
in developing a constructive relationship with Iran was possible 'while Iran
flouts international norms, and indulges in acts of terrorism'.

An Iranian agent and Lebanese contract killer were convicted in Berlin of the
murder of the leader of a banned Iranian Kurdish minority party and three of his
aides in a gun battle at Mykonos cafe in Berlin.

Both were sentenced to life imprisonment. Two other Lebanese agents were given
long prison terms for assisting with the murders.

Mr James, 52, a married man with two daughters, has been in Teheran since August
1993.

'He is returning for a period of co-ordinated consultation ahead of the EU's
general affairs council meeting on April 29,' a Foreign Office spokesman said.

Britain and other EU countries are now deciding just what measures they should
take against Iran following the damning German court ruling.

All the Foreign Office would say today that measures would have to be 'robust'
and that a range of options was being considered.

However, it is thought that EU countries will expel and permanently exclude all
Iranian intelligence officials still within their borders. None is left in the
UK since the last was expelled in 1994.

The EU could also insist on a full arms embargo, a toughening of visa
restrictions and a cutting back of official visits.

Britain closed its embassy in Teheran in September 1980 for security reasons,
but maintained diplomatic relations with Iran by setting up a British interest
section in the Swedish embassy.

The British embassy re-opened in November 1988 but Iran broke off diplomatic
relations in March 1989 shortly after announcing the fatwa on author Salman
Rushdie.

Relations were restored in September 1990 but only at charge d'affaires level.


LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1997 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              68 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 April 11, 1997

Outrage at Iran

BYLINE: From Murray Ritchie;European Editor, Brussels;

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 121 words


Britain will join other EU states in withdrawing its ambassador from Iran, the
Foreign Office signalled last night, with Foreign Secretary Malcolm Rifkind
expected to make a statement.

A German court has accused Iran of ordering the killing of Kurdish dissidents in
Berlin.

The Dutch, currently holding the EU presidency, said the Berlin case had
established involvement of the Iranian authorities "at the highest level". It
said there can be no constructive relationship with Iran while it "indulges in
acts of terrorism".

The Dutch also emphasised that the EU expected the Iranian government to
safeguard the security of all EU citizens and their institutions in Iran.

Iran found guilty -- Page13

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1997 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              69 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            April 12, 1997, Saturday

Marathon runs into wall of security scares

BYLINE: Ian Burrell

SECTION: NEWS; Page  6

LENGTH: 541 words


Pity the organisers of tomorrow's Flora London Marathon. Not only is there a
danger of terrorist attack, but the race is under threat from the water, the air
and the sky.

While Scotland Yard is co-ordinating a major security operation to limit the
chances of a bomb attack, marathon officials believe the elements pose a greater
risk.

Race organisers urged the public to be vigilant, but said they were more fearful
that the event would be disrupted by British Gas or Thames Water, than the IRA.

Contingency plans have been drawn up to guard against the possibility of
collapsed roads, burst gas mains and flooding.

Yesterday the Cancer Research Campaign created a further scare when it announced
that runners were at risk from skin cancer if they failed to protect themselves
against the spring sunshine.

Nevertheless more than 500,000 people are expected to turn out to watch a field
of 28,000 runners.

The bomb threats which led to the postponement of last weekend's Grand National
have heightened fears that the marathon could be the next event on the terrorist
hit list.

When the National was finally run on Monday, racegoers were told not to bring
baggage to the Aintree course and were searched at the turnstiles.  Such
thorough checking would not be possible at the marathon.

With more than 26 miles of public highway to monitor, the race is the most
difficult major sporting event to protect from such attack.

Nick Bitel, the marathon's chief executive, said that during its 17-year history
the race had learned to live with the threat of terrorism.

He said: "Some years ago, two days before the marathon, there was a bomb at the
Baltic Exchange which is virtually on our route. More recently, the first
vehicle to go down Marsh Wall after the bombing there was ours, putting down the
blue line for the marathon.

"But it is not just a terrorist threat that could take out one of our roads.
Water mains go down all the time and if a hole appears in a road you have a
major problem." Three years ago a burst gas main at a key point on the course
led to major difficulties.

This year race organisers are concerned about the commercial threat of "ambush
advertising". Companies which are not sponsoring the race have sought to cash in
on its popularity by placing prominent advertisements along the route. There are
fears that the practice, which is legal in Britain, could lead to loss of
sponsors at future marathons and other sporting events in this country.

Even the glorious weather was yesterday denounced as a threat to runners and
spectators. Professor Gordon McVie, director general of the Cancer Research
Campaign, said: "Skin cancer is the fastest growing cancer in the UK and because
it's only April, many people wrongly believe they are not at risk from the sun.

"Marathon runners and spectators are particularly vulnerable because many of
them will be out for most of the day and they won't be covered up."

The charity, which is being sponsored by 387 runners in this year's event, said
that, where possible, people should seek natural shade, wear cover- up clothing,
avoid the midday sun, and use a sunscreen with a protection factor of 15 or
above.


LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1997 Independent Print Ltd

                              70 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                            April 19, 1997, Saturday

IRA BOMBERS BRING CHAOS TO TRANSPORT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 438 words


The IRA caused chaos across Great Britain yesterday when a bomb exploded at a
mainline railway station, just yards from a busy car park, and numerous coded
bomb warnings led to widespread disruption.

Although no one was hurt in the blast near Leeds railway station, the warnings
led to road and rail travel chaos in the Midlands and northern England.

Leeds, Doncaster, Stoke-on-Trent and Crewe stations were all shut and the
centres of each of the towns cordoned off.

Police also closed down two long sections of the M6, in Staffordshire and north
of Manchester.

Huge queues built up on the M6 and the area was still busy even after the
sections reopened.

The rail stations remained shut - causing havoc to both west coast and east
coast services.

The coded warnings were received at around 7am and led to the closure of Stoke,
Crewe and Doncaster stations, with the areas around the stations being
evacuated.

At 9am, there was an explosion in a relay cabinet containing signalling
equipment, about 400 metres from Leeds station and just 20 metres from the main
car park used by rail passengers.

Further confusion was caused by a second blast at Doncaster on a road over a
rail bridge.

Police were uncertain about what had caused the explosion.

Prime Minister John Major carried on with an election campaign visit to north
-west England despite the incidents which he said looked like the work of the
IRA.

Mr Major said the IRA had shown its "usual contempt for people's lives and for
property" and he accused the IRA of playing silly games.

Labour leader Tony Blair, Liberal Democrat leader Paddy Ashdown and Eire prime
minister John Bruton all condemned the incidents as well.

South Yorkshire police said last night that, although the search of Doncaster
railway station was continuing, no device had been found.

"The search team have found the dead body of a pigeon beneath power lines in the
vicinity of the bang that was heard.

"We haven't found anything else, so one has to draw one's own conclusions."

The device at Leeds city station went off while police were searching the
station.

Det Supt John Holt said the blast led to extensive disruption as shops and
offices around the station were evacuated.

Mr Holt said the warning call, which was not coded, was received by staff at
Leeds General Infirmary at 7.14am and was made from a public call box.

Police appealed forl business owners with CCTV cameras to hand over their tapes.

Later, Staffordshire police indicated that a call which sparked the rail and
road closures could have been a hoax.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1997 Century Newspapers Limited

                              71 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 April 19, 1997

Major defies the IRA bombs

BYLINE: By James Mckillop ;And Calum Macdonald;

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 970 words


BRITISH and Irish political leaders united last night to condemn the latest
chaos caused by the IRA when a bomb exploded at a mainline railway station and
coded warnings led to widespread disruption.

The Prime Minister carried on with an election campaign visit to North-west
England despite the incidents, which he said looked like the work of the IRA.

Although no-one was hurt in the blast near Leeds station, the warnings led to
huge traffic hold-ups and confusion on roads and railways across northern
England and the Midlands. Scottish travellers were also badly affected.

Leeds, Doncaster, Stoke-on-Trent, and Crewe stations were shut, delaying
services on both the main East and West coast lines.

The centres of each of the towns were cordoned off and police also closed down
two long sections of the M6, in Staffordshire and north of Manchester, causing
huge queues to build up.

Mr Major said the IRA had shown its "usual contempt for people's lives and for
property", and accused the organisation of playing "silly games".

Despite his outward business-as-usual policy, a 10-man police team had earlier
spent more than two hours searching the Prime Minister's chartered campaign jet
before it took off from RAF Northolt. When he arrived at Manchester Airport
there was an obvious increase in the number of armed policemen and vehicles
guarding Mr Major's bomb-proof battle bus.

Labour leader Tony Blair said: "These attacks are utterly outrageous. They are
quite plainly an attempt to disrupt the election and the election campaign, and
they will not succeed.

"This Labour party and this Labour leader abhor terrorism. We will not give in
to it and the IRA must understand very carefully indeed that the democratic path
is there to be taken. They either take it or they will be cast out of this
process forever."

Liberal Democrat leader Paddy Ashdown added: "If the IRA believe that today they
can bomb and then sue for peace tomorrow, they will get a resounding raspberry
from the British people and every single member of the political parties that
are represented in this election."

He also called for "appropriate" security responses to bomb threats to be
maintained, so Britain did not give in to the IRA by cowering in the face of
terrorism.

Irish Prime Minister John Bruton said in Dublin that a vote for Sinn Fein in the
General Election was the same as a vote for the IRA. He added: "These antics
create the maximum hostility amongst British people towards Irish causes and
make for maximum difficulties for both the British and Irish people. These
actions are destructive politically as well as physically."

Mr Seamus Mallon, deputy leader of Ulster's Social, Democratic and Labour Party,
said: "Sinn Fein are talking peace in Northern Ireland while the IRA are waging
war in Britain and Northern Ireland."

Deputy Irish premier Dick Spring accused the IRA of acting in a "dangerous and
irresponsible manner", and said the alerts could only be condemned and
repudiated.

Ms Mary Harney, leader of Ireland's Progressive Democrats opposition party, said
the IRA's campaign in Britain was "extremely damaging to Ireland's cause".

Yesterday's disruption follows the forced cancellation of the Grand National at
Aintree earlier this month; massive traffic congestion on the M6 through a
series of suspect packages and bomb warnings; and the explosion of a bomb on the
railway line at Wilmslow. Cheshire Chief Constable Mervyn Jones said he felt the
call which caused the alert at Crewe had probably been a "contrived hoax".

He concluded: "The same

eople who planted bombs elsewhere probably contrived this. It is abysmal. It has
been a shocking day for Crewe, the North-west and the Midlands."

He said Cheshire was sharing intelligence with other forces about the
possibility of a terrorist cell operating in the county, which in recent years
has seen the Warrington bombings as well as the attack at Wilmslow.

The coded warnings were received around 7am and led to the closure of Stoke,
Crewe and Doncaster stations, with the areas around the stations being
evacuated. Crewe was reopened last night.

The warnings also referred to the M6 and a section between junction 13 at
Stafford North and junction 16 at Stoke North was closed, as was the stretch
between junction 25 near Wigan and junction 29 south of Preston.

At 9am, there was an explosion in a relay cabinet containing signalling
equipment about 400 metres from Leeds station, and just 20 metres from the main
public car park used by rail passengers. Further confusion was caused by a
second blast at Doncaster on a road over a rail bridge. Police were later
uncertain what had caused the explosion.

The device planted at Leeds went off while police were searching the station.
Detective Superintendent John Holt, the officer in charge of the investigation,
said the blast led to extensive disruption as shops and offices around the
station were evacuated.

Mr Holt said the warning call, which was not coded, was received by staff at
Leeds General Infirmary at 7.14am and was made from a public call box.

Staffordshire's Assistant Chief Constable Steve Green told a news conference
that a call received by a member of the public in the town at 7.20am suggested
devices may have been planted at stations in Stoke and Doncaster and at
junctions on the M6.

q The security forces last night discovered three mortar bombs in Northern
Ireland. The Mark 16 mortars were found during a planned search of open ground
outside Draperstown, County Londonderry.

A man has been charged in connection with the IRA bombing of London's Docklands,
Scotland Yard said last night. The man, who has not been named, will appear
before Belmarsh magistrates today.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: The road to nowhere: a lone police motorcyclist checks the M6 after the
motorway was closed because of the bomb threats. Picture: PA

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1997 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              72 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            April 19, 1997, Saturday

PROVOS CRIPPLE NORTH OF ENGLAND;
NORTH OF ENGLAND CRIPPLED BY IRA BOMB BLASTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 534 words


The IRA crippled the north of England yesterday with a couple of small bombs and
coded hoax warnings.

Two explosions, both thought to contain less than 1lb of explosive, damaged
railway equipment in Leeds and Doncaster. No one was hurt.

But a series of bogus warnings claiming more devices had been planted at rail
and motorway junctions created havoc as trains were halted and main roads became
gridlocked.

Last night the business loss was put at pounds 100 million, making a total of
pounds 250 million on this month's three bomb scares, including the cancelled
Grand National. Premier John Bruton hit out at "acts which are destructive
politically as well as physically".

He said Provo antics guaranteed difficulties for Irish emigrants in Britain and
maximum hostility to Irish causes.

And he gave this advice to northern voters: "Don't vote for Sinn Fein. Don't
vote for a party that supports the IRA."

The bombs at Leeds and Doncaster forced a total shut down of rail services
between London and the North East.

While warnings of devices at Crewe and Stoke on Trent closed west coast lines
linking London, Manchester, Liverpool and Glasgow.

On the roads, anonymous calls forced police to close sections of the M6.
Traffic in the Stoke area came to a standstill. An estimated 50,000 lorries were
caught up in the jam.

It is the second time in a month the IRA have caused massive disruption to road
and rail traffic in the North.

A Scotland Yard anti terrorist source said yesterday: "The bombs have caused
massive damage to the economy and the IRA haven't had to spill a drop of blood
to achieve their aim."

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ALL OFF: Passengers evacuate a train at Leeds

                            Copyright 1997 MGN Ltd.

                              73 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                 April 21, 1997

Terror warnings strangle London

BYLINE: By Julie O'connor and Desmond McCartan

LENGTH: 590 words


Major blasts IRA over capital chaos

PRIME Minister John Major blasted the IRA today as a series of coded bomb alerts
threw London into chaos.

Rail, road and air transport were all forced to a standstill as the capital
faced the worst traffic chaos ever seen.

Train lines were closed, flights delayed, roads blocked and traffic halted as
tens of thousands of people across the capital were stranded. Mr Major, speaking
at a scheduled Tory Press conference, said he had nothing but contempt for Sinn
Fein and the IRA.

"The IRA have murdered in the past; they would not hesitate to murder again in
the present, if they thought it was in their interest to do so. "So the police
and the security forces can take no risks at all. But I am extremely grateful to
the public for the way in which they have responded this morning."

But Sinn Fein chief Martin McGuinness blamed Mr Major for the bomb threats.

Interviewed on Radio 4's Today programme, he refused to condemn those behind
recent terrorist bombings and alerts.

"I see all of these very much as manifestations of the failure to put in place a
proper conflict resolution situation and - I have to say - the failure of John
Major to anchor and develop what was a wonderful opportunity presented to him
during the course of the IRA ceasefire," he declared.

Ulster Unionist leader David Trimble said that the "tried and trusted Republican
tactic of the ballot box and bome is alive and well." "Bombings and the threat
of bombings designed to bring cities and motorways to a standstill only go to
prove the irredeemable nature of the Irish republican terrorist.

"The recent spate of attacks on the UK mainland sre about the intentions of Sinn
Fein/IRA than the honeyed words of Adams and his henchmen." An RAC spokesman
said that central and west London were "basically closed" during rush hour.

"This is going to be some of the worst traffic chaos that we have seen in London
for many years," he said.

Four main airports - Gatwick, Luton, Stansted and Heathrow - were affected with
flights diverted and passengers left on the tarmac. Commuter chaos resulted
after coded calls forced the evacuation of King's Cross, St Pancras, Charing
Street and Paddington Stations. The underground system was also brought to a
halt when a suspect package was found at St John's stop and the rail chaos
spread north with three alerts at Watford.

Dover port was also closed for a time, but re-opened after a search failed to
locate anything.

Gatwick Airport was evacuated after a bomb alert was received at 7.12am. Eight
thousand people were stranded at the terminals as staff tried to find a vacant
hangar for them to sit in.

Luton airport was also evacuated, leaving three plane loads of travellers
sitting on the runway.

And Terminal Three at Heathrow was partially evacuated as searches were carried
out.

Essex police said parts of Stansted Airport were also closed for a time as a
precaution, including the check-in area.

Bus routes were also badly affected as a number of main roads into central
London had been closed by police.

The A40, one of the main routes from the West into the capital, was closed,
causing gridlock and knock-on traffic jams on other main routes. Liberal
Democrat leader Paddy Ashdown's campaign bus was delayed this morning because of
the security alert.

In the past few weeks the IRA has tried to cripple the transport system in
Britain with attacks in Wilmslow, Doncaster, Crewe and an explosion in Leeds.


LOAD-DATE: November 24, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1997 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              74 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                             April 21, 1997, Monday

IRA KILLERS TARGET MAINLAND POLITICIANS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 340 words


A major tightening of security at Britain's airports was urged yesterday after
reports that IRA gunmen have been sent to Britain to assassinate leading
political figures in the run-up to the General Election.

There should be strict controls to make sure terrorists do not slip through the
net, the Ulster Unionist security spokesman Ken Maginnis said.

His warning came as the Sunday Times reported that more than a dozen politicians
have received warnings from MI5 anti-terrorist officers in the past fortnight
advising them of an imminent threat from IRA gunmen.

Mr Maginnis said he believed it likely the IRA was planning to extend its "out
of theatre" operations on the British mainland to the murder of high-profile
figures. He called on the security forces to act swiftly.

He said: "The IRA are going to try and blackmail what they see as the
government-in-waiting between now and May 1 in order to tell them 'we haven't
gone away and you had better do business with us', so the Government must act.

"There's got to be a quite discriminatory system for those who are leaving all
the major airports. The whole system of security checking should be turned up so
the terrorists know there's no bolt-hole.

"The other thing is that the public should be vigilant and alert police to
newcomers to the community."

He believes the British public would be tolerant of such tight security
considering the seriousness of the threat.

Security sources say nine IRA terrorists have gone missing from their homes in
Northern Ireland and Eire, according to The Sunday Times, which also said that
the Provisionals may be planning to extend their strategy of causing choas on
the roads and rail networks to murdering a prominent figure.

Several senior politicians have had their police protection increased.  These
include Prime Minister John Major, Sir John Wheeler, the retiring Northern
Ireland security minister, and Tom King, a former Northern Ireland Secretary of
State who had been targeted before by the IRA

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1997 Century Newspapers Limited

                              75 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                            April 22, 1997, Tuesday

THREATS PILE ON THE MISERY FOR COMMUTERS;
          POLITICIANS SLAM PROVOS AS BOMB HOAX DISRUPTION RETURNS TO LONDON

BYLINE: Mervyn Pauley

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 573 words


The bomb-alert disruption in Britain was widely condemned yesterday as London
and other areas slowly returned to normal after being brought to a virtual
standstill.

Road, rail, tube and air services were all severely disrupted. At one point the
RAC described conditions on the roads as some of the worst for many years, if
ever.

Prime Minister John Major expressed his contempt for IRA/Sinn Fein and praised
the stoicism and good humour of the thousands of commuters.

Ulster Unionist leader David Trimble slammed the disruption. "It seems that the
tried and trusted republican tactic of the ballot box and bomb is alive and
well," he said.

"Bombings and the threat of bombings designed to bring cities and motorways to a
standstill only go to prove the irredeemable nature of the Irish republican
terrorist."

He said the recent spate of mainland attacks said more about the intentions of
Sinn Fein/IRA "than the honeyed words of Adams and his henchmen".

Republicans had turned their backs conclusively on the democratic process and
seemed determined to continue their self-exclusion from the Stormont multi
-party talks.

The DUP's Nigel Dodds said the IRA was trying to exert the maximum pressure on
the next Government, but stressed his party would not sit down at the talks
table with Sinn Fein.

"This is an example of the military pressure which is mirrored and complemented
by the political pressure of Gerry Adams and his fellow travellers," he said.

Sinn Fein chief negotiator Martin McGuinness, standing in Mid-Ulster, refused to
condemn the bomb threats. "Condemnation I have always seen as a British
propaganda word-game," he said.

But Mr Major stressed: "It is essential to take these warnings seriously.  The
IRA have murdered in the past. They would not hesitate to murder again if they
thought it was in their interests to do so."

Labour leader Tony Blair expressed sympathy for everyone affected by the threats
and his gratitude to the public services and the public themselves.

Liberal Democrat leader Paddy Ashdown saw the disruption as another futile
attempt by the IRA to influence the general election. He believed the IRA had
decided that since terrorism did not work, it would try economic terrorism.

Stormont minister Michael Ancram said such actions made it more difficult for
Sinn Fein to enter talks.

He said he believed republicans were scared of the calm and committed leadership
shown by John Major.

"His leadership has opened the window to a solution of the problems of Northern
Ireland to the extent that I now believe that Sinn Fein and the IRA are
frightened and that is why they are trying to close this window," he argued.

Meanwhile Gerry Adams said he wanted an end to all violence. He believed the
election of a new administration in Britain would present another opportunity
for peace. There was also a need for dialogue.

"We have a conflict, which occasionally affects people in Britain, sometimes in
a very tragic and horrific way. People on this island are affected almost every
day. We want to bring it to an end."

In London, Trafalgar Square was sealed off at one stage.

On the M25 there was a 10-mile jam and routes into London from the west were
gridlocked.

Heathrow, Luton, Stansted and Gatwick Airports were also affected, 4,000
passengers stranded on the runway in planes which had landed but were unable to
disembark.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COMMUTER CHAOS: passengers sit in the sun on the A23 waiting for;
Gatwick Airport to re-open following bomb warnings

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1997 Century Newspapers Limited

                              76 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                           April 23, 1997, Wednesday

SINN FEIN AND WESTMINSTER

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 525 words


The timing of Sinn Fein's announcement that it intends to establish an office in
London and that it will be raising its profile at Westminster should it succeed
in the forthcoming election, will not be lost on the people of mainland Britain.
They will be grievously offended by the gall of a party which is in full support
of republican terrorists currently targeting cities and towns in Britain.

It appears that even if they are elected, republicans will not be taking any
seats in the Commons. This begs the question as to how the people who vote for
them will be represented in the decision-making process in areas that affect
their daily lives and are far removed from the constitutional debate.

Effectively these people will be disenfranchised by a party which cannot set
aside its loathing for all things British, even if it means selling their own
people short. Ironically, Sinn Fein is extremely active as a community party in
the republican heartlands and has taken a step into the democratic arena by
changing its constitution to allow members to sit in local government councils,
set up under British law.

A policy of abstentionism at Westminster is a throwback to the most negative
aspects of Irish republican politics in an era when traditional barriers are
being dismantled. Here is the opportunity for Sinn Fein to enter fully into the
democratic process and engage in meaningful dialogue with all other parties,
including the party of Government, without preconditions.

Why then, the reluctance, beyond the antiquated party stance on the issue, to
take Westminster seats? Part of their difficulty might be that if the IRA is to
continue its campaign of violence, any Sinn Fein representatives at Westminster
would find themselves exposed to world criticism, and isolated even from their
clutch of friends and advocates on the left wing of the Labour Party.

On this page today, Sinn Fein leader Gerry Adams, in a General Election message,
admits that the level of distrust between unionists and republicans is huge. He
maintains republicans are very anxious to reach out and secure an accommodation
with the unionist community, but the truth is that unionists are no more likely
to be reconciled with militant republicanism now, than they ever have been.

That does not preclude the hope that the vast majority of people across both
communities in this part of Ireland cannot reach an accommodation which allows
both to feel they have an equitable stake in the future of the Province.

There is really little hope that unionists will be reconciled to those who
continue to be so closely aligned with an organisation which has caused so much
death and destruction.

What value can unionists place in talk by Sinn Fein of understanding and trust
when IRA terrorists are shooting women in the back and deliberately creating
chaos for tens of thousands of ordinary hard-working people?

Continued IRA violence is the paramount cause of communal division and Mr Adams
and his colleagues have little chance of bridging the gap until long after the
violence is consigned to the darker pages of our history.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1997 Century Newspapers Limited

                              77 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                            April 24, 1997, Thursday

TOTALLY OVER THE TOP: MORNING VIEW

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 205 words


The Daily Mail's Ian Wooldridge may be a highly respected, award- winning sports
journalist, but his judgment on Irish affairs in the wake of the IRA attacks on
the British mainland is way off beam. The call to ban all the Irish from British
race meetings in retaliation for IRA activity simply does not square with what
exists in the real world.

Mr Wooldridge admits his Daily Mail article this week was "mean-spirited" and
"deeply unfair" , but he adds: "The ban would be a gesture to those Irishmen
whose passionate hatred for us is so intense that almost daily now they bring to
frustrated submission a nation which down the years saw off Napoleon and
Hitler".

It is incredulous that a man of Ian Wooldridge's standing should direct his
castigation towards the overwhelming majority of Irish people in Britain who
absolutely detest the political philosophy and violent actions of the Irish
republican movement.

Innocent people who have contributed much to Britain's prosperity down the years
should not be blamed for the terrorist activities, however awful, of a fringe
group. To link sport with naked terrorism, in the manner Ian Wooldridge has
done, is quite unacceptable. He must retract his remarks now.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1997 Century Newspapers Limited

                              78 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                             April 25, 1997, Friday

Struggle to solve an all-party problem

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 1212 words


Millions of British citizens have had their lives disrupted and headlines have
been grabbed during this election campaign because of one unresolved political
problem. That problem has, however, scarcely featured in the speeches of
potential Prime Ministers and impinged at only the margins of political debate.
The problem is Northern Ireland.

Although Labour and the Conservatives go into this election pledged to uphold
the majority's wish to remain in the United Kingdom, neither party is seriously
trying to secure representation there. The field is left to a variety of parties
that exist only in Northern Ireland, and one, Sinn Fein, that organises
throughout Ireland. Although all the parties have policies on everything from
health to fish farming, the dividing line between them is not left and right,
but the border. Unionists want to keep it, and the link with the rest of the UK,
nationalists want it to go.

Since the Conservative victory in 1979 the search for a political solution, that
is a constitutional dispensation for Northern Ireland which will end the
violence, has dominated government policy. As well as trying to design an
assembly, the Tories have tried to develop links with Dublin. The notable legacy
of this approach was the Anglo-Irish agreement of 1985. Although all these
initiatives were designed to undermine terrorism by showing that consti tutional
politics could work, the republican campaign of violence has continued unabated.

The IRA has been fighting a "long war" in which it hoped to "sicken" the British
State sufficiently to encourage withdrawal. Throughout the Eighties the IRA
increasingly switched to attacking economically significant mainland targets.
Bombs such as those at Harrods and that at the Baltic Exchange in the City in
1992 were intended to send tremors through the British Establishment and
encourage international pressure on the Government to come to an accommodation
with republicans.

In the late Eighties, provoked by republican violence, and fearful that their
position was undermined by Anglo-Irish initiatives, loyalists within Unionist
communities began to intensify their own terror campaign, killing Catholics in
republican areas to create an atmosphere of fear and an appetite for peace
within those communities. These factors combined in the early Nineties with the
coming to power of new Prime Ministers in the Republic of Ireland and in the
United Kingdom to create an environment propitious for a new peace initiative.

The diplomatic efforts seemed to have worked when, in August 1994, the IRA
declared a ceasefire. Soon after, in October, the loyalists followed suit.
Northern Ireland was at peace for the first time in 25 years. It was not to
last. Indeed, it is difficult to see how it could have lasted. Republicans
expected the ceasefire to lead quickly to all-party talks and a timetable for
British withdrawal. Loyalists expected the Union's future to be assured. Their
expectations were irreconcilable.

When entry to talks was delayed by demands from Unionists that paramilitaries
give up weapons before dialogue could begin, republican frustration grew. A
commission, set up by US Senator George Mitchell to examine how decommissioning
might be reached to the satisfaction of all, suggested using elections to a
peace forum as one bypass to talks. Republicans saw this not so much as a route
round one obstacle as the erection of another. In February 1996, after 18
months, the IRA ended its ceasefire with a bomb in London's Docklands.

Since then the IRA has been responsible for a series of terrorist attacks, but
hand-in-hand with this military strategy Sinn Fein leaders have pursued a
political programme, arguing that the more votes the party gets the better
placed it is to insist on entry to talks and also influence the IRA to call a
ceasefire.

Republicans have said that talks in which they have not been involved have
achieved little, and it is true that, despite agreement in some areas between
the SDLP and the Ulster Unionists, the attempt to agree a method of government
for Northern Ireland acceptable to Unionists and na tionalists has become bogged
down in procedural detail.

In an effort to break the deadlock Mo Mowlam, the Shadow Northern Ireland
Secretary, suggested earlier this month that another IRA ceasefire could see
Sinn Fein in talks by June. She was chided for her words by Tory ministers and
left exposed when the IRA appeared to respond by escalating its campaign; but
her attempt to entice republicans into laying down their weapons was little
different from past offers made by British and Irish ministers.

The tangled history of talks aside, Northern Ireland has, like the rest of the
United Kingdom, enjoyed gently rising prosperity over the past 18 years. While
violence has been a brake on investment, successive secretaries of state have
intervened vigorously to attract and maintain employment.

Northern Ireland's level of unemployment, at about 11 per cent, is above the UK
average but not perilously so. During the ceasefire, inward investment reached
record levels, with Pounds 432 million pledged and 4,689 jobs created. Since
then, investment has slowed but not evaporated.

Northern Ireland, partly for security reasons and partly because of
Troubles-related poverty, enjoys the highest level of per capita public spending
within the UK, approximately one third higher than elsewhere. Housing has been
improved, with the number of homes officially unfit for occupation cut by one
third. Some of the UK's best social housing is in Northern Ireland and home
ownership has risen from 52 to 66 per cent since 1979. Education remains
predominantly segregated and selective, entrenching sectarian outlooks but
yielding impressive academic results. The hospitals, for tragically obvious
reasons, are some of Britain's finest.

Both main British political parties are committed to a joint approach to
Northern Ireland. Although they differ on detail, Labour has so far refrained
from explicit criticism of the Conservatives. Labour hopes that the Tories will
extend it the same leeway if it gains office.

Tests will come early. July will see the high point of the Unionist marching
season, the bitterly contested exercise in asserting Unionist identity by
ceremonial walks along traditional routes. For the past two years, nationalists
in Portadown have objected to a Protestant march through their housing estate.
Last year the marchers were penned behind wire for four days before a campaign
of wider civil disobedience culminated in them being allowed to march. When it
did, nationalist objectors had to be beaten back.

The event was seen, as so many events are in Northern Ireland, to have great
symbolic significance - proof that the British State would always bow to
Unionist muscle. Others came to a more sombre conclusion: that violence, or the
threat of violence, secures concessions in Northern Ireland. As long as that
perception continues, then so will the Troubles. Moving away from that dismal
vision will be a pressing task for the next government, not just for the people
of Northern Ireland who have suffered so much, but also for the health of the
entire United Kingdom.


LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1997 Times Newspapers Limited

                              79 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 April 26, 1997

As security forces work on plans to protect voters Labour keeps campaign focus
on the elderly;Poll booth bomb alert;Poll booth bomb alert

BYLINE: By Calum Macdonald;

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 987 words


A COMPREHENSIVE security operation will be mounted next week in an effort to
prevent any IRA disruption of voting in the General Election, it emerged
yesterday.

All 72 of Scotland's returning officers, and their counterparts in England,
Wales, and Northern Ireland, have been given an unprecedented level of advice by
the Home Office and police forces are believed to be planning advance searches
of polling stations and, perhaps, random bag searches on the day.

The disclosures followed widespread transport disruption yesterday in the West
Midlands of England, the third time in eight days that chaos had been caused by
a series of coded warnings believed to come from the IRA.

The country's largest police force, Strathclyde, last night declined to discuss
security preparations for operational reasons, but spokesman Superintendent Iain
Gordon, said: "Police arrangements at polling stations will be in place as
considered appropriate."

Home Office sources maintained they had no intelligence about a specific IRA
threat to polling day and serious disruption was considered unlikely.

But they also acknowledged that recent IRA activity had emphasised that the
general threat was high, and there was no reason to think that the terrorists
would respect the importance to the democratic process of polling day.

The Herald revealed yesterday that an IRA cell is believed to be using a base in
central Scotland to provide support for the Provisionals' campaign on the
British mainland.

There are also fears that the IRA may be planning a bombing "spectacular",
perhaps involving a senior politician, before Thursday.

The Home Office advice stressed that, with the qualification that public safety
had to be paramount, the strategy to be adopted in the face of a concerted
terrorist activity against any or all of the 45,000 polling stations across
Britain was to keep disruption to the absolute minimum.

The document said: "Provided that an adequate security plan, based on police
advice, has been put in place, it should be possible to avoid major disruption,
such as evacuation of premises, in almost all circumstances."

Officials said that in the event of coded threats being received, presiding
officers should arrange for the polling station to be searched again.

Police, based on their knowledge of the security precautions which had been
taken at the particular station, would advise on whether any further measures
were required.

Although the intention is to minimise any disruption, the guidance stresses
that, in the unlikely event that a significant number of people were denied the
opportunity to vote in a constituency, officials could consider adjourning
polling to the following day.

That could mean a delay in announcing the result in the affected constituencies,
but officials estimated that such a delay would not extend beyond 24 hours.

Officials said they were confident that adjournment would be possible under the
terms of the Representation of the People Act 1983, which allows for polling to
be delayed in the event of a riot or "open violence".

Their assessment was that the "open violence" definition would cover the impact
of bomb threats, although a court might have to rule on that

in the event of a challenge.

Meanwhile, London businesses worried by the increase in IRA terrorist activity
in the run-up to the election are employing extra security guards to protect
their premises from the threat of attack.

Associated Emergency Security Services, which serves London and the home
counties, said it had seen a 500% increase in contracts since the election date
was announced five weeks ago, and companies had given the IRA as the main reason
for needing extra security.

David Fletcher, the chiefContinued from Page 1

executive of the Security Industry Association, said: "Companies are aware of
the coincidence between the IRA activity and the General Election. It is a
natural reaction to increase vigilance and searches."

Anti-terrorist officers said last night that a "serious" attempt had been made
to send a 132,000-volt electricity pylon crashing down on the M6 north of
Birmingham during yesterday morning's rush-hour.

No-one was hurt when the device exploded, damaging two legs of the pylon. But
the incident, and other warnings, caused lengthy queues on the motorway.
Elsewhere, Luton Airport was closed for six hours after a bomb warning.

West Midlands police said the pylon incident could have caused "total
devastation and loss of life" since it could easily have fallen on the motorway
or on homes just 20 yards away, with "horrendous implications".

Chief Inspector Steve Dugmore said: "It's absolutely despicable to put people's
lives in danger and to have a device adjacent to a motorway from where a pylon
could have fallen on to the motorway. It could have resulted in total
devastation."

Senior officers said later it could have been a terrorist tactic to create a
bottleneck on the M6 before blowing up the pylon to fall on motorists caught in
traffic jams.

Assistant Chief Constable Tim Brain said: "It certainly appears that that could
have been the case. The terrorists are reckless about loss of life and injury
and they are out, through various methods, to cause confusion to the security
services and members of the public."

Mr Brain said that the coded warnings given about the two devices planted at the
pylon were not precise enough to allow police to position their resources around
the bombs.

A second blast was heard in the area of the pylon explosion, but it is not known
exactly where that device had been planted. A controlled explosion took place
near the pylon just after midday.

Police also cordoned off an area around Birmingham New Street rail station. It
was shut for a time, causing disruption to the services of four rail companies.

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: No through road: traffic comes to a halt on the M5 approach to the M6
after yesterday's coded bomb warnings brought chaos to England's transport
system.  Picture: MIKE SEWELL/NEWS TEAM;Police patrol an otherwise deserted
Birmingham town centre.  Picture: MIKE SEWELL/NEWS TEAM;The big enemy: John
Major sizes up Tony Blair during a video presentation at yesterday morning's
Tory news conference in London.  Picture: ADAM BUTLER/PA

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1997 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              80 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            April 26, 1997, Saturday

Election '97: Terror threat to election day

BYLINE: Jason Bennetto/Fran Abrams/David McKittrick

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Page  1

LENGTH: 679 words


Unprecedented security measures are to be taken on polling day to thwart any
attempt by the IRA to disrupt the general election. Polling stations are to be
searched for explosive devices, extra police officers posted, some voters may be
searched and returning officers have been given Home Office advice about
terrorist threats for the first time.

The plans emerged on the day that two IRA bombs exploded under an electricity
pylon close to a motorway and a housing estate north of Birmingham, as part of
the wave of mass disruption to Britain's transport systems.

Police believe the IRA was attempting to send a 132,000-volt electricity pylon
crashing down on the M6. However, no one was hurt when the devices exploded in
the morning rush hour. The police later said the IRA gave inaccurate coded
warnings, further endan- gering life. The explosions were the third time in
eight days the IRA has tried to disrupt the election campaign by creating chaos
via a series of coded bomb-threats.

The authorities intend to impose the tightest security measures seen this
century surrounding a general election, on Thursday, to avoid further
disruption. Among the precautions is the decision by the Home Office to send all
659 acting returning officers a circular telling them how to respond to an
attack. It says: "Provided that an adequate security plan, based on police
advice, has been put in place, it should be possible to avoid major disruption,
such as evacuation of premises, in almost all circumstances.

"Should a bomb-threat be received, the police will assess its credibility and
consider, in the light of the security measures in place, what level of response
is appropriate. Their aim will be to enable the electoral process to continue
uninterrupted unless that would pose a clear risk to public safety."

It adds that if voting did have to be abandoned the process could be completed
the following day. Officials said that in the event of any coded threats being
received, the presiding officers should arrange for the polling station to be
searched again.

Home Office sources maintained that they had no intelligence about a specific
IRA threat to polling day and serious disruption was considered unlikely. But
they also acknowledged that recent IRA activity had emphasised that the general
threat was high.

Chief constables of Britain's police forces will decide the level of security
necessary at each of the 45,000 polling stations and 659 counts.  Both the
visible and more covert measures are expected to turn polling day into one of
the biggest police security operations ever.

David Veness, the Metropolitan Police's assistant commissioner, revealed earlier
in the week that police had been planning how to combat any IRA threat on 1 May
for a some time.

A police source from a metropolitan force said yesterday: "Polling day is a
prime target for the IRA. We have a large number of security measures - some
covert - ready to be brought into play. This is an enormous operation, but we're
sure it will do the job. There will be more police officers than usual and if
anyone is acting suspiciously they may be searched."

Tickets to some counts have already been restricted and those attending on
voting night can expect tight security.

In Northern Ireland, there has been no recent history of serious disruption on
polling days. Since the early 1980s, when Sinn Fein has contested every
election, polling has normally taken place in a trouble-free atmosphere.

One of the principal reasons for this pattern has been the fact that Sinn Fein
activists have been anxious to secure as big a turnout as possible of their own
supporters.

Meanwhile, the emergency services were yesterday having to cope with yet another
series of coded bomb threats that crippled the motorway system in the Midlands,
and closed Birmingham's main train station and Luton airport. Sections of the M1
and M18 in Leicestershire, Nottinghamshire and South Yorkshire were also closed
for a time.

Travel chaos, page 5


LOAD-DATE: April 28, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1997 Independent Print Ltd

                              81 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            April 26, 1997, Saturday

BRUTON RAPS IRA BOMBING CAMPAIGN;
IRELAND'S TOP TWO POLITICIANS ATTACK IRA'S RENEWED TERROR CAMPAIGN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 267 words


Ireland's top two politicians yesterday attacked the IRA's renewed terror
campaign in Britain.

Premier John Bruton said ex-pats were becoming more isolated. "IRA antics are
causing great hardship for the Irish community in the UK," he warned.  "They
make reconciliation harder."

His theme was developed by Tanaiste Dick Spring who said the Irish in Britain
were ashamed and embarrassed by those who had "the impudence to claim they are
acting in the name of Ireland".

"They are not," he said. The activities of the IRA are not only morally wrong
but politically stupid and directly opposed to the interests of the Irish
people."

Both men attacked Sinn Fein for failing to restrain its military wing. "They
must choose violence or democracy.  They cannot straddle both" said the
Taoiseach.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1997 MGN Ltd.

                              82 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            April 26, 1997, Saturday

IRA BOMBINGS INJURE ALL OF US;
VOICE OF THE MIRROR: COMMENT ON THE IRA'S NEW TERROR CAMPAIGN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 440 words


IRA terrorists have the nerve to claim that they are acting in the name of the
Irish people.

Nonsense. An overwhelming majority reject their bloody campaign of violence.

But once again mindless thugs claiming to be patriots have brought chaos to the
English Midlands and problems for our expatriate population.

This time they put lives in danger by exploding bombs near the M6 at Birmingham.

And that includes Irish lives.

Never forget, many of our country-men who have lived in Britain for decades are
directly affected by this stupidity.

Taoiseach John Bruton is right when he angrily denounces these immoral acts and
says they are creating major problems for the Irish in England.

Many feel a deepening sense of isolation, even from friends of many years.  Many
others feel a sense of shame that fellow Irishmen could be responsible for such
terrible deeds.

There is also growing fear of a violent backlash. It happened after the
Birmingham pub bombings.

You can understand why an Englishman stranded in his car or train might steer
his frustration towards anyone with an Irish name.

The Taoiseach says IRA violence must stop. And stop at once before the Irish in
Britain become isolated victims.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1997 MGN Ltd.

                              83 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                            April 26, 1997, Saturday

Wish you were here?

BYLINE: Jeremy Seal

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 531 words


Jeremy Seal on the travel guide to hell

A guidebook which tells the going rate charged by the Chechen mafia for
battlefront tours, how to bribe your way out of jail and how to survive shell or
rocket attacks in war zones is doing brisk business. It is even outselling some
of the mainstream travel guides.

The first edition of American publisher Fielding's The World's Most Dangerous
Places sold 30,000 copies in America last year. Since January, when the second
edition was first distributed in Britain, it has been selling "surprisingly
well", says Douglas Schatz at Stanfords Travel Bookshop, Covent Garden, central
London.

The guide covers threats from terrorists and brutal dictatorships to disease and
getting caught up in the drugs business. Information on comparative death rates
in notorious minibus taxis from Lima to Nairobi is also included. You are
advised against flying in Russia, Colombia and India, and told to watch out for
tourist crime in Brazil, Spain and Florida ("As soon as you don that Hawaiian
shirt, you may as well paint a bull's eye on your back").

There are assessments on more than 30 "dangerous" places, with Afghanistan,
Algeria, Burundi, Colombia and Somalia heading the list. Separate sections
concentrate on places that are forbidden to Americans (but often not to Brits),
such as Iran and Cuba.

Because many of the featured countries - Iran, Burma, Cambodia, Ethiopia and
Turkey - are available through tour operators, it is tempting to put the success
of Dangerous Places down to a death wish among travellers. In fact, the tour
operators that feature such countries conspicuously avoid the danger spots.

Steppes East features Burma and Cambodia, notorious for anti-personnel mines.
"There is a risk," says Nick Laing, the managing director, "but only if you go
way off the tourist routes, which we do not." Exodus has been so successful
selling Iran that it is running a new tour this year to the country's Valley of
the Assassins - not the alarming place it sounds but impressive trekking
country.

Despite the Japanese embassy siege in Lima, Peru has attracted 50 per cent more
tourists every year since 1994.

The guide's writers are veterans of everything from jail and mid-air hijacks to
attacks by African killer bees. Emulating them is apparently not much of a
factor in buying the book. "Sure, there's always the occasional nutcase heading
for Burundi," says Hugh Brune at Portfolio, the guide's UK distributor, "but
it's an armchair read for most people."

So sit back and read about Algeria, "the world's most dangerous place for
foreigners; a country where fundamentalists...like to cut throats and shoot
expats", and eye-witness accounts of meeting warlords in eastern Turkey, and
surviving the Los Angeles riots.

Richard Trillo, at Rough Guides, considers the book "ghoulish but fascinating",
and thinks it will have added appeal for people who travelled to now-banned
destinations, such as Afghanistan, in happier days.

In case you are planning such a trip, Dangerous Places prints a lengthy
disclaimer by the publishers.

* The World's Most Dangerous Places (Fielding, Pounds 13.95).


LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1997 Times Newspapers Limited

                              84 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                             April 27, 1997, Sunday

IRA BOMB ATTACK FEARED AS BEEB GUARDS LOTTERY SHOW;
IRA SECURITY ALERT FOR NATIONAL LOTTERY SHOW

BYLINE: Terry O'Hanlon

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 614 words


Four of Britain's most famous soap stars faced tough questions from security
guards when they starred on the National Lottery show last night.

The BBC is so worried about IRA bomb threats that it has turned its studios into
a fortress.

Even top stars have to show their passes. So when Coronation Street favourites
Fiona, Maxine, Judy and Samantha from rival channel Granada went along, they had
to risk being frisked.

Actresses Angela Griffin, who plays Fiona Middleton, Tracy Shaw (Maxine Heavey),
Gaynor Faye (Judy Mallett) and Tina Hobley (barmaid Samantha Failsworth) all
agreed to the new rules.

A BBC insider said: "If the IRA can halt a national institution like the Grand
National, the Lottery or the BBC generally must be seen as potential targets.  I
have never known security like it.

"Everyone from top stars down to humble cleaners are subjected to checks and
searches.

"Photo passes have been introduced and everyone can be stopped and vetted at any
time."

The BBC is so anxious about the security threat that extra guards were placed on
Studio 6 in the TV Centre, in London's Shepherds Bush, for the show. The nearest
the IRA has come to silencing the BBC was when they wrecked the Grand National
with a series of coded bomb alerts.

Anchorman Des Lynam and his race team colleagues were ordered out of the BBC
compound at Aintree by course officials.

And commentator Peter O'Sullevan's 50th Grand National broadcast could not take
place until the race was re-run.

But the terrorist threats failed to halt BBC coverage at Aintree and sports
teams continued broadcasting from outside the course.

Security at Granada's studios in Manchester, where Coronation Street is filmed,
has also been tightened.

And of course that definitely isn't an excuse for giving sultry Maxine a
frisking...

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FRISKED: Tracy

                            Copyright 1997 MGN Ltd.

                              85 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                             April 27, 1997, Sunday

COPS PROBE POUNDS 200 MILLION IRA VIDEO BOOTLEG FACTORIES;
POLICE PROBE POUNDS 200 MILLION IRA VIDEO & CD BOOTLEG FACTORIES

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 787 words


Secret factories along the Irish Border are churning out thousands of pirate
videos and music CDs to raise money for terrorist war funds.

The copying plants, hidden deep in IRA bandit country, are the source of a
pounds 200million-a-year bootleg industry that spans the Atlantic and ends up in
under-the-counter deals all over Britain.

IRA links in America have the system down to such a fine art that they can have
a movie on tape before it has had its West End premier.

One investigator said: "If you want to see a film before Barry Norman, go to a
market trader in Ireland."

The bootleggers were especially keen to get IRA movie The Devil's Own, staring
Harrison Ford and Brad Pitt out early.

Its release has been delayed in Britain because of terrorist incidents, but the
tape is already on sale in Belfast.

The pirates can have transatlantic chart-topping music CDs on sale while British
DJs are still waiting for their complementary copies to put on the airwaves.

And anti counterfeit investigators fear they are ready to move into illicit
computer software.

Provo fugitives who found refuge and sympathy in the USA are the driving force
behind the huge operation.

They use bribery or threats to get hold of master copies.

Then the tapes and discs are smuggled into Ireland along roots set up to handle
weapons, explosives and ammunition, and delivered to copying factories.

Police raided one six months ago and found 100,000 fake cassettes and a 125,000
phoney CDs worth pounds 2.2million.

More than 80 per cent of the contraband was earmarked for outlets in Britain.

The Provos have retail outlets in Ulster, but they are the only villains ever
caught.

One detective said: "It's easy to collar some scruffy market dealer selling a
pirate tape.

"But he will gladly do his time before admitting he has any links with
terrorists."

The hills along the Border are the perfect spot to base the operation.

Generations of moonshine poteen makers have hidden stills there.

And the IRA threat means that a major military operation has to be mounted to
follow up any ante-terrorist tip off.

Now the RUC squad are seeking FBI backing to smash the US-backed entertainment
scam that breeds death and destruction.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1997 MGN Ltd.

                              86 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 April 28, 1997

Letter bombs may be next step for animal liberationists;Activist tells of
violent future

BYLINE: By Sarah Urquhart

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 594 words


AFTER a weekend of protests, an animal liberation campaigner has warned that
demonstrations could become increasingly violent if industry and the authorities
failed to take note of rising concern.

The campaigner, a spokesman for the Animal Liberation Front who asked to remain
anonymous, said yesterday that some activists may well decide that letter bombs
and fire bombs get better and faster results than peaceful protests.

He was speaking after a fire-bomb attack on a livestock haulage firm in
Claverdon, Warwickshire, and a massive demonstration against vivisection in and
around Oxford where hundreds of demonstrators targeted the home of an Oxford
University neuro scientist and a laboratory.

In recent weeks there have been a series of other protests in various parts of
Britain.

Last week, animal welfare activists from the group Edinburgh Animal Rights
staged a peaceful protest outside the laboratories in Midlothian where Dolly the
cloned sheep was produced.

More violent protests took place in Hereford last weekend, when 250
demonstrators clashed with police at a beagle breeding kennels. Protesters also
attacked the home of the kennels' manager and more than 20 people were arrested.

General Election pro-hunting Tory candidate Miss Anne McIntosh, who is standing
in Vale of York, in north Yorkshire, received hate mail from animal rights
extremists, according to police yesterday.

An envelope containing razor blades, and what police described as an "offensive
message" was posted to the candidate's campaign offices.

The campaigner said there was undoubtedly a new wave of concern about the way
animals were treated in Britain, inspired by the BSE scare, concern over live
animal exports, and animal liberation campaigner Barry Horne, who has gone on
hunger strike in prison in protest at Government vivisection policies.

Some attacks had also been sparked by a recent series on Channel 4, Countryside
Undercover, which showed how animals were mistreated, the campaigner said.

"There is a new mood of anger and determination about the way animals are
treated and it will continue," he said.

"Young people are always coming into the movement and they are becoming more and
more aware of how animals are being treated in our society."

He said it had been proved in the past that firms which ignored peaceful
protests would act if they were attacked.

He added: "When people see that reason is ignored, yet they see that attacks
like letter bombs do have the desired effect, they are going to wonder whether
it is worth going out on peaceful protests and taking the chance of being
sprayed with CS gas or hit with batons or arrested, or whether it is better to
sit in their front room making explosive devices and putting them in parcels.

"I am not saying everyone will think like that and I hope personally that it
doesn't go down that road. I am just saying that that is the risk."

He compared the continuing animal liberation campaign to the campaign for
women's suffrage. And he said that in the long run the campaign would force
society to change its attitude to animals.

The overnight fire bomb attack at Spiers Haulage depot in Claverdon followed a
similar attack at a poultry plant in Brackley, Northamptonshire, earlier this
year.

No group has yet claimed responsibility for the attack in Claverdon. But the
campaigner said it was "clearly the work of animal liberation activists".
However, he doubted whether it was linked to the vivisection protests in
Oxfordshire.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1997 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              87 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 April 28, 1997

Windmill talks

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 87 words


TWO meetings will be held in South-west Scotland to debate controversial wind
farms which are springing up across the region. The first will be in Stranraer
on May 7 and the second in Dumfries on May 15.

IRA behind blast

The IRA has admitted responsibility for a bomb blast that caused motorway chaos
in Britain on Friday. A caller using a recognised codeword told the Dublin
newsroom of the Irish Republic's RTE television that IRA volunteers had planted
a bomb at an electricity pylon close to the M6.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1997 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              88 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             April 28, 1997, Monday

Thatcher helps HK bridge the gap

BYLINE: Stephen Vines Hong Kong

SECTION: INTERNATIONAL; Page  14

LENGTH: 422 words


Looking pale, but still radiating her trademark imperious manner, Baroness
Thatcher yesterday presided over Britain's last serious piece of flag-waving in
Hong Kong before the Union flag is lowered for ever in two months.

Taking a break from the general election, the former prime minister, who in 1984
signed the Hong Kong people over to Chinese rule, was back to open the pounds
600m bridge which will link the territory's new island airport with the
mainland.

Built in five years, the main span of the bridge is 1,377m -97m longer than San
Francisco's Golden Gate Bridge, making it the world's largest road and rail
suspension bridge. The total length of the two-section bridge is 2.14km.

Eyebrows were raised in Hong Kong when it became apparent that Lady Thatcher,
rather than a Chinese or local official, would open the bridge. Yesterday's
event was notable for the absence of Tung Chee-hwa, who will head the first
post-colonial government.

He had been invited to join Governor Chris Patten on the platform but declined.
British officials constantly insist they wish to avoid British triumphalism in
Hong Kong. But the airport and associated projects are seen by China as partly
designed for British aggrandisement.

This impression was hardly diminished by the arrival of four helicopters during
the opening ceremony, with the lead aircraft trailing a giant Union flag.

British modesty was, however, manifest in a parade representing countries that
had contributed to the building of the bridge. Many nations were driving
British-made vehicles - Belgium was represented by a Rolls-Royce, Japan by a
double-decker bus - but a vehicle representing Britain itself was inexplicably
absent. China was represented by a minibus.

Lady Thatcher spoke of the bridge providing a good example of co-operation.  In
reality, the start of the project was delayed by acrimonious Sino-British
wrangling over who would pay for it.

Once the go-ahead was given, the bridge was built both on time and within
budget.

"From my own experience in government," said Lady Thatcher, "I know that these
things do not invariably turn out like that . . .except in Hong Kong."

Security was tight for the spectacular opening ceremony, crowned by a pounds
400,000 fireworks display.

Some 2,500 police officers were deployed to control the massive crowds which
turned up for the fireworks, and also because the authorities feared that Lady
Thatcher might be a target for a terrorist attack by the IRA.


LOAD-DATE: April 28, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1997 Independent Print Ltd

                              89 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                            April 29, 1997, Tuesday

ASHDOWN PRAISES MAJOR'S BID FOR PEACE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 380 words


Paddy Ashdown paid tribute to John Major yesterday over his "success" in trying
to bring peace to Ulster.

The Liberal Democrat leader said that in praising Mr Major's handling of the
peace process he was speaking as a Northern Irishman and as a former soldier who
had served on the streets of the Province.

"I think when Mr Major goes from office - and I think he will go on Thursday -
he will be able to point to a number of successes, foremost amongst which is the
courage and the patience to give Northern Ireland a chance for peace."

The next Prime Minister, whoever it will be, should "continue the patient and
correct policy" that Mr Major had followed, he said.

He rejected a suggestion that the Mr Major and the Conservative government were
"prepared to be influenced by the unionists".

But, he conceded that the Commons arithmetic may have given one side of the
Ulster argument "more power in the current House of Commons than they ought to
have".

It would take a "great deal of courage and determination" to give momentum back
to the peace process, he said.

Peace could be achieved, he said, if there was a permanent ceasefire and the IRA
made a commitment to the Mitchell principles.

"What you can't have is a position where the IRA bomb their way into the talks
simply by declaring a ceasefire on election day," he said.

Labour leader Tony Blair struck a similar note yesterday, stressing that
continued violence by the IRA would make the entry of Sinn Fein into the
political process more difficult.

The IRA has to prove a commitment to exclusively peaceful methods before Sinn
Fein could take its place in the multi-party talks, said Mr Blair in an Irish
Times article.

A ceasefire must be proven to be genuine "in both word and deed", he said.

He insisted that the IRA's attempt to disrupt the election campaign in Britain
would not succeed.

"The British people will not be moved by terrorism. Nor will a new Labour
government. We will be firm and resolute in the face of violence."

He had a warning for the loyalist community - that no one had any interest in a
repeat of last summer's violence.

"Labour will do all we can to encourage dialogue and facilitate local agreement
on contested parades," he said.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1997 Century Newspapers Limited

                              90 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 29, 1997

LOYALISTS BLAMED FOR BELFAST BOMB AS MAJOR VISITS CITY

BYLINE: David Sharrock Ireland Correspondent

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1000 words


LOYALIST paramilitaries were being blamed yesterday for a 100 lb bomb, left
outside a Sinn Fein office in west Belfast, which was defused while John Major
visited the city centre a mile away.

The bomb was in a beer keg left in the back of a car believed to have been
stolen in north Belfast in January.

The bomb, which contained a booster charge and detonator, was similar in
construction to another device left close to a Sinn Fein office in the New Lodge
area of north Belfast several weeks ago.

Houses and businesses in the Falls Road were evacuated for more than two hours
while the bomb team carried out two controlled explosions.

An RUC officer said houses in the area would have borne the brunt if the device
had exploded. The first warning came in a phone call to a local radio station.
No recognised code word was given and no organisation has claimed
responsibility.

The caller claimed responsibility for a bomb hoax in south Belfast earlier in
the day, and also claimed a bomb had been planted at Dublin airport. That too
was declared a hoax after a search by police.

It is known that the Combined Loyalist Military Command, the umbrella leadership
group of the Ulster Freedom Fighters, Ulster Volunteer Force and Red Hand
Commando, held at least three meetings after the IRA bomb attack on the British
Army's headquarters at Thiepval Barracks, Lisburn.

A decision was taken to sanction single attacks in response to any further IRA
attacks, either in Northern Ireland or Britain. Since then a soldier and a
Catholic man have been murdered.

Meanwhile, a police investigation got underway after a prison officer was held
hostage at gunpoint for over four hours by republican inmates in Maghaberry
jail.

Two prisoners seized the officer in the top security jail in Co Antrim and held
him in a cell. The Prison Service said the the men gave up their weapon and
surrendered. A spokeswoman said two handguns had been recovered. She said the
prison officer had been released unharmed. The prisoners had been transferred to
a segregated unit in the jail.

The men made no clear demands but the incident was believed to be linked to the
Irish National Liberation Army. There has been unrest in the integrated prison
for some time.

Last week the Irish Republican Socialist Party, INLA's political wing, objected
to the transfer of leading loyalist prisoner Billy Wright from Maghaberry to the
Maze. INLA inmates are held in H Block 6 at the Maze and Wright has been given a
cell in another part of the same block. The party said the transfer was a
serious misjudgment and would be resisted.

* The hunt for IRA terrorists who exploded a bomb at Leeds railway station on
April 19 has moved to Liverpool after a warning call was traced to the port.

West Yorkshire police said the 7.11am call to Leeds infirmary was made from a
phone box in Aigburth two hours before the device went off.

* Irishman Brendan Woolhead, who was badly injured when an IRA bomb went off on
a bus in Holborn, London, in February 1996, killing the bomber, died on October
3 during treatment for long-term heroin addiction, an inquest at Westminster
coroner's court heard yesterday. Mr Woolhead, 34, checked into Wellbeck Hospital
in Marylebone for "ultra-rapid detoxification" for which he paid pounds 4,700,
but 30 hours later went into convulsion and died.  The hearing continues.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              91 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                           April 30, 1997, Wednesday

MORNING VIEW: BRIT-BASHING CHAOS

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 175 words


Life in large sections of mainland Britain was again disrupted yesterday by a
series of IRA bomb warnings and ordinary people were greatly inconvienced going
about their normal business.

Irish republicans may believe they are succeeding with this dastardly form of
Brit-bashing, but they are deluding themselves if they think that the British
nation will succumb to such naked threats.

Prime Minister John Major summed up the gut feeling of citizens when he said: "I
think the British nation know the sort of people we are dealing with and you
won't cow the British nation with this sort of activity - inconvenience them,
yes, but not cow them, never".

Just as the unionist majority community in Northern Ireland has refused to be
bullied and cajoled into accepting a united Ireland, either through political
machinations from the usual sources or 25 years of IRA terrorism, their fellow
citizens in the rest of the United Kingdom will not be bowing to the diktats of
the evil criminals who make up the Provo command structure.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1997 Century Newspapers Limited

                              92 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Standard (London)

                                  May 01, 1997

'Cool city' tag boosts London tourism to record high

BYLINE: Nick Squires

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 960 words



TOURISM in London is booming, with the capital claiming seven of Britain's top
20 paid-for attractions in 1996, a new survey reveals.

The tag of 'the world's coolest city' has helped boost London's visitor numbers
to a record high.

The IRA's renewal of bomb attacks - including the massive Docklands bombing in
February last year which left two dead - seems not to have dented the capital's
popularity.

Tourists flocked from overseas as well as the rest of Britain throughout 1996,
according to today's report by the British Tourist Authority. Madame Tussaud's
was the country's second most popular attraction charging admission, ranking
just behind Alton Towers. Each clocked nearly three million visitors last year.

However, Blackpool Pleasure Beach remained the biggest attraction overall,
pulling in 7.5million, mostly domestic, visitors.

The Tower of London was the UK's third most popular attraction, with more than
2.5million visitors.

BTA spokeswoman Isobel Coy said: 'London is very much the in place to visit.

'Heritage is very important, but it's also the fashion capital of the world and
a very contemporary city. It's seen as a hip place to come.'

The capital continues to dominate the league tables of most visited attractions
in the UK.

Eight of the 10 most popular museums are in London, with the British Museum
topping the list at 6.2million visits. London Zoo, which faced bankruptcy and
closure three years ago, is the country's top wildlife attraction, with more
than a million visitors in 1996.

A four per cent rise in the number of visitors to the country's wildlife
attractions could augur well for the newly opened London Aquarium.

Westminster Abbey retained its position as the country's most visited
ecclesiastical building, with 2.5million visitors, while Hampton Court is the
UK's favourite garden, attracting 1.2million admirers.

Ms Coy said: 'London is still hugely popular, especially with first-time
visitors.

"Around 80 per cent of foreign visitors land at Heathrow, so London is bound to
be their first stop.'

The renewed bombing campaign by the IRA last year failed to tarnish the
capital's charms in the eyes of foreigners.

Ms Coy said: 'Britain is still perceived as a safe place to enjoy a holiday.

"It's not the only place living under the threat of terrorist attack - Paris and
even the US have had to put up with the same thing.

'It takes a major international incident like the US bombing of Libya or the
Gulf War to dent tourists' confidence.'

Legoland near Windsor attracted more than 1.4million visitors in its first year,
a record high for a new attraction.

BTA chairman David Quarmby said that new attractions, such as the London
Aquarium, coupled with increased investment in established venues, should boost
numbers even more in 1997.


LOAD-DATE: May 5, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC:  BIG DRAW: THE TOWER OF LONDON WAS THE UK'S THIRD MOST POPULAR
ATTRACTION

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1997 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              93 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                              May 2, 1997, Friday

STUDY THE FORM AT PARK SHOW;
HOME SEARCH;
NATIONAL PARK HOME SHOW GOES AHEAD DESPITE IRA BOMB DISRUPTIONS

BYLINE: John Husband

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 480 words


Moving home is difficult enough at the best of times.

So transporting 50 homes across Britain with the motorways disrupted by bomb
scares was a real challenge.

But exhibitors at the National Park Home Show at Newbury Racecourse beat the
odds to bring factory-built homes from as far afield as Humberside and South
Wales.

The show starts next Wednesday and thousands of people will be coming to see the
latest exhibition of the new bungalow-style homes which have proved a smash hit
with older couples.

Park homes are small, easy to maintain and come with a 30-year weather- proof
guarantee. They are usually found in attractive settings with an average of 60
homes per park.

Broadway Park, in Petersfield, Hampshire, is in an area of outstanding natural
beauty. Aimed at retired and semi-retired people, it has 175 homes and plots,
with homes ranging from pounds 16,000 to pounds 80,000. Details: Alan Broadway
01730 262 128. Or contact Omar Homes on 01908 646767 to find out about its huge
range of park homes.

Although you can't get a traditional mortgage on park homes, some finance houses
offer a loan on terms up to 15 years, qualifying for mortgage tax relief.

For advice on buying a park home contact the The National Park Homes Council
(01252 318251) or visit the National Park Homes Show at Newbury Racecourse,
Berkshire from May 7-11. Details: 0161 928 8271.

Admission is pounds 4 but you can get pounds 1 off with the show's ad in today's
Mirror.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FIRM FAVOURITE: One of Omar Homes' popular park properties

                            Copyright 1997 MGN Ltd.

                              94 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 3, 1997

ELECTION SPECIAL: N. IRELAND: SINN FEIN IS GIVEN BENEFIT OF THE DOUBT

BYLINE: David Sharrock Ireland Correspondent

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 907 words


JUBILATION in the Sinn Fein camp, despondency among SDLP activists: the faces at
the counts yesterday told the story of the slow but steady transformation of
Ulster's political landscape - and an ever more complicated map for Mo Mowlam,
expected to be Northern Ireland Secretary, to interpret.

The shifting fortunes of the two main nationalist parties dominate the message
coming out of Northern Ireland. Statements from two prime ministers, one British
and one Irish, and SDLP leader John Hume that a vote for Sinn Fein was a vote
for IRA violence have not prevented Gerry Adams and Martin McGuinness becoming
abstentionist MPs.

In Mid-Ulster, the cockpit of Ulster sectarianism, an 86 per cent turnout
swapped a hate figure of the catholic community, Democratic Unionist Rev Willie
McCrea, for a hate figure of the protestant people, Mr McGuinness.

The SDLP's Denis Haughey saw his support collapse as nationalists followed the
lead of anti-Tory voters in Britain and voted tactically in order to unseat the
Rev McCrea.

In West Belfast there was also a great deal of tactical voting as the
constituency's protestant minority switched to the sitting MP, Dr Joe Hendron of
the SDLP, in a desperate bid to keep Mr Adams out. Even with an improved vote,
Dr Hendron was unable to beat the Sinn Fein leader, who secured a comfortable
majority of nearly 8,000.

Only in the new seat of West Tyrone was there solace for the SDLP, where they
beat Sinn Fein into third place by 562 votes, but in the absence of tactical
voting it handed the Ulster Unionists a natural nationalist seat.

The clear winner in this intra-nationalist battle was Sinn Fein as voters
appeared to take Mr Adams at face value and conclude that he is telling the
truth when he contends that a vote for his party is a vote for peace.

Just how the new British Government will respond to the new arithmetic whereby
Sinn Fein holds as many Westminster seats as Ian Paisley's Democratic Unionists
and is breathing down the neck of the moderate SDLP is anyone's guess.

That is partly because we have yet to see what Mr Adams is prepared to do, or
capable of doing, with his new mandate. Both the British and Irish governments
and every other political party agree that the minimum price for Sinn Fein entry
to the Stormont talks, which resume on June 3, is a restored IRA ceasefire.

But is it possible that the collective verdict of the republican movement - that
is, the IRA and Sinn Fein - on this stunning electoral success could be that the
ballot box and Armalite strategy is still working?

If Mr Adams is unable to secure a new ceasefire, think of the difficulties for
Labour in denying him the right of his electoral mandate to negotiate on behalf
of Sinn Fein voters.

The most plausible reading of the results is that most nationalists in Northern
Ireland agree with the analysis of Mr Adams and Mr Hume that John Major
squandered the best opportunity for peace in the last 25 years by not moving all
the parties swiftly into negotiations and they are now giving Sinn Fein the
benefit of the doubt. On that reading, the IRA must now deliver, and quickly.

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              95 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                              May 4, 1997, Sunday

Flat Earth

BYLINE: Raymond Whitaker

SECTION: THE WORLD; Page  14

LENGTH: 420 words


Strife in the air

Unaccountably, no one has listed the war of the check-in counters at Charles de
Gaulle airport in Paris among the many tests facing our inexperienced new
government.

British Airways has closed its desk because the Algerian national airline has
been placed next door and uses the same conveyor belt for luggage.  It fears the
carnage going on across the Mediterranean might spread to Paris, embroiling
innocent Brits. This has infuriated the Algerians, as Robin Cook has no doubt
immediately been made aware: "Les Anglais snobent Air Algerie" was the main
headline in Le Matin of Algiers.

But the allegedly dangerous airline is allowed to fly to Heathrow, Gatwick and
Luton without special measures. "We should demand better security in Britain," a
pilot said, "because British Airways might be attacked by IRA bombers." Over to
you, Mr Cook.

Hard labour

REMEMBER Walter Armanini, the flamboyant former Milan city councillor and one of
the very few unlucky enough actually to be jailed in Italy's mega-corruption
scandals?

Happily Armanini has been let out on day release. In theory he should be
spending his days as a sales assistant in a jewellery shop but in practice he
never turns up. His dapper if rather morose figure can be seen instead strolling
through the medieval alleys of central Orvieto and sitting in his favourite bar
drinking cocktails.

Such is life on the chain gang in Italy - it makes you wonder why more of those
thousands of corrupt officials and industrialists don't try it out some time.

Over for Rover

THE Internet is a rich source of urban legends these days, though on reflection
this is more of a rural tale.

This (American) man buys a Jeep Grand Cherokee for $ 30,000 (pounds 18,000)
plus. He decides to take it out duck-hunting, but all the lakes are frozen.  No
problem: to open up enough water to float a decoy in, our friend parks on the
ice and gets out a stick of dynamite with a short fuse, lights it and hurls it a
safe distance away.

Trouble is, his Labrador chases off and starts bringing the dynamite back. Two
barrels of birdshot are needed before the unhappy dog begins to think twice. But
instead of dropping the dynamite it decides to seek refuge - you guessed it,
under the Jeep.

End of fuse, end of dog and goodbye brand-new Grand Cherokee. The owner had yet
to make his first $ 400 monthly payment, this e-mail says, and insurance
companies don't cough up when illegal explosives are involved.


LOAD-DATE: May 06, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1997 Independent Print Ltd

                              96 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                             May 8, 1997, Thursday

IRA THRILLER PUT BACK 'BUT NOT IN ANGER'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 275 words


While films dealing with the IRA may be big box office in the United States,
they are facing a chillier reception in Britain where the political climate
seems to have created big problems for marketing executives.

The Devil's Own, a thriller starring Brad Pitt as a charismatic IRA terrorist
and Harrison Ford as a sympathetic New York cop who gives him shelter, has
grossed more than 100 million dollars (about pounds 62 million) in the States.

But yesterday, Columbia TriStar, the film's distributors, confirmed that its UK
release has been put back from this Friday to June 20.

And speculation is mounting that the distributors are concerned about public
opinion in the wake of a spate of IRA bomb threats across the country.

Debate has been fuelled by alterations to trailers for the UK market which push
the film as a human drama, not once mentioning the IRA.

Philip Rose, Columbia TriStar's national Press manager, stressed that the delay
was "due to decisions based on the marketplace."

"Because of other competitive films around at the same time we felt it was
better to move the release of the film to a later date. We have done exactly the
same with other titles.

"The decision has nothing to do with fears about its reception due to the
political climate.

"There have already been a number of other films dealing with the subject which
have found an audience."

But controversy surrounded the film even before its US release when Brad Pitt
was quoted as saying the movie was "ridiculous", "dogshit", and "the most
irresponsible bit of film making - if you can even call it that - that I've ever
seen."

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BRAD PITT film 'irresponsible'

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1997 Century Newspapers Limited

                              97 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                  May 9, 1997

Challenge to the IRA Mowlam shows she means business

SECTION: Pg. 22

LENGTH: 450 words


The IRA failed to make Northern Ireland a key General Election issue, despite
its mainland Britain bombing campaign. But, like John Major before him, the
Prime Minister is pledged to find a peaceful, workable solution to this most
intractable of problems. His commitment to the peace process was signalled when
John Bruton, the Irish Republic's Prime Minister, yesterday became the first
foreign head of government to hold talks with Mr Blair. And the way the Northern
Ireland Secretary, Mo Mowlam, positively bounced into cabinet before yesterday's
talks indicated clearly that she, too, means business. After yesterday's
discussions, which will have done Mr Bruton no harm ahead of the forthcoming
General Election in the Republic, she effectively ruled out the participation of
Sinn Fein, the IRA's political wing, in the next round of peace talks at
Stormont next month.

Indeed she issued a tougher challenge to Sinn Fein in the wake of the recent IRA
violence, making it clear that there would be no place at the negotiating table
for the organisation unless it gave a "deeper" commitment than before to a
ceasefire. This is welcome, given that ahead of Labour coming to power she had
already said that any ceasefire should be backed up with an end to punishment
beatings and intimidatory surveillance of the security forces and others. In
effect, she has reassured those loyalists who had threatened to end their
ceasefire if Sinn Fein were admitted to the talks without an unequivocal laying
down of IRA arms and bombs. In other words, signing up to putting away guns, not
surrendering them. Decommissioning was always an unworkable pre -condition.

It was thrust on Mr Major in the moribund days of his government by the loyalist
parties he had frequently relied on to survive votes of confidence.  Where Mr
Major was hamstrung, Mr Blair, with his huge majority, is free. But it is a
freedom which carries immense responsibilities, as the Prime Minister and Mrs
Mowlam are all too aware. The loyalist ceasefire has held firm in the face of
great provocation. The challenge to the IRA is clear. Is it prepared to jettison
its vested criminal-terrorist interests in the name of peace which, however,
fragile, is enjoyed and will not be easily given up by the province's decent
citizens? Labour has made it clear that the IRA, through Sinn Fein, will not be
allowed to bomb its way to the peace talks. The talks will go on, in a better
atmosphere we hope, given Labour's plans to get tough on the marching season,
which caused so much ugly tension last summer, by banning alcohol during parades
and requiring the organisers to give the police earlier notice of their
"events".

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1997 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              98 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                              May 11, 1997, Sunday

JAIL VISIT GIVES BIRTH TO ULSTER PEACE HOPES

BYLINE: Mary Holland

SECTION: THE OBSERVER NEWS PAGE; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1000 words

HIGHLIGHT: Sinn Fein MPs will test government line during trip to McAliskey in
Holloway, reports Mary Holland


SINN FEIN will test the Government's attitude this week when Martin McGuinness,
the new MP for Mid Ulster, travels to London to visit Roisin McAliskey, the
pregnant terrorist suspect in Holloway prison.

Ms McAliskey, 26, whose home in Coalisland, Co Tyrone, is in Mr McGuinness's
constituency, is due to give birth on 21 May and concern has been expressed
about her health and the conditions in which she is being held. She has been on
remand as a Category A prisoner for six months awaiting extradition to Germany
for questioning about an IRA attack on the British army base at Osnabruck in
1994.

Mr McGuinness told the Observer that he would be talking to the prison governor
about Ms McAliskey's conditions and preparations for when she gives birth.

He might then use the talks to seek a meeting with Home Secretary Jack Straw to
examine how the Government will handle him and the other new Sinn Fein MP, Gerry
Adams.

The prospect of a meeting at the Home Office raises the issue of MPs' rights to
carry out their duties and how far these are protected by constitutional law.

The official line is that there will be no contacts of any kind with Sinn Fein
until the IRA calls a new ceasefire, but it will be hard to refuse to discuss a
constituent's case with an elected MP. 'No contact' has also been Dublin's
policy, but Irish sources have indicated that there could be a meeting between
officials and Sinn Fein about the practicalities of a ceasefire.

Sinn Fein's traditional abstentionist policy has meant that its MPs do not swear
allegiance to the Queen or take part in debates. However, Mr Adams confirmed
last week that he and Mr McGuinness would present themselves at Westminster and
demand access to the facilities normally available to MPs. They are expected to
arrive the week after next.

Both governments are anxious to get the peace process back on track. The British
side has been given a new urgency by the news that US President Bill Clinton,
who has urged Tony Blair to take an early initiative on Northern Ireland, is to
visit London at the end of the month. Last Friday, launching Sinn Fein's general
election campaign in the Republic, Mr Adams was hopeful about the prospects for
peace, including a new ceasefire. He told the Observer: 'The election of a
Labour government with a strong majority presents a new opportunity for movement
towards inclusive talks.'

While arguing that Sinn Fein should be admitted to negotiations on the basis of
its mandate, Mr Adams added: 'Real talks will work best in a peaceful
environment.'

Last Thursday's meeting at Downing Street between the Prime Minister and John
Bruton, the Taoiseach, showed up differences between the two governments. Dublin
would still like Sinn Fein admitted to talks quickly following any ceasefire.
But the continuation of violence has made it more difficult to take a new truce
on trust.

The Irish contingent was left in no doubt that IRA activity in Britain,
particularly the disruption of the Grand National, was seen by Labour MPs as a
stab in the back.  Continuing violence in Northern Ireland, heightened this
weekend by the killing of an off-duty policeman in Belfast, added to the
Government's sense that a new ceasefire must be rigorously tested.

Mr Bruton is expected to announce that the Republic's general election will be
on 6 June. This has fuelled speculation that the IRA will not call a ceasefire
until the autumn.  But Mr McGuinness said last week he hoped there would be
movement before then. 'We'd like to see real progress as early as possible.'

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1997 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              99 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             May 15, 1997, Thursday

Her supporters say her prison conditions are appalling. The truth is a very
different story

BYLINE: Ian Burrell

SECTION: NEWS; Page  10

LENGTH: 474 words


The prison service has made unprecedented arrangements for the birth of Roisin
McAliskey's baby next week, to prevent the event turning into an international
propaganda coup for Sinn Fein. Martin McGuinness, the Sinn Fein senior
strategist, came to London to visit the suspected IRA bomber in prison this week
to raise the profile of her case in the international media.

He claimed she was being "persecuted" and subjected to "inhuman and degrading"
conditions in Holloway prison, north London, where she is awaiting extradition
to Germany on charges relating to the mortar bombing of a British Army barracks.

But documents obtained by The Independent show that during her confinement, Ms
McAliskey will be allowed to be accompanied by two "birthing partners" of her
choice, expected to be the father of her child, Sean McCotter, and her mother,
the high profile republican, Bernadette McAliskey.

The baby is due on Wednesday and will be delivered at a hospital in London. Ms
McAliskey, whose general health is not good, has been seen weekly by an
obstetrician, a gynaecologist and a midwife, gets daily visits from a doctor and
is allowed to attend ante-natal classes. She can also use the prison swimming
pool and gym.

After the birth, she will be allowed to keep her child with her in the prison's
mother-and-baby unit, at least until it is nine months old. Papers drawn up by
Alan Walker, the prison service head of operations, show that Ms McAliskey has
been made a special case.

The level of treatment is unprecedented for a high-security category A prisoner.
Senior prison service officials said they "dare not" give their critics
ammunition for accusations of unfair treatment.

Ms McAliskey has been visited by an almost constant stream of penal reformers,
family members and English, Irish and European politicians.

Among those who have been to see her are George Howarth, the Labour MP who is
now a Home Office minister with a responsibility for prisons.

Other high-profile visitors include the Labour MP Jeremy Corbyn, Max Madden, the
former Labour MP, and Sean Maloney, the Irish senator.

The McAliskey case threatens to become an international cause celebre and a
propaganda disaster for Britain as the new Labour government aims to champion
human rights causes.

In the United States, star-studded events have been held to raise money for her.
One gathering at the fashionable La Belle Epoque restaurant in New York a
fortnight ago raised pounds 12,000 for the pregnant prisoner.

The Hollywood stars present included Joanne Woodward, the wife of Paul Newman,
Ulster-born Liam Neeson and his English wife Natasha Richardson, and Terry
George, the former Irish National Liberation Army terrorist and film-maker
responsible for In the Name of the Father and Some Mother's Son.


LOAD-DATE: May 15, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1997 Independent Print Ltd

                              100 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                  May 21, 1997

Court clears top IRA mole

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 533 words


Britain's former top IRA spy was last night making a fresh bid to start a new
life, after being cleared by a jury at Newcastle Crown Court, of trying to
pervert the course of justice.

Mr Martin McGartland, 27, who has lived under the name of Martin Ashe for the
last six years, had claimed he was in fear of a terrorist death squad when he
used duplicate driving licences to avoid a ban.

The jury took just 10 minutes to find the author of Fifty Dead Men Walking,
which is fast becoming a best seller, not guilty at the end of a five-day trial.

Later, it was made clear he would be moving away from Tyneside, and the legal
firm which represented him issued a statement criticising the moves which
brought him to court and exposed him to danger from the IRA.

It read: "It is Mr McGartland's view that the prosecution should never have been
brought in light of his services to the public in Northern Ireland.

"The prosecution has exposed him to further danger, which his resettlement on
the mainland was meant to avoid.

"Mr McGartland believes that the prosecution was brought with total disregard
for his own safety, and that the Crown showed no insight into the real and
imagined dangers encountered by those living in the shadow of the IRA."

The trial took place in secret after his barrister, Mr Glen Gatland, applied to
Judge Denis Orde to make an order banning publication of proceedings until the
end, as it was feared the IRA might try to target the court.

During the trial the court was told that after fleeing Ulster, where it is
claimed he helped save 50 lives by passing on secrets to the police, he became
convinced he was being followed by potential assassins.

Almost every time he speeded away to elude them he was stopped by police, and he
used duplicate driving licences to escape a ban after totting up 12 speeding
points in the summer of 1993. He could not reveal to police his reasons, as he
feared detection.

Magistrates thought he only had three points each time he appeared in court,
because he handed in different licences. He was, however, on the verge of losing
his licence under the totting-up procedure, and has since served a six -month
ban.

While in operation in Ulster, he was known as Agent Carol, and the information
he passed on was from top level IRA sources, and was thought to have prevented
numerous bombings and shootings, and exposed arms and explosives caches.

Former Ulster intelligence gathering chief, Superintendent Ian Phoenix, who died
in the Chinook helicopter crash on the Mull of Kintyre, was said to have rated
him as the most successful double agent he had known.

Eventually, Mr McGartland's cover was blown and he was seized by IRA gunmen in
August 1991, after helping the security forces for four years.

He managed to escape from a third storey window, suffering serious head injuries
which left him with partial brain damage.He was then given a new identity and
relocated by Special Branch.

Mr McGartland has taken action against Northumbria police after learning his new
name and real name were being held on file. This led to a computer programmer
being sacked from the force.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1997 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              101 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            May 21, 1997, Wednesday

Hopes of ceasefire as talks begin

BYLINE: David McKittrick Ireland correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Page  5

LENGTH: 521 words


Government officials are today to meet Sinn Fein representatives for peace talks
against the background of an undeclared IRA ceasefire which has now been in
place for more than three weeks.

The new contact, together with noticeably upbeat remarks made yesterday by Sinn
Fein president Gerry Adams, has stirred renewed speculation that a second formal
cessation of IRA violence is possible.

Most observers, however, tend to believe this is likely to happen on a timescale
of months rather than weeks. There are also fears that the delicate manoeuvring
could be blown off course by street disturbances as the loyalist marching season
gets under way.

The last major act of IRA violence in Northern Ireland took place on 10 April
when a woman police officer, Reserve-Constable Alice Collins, was shot and
seriously injured in Londonderry in what was clearly a murder attempt. Since
then IRA terrorism has simply ceased, according to security sources.

The rate of republican "punishment beatings" has also dropped sharply.  While
earlier in the year these were almost a nightly occurrence, the sources say
republicans have carried out only three of these in the last three weeks. It is
unclear whether these three were the work of the IRA or some other republican
faction.

In Britain there has been some IRA disruption of road and rail communications
since the policewoman's shooting, but this activity ceased some days before the
general election on 1 May. These patterns have been closely studied by the
authorities, and facilitated Tony Blair's offer of talks with republicans.

In making the offer during his visit to Belfast last week Mr Blair said: "I am
prepared to allow officials to meet Sinn Fein provided events on the ground,
here and elsewhere, do not make that impossible." This appears to be a clear
warning that any reappearance of violence in advance of today's meeting would
cause its cancellation or postponement.

The IRA has occasionally eased off its violence in the run-up to elections so as
not to put off potential Sinn Fein voters, but it is rare for it to call a
complete halt. Voting takes place today in Northern Ireland's council elections,
and the Republic's general election is due early next month.

The undeclared ceasefire might therefore be characterised simply as a tactical
electoral pause, but it seems highly likely that it had the double purpose of
smoothing the way for Mr Blair's invitation. No one is confident whether, or how
long, the undeclared ceasefire will last. Some observers speculate that if it
does it will allow republicans to argue that the IRA has already moved some way
to fulfil the government demand that it should demonstrate its sincerity about
peace "by word and deed."

Today's meeting is expected to take place within the Stormont government complex
in east Belfast, with Martin McGuinness, newly elected as MP for Mid-Ulster,
leading the Sinn Fein delegation. Quentin Thomas, who as political director is
the second most senior civil servant at the Northern Ireland Office, is expected
to lead the government team.


LOAD-DATE: May 21, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1997 Independent Print Ltd

                              102 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                              May 26, 1997, Monday

HONEYMOON IS OVER

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 258 words


Dr Mo Mowlam, by her words and actions, has effectively moved out of the
"honeymoon" period as Ulster Secretary of State and unionists are finding it
increasingly difficult to express full confidence in a government minister so
inclined to think up policy on the hoof.

Just what latitude Tony Blair is prepared to give Dr Mowlam in her role as
Northern Ireland supremo has still not become clear. But the Prime Minister may
soon be forced to step in if the "confidence building measures" being
implemented by the new Stormont regime lurch further in the direction of
nationalist ideology. They are at odds with Mr Blair's firm May 16 pledge about
treating Northern Ireland the same as any other part of Britain.

Dr Mowlam's election day safari into nationalist areas as her civil servants
were colloguing with Sinn Fein at Stormont, were the kind of one-sided high wire
politics Northern Ireland can do without, especially when an even playing field
had to be created as voters across the Province went to the polls.

The Secretary of State's week-end comments on the prospect of another IRA
ceasefire were a little too loose for a Government minister empowered with the
administration of a country which has suffered so much from 28 years of IRA
violence. The best people to inform Dr Mowlam on the veracity of an IRA
ceasefire are her senior security advisers, but whether in the long run she is
prepared to take full heed of the information at their disposal remains to be
seen. Political expediency may be a deciding factor.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1997 Century Newspapers Limited

                              103 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                              May 26, 1997, Monday

Supporters of McAliskey prepare file of police errors

BYLINE: LOUISE JURY

SECTION: NEWS; Page  2

LENGTH: 292 words


A human rights organisation yesterday applauded the High Court decision to move
the pregnant terrorist suspect Roisin McAliskey (right) from prison to hospital.

Ms McAliskey, 25, who is fighting extradition to Germany for questioning over
the IRA bombing of British Army barracks in Osnabruck last June, was moved from
Holloway prison to Whittington hospital, north London, last Friday. Her baby was
due last Wednesday.

The Britain and Ireland Human Rights Centre in London yesterday praised the
court's "sane and sensible ruling". A spokeswoman said: "Roisin will from now on
receive treatment based on her medical needs rather than on spurious security
grounds."

The organisation claims the evidence compiled against her by German Federal
Police, helped by the Royal Ulster Constabulary and British Military Police, was
"riddled with irreconcilable discrepancies and inconsistencies".

A witness who police claim positively identified Ms McAliskey as among those
renting a holiday home allegedly linked to the attack denies saying any such
thing, they argue. They say that the evidence of another witness who told police
that Ms McAliskey was definitely not one of the holiday home tenants was set
aside and suppressed.

And they claim ferry companies have confirmed there were no sailings on a date
when police say a car implicated in the attack was seen coming off the
Roscoff-Cork boat.

A spokeswoman said government ministers would be presented with extensive
dossiers next week setting out the "major evidential anomalies" in the case
against Ms McAliskey. This includes alibi evidence which allegedly shows she was
in Northern Ireland on dates when German police state the woman they seek was in
Germany.


LOAD-DATE: May 28, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1997 Independent Print Ltd

                              104 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                             May 31, 1997, Saturday

'BAN THIS SICK FILM';
          HOLLYWOOD CASHING IN ON SHANKILL CARNAGE

BYLINE: Gary Kelly

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 736 words


Hollywood moguls are cashing in one of Northern Ireland's worst terrorist
outrages by using a photograph of the Shankill bomb in a big budget movie about
the IRA.

Near the end of the controversial The Devil's Own, a photograph of the no
-warning bombing of Frizzell's fish shop, which killed nine innocent civilians,
is clearly visible.

The use of images from the no-warning blast which plunged Northern Ireland into
a sickening round of terrorist outrages will stun relatives of the victims.

Star of the film Brad Pitt has already distanced himself from the production,
describing it as "irresponsible", and this latest revelation will cause even
more controversy.

In the scene where the photo appears, a ruthless British intelligence officer is
trying to convince a decent New York cop, played by Harrison Ford, that Pitt is
a terrorist.

The film seeks to explain his actions when the cop says later that he
understands why he took up arms to avenge the murder of his father.

Councillor Hugh Smyth, who was on the Shankill on October 23, 1993, when the IRA
bomb blast killed and maimed dozens of shoppers, has called for the film to be
banned in Northern Ireland.

Mr Smyth said that the use as entertainment of a photograph of one of the most
tragic events in the 27 years of the Troubles was a disgrace.

"I think it's bad enough making a film glorifying the IRA but, when they go to
the extent of using a photograph of an actual event, it is absolutely
deplorable.

"I can only think of the relatives of the victims and how they will feel.

"Have these people no feelings at all? Or does money override all their
decisions?"

Mr Smyth said that, if it was too late for Belfast City Council to ban the film,
then cinema owners in Northern Ireland should take a decision not to screen it.

Hugh Brown, the manager of Virgin Cinema in Belfast, said that the film would be
shown as the British Board of Film Censors had given it a '15' certificate.

Asked whether Belfast cinemas should voluntarily agree not to screen it, he
said: "I would have no further comment on the topic."

John Gaston of the Curzon Cinema said: "I haven't seen the film myself.  It's
just a Hollywood commercial film.

"We are a commercial cinema and we are contracted to show it, the same as
everyone else."

The film's distributors, Columbia Tristar, have refused to comment on the
controversy but it is believed that senior managers are taking the matter very
seriously.

In The Devil's Own, Danny McGuire (Pitt) is shown as an idealistic freedom
fighter who takes up the cause when his father is gunned down by masked British
security force members.

McGuire is shown shooting armed soldiers and policemen but there are no
references to the murder of helpless civilians.

The film goes on general release in Great Britain and Eire on June 20.

Belfast City Council may consider banning the film if complaints are received.

"I can only think of the relatives of the victims and how they will feel.

"Have these people no feelings at all? Or does money override all their
decisions?"

Mr Smyth said that, if it was too late for Belfast City Council to ban the film,
then cinema owners in Northern Ireland should take a decision not to screen it.

Hugh Brown, the manager of Virgin Cinema in Belfast, said that the film would be
shown as the British Board of Film Censors had given it a '15' certificate.

Asked whether Belfast cinemas should voluntarily agree not to screen it, he
said: "I would have no further comment on the topic."

John Gaston of the Curzon Cinema said: "I haven't seen the film myself.  It's
just a Hollywood commercial film.

"We are a commercial cinema and we are contracted to show it, the same as
everyone else."

The film's distributors, Columbia Tristar, have refused to comment on the
controversy but it is believed that senior managers are taking the matter very
seriously.

In The Devil's Own, Danny McGuire (Pitt) is shown as an idealistic freedom
fighter who takes up the cause when his father is gunned down by masked British
security force members.

McGuire is shown shooting armed soldiers and policemen but there are no
references to the murder of helpless civilians.

The film goes on general release in Great Britain and Eire on June 20.

Belfast City Council may consider banning the film if complaints are received.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FLASHBACK: the scene of carnage on Belfast's Shankill Road after the
IRA bomb blast

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1997 Century Newspapers Limited

                              105 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                              June 1, 1997, Sunday

It's not a crime to fall in love with an IRA man; As Roisin McAliskey waited in
jail to have her baby, the evidence backing Germany's request for her
extradition was losing credibility

BYLINE: Ros Wynne-Jones

SECTION: FOCUS; Page  19

LENGTH: 1497 words


On Monday last week a 5lb 13oz baby was born in the Whittington Hospital in
north London. Her parents called her Loinnir, an Irish name which means a ray of
light that comes from behind dark clouds.

Loinnir's birth was a political event. She is the daughter of Roisin McAliskey,
who is facing extradition to Germany for questioning about the IRA bombing of
the Osnabruck military base on 28 June 1996. Roisin, in turn, is the daughter of
Bernadette Devlin, a fierce critic of Britain's involvement in Northern Ireland
who became the UK's youngest MP in 1969, and left an indelible imprint on
parliamentary life by punching the Home Secretary Reginald Maudling as he
defended the actions of British troops on Bloody Sunday.

The circumstances surrounding Loinnir's birth are by now familiar. Her mother, a
25-year-old politics graduate, was arrested last November at her home in
Coalisland, Ulster, and taken to the Castlereagh interrogation centre in
Belfast. From there she was flown to London to face extradition proceedings to
Germany over the Osnabruck bombing. She was three months pregnant, but bail was
refused and she has spent the past six months as a Category A prisoner in
Holloway jail, north London.

Initially McAliskey was denied exercise rights and proper medical care despite
suffering acute asthma, stomach ulcers and complications with her first
pregnancy. Only when she became a cause celebre was medical care improved,
exercise permitted and an assurance given that she need not be chained to a
guard during labour.

Ten days ago, her supporters received a taped phone call from a fellow prisoner
in Holloway saying that McAliskey had collapsed. She was bailed by the High
Court to the Whittington to give birth. Four days later Loinnir was born, late
and underweight, the umbilical cord wrapped around her neck eight times. On
behalf of her daughter, Bernadette McAliskey thanked the hospital for its
expertise and humanity in handling the birth.

TOMORROW, McAliskey's lawyer, Gareth Pierce, will again raise the question of
bail in the High Court with clear concerns about the baby's future health and
safety. The likelihood, however, is that mother and child will be back inside
Holloway by tomorrow night.

But what have been lost completely among endless reports of bail and extradition
hearings are the reasons why she was sent to Holloway in the first place: the
significant detail of the case of the Federal Republic of Germany v Roisin
McAliskey.

McAliskey cannot defend herself against the allegations made in court because of
the nature of the European extradition treaty which means evidence is not heard
here, but kept for the potential hearing in the country of extradition. The
evidence on which the warrant has been drawn up has been refused to McAliskey's
lawyers, who have recently had to instruct a German lawyer, Elke Nils, to
inspect the files on their behalf. Her supporters, however, have pieced together
four vital strands of evidence which suggest that the case against McAliskey is
fundamentally flawed.

1. The evidence of Manfred Schmidt: Within hours of the mortar bomb attack on
the Quebec barracks at the Osnabruck British army base, the German police
received information that five Irish men and women had been staying at a holiday
cottage in the village of Hatten 60 miles north of Osnabruck between 15-29 June
last year.

Manfred Schmidt and his wife, the landlords, said the property had been rented
by a man calling himself Michael Dickson and a woman known as "Beth".  A man
called Mark and another couple had been staying with them. The police produced
photofit pictures of Beth and Dickson which were carried both by the media and
on the Internet. The next day the IRA claimed responsibility for the attack, in
which one mortar bomb had exploded causing minor damage and two more had failed
to explode. No one was killed or injured.

Five months later, after looking at photographs supplied by the Royal Ulster
Constabulary in Belfast, the German authorities claim that Mr Schmidt positively
identified Roisin McAliskey as Beth. The extradition warrant clearly states
that: "The witness Schmidt, who had seen the defendants several times definitely
recognised on photographs the defendant McAliskey."

But when a German television journalist went to interview Mr Schmidt in March
this year, he appeared surprised that he had become the chief witness on
McAliskey's warrant. He denied on tape that he had ever identified McAliskey as
Beth.

Papers seen by the German lawyer show that Mrs Schmidt, who had more contact
with the Irish tenants than her husband, did not identify McAliskey as Beth when
shown pictures of her. They further reveal that Mr Schmidt at first identified
someone else entirely and that when he was shown pictures of McAliskey he said
she did not look like Beth, but that she had a "shy look" like her.

2. Fingerprint evidence: The arrest warrant claims that "two fingerprints of
defendant McAliskey have been secured on snippets of wrapping foil which had
been left behind by the tenants". Since it was issued, the German authorities
have twice changed their information regarding the fingerprints.  First it was
claimed that the "wrapping foil" was not found in the holiday cottage, but over
60 miles away from Hatten, near one of the lorries allegedly left behind by the
IRA unit. Most recently, the German prosecutor has claimed that the foil was
found in a rubbish bag outside the holiday cottage.  Despite requests by
McAliskey's lawyers, the fingerprint evidence has never been sent to Britain to
allow for analysis by an independent expert.

3. The car with the broken tail-light: At the same time he had helped to produce
the photofit pictures of the alleged terrorists, the German authorities claim
that Mr Schmidt identified a white Rover with British registration plates used
by the group, which had a broken tail-light.  Enquiries in Ireland produced
evidence suggesting that a car had arrived on 1 July on the overnight ferry from
the French port of Roscoff, 900 miles from Hatten. By 3 July, the RUC had found
the car abandoned 200 miles north in Northern Ireland, on the Craigavon Estate,
Portadown.

The German warrant states: "The passenger car used, type Rover saloon, was
noticed at the occasion of a customs check in Cork, Republic of Ireland, on 1
July 1996. The defendant Dickson had been the driver of the car which had been
taken by ferry from Roscoff, France."

No crossing was made from Roscoff to Cork on 30 June by any of the ferry
companies operating the route. Moreover, papers seen by the German lawyer show
that Schmidt was unclear whether the car he saw was actually white or red.

4. The handwriting on a scrap of paper: Finally, as Mr Schmidt's credibility as
the key witness on the extradition warrant began to fall apart, a new piece of
evidence was referred to by the German embassy in correspondence with
McAliskey's supporters. Handwriting experts in Germany had apparently identified
writing on a scrap of paper given to the Schmidts' daughter as belonging to
McAliskey. It is claimed that Beth wrote a fictitious address so the two could
become pen-pals.

But the report, seen by the German lawyer, states that, because the address is
written in block capitals it is impossible to attribute it to one particular
person. McAliskey could be neither ruled in or ruled out using this latest piece
of evidence.

ROISIN McAliskey's defence lawyers have no forum in which they can offer their
evidence, which may, of course, include an alibi. Her constant problem has been
her identity and her place of birth. As a child she was faced with the barrel of
a Loyalist's gun as her mother and father, Bernadette Devlin and Michael
McAliskey, were shot and left for dead in the next room. Devlin's fiery
performance in the House of Commons in 1972, was followed by years of speaking
out on Irish civil rights issues.

Then there is the picture, frequently used in British newspapers, which shows
Roisin, her mother and the Sinn Fein MP Martin McGuinness carrying the coffin of
INLA bomber Dominic "Mad Dog" McGlinchey at his funeral in 1994.

Her partner, and the father of Loinnir, is Sean McCotter, who served a jail
sentence for IRA-related activities. Meanwhile, his brothers, Liam and Patrick
McCotter have both been convicted of similar offences and his uncle, Seamus
Twomey, was formerly the IRA's chief of staff.

In many people's minds, this is the real evidence against Roisin McAliskey.  But
none of these facts make her an IRA bomber. It is not a crime in either British
or German law to fall in love with a member of the IRA, or to have his child. A
case depends on the evidence, and in this one, where the evidence is riddled
with inaccuracies and half-truths, it must be questioned whether there is really
enough to keep a 25-year-old mother and her baby behind bars.


LOAD-DATE: June 02, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1997 Independent Print Ltd

                              106 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                              June 1, 1997, Sunday

STAY AWAY, SAYS VICTIM'S MOTHER;
MOTHER OF GIRL KILLED BY KURDISH TERRORIST BOMB WARNS BRITISH TOURISTS TO STAY
AWAY FROM TURKEY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 547 words


The mother of the British girl killed after a PKK bomb exploded on a Turkish
beach three years ago warned British tourists last night: "Just don't go there."

Trene Griffiths lost a leg when the terrorist bomb exploded just yards from
where she lay sunbathing with her daughter Joanna, 23, in the popular resort of
Marmaris.

Yesterday she was shocked and angry to hear about the latest PKK threat.

Her message to would-be tourists was: "It's not worth it - you don't know what's
going to happen."

She was close to tears as she recalled the blast which claimed Joanna's life.

"We were just sitting on a beach," she said. "Next time it could be anywhere -
in town, the shopping arcade, you don't know.

"We were not warned when we booked. If they had warned us, there is no way I
would have taken my daughter there."

Trene added: "Joanna wouldn't have hurt a fly.

"I took my daughter on a dream holiday and she paid with her life."

Joanna was airlifted back to Britain, but died from her injuries three years ago
this month.

Her mother is now too scared even to go shopping on her own. She says she cannot
face ever taking another holiday.

"I wake up every morning and sit on the bed and think, 'Not another day'," she
says.

"Afterwards people acted as if I didn't exist. I've had to fend for myself.

"Now if these tourists are going to do it, they will. How can you stop them?

"But from what happened to me, I would say to them please don't go."

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1997 MGN Ltd.

                              107 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 June 11, 1997

IRA attack puts talks with Sinn Fein in jeopardy

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 572 words


The Government was last night considering whether it could continue its talks
with Sinn Fein after the IRA admitted shooting at an Army patrol in Londonderry.

In Dublin former Irish Prime Minister Albert Reynolds said yesterday election
successes on both sides of the Ulster border by Sinn Fein were evidence that the
people wanted them back into politics.

Several shots were fired at the patrol vehicle as it passed along the Foyle Road
near the Catholic Bogside area

yesterday. No-one was injured.

The attack was admitted in a call to a local newspaper using a recognised IRA
codeword. It came as politicians gathered at Stormont for multi-party talks.

Northern Ireland Secretary Mo Mowlam said the attack would be taken into account
when deciding whether a third meeting between republicans and civil servants
could go ahead.

Just over a week ago the IRA abandoned a landmine on the Poleglass estate on the
outskirts of west Belfast, ending a de facto ceasefire said to have been in
place since the shooting of WPc Alice Collins in Londonderry on April 10.

The latest action has fuelled fears that the Provisionals are bent on renewing
their campaign of violence.

Democratic Unionist Party's Londonderry representative Gregory Campbell
condemned the IRA gun attack and predicted there would be more attacks by the
terrorists.

The attack showed the IRA wanted it both ways, he said: "They want to hold out
the tantalising prospect of peace while still trying to kill people.

"There are going to be more attacks like this on the way to another so-called
ceasefire mark II because they don't believe in real peace, they are not
interested in real peace."

The SDLP's Mark Dirken said the attack should be totally condemned. The vast
majority of people did not want violence on their streets. He said Sinn Fein had
been speaking a lot recently about peace.

"I certainly can't see how this is a message for peace. I find it a very strange
message indeed."

The Army confirmed tonight that its patrol had been fired at from the back of a
white Transit van, later found abandoned near the scene. About 30 homes were
evacuated as Army experts combed the area.

Speaking after the Stormont talks, Dr Mowlam said events on the ground would
determine whether the Government could hold further exploratory talks with
republicans.

She said the ball was still in Sinn Fein's court. The Government was doing
everything it could to make the multi-party talks an inclusive process but
unless Sinn Fein was serious about it that would be difficult to achieve, she
added.

Mr Reynolds - earmarked for a Northern Ireland peace role appointment by the
incoming Irish government - insisted that Sinn Fein could not take part in
multi-party talks on the province ahead of a ceasefire by its IRA allies.

But he added: "Sinn Fein's success in the Westminster and Northern Ireland local
elections and in getting a TD (MP) here is a clear indication from the people
that they want them involved in the political process, and that they want to see
an end to violence for all time.

"That is what they are expecting the political leaderships north and south and
in Britain to do for them."

Mr Reynolds backed plans by Bertie Ahern to meet Sinn Fein leader Gerry Adams
this week to spell out a new ceasefire demand ahead of Mr Ahern's installation
as head of government in Dublin.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1997 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              108 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            June 11, 1997, Wednesday

Blair factor gets Islington house prices on the move

BYLINE: Jojo Moyes

SECTION: NEWS; Page  11

LENGTH: 745 words


The people of Islington, long the butt of right-wing humour, were laughing into
the polenta yesterday with the news that the "Blair factor" had increased
property prices by as much as 25 per cent.

Estate agents in north London were congratulating themselves that having a
premier in their midst - albeit one who had decided to sell his house - had
helped boost property prices in the Islington neighbourhood to prices
reminiscent of its exclusive neighbour Hampstead.

Mr Blair, now installed in Downing Street with wife Cherie and their three
children, has decided to sell his five-bedroomed home in a quiet crescent
because of the huge security problem and its effect on their neighbours.

His spokesman said: "I can confirm that they are planning to sell the house. The
family had hoped to stay in the house, but it became clear that this was an
unrealistic proposition because of the cost to the taxpayer of securing it
against terrorist attack, allied to the inconvenience caused to people living in
the area. Therefore this was the only sensible thing to do."

Local estate agents expect the Prime Minister to make an even bigger profit than
the reported pounds 240,000 experts say he can expect over the original purchase
price.

The Blairs bought their three-storey home five years ago for pounds 375,000, but
it is now thought to be worth at least pounds 615,000.

Local estate agent Daryl Lenhan of Bairstow Eves said the final figure may be
much higher. "It is in a very popular location so it will fetch an inflated
price anyway," he said. Surrounding properties are also expected to benefit from
a higher valuation.

But those fancying a peek around the Blairs' former home are likely to be
disappointed. Mr Lenhan said there were methods of deterring time-wasters.

"You act on the instructions of your vendor. They might ask you to vet people
and get them to show proof of purchasing power."

The Blairs' house is near the top end of the Islington range. A similar Georgian
house in the area is on the market for pounds 549,000.

Paul Williams, managing director of Holden Matthews, the agents who sold the
property to the Blairs, said they were still awaiting instructions on what to do
with the house.

Asked if he thought the property would fetch an inflated price because it
belonged to the Prime Minister, Mr Williams said: "I don't think so, but it
certainly wouldn't be a disadvantage to the sale."

However, William Fergusson, partner in Hugh Grover Estates, said that having
Britain's First Family in situ had helped fuel a dramatic rise in prices. "It
was certainly good for the area. It was a talking point, but to be fair
Islington has been increasing in popularity for 3-5 years.  The rise in the
value of his house is entirely reflective upon the market and time that any
individual sales go through." The Blairs, he said, were indicative of the kind
of professionals and young families who were moving into the once run-down
borough in droves: media and advertising people, professional legal sector, and
those from the City.

A neighbour, who did not wish to be identified, said: "I am not sorry to see the
Blairs go because I think it will make life for the rest of us a little easier."

Leading article, page 19

Places the politicians call home

Baroness Thatcher made a profit of pounds 200,000 on her Barratt's home in
Dulwich in 1992. She and Denis had bought it seven years earlier for pounds
400,000, and they had hoped to move into it when she retired. But they decided
they needed something classier and bought a five-bedroom house in Chester
Square, Belgravia for nearly pounds 750,000.

The imposing symbol of Michael Heseltine's success is the historic mansion
Theford House in Northamptonshire.  With 800 acres of land, the estate may be
worth over eight figures. Mr Heseltine also owns a house in Belgravia worth
around pounds 1.5m, and a thatched cottage on Exmoor which he bought for pounds
250,000.

Jeffrey Archer's top-floor penthouse on the south bank of the Thames at Vauxhall
has been valued at pounds 4m.

New-Labourites Barbara and Ken Follett have several homes. Rumour has suggested
their house in Cheyne Walk, Chelsea is worth a couple of million, but Mrs
Follett claims it was recently valued at pounds 750,000. As well as "a small
flat in the south of France", they own a cottage in Stevenage, where Mrs Follett
was recently elected MP.


LOAD-DATE: June 11, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1997 Independent Print Ltd

                              109 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 June 18, 1997

Follow the leaders

BYLINE: Rob Robertson

SECTION: Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1448 words


Commonwealth bosses are to meet in Edinburgh this year: Rob Robertson examines
security concerns.

THE Commonwealth Secretary General, Chief Emeka Anyaoku, flies in to Scotland
today to announce the key issues to be discussed at the Commonwealth Heads of
Government Conference to be held in Edinburgh in October.

Among the world leaders set to attend are Nelson Mandela of South Africa, the
Sultan of Brunei, Australian Prime Minister John Howard, and Pakistan premier
Nawaz Sharif.

They are among the leaders of 51 countries, representing a quarter of the
world's population, who will gather for the meeting hosted by Prime Minister
Tony Blair.

The conference will be the biggest meeting of heads of states held anywhere in
the world, outside the United Nations meetings, which are staged in New York.

As Mr Anyaoku outlines parts of the conference agenda at a talk at Edinburgh
University this evening, he will be well aware that behind the scenes police
chiefs are already tightening security for the event.

The threat of a major terrorist attack, be it from the IRA or from a
international terrorist group, is being taken seriously by the senior officers
dealing with the Commonwealth event which is being held in Scotland for the
first time.

The only other occasion it has been held in Britain was 20 years ago, in London.

Around £11m of public money is being spent staging the four-day event, the vast
majority of the cost being paid by the Government. The Scottish Office has
agreed to provide £4.8m for policing costs and is allowing the city council
expenditure of nearly £1.2m for other costs.

The remaining £5m will be met by other Government departments, such as the
Foreign and Commonwealth Offices.

It is believed around 1200 officers from Lothian and Borders police will be
involved, nearly half the whole force, and they would be supported by more than
400 from all the remaining Scottish forces and even some from south of the
border.

At the centre of the security clampdown will be leaders like Mandela and Blair,
both of whom are sure to attract large crowds wherever they go.

There are also likely to be large crowds around Holyrood Palace where it is
believed every head of state is likely to be given the chance to meet the Queen
who, in her 50th wedding anniversary year, will be in residence.

All the leaders come with their own individual security difficulties and
collectively bring the biggest ever top-level security problem faced by Scottish
police.

Staff at every city hotel where the leaders will be staying will be vetted and
issued with security passes. A special walkway, which the leaders will use, will
be built from a top hotel to the Edinburgh International Conference Centre where
the event is being held.

During the event roads will be shut off, traffic will be stopped and more than
1500 motorcades will travel around the city.

To add to all that, it is believed the Sultan of Brunei, one of the world's
richest men, was so concerned about security and privacy that he tried to book
every room in the city-centre hotel where he had been designated to stay. The
biggest draw will undoubtedly be Mandela, who, if fit to travel, has never been
known to keep to diplomatic protocol.

Police are bracing themselves for his off-the-cuff decisions and how to police
his early morning walk which he is known to love to take wherever he is in the
world.

With the turbulent face of world politics it is odd-ons there will be, at the
very least, demonstrations and, with so many heads of state, the obvious danger
of a terrorist attack.

Among the so-called "problem countries" are Sierra Leone, which is currently run
by a military regime, and The Gambia where, although there have been elections,
there has been concern about the way they were handled.

The spectre of Nigeria, suspended from the Commonwealth for human rights abuses
two years ago will also be on the agenda.

The problems of having Chief Emeka Anyaoku, a former Nigerian foreign minister
under a civilian government which was toppled by a military coup, could also
prove a focal point for interest.

There will also be talks about whether to re-admit Fiji who were thrown out of
the Commonwealth after a military coup in their country 10 years ago. Britain is
among the countries who are keen to have Fiji back following a constitutional
review in their country. One security chief said: "There is no end of
permutations of who will turn up in Edinburgh to protest. In some countries
there has been human rights abuses and we are sure there will be protests of
some sort against these regimes.

"The problem for the police is whether the protest groups will demonstrate
peacefully and tell the authorities beforehand, or whether they just turn up on
the day which will cause all sorts of problems."

Lothian and Borders Police have had two senior officers, Deputy Chief Constable
Graham Power and Superintendent Jim Taylor, dealing, for the last two years,
with the problem of how to police the event.

Leading the 11-strong team, which has been given a highly-secure office with a
separate alarm system at the Fettes HQ of the Lothian force, is Mr Power, a
straight-talking Yorkshireman, who will meet representatives from every country
which is due to attend the conference for a briefing next month.

The scale and importance of the event is not lost on the 50-year-old senior
police officer. It is clear that he is facing an administrative and security
headache caused by the threat of public demonstrations against heads of state,
the tendency of some leaders to take impromptu walkabouts, and the sheer scale
of the problems involved in policing such a huge event.

Mr Power visited Auckland, the setting for the last Commonwealth heads of state
conference in 1995, to see first-hand the problems they faced.

"That conference opened our eyes to the complexity of the conference and also
the diverse groups who will seek out the Commonwealth conference, wherever it
is, in order to protest and to wave banners," said Mr Power.

"We have a feeling that probably Edinburgh will be more accessible for a lot of
these groups than Auckland. For instance, I don't think they had the potential
terrorist threat that you might or might not get in the UK.

"The position of Edinburgh in relation to Irish terrorism is not easy to define.
We know there is a specific threat on the UK mainland, that is not a secret. We
know there is a history of there not being Irish terrorism attacks in Scotland,
but it would be wrong to plan on the assumption that Scotland is immune to
terrorism.

"We have to plan on the assumption there is a terrorist threat, not only
domestic terrorism but foreign terrorism as well. Clearly there are groups
within the Asian sub-continent and Africa who are in fierce and armed opposition
to the particular governments which are represented at the conference, so we
must make sure everybody is secure."

Despite the well-planned security arrangements Mr Power realises that world
leaders don't always keep to pre-arranged agendas.

"One of the things I am constantly emphasising in briefings is that we are
dealing with kings, prime ministers, and presidents, and they are not
necessarily people who are inclined always to do what people in blue uniforms
tell them.

"At the EU summit in Edinburgh in 1992 President Mitterand went walkabout in
Princes Street and, on another occasion, his car was parked outside the hotel
and he came out, walked straight past it, and decided to go somewhere else.

"We are not necessarily encouraging visitors to do that sort of thing, but some
delegations will see the political agenda of the conference being more relevant
than others. Some will see themselves as big political players while others
perhaps will make freer use of the time when they are here."

Behind the scenes the logistics of the conference are mind-boggling. As well as
the 1200 officers on duty, there will be teams of people standing by to do
everything from changing car fan-belts, radios, and exhausts, to feeding police
officers and setting up meetings between countries whenever they want, day or
night.

There is the added problem of new countries attending the event for the first
time, such as Cameroon, and the possibility of smaller countries using the
meeting for more of a social, rather than political, gathering.

Regardless of what happens round the conference table in Edinburgh, police
chiefs are hoping the only thing that raises the temperature of the politicians
is the level of political debate.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Always one step ahead: police are bracing themselves for Nelson
Mandela's off-the-cuff decisions to mingle with the public.

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1997 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              110 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            June 21, 1997, Saturday

NEW VOCATION

SECTION: NEWS; Page  2

LENGTH: 69 words


A security guard who was widely praised after he saved a baby from the IRA bomb
in Manchester is to become a monk. Tony Gorrell (above) said what he had
experienced had made him realise the need for peace.  He carried a baby to
safety when the massive explosion showered the child's pram with glass. A
photographer caught the dramatic rescue and the picture appeared in newspapers
across Britain.


LOAD-DATE: June 23, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1997 Independent Print Ltd

                              111 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 27, 1997, Friday

Blair sets Ulster its biggest test; The Government's initiative on
decommissioning arms challengesSinn Fein to decide where it stands, says David
McKittrick. For Unionists, too, the next few months will prove crucial

BYLINE: David McKittrick

SECTION: ANALYSIS; Page  18

LENGTH: 1548 words


At this moment hope and dread co-exist in Northern Ireland. Tony Blair's energy
and attack this week instilled unfamiliar urgency into the search for progress
as he set timetables for both the paramilitaries and the politicians.

But at the same time the dreary steeple of Drumcree parish church casts a long
and ominous shadow over not just politics but over all of life in Northern
Ireland, for fears are high that another confrontation is on the cards when the
Orange brethren gather there on Sunday week.

The large numbers of sashes and other paraphernalia sold to new Orange members
shows that many among the Protestant grass-roots are gearing up for yet another
determined assertion of what they see as their heritage.  Since last year's
clashes the Orange ranks have been swelled by hundreds of recruits, many of whom
have what might be described as a militant tendency.

While many Orange greybeards would prefer to avoid confrontation, power in the
marching season passes from the stately Grand Orange Lodge of Ireland to the men
and youths on the streets. As one senior Orangeman said this week: "There's an
air of excitement among the younger ones in the Orange institution. The
overriding thing is that at this time of the year they're easily worked up.

"Large numbers of them are unemployed - the economy doesn't make any difference
to them. A lot of them don't start out to wreck the town but they come out and
somebody says 'Right, boys' and they get going and then there's no stopping
them."

Many non-members of the order, Protestants and Catholics alike, are voting with
their feet in a rather different way, by simply getting out before 6 July.
Travel agents report a huge increase in the numbers heading for Britain, the
Irish Republic and further afield to escape Drumcree, variously describing the
exodus as overwhelming, amazing and astounding.

In other words Northern Ireland has just invented refugee tourism. It is another
example of how the reality of things here can be so different from appearances:
those people in the airport departure lounge are going to look like
holiday-makers but actually they will be evacuees.

It is obvious that these are far from ideal conditions for the launching of the
type of political initiative which Mr Blair unveiled this week.  A bad Drumcree
would be a major setback for it and so too would be more IRA violence, but the
Blair message was that he would be deflected by neither.

Either side, or both, may well flex their muscles and in their different ways
cause trouble, but if they do there will be a political price to pay. The Blair
approach means taking risks, but it has also captured the moral high ground in a
way which John Major never quite managed to do.

The Government has laid down that political talks will start in earnest in
mid-September. Sinn Fein will be allowed entry six weeks after an IRA ceasefire,
with no requirement that republicans should pay an admission fee of handing in
guns up front. For David Trimble and the Ulster Unionists the bad news was that
the previous government's decommissioning demand has been dropped.

The period between now and mid-September may well provide a real test of the
Government's nerve. It will certainly test, and may provide a final answer to,
crucial questions over the sincerity of those Sinn Fein leaders who say they
want, and can deliver, peace and negotiations in place of war.

On one reading these new arrangements can be portrayed as a victory for the
republicans who, ever since the ceasefire of August 1994, have been demanding
entry to talks without the decommissioning of IRA weaponry.  Even after the
ceasefire broke down in February of last year the central republican proposition
has been that of a new ceasefire in exchange for real talks.

In the meantime republicans have prospered electorally, scooping almost 17 per
cent of the vote as nationalists endorsed their basic argument that the absence
of peace was due primarily to London's refusal to allow the party into talks.
Opinion polls confirmed that much of nationalist Ireland accepted that Sinn Fein
really wanted negotiations but that John Major did not.

Mr Blair's approach has been to examine the stated republican requirements for
talks and in effect to agree to each one of them. They wanted guaranteed entry,
a brisk timetable and the removal of the decommissioning proviso: they got them.
Some fine-tuning of detail may be necessary, but in its essentials the full
republican shopping-list has been granted.

Yet the initial republican response has been one not of jubilation but of
uncertainty. Sinn Fein may in fact be experiencing a sense of loss as its
familiar and long-successful arguments have been removed by Mr Blair with almost
surgical precision.

His operation was described by one observer yesterday as something of a
controlled experiment. As he tests whether the republicans are serious about
peace he does so in a transparent manner, eschewing secret meetings with them in
favour of openly-announced contacts, and publishing his correspondence to them.

The methodology is almost as important as the substance, for with his open
manner Mr Blair has generated new funds of trust with important elements such as
the Irish government, John Hume of the Social Democratic and Labour Party and
the Clinton administration. Where John Major was always dogged by the charge
that he was in hock to Unionist MPs, Tony Blair is already establishing a
reputation for proceeding in good faith.

This is doing the republicans no good at all, since they are much more at home
with a confrontational, hectoring prime minister than with a reasonable and
obliging one. The republican publicity and propaganda machine may now need
re-programming.

The real test for republicans may come in the second half of next month,
assuming that Drumcree passes without developing into a catastrophe.  Although
Mr Blair refrained from spelling out a deadline in a challenging fashion, entry
into talks in mid-September requires a ceasefire by the end of July.

The IRA and Sinn Fein could opt to play it long but there is no evident
advantage in delaying a ceasefire until, say, next year rather than calling one
next month. It is unlikely that the terms of entry would be any more favourable
then.

The real test for Unionism will come possibly at Drumcree but certainly by
mid-September, when it should start to become obvious whether David Trimble,
Ulster Unionist leader, is to shape up as an unyielding tribal warrior or a
leader capable of working out an historic accommodation with Irish nationalists.

If there is no IRA ceasefire the talks will begin without Sinn Fein, with Mr
Trimble and Mr Hume under pressure to do real business together.  That will be
difficult enough, but talks with Sinn Fein present will represent a huge
challenge to Unionism.

Ian Paisley, his party and his allies will immediately exit, leaving Mr Trimble
to decide whether to stay on as the republicans walk in or to join the
Paisleyite exodus. Remaining would represent a huge step for a party which has
traditionally regarded Sinn Fein as irreformable cheerleaders for IRA violence;
but going means consigning the Protestant community to the wilderness with
potentially dangerous consequences. The decision would truly be a defining
moment.

Thus the coming months may substantiate or demolish some of the most fundamental
aspects of the Northern Ireland question, including whether republicans are
capable of delivering peace and whether Unionists can reach accommodation with
nationalists.

But next May has now been set as a deadline for political progress, most
observers, and participants, will be amazed if any deal has been hammered out by
then, whether or not Sinn Fein is part of the negotiations.

In the meantime most attention will focus on whether the IRA will agree a
ceasefire again. Most immediately the republicans will want cast-iron guarantees
that the decommissioning card cannot be pulled from the pack by Unionists during
negotiations in a way which could see Sinn Fein ejected from the talks. If that
assurance is given then the last of Sinn Fein's technicalities will have
disappeared.

What will remain, however, is the miasma of mistrust which has for so long
enveloped politics, the peace process and indeed everyday life in Northern
Ireland. This comes not just from the dread of Drumcree but also from the IRA's
mistrust of all things and all politicians British, and from the poisonous state
of community relations.

Two huge forces are at work here, pulling in opposite directions, both stemming
mainly from the troubles. One is the desire for peace, based in large part on
the shared experience of a quarter-century of conflict with the lesson, learnt
the hard way, that there will be no absolute victory for any side.

But another is that quarter-century's baleful legacy of mistrust and ill-will,
which has left the two communities poles apart. The next few months will help
answer the nagging question of which of these forces will prevail, and whether
the people of Northern Ireland can ever learn to live together, if not in
harmony then at least in peace.


LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1997 Independent Print Ltd

                              112 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 June 30, 1997

INSIDE STORY: BP'S SECRET MILITARY ADVISERS

BYLINE: Michael Sean Gillard And Melissa Jones

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGE; Pg. T8

LENGTH: 3293 words


In Colombia the police and the army have a special reputation. Both are under
investigation for alleged murders and human rights abuses. Both are paid by the
oil giant BP to protect its interests in the foothills of the Andes. But a
newinvestigation has revealed that BP pays for the covert training by ex-SAS
officers of an elite police squad incounter-insurgency techniques. Michael Sean
Gillard and Melissa Jones report from Casanare

Ever since British Petroleum arrived in the Andean foothills of eastern Colombia
eight years ago, its security operation there has been shrouded in secrecy. Last
year, international concern over BP's financial relationship with the Colombian
military, one of the world's worst human rights violators, forced it to open up.
But today there is one part of BP's complex security network which it is not
keen to discuss.

It concerns a yearly $ 2 million contract with Defence Systems Limited (DSL),
Britain's foremost but publicity-shy security company with offices next door to
Buckingham Palace. DSL was formed in 1981 when Mrs Thatcher was selling
Britain's defence industry to cold war warriors around the world. At the time
DSL represented an unusual alliance between influential figures in the City, the
SAS and British intelligence. Today it is still widely regarded as the British
Government's preferred security company for all those difficult jobs in far off,
lawless places.

DSL sells itself on the SAS credentials of its directors and staff, who boast of
an involvement in 'all the major UK and US counter-terrorist incidents since the
early Seventies.' This gung-ho reputation begins with DSL founder and chairman,
Alastair Morrison, an SAS hero and former second-in-command of the elite
Hereford-based regiment. Morrison, 54, made his name leading the famous SAS
rescue of a hijacked Lufthansa plane at Mogadishu Airport in 1977. In civvy
street he worked hard to build up the DSL Group of 20 companies. Along the way
Morrison made valuable contacts with those who operated between Westminster, the
Tory party and the defence industry, like disgraced former defence procurement
minister, Jonathan Aitken.

DSL did well out of the Cold War and today is prospering in the new world order
of emerging markets like Colombia and Russia.  Enough so to recently attract a $
26 million takeover by an American security concern. The prestigious company
specialises in hostage rescue, kidnap and ransom, intelligence operations and
military training in 26 countries worldwide. The UN is also a client. However,
its most important market is the protection of oil and mineral companies. DSL is
keen to stress in rare public statements that it has no involvement in the
mercenary operations of 'lesser' security companies.

BP has its own security department run by Mark Heathcote, a former MI6 officer
who was our man in Buenos Aires in the run up to the Falklands War. Heathcote is
ably assisted by Tony Ling, a former SAS commander who knows his boss from
Northern Ireland in the Seventies.

Ling and Alastair Morrison also worked alongside each other in the SAS. BP
contracted DSL in 1992 to run their security operation in Colombia. The BP
contract is handled by a DSL subsidiary, Defence Systems Colombia (DSC), which
is discreetly based in a fortified back street office in uptown Bogota.

DSC is run from London by another decorated SAS veteran, the Honourable Richard
Bethell, son of the former Tory MEP and author, Lord Bethell of Romford.
Bethell, known affectionately as 'Tarzan' because of his long blond locks, knows
Colombia from organising an official SAS training mission of the Police's Elite
Force in 1990.

One of the SAS trainers on that mission was Will Daniell, who now manages the
DSC office in Bogota. He joined the company after failing his Foreign Office
entrance exam. Daniell, 36, has overall responsibility for DSC's security
operation in the oil region of Casanare, 80 miles east of the capital, where BP
is developing a huge two-billion-barrel find in partnership with Total of
France, US-based Triton, and the state oil company.

Morrison, Bethell and Daniel are all shareholders in DSC . Their security
advisers are hand picked from an international pool of ex-special forces
soldiers known as 'the circuit'. The majority are former SAS soldiers, some with
nicknames like 'the Warlord'.

BP employs DSC to co-ordinate the defence of its oil rigs and staff with the
Colombian army and police. The oil field is situated in a 'red zone' where one
of Colombia's strongest guerrilla forces, the Castroite National Liberation
Army, (ELN), has a historic presence.

BP and its partners pay millions of dollars to the Colombian army to protect it
from ELN's frequent attacks. But the army brings to Casanare a US-designed
counter-insurgency strategy of dirty war, known locally as 'quitarle agua al
pez' or draining the fish tank. Instead of fighting the guerrillas, the army and
pro -government paramilitary death squads target people they consider
sympathisers.

While BP is not responsible for the these tactics which have led to escalating
violence, the army is, nevertheless, currently under investigation for human
rights abuses and alleged involvement in the death of six peasant leaders who
protested about the oil giant. Thankfully for the Colombian government and its
generals, the drug war obscures this sinister conflict, and portrays itself as
the victim of violence rather than its chief perpetrator.

Before leaving BP to join the New Labour Government, Sir David Simon's final act
as chairman was an impassioned defence of his company's record in Colombia
following last year's international criticism. At last April's AGM in London he
told shareholders that only the 'highest standards of corporate governance,
openness and accountability' would do in Colombia.

A year-long investigation by World In Action, to be broadcast tonight, which has
evidence from former DSC security advisers - including two ex-SAS members from
the Special Projects Team who in 1980 famously stormed the Iranian Embassy in
London - has revealed the activities of a covert security team training
Colombian police with BP approval.

On April 30 last year, BP signed a contract with the Colombian National Police,
PONAL, to create and dispatch a unit of policemen to Casanare to protect the
rigs. The contract is worth an estimated $ 5 million a year. The following month
a guerrilla attack on a BP oil rig, Dele B, severely exposed police
shortcomings.

According to 'Rod', an ex-DSC insider, this incident convinced BP of the need to
train the police in counter-insurgency tactics. The arming of the police with
M60 machine guns was also discussed at the time but not followed through, said
the source. The police were already armed by the government when they arrived in
Casanare. 'Phil', another ex-DSC adviser, said BP and DSC first discussed the
idea of special weapons training for the police in 1992. But on this occasion
PONAL top brass said no. BP pressure following the Dele 8 incident eventually
changed their minds four years later.

By summer 1996 BP had tasked a team of ex-SAS soldiers to secretly train the
Colombian police. The British trainers wear Colombian police uniforms during the
training, which takes place on the rig sites. This involves counter-guerrilla
tactics, such as lethal weapons handling, sniper fire and close quarter combat.

'The police are now being trained in military subjects. They are getting more
involved with patrolling activities that are the normal requirements of an
infantry unit, which is definitely being seen by the population as another
military force in the area. The people are scared to death you can see it on
their faces,' said Rod.

BP's secret soldiers are kept apart from the other DSC security advisors in the
oil field. One trainer is known as OJ because of his resemblance to the American
actor. 'They are operating in Colombia without a contract. They can leave at any
date, any time, they have separate accounts, monies deposited in England and in
Colombia,' explained Rod.

When BP's secret soldiers are in Bogota, they and other DSC advisers stay at a
British bar run by an ex-Navy officer in rooms paid for by BP. Rod described the
bar as 'an Olympic swimming pool of intelligence'. He said he was told on three
occasions by DSC managers not to mention the secret training in writing.

However, one fax obtained by World In Action, and dated October 1996 says: 'The
effects of the training team are noticed in a positive manner.' Another earlier
fax states: 'The police morale is high and they have expressed their enjoyment
of the training they have received. Good job to whoever was involved.' DSL are
no strangers to counter-insurgency training, which they have provided in the
past to security forces in Sri Lanka, Papua New Guinea and Mozambique. In
Colombia, BP's secret training team are allegedly using the oil company's
private airport terminal and plane to transport personal weapons to and from the
oil field.

Rod saw a named DSC trainer carry personal weapons through BP's private terminal
at Yopal, the Casanare capital. The trainer arrived on BP's private plane, which
also carries executives to and from Bogota. 'I saw civilian clothed personnel
who were Colombians and an ex-SAS operative carrying the black boxes, checking
right through Yopal Airport. They just put their weapons inside the box, their
ammunition in another box and went right through, no signing any forms, it could
have been anything, it could have been 15 or 20 mini Uzis in a box, it didn't
matter.' Such an operation is not untypical, according to two former DSL
security advisers not involved with the Colombian operation.  They said DSL has
a similar arrangement in Angola and, furthermore, the training they provided to
the Angolan police was done in secret but with the client's knowledge.

Security for BP's private terminals is provided by a Bogota-based Anglo
-Colombian security consortium, Laurel and Honor.  These companies are run by
former British intelligence officer Bill Nixon who is well known to the ex-SAS
boys from past operations in Northern Ireland. Honor also provided security
advice for the layout of BP's oil rigs in Casanare.

Policemen stationed on the rigs have confirmed they receive DSC training and
named their British trainers. One policeman defending BP's Pauto Sur oil rig
said they are trained for three months at the Gonzalo Jimenez de Quesada police
academy in Bogota by DSC and police special forces officers from COPES. They
then receive top-up training by DSC on the rig sites every three months.

According to two policemen on the oil rig Florena N, BP pays each man $ 245 per
month on top of their police salary. BP deny this and claim the 540 policemen on
its rigs are paid directly by PONAL from the oil company's $ 5 million annual
contract.  The training mission is authorised by BP, according to the sources,
but neither the oil company or DSC provide arms.

'I have personally spoken to two BP men on the rigs and the head of BP Security
in Bogota about the secret training,' said 'Simon' who took part in the Iranian
Embassy operation.

On January 21 this year BP Security met with DSC manager, Will Daniell, in
Bogota to review current security arrangements. A document about the meeting
says they talked of a 'Tactical Defence Plan', which included a proposal to
train a 'quick reaction force' of extra policemen in counter-guerrilla tactics
to supplement army protection around the oil rigs.

BP has entered into on-going talks with British human rights and development
organisations but during several in-depth discussions this year with Amnesty
International, they never once mentioned their secret training of the Colombian
police.

Amnesty's Colombia researcher, Susan Lee says she is 'disappointed and
concerned. 'They are employing practices which are extremely dangerous and risky
and certainly open to abuse, given the lack of accountability and controls on
the Colombian armed forces.' Her concern stems from the well-documented role of
the police in human rights abuses. Last year the Colombian Ombudsman received
169 reports of police involvement in murder, disappearances and threats.

BP admits it has made mistakes in Colombia but denies any involvement in human
rights abuses. BP now admits that DSC trainers wear police uniforms on the rig
sites but denies it is providing lethal military training to the police.

DSL chairman, Alastair Morrison, declined to be interviewed about these matters.

World In Action's BP's Secret Soldiers is broadcast tonight at 8pm on ITV.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              113 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 June 30, 1997

Concerns about the Irish question

BYLINE: Rennie Mcowan

SECTION: Pg. 25

LENGTH: 520 words


THE natives are friendly. Do go on holiday to Northern Ireland. Yes, there are
appalling terrorism incidents that worry intending tourists and infuriate and
frustrate hard-working officials, but it should also be remembered that Northern
Ireland is one of the safest areas in Britain.

Muggings, burglaries, car thefts and other crimes are at a much lower level than
elsewhere and almost non-existent in most communities. It might sound
surprising, but the visitor feels safe there.

On some visits the presence of police and Army can be obvious with road patrols
and checkpoints. On others, there is hardly a policeman or soldier to be seen. I
once drove from Belfast to Enniskillen and never saw a patrol.

If you are stopped by police or Army you will be treated with the utmost
courtesy and probably a hope expressed that you enjoy your holiday. I've felt
more in danger in London.

Two of the most rewarding breaks I have had in Northern Ireland were both in
places which figure or figured in news bulletins, South Armagh and Co.
Fermanagh. To this day I can remember the folk night in Forkhill where a
seemingly endless procession of musicians of all ages performed with skill and
verve. I can remember sitting on hill tops looking down with pleasure on neat
farms and dozens of lochs and recall heart warming hospitality from strangers.

Most of the time Northern Ireland is normal. People get on with their lives and
pursue happiness like the rest of us. Some common sense, though, is required
from holidaymakers. Do not offer loud voiced opinions in pubs. Do not wear
clothing that looks ex-Army while hillwalking. Do behave with sensitivity. Do
not comment on political slogans.

We were once temporarily delayed at the start of a small village because an
out-of-season Orange march was going through: we stopped to watch. Right or
wrong, it was part of the cultural/political scene. On another, we pulled up
beside a pitch where a Gaelic football match was on. The rules were bewildering
to us, but it was a non-stop spectacle and better than the Scottish Claymores
and most Premier League matches for zip and pace. In Co.  Down I saw a Gaelic
football slogan painted on a rock which said: "Up Down!" Northern Ireland humour
is sometimes on hold, but it is there.

The visitor should not be too ready to condemn privately what they see as
bigotry. The modern problems were at least partly created by British mainland
governments over centuries. The best plan is to get on with your holiday and
keep your conversation when there is fun and enjoyment.

The six counties of the north have so much to commend them: hills, lochs,
coasts, beaches, beauty, ancient relics, historic sites, lively festivals, good
roads, excellent accommodation, bracing weather, good food, golf, angling,
sailing, walking, plowtering.

I've been over a lot in the past two years, Verdict: I'd go back tomorrow in the
knowledge that so much enjoyment is there for the taking. Tourism helps people
of all traditions because it is restoring and underpinning normal and harmonious
living. Go get it.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1997 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              114 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             July 3, 1997, Thursday

LOYALIST TERROR THREAT OVER AHERN MARCH TALKS;
LOYALIST TERRORISTS THREATEN TO TARGET THE REPUBLIC IF THE ORANGE PARADE AT
DRUMCREE IS BANNED

BYLINE: Joe Gorrod

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 760 words


Loyalist terrorists have threatened to target the Republic if Sunday's
controversial Orange parade at Drumcree is banned.

The outlawed Loyalist Volunteer Force last night warned it would start killing
civilians if Dublin does not keep out of Northern Ireland's marching season
strife.

The move followed pleas made by Taoiseach Bertie Ahern to the British government
for the parade not to be forced through, past catholic areas of Portadown, Co
Armagh, in the face of counter-demonstrations by nationalists.

But Mr Ahern has vowed to go ahead with talks on the marching crisis with
British Prime Minister Tony Blair today despite the Loyalist threats.

And aides of Mr Ahern last night signalled he would reinforce his stand on the
march at today's Downing Street meeting with Mr Blair.

Foreign Minister Ray Burke and Britain's Northern Ireland Secretary Mo Mowlam
will also be at the London discussions.

Mr Ahern and Mr Burke will fully endorse efforts being made by Ms Mowlam to head
off trouble by keeping up a dialogue over the march until the last possible
moment.

In a brief formal response last night to the LVF warning, a Dublin spokesman
said it would "not be permitted to deflect either the Irish or British
governments from their pursuit of a permanent peace in Northern Ireland". But
security sources said that all threats had to be treated seriously. Only last
month the LVF claimed to have planted a bomb in the border town of Dundalk, Co
Louth.

The device failed to go off but was seen as indication that the Loyalists were
capable of mounting cross-border terror strikes.

The LVF's sinister move drew condemnation from Loyalist politicians.

Gary McMichael of the Ulster Democratic Party said: "It should be withdrawn
immediately. These people do not speak or act for the Protestant community."

Portadown SDLP councillor Briege Rodgers, who is trying to defuse the flashpoint
march, said: "We are all threatened by this lunatic fringe.  We need agreements,
not more conflict."

Catholic residents along the march route met Secretary of State Mo Mowlam
yesterday in a fresh bid to break the deadlock.

But after an hour at Stormont Castle they left without making progress.

The Garvaghy Road residents may mount a legal challenge against a police ban on
a festival they plan to hold on the parade route.

Spokesman Brendan McKenna called on the Orangemen to avoid the area.

"The RUC have said they will view our festival as an obstruction, but we
question the legality of that and see no reason to change our plans," he said.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DEFIANT: Brendan McKenna says local residents hope to go ahead with a
festival on the parade route

                            Copyright 1997 MGN Ltd.

                              115 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                              July 4, 1997, Friday

When pop's aristocracy united... with a global social conscience. The 80's

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 908 words


1980

THIS was the year the SAS stormed the Iranian Embassy. Meanwhile, the rock world
was shaken by the murder of John Lennon by deranged fan Mark Chapman, the
suicide of Joy Division singer Ian Curtis, and the death by alcohol poisoning of
Led Zeppelin drummer John Bonham. Britain's first independent album chart showed
Adam and the Ants in pole position . The Jam and Dexy's Midnight Runners enjoyed
both critical and commercial acclaim, while Michael Jackson's Off The Wall album
competed with Pink Floyd's The Wall for huge US sales.

1981

THIS was the year Prince Charles and Lady Diana Spencer married; President
Reagan and the Pope both survived assassination attempts. Adam and the Ants
enjoyed huge teeny pop success, with other New Romantic posers such as Spandau
Ballet and Duran Duran soon following suit. The Human League and Soft Cell took
electronic torch songs to the top of the charts, but the gritty realism of Ghost
Town by the Specials seemed more attuned to the summer of rioting.. rock'n'roll
founding father Bill Haley died, as did reggae legend Bob Marley.

1982

THIS was the year that Britain went to war with Argentina over the Falklands and
the Soviet premier, Leonid Brezhnev, died. The Jam split just as Madness and
Dexy's Midnight Runners scored their first number ones. ABC and Wham! carved up
the charts. Grandmaster Flash's The Message and Afrika Bambaataa's Planet Rock
laid down the foundations of hip- hop and the former manager of the Sex Pistols,
Malcolm McLaren, tried to popularise the genre with his debut solo single
Buffalo Gals.

1983

MARGARET Thatcher was re-elected for a second term and the Soviet Union shot
down Korean airliner 007. British pop invaded America on a scale not seen since
the 1960s spearheaded by newcomers Culture Club alongside Duran Duran,
Eurythmics, Madness and Kajagoogoo. The first CD single was launched and U2's
War album entered the UK charts at number one. Michael Jackson's Billie Jean
became a transatlantic chart-topper. David Bowie enjoyed his biggest hit with
Let's Dance. Karen Carpenter died of heart complications arising from anorexia
nervosa.

1984

THE year that saw the miners' strike and the IRA bomb in Brighton. In Britain,
the eponymous debut Smiths album vied for acclaim with Frankie Goes To
Hollywood's sprawling double album Welcome To The Pleasure Dome. Transatlantic
hits included Prince's Purple Rain, Bruce Springsteen's Born In The USA, and
Madonna's Like A Virgin single. Liverpool opened a Beatles' Museum and a
revamped Cavern Club, while the year ended with Band Aid's single Do They Know
It's Christmas? atop the charts. Soul giant Marvin Gaye was shot dead by his
father.

1985

THE year in which Mikhail Gorbachev took power in Russia and horrific football
disasters occurred at Bradford and Heysel. Whitney Houston and A-ha were
transatlantic sensations, and Michael Jackson bought the Beatles' publishing
company, ATV, for $ 34 million. The riotously noisy chart novices the Jesus And
Mary Chain were hailed as the new Sex Pistols. Wham! played in China, but the
concert event of 1985 was Live Aid, raising Pounds 50 million while rocketing
David Bowie and Mick Jagger to the top of the charts with Dancing In The Street.

1986

THIS was the year of the Challenger space shuttle and Chernobyl nuclear
disasters. Simply Red made their chart debut while Frankie Goes to Hollywood and
Wham! both disbanded. Rappers Run DMC revived the career of born-again 1970s
rockers Aerosmith with a hip-hop cover of their vintage hit Walk This Way, then
attracted tabloid flak by touring with their wayward labelmates the Beastie
Boys. Bob Geldof received an ersatz knighthood, Boy George's heroin problems hit
the headlines and Thin Lizzy frontman Phil Lynott died.

1987

IRANGATE, Michael Ryan's Hungerford massacre and the Zeebrugge ferry catastrophe
all hapened this year. Japanese electronics giant Sony bought the CBS label and
MTV Europe aired for the first time. Prolific pop producers Stock, Aitken and
Waterman struck chart gold with their former office boy Rick Astley, whose Never
Gonna Give You Up was the year's best-selling UK single. Samplers and drum
machines made great strides in hit singles by M/A/R/R/S and Coldcut. The biggest
albums were U2's The Joshua Tree and Michael Jackson's Bad.

1988

THIS was the year that three unarmed IRA members were gunned down in Gibraltar,
followed soon afterwards by the brutal public killing of two British corporals
in Belfast, and the bombing of a PanAm airliner over Lockerbie. Kylie Minogue
sold a record-breaking two million copies of her self-titled debut album. Acid
house now dominated British pop culture. Bruce Springsteen, Sting and Peter
Gabriel toured for Amnesty International while Phil Collins, Mark Knopfler and
Wet Wet Wet celebrated Nelson Mandela's 70th birthday at Wembley.

1989

THE Berlin Wall was pulled down, but Chinese communism triumphed in Tiananmen
Square. Also this year, 96 football fans died at Hillsborough. Manchester bands
Happy Mondays and the Stone Roses staged huge concerts. Bon Jovi headlined a
peace festival in Moscow while Madonna was dropped from an $ 8 million Pepsi
campaign over the allegedly blasphemous video for her Like a Prayer single. De
La Soul patented a softer brand of hip-hop just as NWA laid down the blueprint
for "gangsta" rap. Bros and New Kids on the Block were just that.


LOAD-DATE: July 5, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1997 Times Newspapers Limited

                              116 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             July 14, 1997, Monday

VIPS' ENEMY NO 1;
JAIL RUNAWAY WANTED OVER ROLEX ROBBERIES;
PRISON RUNAWAY FRANK PROSPER IS NOW ONE OF BRITAIN'S MOST WANTED MEN

BYLINE: Oonagh Blackman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1054 words


A prison runaway is being hunted by cops on the trail of the Rolex robbers.

Dangerman Frank Prosper, jailed for armed robbery, is now one of Britain's most
wanted men after being linked to a string of vicious attacks on the rich and
famous.

Prosper, 36, has connections with up to a dozen suspects believed to have
carried out burglaries and muggings in which victims have been robbed of
expensive watches, jewellery and cash.

He went on the run two months ago while on weekend leave from Latchmere House
open prison near Richmond Park in south west London.

Prosper is wanted for questioning about a London murder.

And he is on the Scotland Yard list of suspects for the violent attacks which
have brought terror to some of Britain's top addresses.

Prosper was given a nine-year sentence in 1993 for an armed robbery conspiracy.

He had previous convictions for robbery, burglary, handling stolen goods,
assault and drug offences.

After serving less than half the sentence he was moved to Latchmere House and
was allowed out under the controversial "temporary release" project.

Detectives believe the thugs switch around in up to half a dozen different
gangs, never staying at the same address more than one night, while they prey on
VIP targets.

Prosper had a number of weekends and week days out of prison under the
rehabilitation programme before failing to return on May 11.

Recent London victims of the gangs include:

TV TYCOON Michael Green who was stabbed at his Mayfair home on April 15. His
wife Tessa was forced to had over cash, credit cards and a pounds 1,000
necklace.

WONDERBRA model Caprice Bourret, 23, robbed of a Rolex watch at knifepoint in
Hampstead on April 27.

LADY Annabelle Weidenfeld, wife of the millionaire publisher Lord Weidenfeld,
who was robbed of pounds 600,000 worth of jewellery outside her Chelsea flat.

PRINCESS Margaret's friend financier Ben Holland-Martin, 41, who was left for
dead after being stabbed, beaten, bound and gagged at his home. His attackers
screamed: "We're here to nick your stuff and have fun."

MOTOR racing tycoon Bernie Eccleston, 65, and wife Slavica who were attacked as
they got out of a Bentley outside their Chelsea home. A pounds 600,000 diamond
ring was wrenched from Slavica's finger.

CRIME FILE

Fugitive Frank Prosper was born in Paddington, west London, in 1961 and has a
string of convictions going back to when he was a teenager.

Most of his crimes were committed in central and west London. He was given a
nine-year sentence, for conspiracy to rob and possessing a firearm, at Harrow
Crown Court on March 11 1993.

Prosper is described as 5ft 9ins tall, and of slim build with a scar on his left
hand.

VICTIMS

Grand prix boss Bernie Eccleston and his 36-year-old wife who were mugged as
they returned to their Chelsea home after a night out.  Mr Eccleston was punched
and kicked by two thugs who tore a pounds 600,000 diamond ring from his wife's
finger

Wonderbra model Caprice Bourret, robbed of a Rolex watch and her handbag in up
-market Hampstead

Carlton TV chief Michael Green. He was stabbed and his wife was forced to hand
over a necklace and cash

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: JAIL: Latchmere House open prison

                            Copyright 1997 MGN Ltd.

                              117 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 July 15, 1997

Basque silence is louder than any words

BYLINE: Tom Shields

SECTION: Pg. 15

LENGTH: 937 words


I AM in Spain doing a spot of moonlighting for the Herald's arts department.  It
is a gruelling assignment involving watching two shows by Spanish companies who
are appearing in this year's Edinburgh International Festival. I believe this
comes under the general heading of dirty work, but someone has to do it.

It was a chance to get away from a gloomy Britain where Northern Ireland and its
marching season dominated the news with the threat that the peace process would
finally fail and terrorists on both sides might soon be back in full bloody
employment.

It was not entirely cheery to arrive here and discover that Spain's own terror
industry is still keeping itself busy. I arrived San Sebastian to read that Eta
had made an unsuccessful rocket attack on a local oil refinery. They had also
opened what they call the "summer campaign". This consists of numerous bomb
hoaxes and occasional small explosions on the beaches of Spain's costas.

They are usually careful to avoid killing any visitors while inflicting the
maximum chaos on the Spanish tourist industry. It also ties up police resources
with an extra 2000 drafted on to beach patrol this summer.

One day last week 15,000 holidaymakers had to be evacuated from the beaches at
Lloret Del Mar. It was no big deal, unless you were a child on holiday and were
banned from the beach.

The Spanish have become used to the nuisance that Eta's discredited campaign for
Basque separatism now is. Usually it's just a matter of vandalised road signs,
telephone kiosks, and bank cashline machines.

But this weekend Eta were back in the headlines with the kidnap of a politician,
a member of Spain's ruling party the right-of-centre Partido Popular. But it was
no political bigwig that they picked on. Miguel Angel Blanco was the PP
councillor in the small town of Ermua between San Sebastian and Bilbao.

Miguel Angel was 29 years old and, from reading the details of his life, the
only criticism that could be levelled at him was that he kept his lovely fiancee
waiting with too long an engagement.

Miguel Angel was kidnapped on Thursday and would be killed at 4pm on Saturday if
a number of Eta prisoners were not moved to a jail in the Basque country.

It was a cowardly and ludicrous action by Eta. A bit like a Scottish terrorist
group seizing wee Baillie Bill Aitken, a Glasgow Tory councillor, and using his
life as a bargaining tool.

Spain was filled with revulsion and apprehension as the 48 hours ticked away.
The people wore blue ribbons as a symbol of solidarity with Miguel Angel. They
gathered in their city and town squares. Television channels displayed a blue
ribbon permanently on the corner of the TV screen and cancelled normal
programmes to cover the countdown to 4pm Saturday.

Eta ignored this immense public protest and put two bullets in Miguel Angel's
head.

They couldn't even kill him properly. He was still alive when they dumped him
outside San Sebastian. His family and fiancee had to undergo a further 11 hours
of trauma before he was pronounced dead.

The Spanish people's revulsion and apprehension turned into rage and
indignation. They were impotent against the invisible terrorists but not against
Herri Batasuna, the political wing of ETA, which still attracts votes and
returns MPs and councillors.

Crowds gathered outside HB headquarters chanting "asesinos" and "hijos de puta",
the latter being Spanish for ''sons of bitches". Some local HB offices were set
on fire.

But the most effective protest has been the well-ordered gathering in every city
square. I stood on Sunday night in Bilbao's Plaza Mayou with 500,000 people and
there was total silence. That message to HB and Eta was louder than any words.

There has been a clamourous silence, too, from HB who have yet to comment far
less condemn the killing of Miguel Angel. Attempts to talk to HB meet with no
comment. I wanted to know what was so wrong with life in this part of northern
Spain. The Basque country has its own devolved parliament and control over much
of its own economy. And it is quite a vibrant economy with steelworks,
shipyards, and car factories, the kind of things Scottish workers might
remember.

The Basques also have other little things in life such as cheap and plentiful
food and drink, not to mention Havana cigars at one-third the price they are in
Britain. Then there is the sunshine, but with enough rain to make their
countryside as beautiful as the Scottish Highlands.

The Basques are not exactly suffering and they wish Eta and HB would stop
fighting on their behalf.

Eta have had their day. At one time they had a part to play when they stood up
against the Franco dictatorship.

They killed someone else called Blanco back in those days - Luis Correro Blanco,
an admiral in Franco's navy and the man tipped to succeed him and keep the
fascist regime going.

On December 20, 1973, Eta blew him up in a spectacular explosion which sent the
admiral's car up and over a Madrid tenement building. History has shown that by
doing away with Franco's heir the Eta voice of 1975 did well.

Parents and grandparents in the crowd in Bilbao on Sunday night do not need
reminding of the Franco days. Many of them would have been in a similar protest
in 1975. On that occasion the demonstration was against Franco's police who had
taken two Eta activists, still in their teens, out into the countryside and
executed them.

At the weekend it was Eta who took a young Basque out into the countryside and
executed him.

Eta and HB are the new fascists of Spain.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: United in grief: half a million Basques protest in Bilbao.

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1997 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              118 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                             July 20, 1997, Sunday

ULSTER HOLDS ITS BREATH AS PEACE BREAKS OUT;
THE SUNDAY OF HOPE;
IRA CEASEFIRE MEETS WITH CONTRASTING REACTIONS

BYLINE: John Kierans, Martin Breen And Joe Gorrod

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8, 9

LENGTH: 1720 words


The people of Ulster were holding their breath and hoping last night, after IRA
chiefs announced a new ceasefire from midday today.

Peacemakers Tony Blair, Northern Ireland Secretary Mo Mowlam and Irish Taoi
Seach Bertie Ahern were toasted in Guinness and champagne in pubs.

And thanksgiving prayers were being said at services in churches on both sides
of the border.

After the IRA phoned details of their "unequivocal" truce to the RTE
headquarters in Dublin, at 9am, Mr Blair immediately spoke of a new mood of hope
and peace in Northern Ireland.

Unionist politicians branded the announcement as a restoration of a phoney
ceasefire.

And some warned they would not sit down with Sinn Fein if they were allowed into
the multi-party talks to be held in September.

But Mo Mowlam, who flew straight to Belfast, said the Government would make
immediate contact with Sinn Fein.

And she claimed Ministers could start talks with its leaders Gerry Adams and
Martin McGuinness within DAYS.

News of the truce came less than 24 hours after Sinn Fein president Gerry Adams
suddenly revealed he had called for an end to the violence.

He yesterday said the responsibility to push the peace process forward now lay
with Tony Blair.  "His Government has jurisdiction in our country. He has the
responsibility to be part of a partnership for peace, which must be brought
about.

"I would like to encourage him to usher in a new relationship between the people
of his island and mine. John Major failed - and that was just our bad luck. But
I think Tony Blair can succeed."

Sinn Fein strategist Martin McGuinness called on Unionists to join Republicans
at the talks table and move the peace process forward.

He said: "We all need to declare ceasefires in our minds. We need real
negotiations, not useless recriminations."

Britain and Ireland have always said Sinn Fein will not be allowed to take part
in talks unless the IRA stops its terrorist activities.

And Mr Blair stressed yesterday they would only be given that place at the talks
table if the ceasefire was "genuine in word and deed"."

But although IRA sources said units in all parts of Ireland and mainland Britain
were being ordered to scrap plans for further attacks, they also revealed the
terrorists were being told to hide their arms and explosives.

And it emerged diggers had been used to bury stockpiles of weapons at secret
sites both sides of the border.

Peter Robinson, deputy leader of the Democratic Unionist Party, dismissed the
truce as "a restoration of a phoney ceasefire.

And he warned that Unionists would not accept Sinn Fein being at the peace
talks. He said: "If Sinn Fein are there, the Unionists will not be," and
claimed: "The 1994 ceasefire was used by the IRA to equip and prepare bombs in
London."

Ulster Unionist security spokesman Ken Maginnis was also sceptical about the
IRA's long-term intentions.

"I don't see the word permanent in their ceasefire statement. I don't see
anything that indicates this is long-term.

"It is their old strategy of making use of the democratic process for their own
violent ends. We can all engage in wishful thinking but we have got to come back
to reality.""

The grieving mother of the IRA's last victim rubbished the terrorists' new bid
for peace. Pearl Graham, whose son John was one of two RUC officers gunned down
in Lurgan last month, accused Tony Blair and his Labour government of being "too
weak" on the Provos.

She said: "These murderers should not be talked to. They do not know what peace
is."

But the father of Bernadette Martin, the 18-year-old Catholic Belfast girl shot
on Tuesday by Loyalist gunmen, said: "The ceasefire has taken away our worst
nightmare.

"We were afraid someone would seek revenge for Bernadette's death and taint her
memory forever. If the killing stops for good the hate that killed her will
gradually fade away."

Rival Republicans last night warned the violence could continue regardless of
the IRA's decision.

Breakaway Republican Sinn Fein claimed a split could develop within the
Republican movement.

RSF President Ruairi O'Bradaigh, the former head of Sinn Fein, said "The
Provisionals will have to answer to other Republicans for this."

THE IRA

STATEMENT

THIS is the full IRA statement issued to RTE in Dublin yesterday.

"ON AUGUST 31, 1994, the leadership of Oglaigh na hEireann announced a complete
cessation of military operations as our contribution to the search for a lasting
peace.

After 17 months of cessation, in which the British Government and the Unionists
blocked any possibility of real or inclusive negotiations, we reluctantly
abandoned the cessation.

"The Irish Republican Army is committed to ending British rule in Ireland.  It
is the root cause of division and conflict in our country. We want a permanent
peace and therefore we are prepared to enhance the search for a democratic peace
settlement through real and inclusive negotiations.

"So, having assessed the current political situation, the leadership of Oglaigh
na hEireann are announcing a complete cessation of military operations from 12
o'clock midday on Sunday July 20, 1997. We have ordered the unequivocal
restoration of the ceasefire of August 1994.

"All IRA units have been instructed accordingly."

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PEACE! Six-year-old Stephanie Duffy joins in ceasefire celebrations in
Portadown;; FLASHBACK: Mo's appeal;; HOPE AFTER ALL THE HORROR: Joyful James
Smith, three, of Andersonstown, captures the new mood in Belfast yesterday as he
makes friends with a; British soldier patrolling near his home

                            Copyright 1997 MGN Ltd.

                              119 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 July 21, 1997

Recurring nightmare is worth remembering

BYLINE: Jack Wester

SECTION: Pg. 10

LENGTH: 845 words


THEY call it the Silly Season, that midsummer spell when

it is inferred that factual

stories become scarce enough for journalists, in their desperation to fill
columns of blank spaces, to resort to their imaginations.

It is not true, of course, except in a few fairly predictable cases where it
doesn't take a Silly Season to encourage some Tabloid Tams to go tampering with
the truth.

In the current season, however the newsmen have had willing accomplices.
Princess Diana has been especially obliging, first complaining about intrusion
into her privacy, then openly consorting with the enemy to announce she will
soon have a surprise announcement, then denying there would be any announcement
at all. The Princess is in danger of becoming a silly woman for all seasons.

The legal eagles are not far behind when it comes to daftness. On the very day
they seek to raise to 18 the age when you can buy a cigarette there are moves to
reduce to 16 the age when a youngster, still at school, can be legally lured
into homosexuality. I should think most parents would worry less about that
illicit packet of fags from which the young can more easily extricate
themselves.

But of all the stories which emerge in the Silly Season, few get a more regular
airing than those which speculate about who was behind the Lockerbie disaster.
In this case the law, in the form of Dumfries and Galloway Police, has properly
done its bit and produced an indictment which would satisfy most people that
there is at least a case to be answered by two henchmen of Colonel Gaddafi, a
man who vowed vengeance on America for a bombing raid on the Libyan capital
which happened to kill his adopted daughter.

Not unexpectedly, the Colonel has refused to release the men wanted for trial
and, as we are now well through the ninth year since that most appalling of
terrorist attacks, one can understand the frustration of relatives who fear
justice will never be done.

On that night of horror 259 people were blown into space from a height of seven
miles above Lockerbie as they flew from London to New York to spend Christmas
with their families. So the speculation was revived once again last week, this
time by the Germans who say an agent told them the Ayatollah of Iran was behind
it.

Well, he was certainly the kind of man to dabble in death, having ordered the
killing of author Salman Rushdie. But for one thing, he has now gone to his
eternity and we'll hear no more from that source. And for another, the Germans
would gladly divert attention from the Libyan connection since their own
security was none too clever in checking an unaccompanied suitcase which passed
through Frankfurt airport from Malta on its way to London and New York.

That suitcase is the one said to have contained the explosive which blew up the
Pan-Am Jumbo. Tam Dalyell, diligent MP, has also pressed the case against other
possible culprits such as Syria and Iran. The trouble is that, however strongly
some may suspect them, there is no evidence to show their involvement.

We expect our police to produce evidence - and that is a hard task when a plane
is blown to smithereens and four million pieces of debris have to be collected
from 845 square miles of a winter landscape.

Yet that is what the Scottish police achieved. And from that mass of confusion,
Britain's leading forensic men identified a selection of blast -damaged garments
which seemed to come from the same suitcase as the explosive device. When news
of the mysterious suitcase finally reached Chief Constable George Esson and
Detective Chief Superintendent John Orr, who was

leading the investigation,

they knew they were on to something.

Harry Bell and his team of detectives were on their way to Malta. And with a
combination of brilliant detective work and good luck they not only traced the
makers of the garments but found they had all been sold from one little shop -
and all to one man!

Shopkeeper Tony Gauci remembered the odd purchase of random items and he
remembered the man who bought them. Is that the kind of evidence you overlook?

The Scottish police had done a fine job, subsequently pinpointing two men they
wanted to interview. The Crown Office had its case - but remains frustrated in
the attempt to apprehend the accused. Some say it will never come to court.
Then again, Colonel Gaddafi will not live forever and a new regime may wish to
establish better relations with the West.

Meanwhile, the key figures have moved on to other things. John Orr became Chief
Constable of Strathclyde and Harry Bell is one of his senior men. George Esson
took early retirement and returned to

his native North-east where

he is public affairs manager for Shell Expro. As the Tall Ships assembled in
Aberdeen, he was helping to entertain the captains, after which they went to the
roof of the Shell building to watch the fireworks display. That night

sky would remind George Esson of a less happy occasion - the one in which
justice has yet to be done.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1997 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              120 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             July 21, 1997, Monday

Ulster: the road to peace: Cynicism among the security agencies

BYLINE: Steve Boggan and Jason Bennetto

SECTION: NEWS; Page  4

LENGTH: 575 words


A week before the IRA rocked London's Docklands with a huge bomb, ending the
last fragile ceasefire, Sir Hugh Annesley, chief constable of the RUC at the
time, was asked whether the terrorists were planning to end the peace.

His answer, which must still haunt him, is indicative of the extent to which the
security services were taken by surprise.

"Are they intent on doing anything to breach the ceasefire? On the intelligence
patterns at the moment, the answer is no," he said. In the immediate aftermath
of the Docklands bombing, MI5, which has overall responsibility for terrorist
surveillance and intelligence-gathering, took the blame for failing to spot
warning signs that an IRA "spectacular" was imminent.

Scotland Yard's Anti-Terrorist Branch and Special Branch officers were quick to
leak details of warnings they had given, but the bickering served only to
highlight weaknesses in communication and command structures within the
intelligence community.

Yesterday, security sources were expressing profound cynicism over the latest
ceasefire and insisted that they would not let their guard down again.

During the last ceasefire, IRA cells remained active, conducting dry runs in
preparation for the resumption of hostilities.

Units were monitored carrying out operations that included realistic elements of
bombing runs without involving actual bombs.

Some known terrorists were found to be identifying potential targets and
monitoring their movements in preparation for possible assassination attempts.
Others continued to stockpile weapons and explosives.

One cell, whose members were recently sentenced to 35 years in prison, used the
lull in the violence to prepare a bombing campaign aimed at destroying strategic
electrical sub-stations in and around London, a move likely to have caused chaos
and loss of life.

A joint MI5 and police operation caught the terrorists last July before they
could plant their bombs, but officers later realised that the cell had been
making timing devices and studying maps of the national grid at public libraries
during the ceasefire.

That operation and another two months later, in which ten tonnes of explosives
were seized, are believed to be the result of much better co-operation between
the security services since the appointment of Commander John Grieve as head of
the Anti-Terrorist Branch.

He took up his post shortly before the Docklands bombing - too soon before it,
colleagues say, to have made a difference - and has fostered closer ties with
MI5 ever since.

During the last ceasefire, there was a small drift of resources away from
anti-terrorist activities within MI5 and Special Branch offices, but that will
not happen this time, according to an MI5 source.

"We will not let our guard down for one moment," he said. "It is clear that the
IRA carried on planning atrocities during the last ceasefire and we did what we
could to monitor that. There was criticism at the time, but we felt much of that
was not justified.

"However, this time, all the parties involved feel better prepared to tackle the
threat posed by IRA cells on the mainland. On the evidence of the last
ceasefire, IRA units in Britain may continue to carry out dry runs, stockpile
weapons and identify possible targets. It is our job to ensure that they do not
do those things undetected. They won't stop their work and we won't stop ours."


LOAD-DATE: July 21, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1997 Independent Print Ltd

                              121 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                            July 31, 1997, Thursday

CARNAGE AT MARKET AS BOMBERS GO ON RAMPAGE;
          WORLD LEADERS UNITE IN CONDEMNATION AFTER 13 DIE IN SUICIDE BLAST
ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 457 words


Two suicide bombers blew themselves to pieces in a crowded outdoor vegetable
market yesterday, killing at least 11 people and wounding more than 150 others.

The bombings at noon in Jerusalem led President Clinton to postpone a new
initiative by US envoy Dennis Ross to try to break the impasse between
Palestinian and Israeli negotiators.

Mr Ross had been scheduled to start talks in the region on Thursday.  No new
date for his trip was set.

Israeli television reported last night that the militant group Islamic Jihad had
claimed responsibility for the attack, but gave no details.

"The slaughter was aimed directly at innocent Israelis and, make no mistake, it
was also aimed at the majority of Israelis, Palestinians and Arabs who want a
lasting and just peace," President Clinton told reporters at the White House.

Mr Clinton said the visit to the region by Mr Ross, who had been expected to
present new ideas on ending a peacemaking deadlock over Israeli settlement
building, was being postponed to allow a period of mourning.

Israel clamped a closure on the West Bank and Gaza Strip and prime minister
Benjamin Netanyahu demanded Palestinian President Yasser Arafat crack down on
Muslim militants in the wake of the deadliest single attack on Israelis since
March 1996.

"We expect the Palestinian Authority and its leader to begin to fight terror as
they are committed to, as they haven't done until today, that they will take all
the steps required against these terrorists and their operators who roam free,"
he told a news conference after visiting wounded people in hospital.

Britain, France and Germany coupled their condemnations of the bombings with
appeals to keep peace hopes alive.

Foreign Secretary Robin Cook said: "I deplore the callousness of terrorists
capable of such an atrocity. The aim of those who planted these bombs was to
derail the peace process. They must not be allowed to succeed."

In the statement, released by the British consulate-general in Jerusalem, Mr
Cook said Prime Minister Tony Blair had sent a personal message of condolence to
Mr Netanyahu.

The European Union, which has been mediating between Israel and the
Palestinians, strongly condemned the attack and urged Israelis not to let it
derail the peace process.

"The European Union presidency calls on the government and people of Israel not
to be provoked by those who want to torpedo peace," Luxembourg foreign minister
Jacques Poos said in a statement on behalf of the 15- nation bloc.

It was Mr Netanyahu's decision in March to plough ahead with another project,
the construction of a 6,500-home Jewish settlement on the outskirts of east
Jerusalem, that plunged peacemaking into crisis.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRIM TASK: a body is loaded onto a stretcher;; YOUNG VICTIM: a woman
carries a bloodied child who was injured in the double suicide attack in
Jerusalem to an ambulance

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1997 Century Newspapers Limited

                              122 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            August 2, 1997, Saturday

TODAY'S TELEVISION; Gerard Gilbert recommends Planet Islam Sun 7.10pm BBC2

BYLINE: Gerard Gilbert

SECTION: TELEVISION; Page  28

LENGTH: 597 words


The traditional route for aspiring British rock acts begins with an encouraging
review by the NME, followed by A&R-men packed gigs at some trendy Camden club
and then, after a chart-busting album or two, a headlining set at Glastonbury
and sell-out week at Wembley. Once you've made it in Britain, of course, America
beckons. Chances are, though, that America will spit you back out again.

Bush have done it all the wrong way round. This band of Londoners pack sports
arenas across the Mid-West with their brand of angsty power rock, sell twice as
many records in the States as Oasis, and yet you probably won't have heard of
them. Their thoughtful, hard-working lead singer, Gavin Rossdale, may be the
stuff of headlines anywhere between Maine and Minnesota, but as far as the
British press is concerned, he is less than the dust on Noel and Patsy's
front-door mat.

Now, according to this week's The Works (Sun BBC2), Bush couldn't care less what
the Times or Hello! think or report, but the one thing that they desperately
seem to crave is recognition from the NME - and by extension, rootsy critical
recognition in this country. To that end, they have recently done a tour of
Britain - a sell-out tour, as it happened, that produced a hit single and a Top
Five album. And after all those sweaty, gut-busting gigs in Nottingham, Penzance
and Aberdeen, what does the NME have to say?  "Bush, bless them, are quite
clearly three years adrift musically and spiritually from London in February
1997". It would probably just have been easier for Bush to simply buy the NME
and close it down.

The enlightening The Dynasty: the Nehru-Gandhi Story (Sat BBC2) continues with
the story of Jawaharlal Nehru's prime ministership - the tricky politics of
unalignment, the assassination of Nehru's mentor, Gandhi, and, of course, the
terrible price of Partition. The biggest human migration in history, 14 million
Hindus, Sikhs and Muslims crossed paths in late 1947, often murderously, as
Pakistan was painfully born in the former Muslim heartlands of northern India.

According to the first part of Planet Islam (Sun BBC2), a different sort of
partition, this time between Christians and Muslims, is currently happening all
over urban France. Traditional racial intolerance of France's five million
Muslim citizens has been exacerbated since the Paris Metro bombings of July 1995
- and now any woman wearing a Muslim headscarf or any young North African with a
beard is a suspected terrorist. Phil Rees's forceful film looks at how Khaled
Kelkal, the young Lyonnais bombing suspect shot dead by police, has become a
martyr among young French Muslims.  Meanwhile, the National Front vote keeps
going up and up.

If you fancy, instead, the escape of a well-made, straightforward police
procedural, then the imported mini-series Innocent Victims (Sat BBC1) fits the
bill snugly. This follows the true story of the wrongful conviction (and
sentencing to death) of a young army sergeant for a rape and triple homicide in
South Carolina in 1985. The first part of Game of War (Sun C4) goes back even
further, to the Crimean War and the Battle of Balaclava, which is re-fought in
the studio by competing sets of war-gamers, refereed by Angela Rippon. Two
senior military figures, abiding by the rules laid down in a Ministry of Defence
tactics manual (rule one, deny everything) come up with the strategy. The
outcome, however, is decided by the roll of a two dice.  War-war may always be
better than jaw-jaw, to paraphrase Churchill, but four-four is better still.


LOAD-DATE: August 04, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1997 Independent Print Ltd

                              123 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                             August 3, 1997, Sunday

JAIL MUM WITH BABY BEGS TO BE FREED;
ULSTER MUM STARTS EIGHT MONTH JAIL SENTENCE WITH HER TEN-WEEK- OLD BABY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 147 words


An Ulster mum starting eight months in a Scottish jail with her ten-week-old
baby said yesterday: "Someone please get us out of here." Mother-of-four Nicola
Orr, 26, had claimed she knew of terrorist bombing targets in mainland Britain.
It took police only hours to realise that the call, made while she was drunk,
was a hoax.  Orr's grandmother, Jane McConnell, of Ballywater, Co. Down, said:
"Her other children miss her desperately." Civil rights experts said the
sentence ran against the grain of penal reforms.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1997 MGN Ltd.

                              124 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            August 9, 1997, Saturday

Foreign dissidents face jail in crackdown on terrorism

BYLINE: Jason Bennetto Crime Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Page  8

LENGTH: 311 words


Foreign extremists in Britain plotting to carry out terrorism abroad could be
jailed under proposals being considered by ministers.

The Home Office confirmed yesterday that it was at an early stage of examining
whether to introduce new legislation to outlaw dissidents conspiring to commit
crimes in other countries.

The move follows growing concern that London is being used as a base by
extremists to plot or finance terrorist attacks.

The powers could be used to silence people such as the Saudi dissident Mohamed
al-Masari who has waged a campaign by fax machine from Britain for the violent
overthrow of the Saudi royal family.

Israel has also complained to Britain that radical Arab groups such as Hamas and
Islamic Jihad are using London as a conduit for funds.

Jack Straw, the Home Secretary, said in a letter to the Board of Jewish Deputies
that Labour was "carefully considering the question of introducing legislation
that would give the courts jurisdiction over acts of conspiracy performed in
this country in respect of criminal acts abroad".

A private member's Bill by the Tory MP Nigel Waterson during the last Parliament
had a similar objective but failed because there was no quorum in the Commons.
This led to a slanging match between the parties, each blaming the other for the
break down.

Mr Masari successfully fought an attempt last year by Michael Howard, the then
Tory Home Secretary, to have him deported to the Caribbean island of Dominica.

Mr Howard was forced to make a U-turn after a High Court ruling that he had
circumvented the UN Convention on Refugees for "diplomatic and trade reasons".
His presence in Britain was an embarrassment for the Tory Government. It had
been keen to maintain friendly relations with the Saudis in order to preserve
pounds 20bn of arms sales and protect jobs.


LOAD-DATE: August 11, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1997 Independent Print Ltd

                              125 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                            August 11, 1997, Monday

UNIONISTS MUST FORM A COMMON FRONT TO WIN BATTLES

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1057 words


Last week it was No Surrender with the final NIO capitulation to Sinn Fein
demands. On Wednesday the picture was complete with the resounding No Surrender
from Gerry Adams. Unyielding intransigence, once the hallmark of unionism, has
now been openly adopted by the forces of republicanism.

He spelt it out clearly and unmistakably - nothing less than "Brits out and a
united Ireland." Not the slightest question of handing in a single weapon or an
ounce of Semtex until there was a final agreement, an agreement acceptable to
Sinn Fein.

He was underlining once again the unassailable fact that violence - physical
force - pays. The pathetic parsing and analysis of his every statement by the
bleating defeatists of the NIO, in a hopeless search for a hint of compromise,
serves only to emphasise their prostration.

An indication of Mo's piteous inability to face the reality of what the IRA
stands for was her apology to those who were upset and angered "by her early
meeting" with Sinn Fein, just 17 days after the latest nominal IRA ceasefire.

Her justification was that "we have worked hard to get an IRA ceasefire".  For
"worked hard" read "sold the pass at every turn".

And let it be clear that the use of such a phrase is in no sense vituperative or
emotional but a clinical, objective description of government behaviour.

The aim of the Government is to halt IRA bombing and murder in British cities
and to extricate itself from the Irish political bog. Faced with the IRA No
Surrender it has come to the logical conclusion that the only way to achieve the
overall aim is a phased process of capitulation, the misnamed peace process on
which it is now firmly embarked.

For every process must result in a product and once the product has been
identified it becomes a question of packaging and marketing.

In this case, of so masking and disguising the real ingredients as to make them
palatable, if not to the unionist community - for that is a forlorn hope - but
to the broad, undiscriminating swathes of public opinion in Britain and beyond,
notably the USA.

The process of transfer in powers to Dublin, the IRA agenda, has been gathering
momentum and is quite explicit in the Framework Documents. But it began with the
Anglo-Irish diktat of November 1985. Then it was brought home to unionists just
what was in store.

The late Harold McCusker movingly described its devastating effect on a life
-long British Ulsterman. "I stood in the cold outside the gates of Hillsborough
Castle and waited for them to come out and give me the agreement second hand.
(An agreement negotiated behind his back, without his involvement or consent). I
felt desolate because as I stood in the cold outside Hillsborough Castle
everything that I hold dear turned to ashes in my mouth."

Yet he had been repeatedly told by journalists in previous weeks just what the
agreement contained. And it had been repeatedly denied by government that such
an agreement had been reached or even existed. It was a pattern we have all got
too used to.

Opposition to the diktat was immediate and universal throughout Unionist monster
rallies, disobedience encouraged, resignations of MPs - all, in the end, to no
effect. Nor the most significant element in the whole enormous reaction was that
the loyalist paramilitaries did not feel that it warranted war, physical
violence, murder. And that is the only thing that has been irrefutably shown to
get results. In terms of changing government attitudes and by endowing t hose
that employ it with the power to galvanise their followers and to win votes.

Let me make it clear that to state that fact is not to be taken as advocating
violence but simply, without hypocrisy, as telling it like it is. As we move
into a phase of crunch decisions, what could prove for unionism the last ditch,
the attitude of grassroots unionists, of those who support and provide manpower
for the loyalist paramilitaries will be crucial.

Consider the difference in the status and influence of the loyalists as compared
with the IRA.

The IRA are now embraced by the Dublin government and by the SDLP. The picture
of Ahern, Adams and Hume, three men with a single aim, sums it up. Adams is
telling Mo Mowlam what she can and cannot do; he is about to leave for the USA
and a fundraising tour. The IRA could not ask for more.

What of the loyalists? They are largely pariahs, shunned by the major unionist
parties, condemned by their former friends in the DUP and feeling betrayed and
used by leading proponents of the Unionism for which they have suffered death
and prison.

But loyalism has now one major plus - intelligent and articulated spokesman such
as David Ervine, Gary McMichael, Billy Hutchinson and the old warrior Gusty
Spence. They speak for the main loyalist bodies - the wilder fringes have been
totally counter productive - and they will not easily again become the cat's
paws of the orthodox Unionist parties. In their declared willingness to talk to
Sinn Fein they are now temporarily the white-haired boys of the NIO but their
raison d'etre and paramount aim is, and can only be, the maintenance of the
Union. In their attitude to disarming, mirroring that of the IRA, they are
simply recognising that their present respect and potential clout rest solely in
their capacity for violence.

If the Unionist parties are going to win the coming battles they must not only
form a common front but they have to bring the main loyalist leaders and
spokesmen in from the cold. They must recognise that the last bulwark against
coercion remains, as it proved in 1912, resistance by physical force, however
much the compliant chatterers mutter and moan into their muesli and shrink
behind their sleeves.

Yes, we have government guarantees and "triple locks" galore. We have the
putative safeguard of what has been dubbed the "inviolable principle of consent.
But these are all too easily dodged and fudged and what of the IRA refusal to
even pay lip-service to consent?

If my forebodings and scepticism turn out to be without foundation wonderful. An
accommodation is possible. But if the confrontation comes, then the only
alternative to surrender is an organised and disciplined re-enactment of 1912 or
1974. To think or dream otherwise is to feed the wind and folly.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: OLD WARRIOR: Gusty Spence

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1997 Century Newspapers Limited

                              126 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                August 12, 1997

ISRAEL ACCUSES BRITAIN OVER CHARITY 'THAT FUNDS KILLERS';
ISLAMIC BOMB TERROR 'IS MASTERMINDED FROM LONDON'

BYLINE: David Williams

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 747 words


ISRAEL has accused Britain of allowing alleged Islamic terrorists to mastermind
bombing campaigns from London.

The Israelis want the Government to close down Interpal, a Palestinian charity
in Britain, claiming it is the fundraising arm of the militant Islamic
organisation Hamas.

Similar pleas are being made to France and Germany, where Interpal also
operates.

The call comes in the wake of last month's massacre by suicide bombers of 13
people in a Jerusalem marketplace. Hamas has been blamed.

Israel claims that orders for terrorist operations have been issued from London
by 'commanders' hiding behind asylum and terrorism laws.

They will press through security and diplomatic channels for changes to the
Prevention of Terrorism Act to make it an offence to conspire to commit
terrorist acts in other countries. At present, so long as militants commit no
offences within this country, police are powerless to act.

The Israelis claim Hamas and other fundamentalist groups have turned London into
their international operations centre.

More than $7million a year donated in Britain or passing through the London
banking system is helping fund Hamas, they say.

The London office co-ordinates European fundraising and channels money collected
in Saudi Arabia and Gulf states. The funds help support several hundred families
of Hamas prisoners and Hamas suicide bombers, according to Israeli intelligence.

'If you give money to organisations that kill people who aren't British then it
seems to be OK,' said a source.

'We have asked for this to be dealt with several times. We are going to ask
again.' British Moslems have denied that the money they raise to help
Palestinians on the West Bank and Gaza is reaching the suicide bombers.

Ibrahim Hewitt, a Leicester-based Interpal trustee, said in a newspaper
interview: 'Our money goes to the poor and needy in the occupied territories.

We don't want to get sucked into politics. It's outrageous if a foreign country
is trying to put pressure on a registered charity here.' Interpal's accounts
were frozen last year, but a two-month Charity Commission inquiry which gave it
the all-clear was superficial, according to Israel.

The Israelis say Middle Eastern terror suspects are still living freely in
Britain.

They cite the case of Ramadan Shallah, who became head of the Damascus-based
Islamic Jihad, an offshoot of Hamas which has claimed responsibility for a
series of terrorist attacks against Israeli targets.

Shallah spent five years studying economics at Durham University. Israeli
sources claim he used the course as cover to co-ordinate activities in the
Middle East.

Some foreign governments have been frustrated that Britain, despite its requests
for help in connection with IRA terror suspects, has fallen short of curbing the
activities of Islamic fundamentalist groups. The Foreign Office said last night:
'If Israel or the Palestinians for that matter have evidence that Interpal has
acted illegally, we would be very interested to see it.'

Whitehall sources said there was no current evidence to suggest funds are being
raised in the UK to support Hamas terrorist attacks in Israel or anywhere else.

YASSER ARAFAT was accused yesterday of stalling attempts to salvage the Middle
East peace process by refusing to clamp down on terrorism.

The charge came from Israel after a three-way meeting with Palestinians and the
U.S.

White House envoy Dennis Ross arranged for the Palestinian president's first
meeting with Israeli officials since last month's attack on a Jerusalem market
by Hamas suicide bombers.

But after the meeting on the West Bank, a spokesman for Israeli premier Benjamin
Netanyahu said: 'We're not interested in meetings for the sake of meetings.'
Danny Naveh, Netanyahu's cabinet secretary, went on: 'We very much hope Ross's
efforts will yield results, but until now we've seen no real change on the part
of the Palestinian authority in everything that has to do with its war on
terrorism.' The Palestine Liberation Organisation said Ross brought Israeli
representatives to a late-night meeting with Arafat. An official said: 'The
parties have agreed to resume trilateral security meetings.' Netanyahu has said
peace talks will not resume until Arafat arrests militants as he says he pledged
to do in peace deals. He said: 'Things will be evaluated on the extent to which
the Palestinian Authority fulfils their commitments.'


LOAD-DATE: September 3, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: ARAFAT: ACCUSED

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1997 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              127 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                August 20, 1997

Temptation to condone terrorism

BYLINE: Paul Wilkinson

SECTION: Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1274 words


ONE of the items that is likely to figure in the Government's future programme
is an amendment to the law to allow those who conspire to commit acts of
terrorism abroad to be prosecuted in the UK. This is one of many recommendations
by Lord Lloyd of Berwick's report of his Inquiry Into Legislation Against
Terrorism (Cm3420' 1966).

Many governments and security experts favour this change because they see it as
closing a legal loophole at a time when sophisticated terrorist organisations
are increasingly using international support networks.

For example, Ramzi Yousef who was recently convicted in the US for conspiring to
blow up American airliners in Asia and the Pacific, had acquired his knowledge
of engineering as a student in the UK, helped to launch a new terrorist group in
the Philippines, and had links with Afghanistan, Pakistan as well as the United
States, where he is being tried on charges that he was involved in the World
Trade Centre bombing of 1993.

The authorities in Israel, France and Sri Lanka, to cite three other examples
have claimed that their key terrorist opponents, respectively Hamas, the
Algerian GIA, and the Tamil Tigers, have been using London as a base for fund
-raising and planning operations. As Britain calls on its allies for co
-operation in its own struggle against the IRA it would be highly embarrassing
if Britain could be shown to be a safe haven or overseas base for other
terrorist groups.

As Lord Lloyd observes in his report, the most effective kind of support
provided by UK-based groups for terrorist activity overseas is raising funds.
Lord Lloyd proposes that the power of proscription should be extended to cover
international as well as domestic terrorism. Once an organisation has been
proscribed it would then become an offence to be a member of the organisation or
to give or receive funds for its benefit. An application could be made for
restraint of the group's assets, pending proceedings leading to forfeiture. Lord
Lloyd is correct in claiming that this is the most efficient and speedy way to
hit terrorist assets because it overcomes the notoriously difficult problem of
having to prove a direct link between the funds raised abroad and specific
terrorist acts.

Earlier this year Nigel Waterson, a Conservative back bencher, attempted,
unsuccessfully, to get a Private Members Bill through the Commons which would
have allowed the prosecution of those conspiring to commit serious crimes,
including terrorism, overseas. However he met with strong opposition from Labour
back benchers and from civil liberties groups.

The main argument of the opponents was the so-called "Mandela problem". They
argued that if a genuine freedom fighter against an oppressive regime, such as
Nelson Mandela when he was leading the ANC's struggle against apartheid, had
visited the UK in the course of the conflict he could have been prosecuted.

For the Labour Government, proudly declaring its determination to pursue an
ethical foreign policy which gives human rights priority, the attempt to
legislate against terrorism internationally may seem to present insuperable
moral dilemmas but is this really so, or is the so-called Mandela problem a red
herring? Firstly we need to clearly differentiate between terrorism as a method
of struggle and the specific political causes for which it can be employed.
Terrorism is neither a political philosophy nor a synonym for political violence
and guerrilla war in general. It is a special form of violence involving the
deliberate killing and maiming of civilians. Hence the use of terrorism by
sub-state groups involves the same flagrant violation of the human rights of
civilians as acts of terror by repressive regimes.

We need, secondly, to bear in mind that the use of force against an oppressor
does not mean that the insurgents have no other choice but to commit acts of
terror against the civilian population. Absolute pacifists would rule out force,
even in self-defence, but most of us regard it as a lesser evil than submission
to an oppressor. But it would surely be wrong for the international community to
encourage or condone terrorism directed at the civilian populations of
non-democratic states. This would be to operate a double standard on human
rights.

Thirdly, we should also take account of the dangers involved for the very
survival of a resistance movement which uses terrorism against a heavily armed
and ruthless regime and reaps a whirlwind of repression.

Solidarity, and the other democratic resistance movements which struggled
against communist dictatorships during the Cold War, wisely avoided this mistake
and ultimately won their victories by political and moral campaigns directed
with great determination and skill. On the other hand there is not a single case
during the past 30 years of a dictatorship being overthrown by the use of
terrorism as the major weapon.

Moreover, the human-rights argument against condoning terrorism against
civilians in non-democratic states is greatly strengthened by the following
developments over recent years:

n Terrorist weapons and tactics have become far more lethal, as evidenced by
suicide bombings in public places, huge truck bombings in city centres, and
attempts to sabotage jumbo jets in mid air;

n Where terrorism becomes deeply entrenched as the main weapon in internal
conflict it becomes interwoven with organised crime, as in Colombia and other
Latin American countries, and becomes almost impossible to eradicate;

n It can inflict huge economic damage and cause wider inter-ethnic and religious
conflict;

n In some instances, for example in the Kashmir and Lebanon, terrorism has acted
as a catalyst for a wider international war.

Does the argument for condoning terrorism against non-democratic states gain
anything from invoking the name of President Nelson Mandela? He is by no means
the first great statesman to have been designated a "terrorist" by the regime he
opposed earlier in his career.

It is a matter of history that the ANC did set up an armed wing, the spear of
the nation, in 1961 in the wake of the Sharpeville Massacre in which the police
killed 69 blacks and wounded 180 during a demonstration against the pass laws.
It is true that this armed wing, in addition to acts of sabotage and rural
guerrilla attacks, did mount some bombings in city centres in which civilians
were killed. But these activities were roundly criticised by many supporters of
the ANC and were largely counter-productive as they provoked largescale
repression by the South African armed forces and police.

Let us make no mistake, President Mandela's great contribution since his release
from prison in 1990 has been to lead his people away from a strategy based on
violence, and by his unique gifts of statesmanship and magnanimity to build a
peaceful post-apartheid South African democracy. A Boer general once observed
that "Peace is a thousand times more difficult to make than war." President
Nelson Mandela's huge achievement has been to become one of the greatest
peacemakers of our age. It is a gross mischaracterisation of this achievement to
label him as a terrorist.

At the same time it is surely inconsistent with Britain's position on human
rights for us to condone the use of terrorism against civilians in non
-democratic states, ironically a policy officially abandoned by the leading
national liberation movements of our time, the ANC and the PLO, when they
entered their respective peace processes.

n Paul Wilkinson is Professor of International Relations at St Andrews
University.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Israel, July: death and mutilation as an outdoor market is shattered by
a terrorist bomb.

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1997 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              128 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           August 20, 1997, Wednesday

IRA prisoners given softer jail regime; Restrictions on 'most dangerous' 13
eased in run-up to peace talks

BYLINE: Jason Bennetto Crime Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Page  7

LENGTH: 498 words


The 13 most dangerous IRA prisoners held in Britain have been moved out of their
top- security units in the run-up to the Northern Ireland peace talks, it was
revealed yesterday.

The prisoners are to enjoy less restrictive regimes after having their security
status downgraded. The move was condemned by Unionists who accused the
Government of being weak on terrorism. Sinn Fein gave the news a guarded
welcome.

The men include the six terrorists jailed for 35 years each in July for
attempting to bring chaos to the South-east by blowing up electricity sub-
stations. This included senior IRA members Gerard Hanratty, 38, and John
Crawley, a 40-year-old former US Marine, who were released from prison terms
during the last ceasefire.

The move means that there will no longer be any IRA prisoners, either charged or
convicted, held in the three Special Secure Units at Belmarsh in south-east
London, Whitemoor in Cambridgeshire and Full Sutton in York.

Instead the men have been placed in the high-security wings of the three jails
plus prisons at Frankland, near Durham, Long Lartin, Worcestershire, and
Wakefield, West Yorkshire. The special unit at Full Sutton is now to be
"mothballed".

The decision to downgrade their security category from exceptional risk Category
A to high risk Category A follows information from MI5 and the police that the
risk of escape had decreased, the Prison Service said yesterday. One other
inmate, who has no terrorism links, has also been moved.

The men will now be allowed greater freedom to mix with other inmates and use
general facilities and can have "open visits" with relatives in which they will
be able to touch one another. All visitors to the secure units, which still hold
about 20 inmates, are prevented from contact with prisoners by a glass screen.
There are 27 IRA members in English jails.

Jack Straw, the Home Secretary, and Joyce Quin, the Prisons Minister, agreed to
the decision to move the IRA men. Coming four weeks before the start of talks on
the Province's future at which Sinn Fein is expected to be represented for the
first time, they are seen as a concession to nationalists who have long
criticised the conditions in which IRA members are kept.

John Taylor, the deputy leader of the Ulster Unionists, accused ministers of
acting "recklessly" and of ignoring police advice in the face of a continuing
terrorist threat. "It seems to me that the police on both sides of the border
remain concerned that there will be a return to IRA violence," he said.

Ian Paisley Jnr, the Democratic Unionist Party's justice spokesman, claimed the
Government was preparing public opinion for an early release programme for
terrorist prisoners. "This status downgrade will . . . weaken the structure and
control exercised over some of the most dangerous terrorist criminals in
Europe," he said.

Sinn Fein said it will continue to press for the transfer and release of all
prisoners.


LOAD-DATE: August 20, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1997 Independent Print Ltd

                              129 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                           August 20, 1997, Wednesday

IRA prisoners to have easier life

BYLINE: Richard Ford and Martin Fletcher

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 538 words


THE Government was accused last night of capitulating to the IRA after eight
convicted terrorists and five men charged with terrorist offences were moved out
of the most secure jail units in Britain.

They left the "prisons within prisons" at three top security jails after the
Prison Service downgraded their security classification from Category A
"exceptional risk" to Category A "high risk".

It means they can have physical contact with visitors, use the chapel, library,
football pitch, gymnasium, workshops and education facilities and mix with a
wider range of fellow prisoners.

Among those no longer considered an "exceptional risk" are the six men each
given 35 years last month after being convicted of a plot to bomb London's
electricity supply and a man facing a double murder charge in connection with
the bombing in London Docklands in February 1996, that marked the end of the
earlier ceasefire.

The decision to lower the security classification was seen as a government
response to Sinn Fein since the latest IRA ceasefire.

It provoked a furious re sponse among Unionist politicans in Northern Ireland,
who accused ministers of capitulating to IRA demands but was welcomed by Sinn
Fein and the Irish Government.

John Taylor, deputy leader of the Ulster Unionist Party, condemned the decision,
saying: "I do believe the Government is beginning to act recklessly and seem not
to be taking the advice of the police on issues of security because it seems to
me that the police on both sides of the border remain concerned that there will
be a return to IRA violence."

Ian Paisley Jr, the Democratic Unionist Party's justice spokesman, said the IRA
prisoners would be "penning letters of thanks to Home Secretary Jack Straw" and
accused the Government of being "weak on terrorists".

He said the downgrading was the first step towards granting republican prisoners
early releases.

Officially the move to downgrade the security categorisation was a Prison
Service operational decision made by Phil Wheatley, director of the the
country's top security jails.

A category A "exceptional risk" inmate is one who is considered to "pose a
danger to the public, the police or the security of the state" and who has links
with organisations with the resources and ability to launch an armed attack on a
top security jail.

A Prison Service spokesman said that Jack Straw, the Home Secretary, and Joyce
Quin, the Prisons Minister, had been informed of Mr Wheatley's decision.

The spokesman added: "The move is based on a reduction in security risk and
follows thorough assessment by the Prison Service in consultation with the
police."

The decision means that there is not a convicted IRA terrorist or person facing
an Irish-related terrorist charge in one of the special secure units at Full
Sutton jail near York, Belmarsh in Woolwich and Whitemoor, near March, in
Cambridgeshire.

As a result of the decision the Full Sutton unit is to be "mothballed" but the
Prison Service said it could open immediately if required.

Last week the Irish Government resumed its programme of early releases for
republican prisoners, freeing two men convicted on relatively minor charges.


LOAD-DATE: August 21, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1997 Times Newspapers Limited

                              130 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            August 22, 1997, Friday

Kurd extradited to Germany on terrorist charge

BYLINE: Jason Bennetto Crime Correspondent

SECTION: INTERNATIONAL; Page  12

LENGTH: 329 words


A Kurdish leader has been extradited to Germany to face charges of masterminding
a series of terrorist attacks after spending 33 months in a British jail
fighting deportation.

Supporters of Kani Yilmaz, European spokesman for the Kurdistan Workers' Party
or PKK, which is fighting a guerrilla campaign against the Turkish authorities
for Kurdish independence, yesterday accused the British government of supporting
state terrorism.

Mr Yilmaz, 47, also known as Faysal Dunlayichi, is accused of playing a leading
role in planning nearly 140 arson attacks on Turkish businesses, banks, travel
agencies and other interests throughout Germany in 1993.  The PKK are outlawed
in Germany, where one man was killed in a restaurant arson.He was arrested in
London outside the House of Commons in October 1994 as he was about to meet a
Labour MP and a peer to discuss the Kurdish issue. He had been allowed into
Britain on a number of occasions with the permission of immigration officials.

Mr Yilmaz and his supporters, who include a number of Labour MPs, have been
fighting a Germany extradition order, but Jack Straw, the Home Secretary, has
agreed to it.

They believe he could face imprisonment in Germany for his political beliefs.
He and other party members have highlighted widespread human rights abuses
against the Kurds by the Turkish government.

His imprisonment at Belmarsh high security jail in south London led to street
battles with Kurdish demonstrators and protests by more than 2,000 Kurds outside
the Home Office.

Mark Campbell, a member of the Kurdistan Solidarity Committee, a campaign group
in London, said that Mr Yilmaz, who arrived in Germany on Wednesday, was
determined to fight his case in court.

He added: "There is supposed to be freedom of speech in Britain. A political
representative should be allowed into this country to talk about peaceful
solutions without fear of arrest."

thousands of Kurds live.


LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1997 Independent Print Ltd

                              131 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                August 23, 1997

Couple held over false rape report

SECTION: Pg. 10

LENGTH: 534 words


Larnaca: A British mother of four and her boyfriend were detained in Cyprus
yesterday for sentencing on Monday after confessing to filing a false police
report that the woman was raped. Thirty-year-old divorcee Susan Michelle
Warburton and Paul George Shearsmith, 26, from Stockport, told police that
Warburton was raped in her hotel room at the resort of Protaras by a hotel
employee 24 hours earlier.

But the holidaymakers retracted the complaint after being questioned. They
admitted to lying in order to get compensation from an insurance company,
detectives said.

Tutsis massacred

Kigali: Attackers believed to be Hutu insurgents attacked a camp for Tutsi
refugees in Rwanda early yesterday, killing 107 and wounding 30, the UN refugee
agency said. The attackers set fire to tents housing 8000 refugees from the
Masisi region in northeastern Congo, shooting people and slashing them with
machetes.

Troubled prayer

PARIS: Pope John Paul clashed with France's ruling Socialists yesterday by
visiting the tomb of a leading anti-abortionist, defying their warning that his
trip would encourage anti-abortion activists to challenge French laws.

Bomb trial

Copenhagen: Three Danish neo-Nazis accused of posting letter bombs to targets in
Britain go on trial in Copenhagen on Monday. Danish police named the addressees
as TV presenter Sharron Davies, who is married to black athlete Derek Redmond;
far-right group Combat 18; and the Anti-Fascist Action organisation.

Beheadings

RIYADH: Saudi Arabia beheaded a Pakistani drug smuggler yesterday and a Saudi
murderer the day before, raising to 82 the number of people executed in the
kingdom this year.

Marsh bodies

VALENCIA: Interpol was called in yesterday to help identify four men whose
bodies were found submerged in marshland on the outskirts of Valencia on Spain's
south-east coast. Police believe they are the victims of a drugs war.

Silo victims

PARIS: Rescue workers yesterday found a tenth body in the rubble of a grain silo
that blew up near Bordeaux two days ago. One person was still missing, rescue
officials said on Friday night.

Ferry drownings

Patna: Twenty five people were feared drowned when an overcrowded ferry boat
capsized on a river in eastern India yesterday. The vessel turned over in the
Morhar River west of Patna, the capital of Bihar state.

Sex abuser dies

DUBLIN: A Roman Catholic priest whose child-molesting crimes helped topple an
Irish government died from a heart attack in jail yesterday. Brendan Smyth, 71,
was serving a 12-year sentence after pleading guilty to 74 charges of sexual
abuse on boys and girls.

Angola deaths

LUANDA: Pro-government paramilitary troops killed 17 people and wounded 12 more
in Angola, according to a report by the UN peace commission.

Double trouble

Brownsville: Three people were killed during a gun battle yesterday between
gangs of drug traffickers in Mexico, news agency Notimex said. Two men died in a
shootout in the city of Matamoros, across the border from Brownsville, Texas. A
third man died when both gangs took their wounded to the same hospital, where
their chance encounter sparked another gun battle.

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1997 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              132 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            August 24, 1997, Sunday

Revered and reviled: Profile: Colin Blakemore; Ros Wynne-Jones finds a calm
rationality in the Oxford professor who provokes public outrage; profile; Colin
Blakemore

BYLINE: Ros Wynne-Jones

SECTION: COMMENT; Page  17

LENGTH: 1637 words


Colin Blakemore says he hates the idea of animal experimentation and wants to
stop it "as much as the Animal Liberation Front". He says he rarely eats meat
because he cannot bear the thought of the intensive farming conditions most
livestock suffer. He is devoted to the family cat.

These things are, in themselves, not particularly unusual. But from the man who
is Britain's most vocal supporter of vivisection, they are unexpected.  To
animal rights groups, Professor Blakemore has been public enemy number one for
over 10 years. To the extremist wing of the animal liberation movement, he has
been a prime target for violent attacks. To the British public, he has been the
scientist who sewed up kittens' eyelids.

Last week two things happened to the Oxford Professor of Physiology.  Firstly,
his property was once more the target of a terrorist attack, with paint stripper
thrown over a car parked in the family drive and the tyres slashed. Secondly, he
took over the latest in a series of distinguished academic positions, becoming
President of the British Association for the Advancement of Science (BAAS). This
kind of a week is typical of the extremes of the 10 years since the pressure
group Animal Aid first highlighted Blakemore's work with kittens. On the one
hand he was once more being feted; on the other denounced.

The professor's new post is a prestigious one. It was at the BAAS, which was
formed in the early 19th century to promote public understanding of science,
that the discovery of the electron was first announced, the word "dinosaur" was
first used, and the subject of evolution was famously debated by Bishop
Wilberforce and Thomas Huxley. As science has now broken up into specialist
academies, new discoveries are rarely presented at the Association nowadays, but
its conceived role - promoting public understanding - is arguably more relevant
today than ever before, in a Britain in a cold sweat over cloning and gene
therapy, BSE and global warming.

Professor Blakemore is looking forward to his presidency immensely. He believes
scientists should be accountable to the public, he has himself tried to be
accountable in his own work. Yet, despite these efforts, in a public vote Colin
Blakemore, the kitten experimenter, would quite possibly be the least popular
man in science today.

To put it in the strongest emotive terms, this is a man who has sewed up the
eyelids of kittens, effectively to blind them, studied the effect on their
brains with electrodes, then killed them to study them further by cutting up
their brains.

On the other hand, in similarly emotive terms, this is the man who has helped
children see. The kitten experiments, in the end, considerably advanced medical
understanding of amblyopia - the most common form of child blindness - to the
point where it can now be cured.

If you accept that the former led to latter - which many of his opponents do not
and many of his peers do - the question of whether the professor is a torturer
or a scapegoat scientist comes down to whether you think the kitten deaths were
an acceptable means to the end of saving children's sight. And on this question,
Britain is very much divided.

When Colin Blakemore, a working class boy from Coventry, arrived at Corpus
Christi College, Cambridge, in 1962 with a state scholarship, he intended to be
a doctor. "It was the only profession I had really heard of," he says. He left
with a first class degree and departed for the neurosensory laboratory at the
University of California, Berkeley.

After completing a Phd, he returned to Cambridge, where a promising experimental
career set him up to become, in 1975, the Oxford Professor of Physiology, at the
age of just 35. Contemporaries remember a confident young man blessed with
youthful good looks, perhaps a little over-ambitious and publicity conscious,
but both charming and clever.

Now 53, he still runs every day and completes marathons in under three hours. He
has three children aged 18, 20 and 22, of whom he is intensely proud, and a
wife, Andree, who is exhausted by 10 years of looking over her shoulder, but she
supports her husband absolutely.

Beyond these snippets, the details of the private Colin Blakemore, a man who has
learned to guard his personal life in the same way that he has learned to check
under the family car for bombs each day, are shadowy.

In sharp contrast, the details of his transition from brilliant young professor
to vilified vivisectionist are precise. The transformation came quite suddenly
in March 1987.

According to Blakemore, as the 1986 Act of Parliament on vivisection came into
force the pressure group Animal Aid decided it needed a change of tactics. "They
conceived a strategy to single out one particular individual and to focus on
their work. They looked for someone working not on rats or mice, but on familiar
animals, like cats or dogs, and on young animals.  I'm afraid that person was
me. My work was a ready-made cause."

Gill Langley, a scientific consultant to Animal Aid in the 1980s who had studied
under Blakemore at Cambridge, wrote the AA pamphlet Blinded By Science that
first drew attention to her former lecturer's work. "I very much regret what has
since happened to Colin Blakemore and his family, the way they have been
targeted," she says. "But you cannot not publish something because of what a
handful of extremists might do with that information." Dr Langley says she
considers Blakemore to be "a man of integrity with a particular blind spot". She
adds: "You know, I suspect we agree about lots of other things. The stereotype
of the sadistic scientist is a very convenient icon for people's anger and I
believe it is very rarely true.  I do not believe it is true of Colin
Blakemore."

The same week the campaign was launched with the publication of Langley's
pamphlet, a series of questions about Blakemore's work were raised in the House
of Commons. The Sunday Mirror newspaper published pages of allegations against
Blakemore, "where they had falsified photographs, drawing in stitches on
pictures of kittens, onto their eyelids".

"I was advised by everyone to keep my head down and it would blow over,"
remembers Blakemore. "But I was so outraged by the lies and the slur against my
name, that I could not let it pass. I answered every letter from the public. I
got a Press Council ruling against the Sunday Mirror. I was investigated by the
Medical Research Council and they found nothing wrong with my work. I won every
step of the way."

Ironically, the press campaign against him also made him one of the first of the
media-friendly scientists, able to communicate complex scientific concepts in an
engaging way. In 1988 this quality - with the added pull of his sudden notoriety
- won him his own television series The Mind Machine.

But, in the meantime, something else happened. Blakemore became a terrorist
target as the extremist fringe of the animal liberation movement followed the
lead of the pressure groups in singling him out. "I was threatened.  My kids got
threats. My wife was threatened. We received envelopes with razor blades in
them, fake bombs and real bombs. Animal Aid retreated, washed their hands of me,
but it was too late."

Blakemore, however, would not retreat. Instead he became even more evangelical
in his desire to make people see how animal experimentation was essential to the
progress of science.

In 1993, a Christmas present wrapped in red and white wrapping paper that was
delivered to Professor Blakemore's house and handled by his children, turned out
to be stuffed with half a pound of explosives and needles.  Despite even this,
the professor says he does not regret his decision not to keep quiet. "As a
scientist, if you don't have honesty and integrity, you have nothing," he says.
Then, suddenly: "I hate working with animals.  I think it is wrong and I think
it is evil but I think that, for now, it is a utilitarian equation, that it is
necessary." He is suddenly away, into an argument he has had to rehearse over
and over in public debates, at dinner parties, with his wife and children who
have lived for 10 years in fear because of his brilliant career.

"Think of all the things we do to animals. We keep them in battery farms, we
laugh at them in the circus, we confine them as domestic pets. We also
experiment on them, under anaesthetic, to bring medical and scientific benefit
to the human race. The latter of these things is surely the better, the most
worthwhile of all those things, yet it is the most controversial.  Obviously I
regret what it has done to my family, but I really had no choice. If I stopped
now, I think it has all gone too far to make a difference anyway."

His lab, he says, uses only a dozen animals a year nowadays and has specifically
developed techniques that will allow other scientists to avoid using animals in
experiments. He has set up the Boyd Group where representatives of the different
animal rights groups are at last sitting round a table with vivisectionists. He
would even welcome the presence of the extremists at that table. He values the
BAAS appointment as a sign that his work has been worthwhile.

He pauses, "I have reason to believe," he says slowly, "that they the violent
wing of the animal liberation movement may have decided to up the ante and
actually make an attempt on my life. I cannot tell you the details, but I know
this from informed sources."

There is a chilling irony here, that a man might lose his life because it is
deemed morally wrong for him to have taken the lives of kittens.  But it is not
beyond possibility. And if it should happen, the battle for Blakemore's
reputation - martyr or torturer - will then really begin.


LOAD-DATE: August 26, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1997 Independent Print Ltd

                              133 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                August 25, 1997

Fear on the streets as neo-Nazis go on trial

BYLINE: Charles Ferro

SECTION: Pg. 26

LENGTH: 321 words


A MASSIVE security operation will be mounted today as three neo-Nazis go on
trial for allegedly sending letter bombs to British sports stars in mixed-race
marriages.

Amid fears of clashes between pro and anti-Nazi factions from Sweden, Denmark
and the UK, Danish police will throw an armed cordon around the court in
Copenhagen, admitting only those who live or work in the area.

Boxer Frank Bruno, swimmer turned TV celebrity Sharron Davies and England
footballer Paul Ince were believed to have been potential targets of the men,
who face terrorist conspiracy charges.

They were arrested in January after three powerful bombs hidden in video
cassettes were intercepted on their way to Britain in an operation involving
police across Europe - Scotland Yard told Danish police of links between the
Danish cell and the British neo-Nazi group Combat 18.

Two of the men are 21 and have been identified only by their initials, MV and
NS.

The third is 27-year-old Thomas Nakaba, who has also been charged with shooting
a police officer. If found guilty they could face life sentences.

Nakaba, a half-Japanese tattooed skinhead who had been prominent at neo-Nazi
rallies, was originally charged with attempted murder but the charge has been
reduced to causing bodily harm.

He has claimed he believed police who raided his home were Leftwing extremists
out to kill him, and that he fired a 9mm pistol in self-defence.

The letter bombs, powerful enough to blow off a hand or even kill the recipient,
were hidden in videocassettes.

Danish Justice Minister Frank Jensen, who had been in contact with Scotland
Yard, said in January that they had been intended for sports men and women
married to black people as well as renowned Left-wingers.

It was alleged that the Danes were acting on behalf of Combat 18. The packages
were sent from Malmo, Sweden, a 20-minute ferry ride from Copenhagen.


LOAD-DATE: August 26, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1997 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              134 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            August 25, 1997, Monday

BLAIR WON'T MEET ADAMS;
PRIME MINISTER BLAIR HAS NO PLANS TO HOLD TALKS WITH SINN FEIN LEADER GERRY
ADAMS

BYLINE: Kevin Maguire Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 113 words


British Prime Minister Blair has no plans to hold talks with Sinn Fein leader
Gerry Adams. Downing Street said yesterday.

But Mo Mowlam will this week give Sinn Fein the green light to join Northern
Ireland peace talks. Britain's Ulster Secretary is expected to announce a six
-week IRA ceasefire has been "genuine in word and deed".

The move paves the way for the republicans to sit at the talks due to start on
September 15.

Ms Mowlam, who meets Foreign Minister Ray Burke tomorrow, is confident IRA
gunmen have made no "dummy runs" since the July 19 declaration.

A special committee is to be set up to discuss the decommissioning of terrorist
arms.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1997 MGN Ltd.

                              135 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           August 27, 1997, Wednesday

Agreement reached on IRA arms

BYLINE: David McKittrick Ireland Correspondent

SECTION: TITLE; Page  1

LENGTH: 610 words


Britain and Ireland last night took the significant step of signing an
international agreement on arms decommissioning in readiness for next month's
crucial political talks.

The participation of Unionist parties in talks remains in doubt, largely because
the decommissioning arrangements are regarded by Unionists as too loose and
failing to guarantee actual arms handovers during the negotiations.

Nonetheless, London and Dublin yesterday pressed ahead with the signing of a
formal agreement establishing an arms commission. This body, which is expected
to be under the chairmanship of Canadian general John de Chastelain, is to
consider the arms issue in parallel with the political talks.

The next step in the intricate process leading to the opening of talks is to
come later this week when the Northern Ireland Secretary, Dr Mo Mowlam, is
expected to confirm Sinn Fein's eligibility to attend.

Only a sudden outbreak of IRA violence could prevent this coming about, and the
fact is that the organisation has stopped all its violence, according to
security sources, "like turning off a tap". The security forces have concluded
that the IRA has simply desisted from surveillance and studying of potential
targets.

The IRA's so-called punishment beatings, in which youths and others in
republican areas were often very brutally assaulted, have also come to a sudden
halt. This is regarded as an advance of the IRA's first 1994- 96 cessation,
during which such attacks continued.

There are no guarantees that this abnormally pacific state of affairs will
continue, but for the moment at least the IRA is clearly at pains to be on its
best behaviour while the Government assesses the state of its ceasefire. Its
six-week "quarantine" period ends on Sunday.

At the moment the major point of paramilitary uncertainty lies not within
republicanism but in the loyalist underworld, where there are rumblings of
uncertainty centring on the breakaway Loyalist Volunteer Force.

Against this background the two governments last night formally put in place an
international commission to deal with the arms issue. The Unionist objection is
that although both governments are committed to pressing the IRA and loyalists
on arms handovers there are no timetables and no guarantees.

David Trimble's Ulster Unionist party has as yet taken no final decision on
attendance at the talks, and is presently carrying out a "community consultation
exercise" involving meetings with churches, business organisations and others.

The general feeling in the party is that it should not walk away from the talks,
which could be crucial to the future of Northern Ireland, but opinion is more
divided on whether Unionist representatives should sit down face-to-face with
Sinn Fein.

Sinn Fein yesterday attempted to pressurise the Government into insisting on
face-to-face arrangements rather than any idea of negotiating at one remove.
Mitchel McLaughlin of Sinn Fein declared: "My answer to proximity talks is a
flat no. This will require face-to-face negotiations. How can there be
confidence-building measures by proxy? There have to be talks across the table
and let David Trimble, if he has the confidence in his argument, present his
case."

Dr Mowlam yesterday acknowledged that the Unionist position was uncertain.  She
said: "I'm not completely confident that we will have everybody around the
table. That's still up for grabs. The real problem would be if the Ulster
Unionists did not have their feet under the table and Unionism was not heard.  I
am hopeful they will be there but I don't know any more than that."


LOAD-DATE: August 27, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1997 Independent Print Ltd

                              136 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                August 30, 1997

UNIONISTS GIVE TALKS WARNING

BYLINE: Owen Bowcott In Belfast

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 762 words


UNANIMOUSLY gloomy warnings from the leaders of Unionist parties threatened to
undermine yesterday's historic announcement by Mo Mowlam, the Northern Ireland
Secretary, that Sinn Fein would be invited to participate in the Stormont peace
talks.

At a brief press conference, held in a strip-lit portable building, Ms Mowlam
declared she was satisfied that there had been an unequivocal restoration of the
IRA's ceasefire for the past six weeks.

There was no evidence of any IRA attacks, active targeting or paramilitary
assaults, she said. "I have now decided that Sinn Fein meets all the
requirements. I will accordingly invite (it) . . . to nominate a team to
participate in the negotiations."

The long expected green light from the Government is a significant advance for
Northern Ireland's stop-start peace process. If the Ulster Unionists sit down
with Sinn Fein on September 15 it will be their first direct meeting since the
early 1920s.

But the prospect of such talks threatens to splinter Unionist opinion. Ian
Paisley's Democratic Unionists and Robert McCartney's UK Unionists have already
pulled out, and it is still not certain the political representatives of the
loyalist paramilitary organisations will be there.

The Ulster Unionist Party was last night agonising over its decision. "There's
no reason to believe that there's a genuine ending of violence for good by Sinn
Fein/IRA," its leader David Trimble declared.

"The assumption that there will be talks on substantive talks is rash. We are
still on the agenda item dealing with decommissioning of weapons. There can't be
any movement off that issue without there being agreement by us."

The UUP's executive is due to meet on September 6 to decide whether the party
will attend the talks process and, if it does, how to deal with Sinn Fein's
presence. Proximity talks, where the parties meet under the same roof but not
face-to-face, are currently a favoured option.

But William Thompson, the UUP MP for West Tyrone, appeared to oppose his party's
presence at Stormont. "I don't believe the UUP should sit with any paramilitary
organisation which has guns," he said. It would be unthinkable to be at "this
squalid negotiating table", he suggested.

Further problems came from the PUP and UDP - smaller loyalist parties with close
connections to the paramilitary UVF and UDA. They warned yesterday that Ms
Mowlam's views on the issue of majority consent for change in Northern Ireland
could threaten their participation in the talks.

In a Belfast Telegraph article on Thursday, the Secretary of State had explained
that "consent means a willing accommodation". Despite her insistence yesterday
that the Government stood by the Downing Street Declaration, her words failed to
allay loyalist fears that a fundamental tenet anchoring them to the UK had been
put into doubt.

David Ervine of the PUP said: "The very plinth on which we based our approach to
the negotiations, and on which the loyalist ceasefire is based, has been
snatched from under our feet."

If the UUP does not turn up at Stormont, the loyalist parties would not be there
alone, he added.

More predictable was the anger vented by Ian Paisley MP, leader of the
Democratic Unionists, who are boycotting the process in protest. He described
the Government's announcement as appeasement.

By contrast, Sinn Fein was euphoric at the confirmation that it had been
invited. "We have before us probably the most wonderful opportunity we will have
this century to bring about a negotiated settlement on this island," said Martin
McGuinness.

On Tuesday, Mr McGuinness and Gerry Adams, the leader of Sinn Fein, will fly to
Washington to meet Clinton administration officials.  The United States last
night backed Britain's move to invite Sinn Fein to join the peace talks. "We
welcome the decision, which gives an opportunity for all parties to be part of
inclusive talks," said White House spokesman Joe Lockhart.

The next significant milestone, a meeting between Mr Adams and Tony Blair, is
not expected until later in the month, after Sinn Fein has signed up to the
Mitchell Principles. Its acceptance of the declaration is intended to bind it
more closely to the politics of non-violence.

Mr Blair and his Irish counterpart, Bertie Ahern, last night discussed the peace
process in a telephone call.

* An incendiary device sent to Stormont Castle buildings yesterday turned out to
be a crude device addressed to a civil servant in the health department.

Leader comment, page 20

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              137 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            MAIL ON SUNDAY (London)

                                August 31, 1997

The gag that shames a free society and our new government

SECTION: Pg. 32

LENGTH: 1276 words


Yesterday was a bad day for democracy and free speech.

A High Court Judge banned this newspaper from publishing damning facts about
waste and incompetence within MI5.

Our view was straightforward. As our readers pay a fair share of the $200
million it costs to run the Service, we thought they were entitled to know if
their money was being spent wisely.

The Government would have none of it.

Its lawyers told the court that we had already jeopardised national security and
that today's revelations would be even more damaging.

What they didn't say was for whom.

For was it really against national security to: * REVEAL that senior members of
Mr Blair's Government, including Home Secretary Jack Straw, Social Services
Secretary Harriet Harman and finally Peter Mandelson, arguably the Prime
Minister's closest aide, had once had their telephones tapped, their mail
intercepted and been kept under routine surveillance by the security services?

* DISCLOSE alarming details of heavy drinking and indiscipline within MI5?

* DESCRIBE how an undercover operation to thwart a Libyan-inspired terrorist
bombing campaign in the UK was almost wrecked by obsessive bureaucracy and paper
shuffling?

* EXPOSE how MI5 wasted millions of pounds monitoring pop stars like John Len-*
o n , f r e t t i n g a b o u t 'Subversion in Contemporary Music' and keeping
files on dozens of showbusiness celebrities?

And was it really wrong for former MI5 agent David Shayler to catalogue the
mis-judgments and ineptitude that blight one of the most vital arms of this
country's defences?

Or just embarrassing to those responsible?

Far more harm is done to MI5 by excessive secrecy and a deserved Blimpish image
than by any revelations published in this newspaper.

How many other talented and intelligent young men and women like David Shayler
have been driven to quit in despair by the inability or unwillingness of those
at the top of the Service to distinguish between real threats to this country
and the antics of tiny extremist sects that are the political equivalents of
oddballs in sandwich boards prophesying the end of the world?

Who would want to make the sacrifices we demand of agents only to spend their
days swamped in paper, compiling files of Press cuttings about beatniks at a
folk festival?

And how many of our best and brightest want to see their energy and ambitions
squandered by red tape and indecision at the top of the Service?

As in the United States, the real damage to morale and effectiveness in the
security services is caused by second-rate management, a lack of public
accountability and the use of secrecy laws to cover up appalling blunders.

Last week this newspaper went to extraordinary lengths to ensure that nothing we
published about inefficiencies within MI5 damaged this country's national
interest. We have unstinting admiration for those who risk their lives for this
country. We revealed no names, no details which could hinder the covert war
against the IRA and our other enemies.

But we did cause red faces and discomfort for those at the top of MI5.

So this week they took their revenge.

First they unsuccessfully tried to smear David Shayler using newspapers jealous
of our scoop and anxious for a future titbit or two from the security services
table to suggest that he was a rebellious schoolboy, an unsuitable recruit and a
failed trainee journalist.

Whatever next!

Then they got serious.

They used the law to protect themselves; not the country they are sworn to
defend. It was an outrageous abuse of power.

In opposition, Labour Shadow Ministers frequently championed open government.
They applauded whistleblowers and denounced the culture of secrecy that pervades
Whitehall. In the run-up to the General Election they seemed to revel in
disclosing confidential government papers. Now it seems they are already dancing
to the Establishment tune. Their manifesto commitment to freedom of information
is as worthless as the paper it was written on. What other disappointments lie
ahead? What other policy promises will be scrapped on the say-so of the Civil
Service mandarins?

The campaign to gag this paper began when the Prime Minister's chief Press
Secretary, Alastair Campbell, threatened us with 'the heavies' if we didn't toe
the line and let MI5 chiefs vet this week's instalment of David Shayler's story.

We refused. We are not Mr Campbell's poodle.

But we did make a mistake. We thought our conversation with him was off the
record, a private matter.

Not so. It was quoted by Government lawyers in court yesterday.

When Mr Campbell's soft cop-hard cop routine failed, we received menacing
letters from Government lawyers.

Special Branch detectives descended on our solicitor's offices.

This country prides itself on free speech and the rule of law.

What we have seen in the last few days is the suppression of the first and the
bending of the latter.

It has not been a pleasant experience.

One of the consequences is that we have been prevented from revealing further
shocking examples of MI5's incompetence.

Frankly, we expected better from Mr Blair. For years he has stressed the need
for a modern, forward-looking Britain, a country able to face new challenges not
trapped by its past.

We believed him.

Until now.

There is an apocryphal story about the first Labour Government in 1924.

One of the new Defence Ministers went to a meeting with the Chiefs of the
Imperial General Staff. The Field Marshals arrived in khaki, peaked caps and
wearing their decorations.

The Minister took one look, duly saluted his superior officers and asked for his
orders.

Is the same happening today?

Was it the Prime Minister's decision to gag this newspaper or was he nagged and
bounced into this folly by Stephen Lander, the panic-stricken director general
of MI5, desperate to avoid any further damaging revelations about mismanagement
and incompetence at the top.

We have a right to know who is in charge of this country.

Or is that also an official secret we are not allowed to publish?

And what is Home Secretary Jack Straw playing at, claiming that last week's
disclosures about how he was bugged by M15 damaged this country's security? Like
a parrot he churned out the standby-Whitehall script that any publication of
anything that M15 doesn't plant in the Press was harmful. It is the same
mentality that once prevented the British people being told even the smallest
fact about MI5.

Until recently not a single newspaper was allowed to print the name of the man
or woman who ran the Service.

The Russians knew his or her identity. So, too, did the Iraqis and the Libyans.
The only people kept in the dark were the British taxpayers.

Why do we put up with it?

Other countries do things differently.

There is greater democratic accountability; proper scrutiny of how the enormous
powers we give our security service are used; wider discussion of the priorities
and purposes that organisations like MI5 should serve.

In short, real trust between Government and people.

A trust that is missing in Britain. And which was broken again yesterday.

We will challenge this injunction in the appeal courts. It is a threat to a free
Press. We hope that MPs, peers and of course the public, will support us. We
will campaign for greater public accountability of the security services.

We will not be gagged. We will not be intimidated. We will not go away.

And if the Government will not allow the truth to be told, we make this promise.
This newspaper will.


LOAD-DATE: September 2, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: SHARED SECRETS: WAS TONY BLAIR BOUNCED INTO A DECISION BY MI5 DIRECTOR
GENERAL STEPHEN LANDER?

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1997 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              138 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            MAIL ON SUNDAY (London)

                                August 31, 1997

Gagged! Tragic day for Press as Government halts our revelations;
THE CRISIS IN THE SECURITY SERVICE: PART TWO

BYLINE: Nick Fielding;Mark Hollingsworth

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 816 words


THE extraordinary High Court injunction gagging The Mail on Sunday from today
publishing further revelations about MI5 is threatening a huge Parliamentary
row.

MPs warned that they would rebel against Downing Street's support for the order
which MI5 successfully sought yesterday.

While the newspaper's Editor Jonathan Holborow vowed to continue the fight
through the courts, it was clear that the issue of MI5's accountability will be
raised when Parliament returns.

Mr Holborow said: 'This is a tragic day for Press freedom in Britain. I can
scarcely believe the Blair Government would take this action.' The injunction
prevented the newspaper from publishing legitimate details given in exclusive
interviews by former MI5 officer David Shayler.

We would have published the facts of a case of national and international
importance which would have revealed MI5 incompetence in the handling of a
serious terrorist incident.

This cannot, for now, become public.

The hearing took place before Mr Justice Keene after 24 hours of legal wrangling
involving Downing Street, MI5 lawyers, the Home Office and The Mail on Sunday's
legal team.

During these negotiations the Prime Minister's Chief Press Secretary Alastair
Campbell contacted The Mail on Sunday's Editor, asking him for details of our
new disclosures. Veiled threats were made about 'heavy' measures should we defy
Government demands.

After yesterday's hearing Mr Holborow said: 'This was a case where the Security
Service was hiding behind what it called national security. Its director
general, Stephen Lander, in his arguments to the Home Secretary and the Attorney
General, claimed that agents may be at risk and damage may have been done by the
articles last week.

'I believe what he is really trying to do is to cover his and his service's
embarrassment about low morale, bureaucratic bungling and failure to come to
terms with its post-Cold War role.' In spite of protestations that he was acting
to protect agents, Home Secretary Jack Straw sought through the Attorney General
the draconian order of asking The Mail on Sunday to deliver documents, memoranda
and notebooks relating to the Shayler case.

The newspaper's lawyers are puzzled as to why the Government took this action.

Labour's manifesto included a commitment to a Freedom of Information Act and
more open government. Yesterday's decision, backed by Downing Street, will
infuriate senior backbenchers, with Tony Blair coming under pressure from MPs to
allow a Parliamentary inquiry into the gagging of The Mail on Sunday.

Kevin Barron, a member of Parliament's Intelligence and Security Committee, said
the injunction was justified if the Official Secrets Act had been breached. 'But
it may be that The Mail on Sunday disclosures have done a service to the people
of Britain,' he added.

'I can't condone anyone breaking the Official Secrets Act. But it has started a
helpful debate within the different Security Service agencies about what should
be or should not be on file.' In a telephone call to The Mail on Sunday from a
secret location, David Shayler accused MI5 of using the tactics of 'Stalinist
bully boys'. 'I feel like a political dissident in the old Soviet Union,' he
said. 'But the injunction only stretches as far as the shores of Britain. I have
talked about writing a book and will pursue that goal.' Home Secretary Jack
Straw said: 'The Government has taken this step with the greatest regret.

I have no wish to prevent legitimate debate or criticism of the Security
Service. I know that this is also Stephen Lander's view.

'But Mr Shayler has had access to highly sensitive information which he has
undertaken never to reveal. He has since claimed to have been very careful not
to compromise ongoing operations or the security of individuals.

'However, last week's articles in The Mail on Sunday themselves demonstrate that
he is in no position to judge, because his disclosures have caused serious harm.

'I accept that The Mail on Sunday believes it has taken care not to publish such
material. I commend them for that. But only the Government and Security Service
have the expertise and knowledge to make such judg-ments.

The Government has an overriding duty to protect people's lives and the
interests of national security.' Members of the Commons Intelligence and
Security Committee plan to demand that the Prime Minister - who has the final
say over its work - gives the go-ahead for a confidential inquiry into the
circumstances surrounding the case.

A senior member said last night: 'I am sure we will want to take a look at it.'
The nine-member committee, bound to secrecy and answerable directly to Mr Blair,
is expected to launch a full-scale review of the role of the Security Services
when it meets after the recess.

WHAT THE PM's MAN TOLD THE EDITOR PAGES 8 and 9


LOAD-DATE: September 2, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1997 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              139 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                            August 31, 1997, Sunday

P&O SET TO SELL ARNDALE CENTRE FOR POUNDS 300M

BYLINE: By Paul Farrelly City Editor

SECTION: THE OBSERVER BUSINESS PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 508 words

HIGHLIGHT: Bombed Manchester shopping precinct up for grabs * Shipping group
moves to quit commercial property


M ANCHESTER'S Arndale Centre, badly damaged by last year's IRA bomb attack, is
set to be sold for up to pounds 300 million by P&O, Lord Sterling's
shipping-to-property group.

The sale would be one of the largest retail property deals in the UK since the
sale of Tyneside's Metrocentre in 1995 for pounds 325m - and a step towards
P&O's goal of quitting commercial property.

Frontrunners to buy the business are likely to be British Land, Capital Shopping
Centres and Land Securities.  A string of institutional investors like the
Prudential would also be keen to get their hands on what was one of Britain's
busiest shopping centres.

This weekend, City sources close to P&O confirmed a deal is on the cards - but
declined to identify the buyer, or whether the entire centre was for sale or
just a stake. Officially, P&O would not comment on 'speculation'. In the
industry, however, it is widely known that the group is ready to sell the jewel
in its property portfolio if someone offered them enough.

The market for shopping centre investment is still very strong.  Several foreign
investment funds are on the look-out. In some prime shopping centres, rental
costs have been rising at more than 10 per cent per annum, and earlier this year
St Enochs Centre in Glasgow, which is half the size of the Arndale Centre, was
sold for pounds 160m.

Following P&O's lacklustre share price performance last year, chairman Lord
Sterling promised to cut the property portfolio from pounds 1.5bn to pounds 1bn
by March 1998. P&O is still involved in development, however, and has bought
pounds 200m of new sites against just pounds 300m sold to date.

City analysts have been expecting a big disposal and the Arndale Centre fits the
bill. One said: 'This could spell the beginning of the end of Lord Sterling's
property empire, which sits ill at ease with what is essentially a transport
company.'

The Arndale Centre, at more than 1.3 million sq ft, is the largest shopping mall
in a British city centre. The Metrocentre outside Newcastle is marginally
bigger. Before last year's bomb, 750,000 people shopped at the Arndale a week,
but it was ridiculed for its ugly mustard tiles and likened to a giant lavatory.

The centre will also face stiff competition from the new pounds 200m Trafford
regional shopping centre which is opening next year in Dumplington.

Even if Arndale is sold, concerns over P&O's performance will not go away. In
March, the company postponed the promised flotation of its housebuilding
subsidiary Bovis Homes and ditched attempts to sell its bulk shipping arm. Last
year Lord Sterling won City applause for two deals in P&O's core business: last
September he announced a joint venture with container s hipping group Royal
Nedlloyd and a month later announced a pounds 400m merger of P&O's cross-Channel
operations with Stena.

Yet the latter has been referred to the Monopolies and Mergers Commission and a
Department of Trade and Industry decision is not expected before the end of next
month.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1997 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              140 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               September 3, 1997

Neo-Nazis jailed for letter bombs

SECTION: Pg. 14

LENGTH: 396 words


Copenhagen, Tuesday

A Danish court jailed three local neo-Nazis on Tuesday for attempting to send
letter bombs to targets in Britain.

The court sentenced plot leader Thomas Derry Nakaba to eight years in prison, a
stiff sentence in liberal Denmark. Accomplices Michael Volder and Nicky
Steensgaard were each jailed for three years.

Earlier the jury had convicted the three of preparing three letter bombs, one
addressed to British television presenter and former swimming star Sharon
Davies, who is married to black athlete Derek Redmond.

Another was aimed at the Anti-Fascist Action organisation and the third at a
wing of the far-right Combat 18 group as part of an internecine struggle between
neo-Nazi factions.

Danish Police said the devices, disguised as video cassettes, contained dummy
explosive but real detonators which could have blown a hand off.

The court endorsed prosecution arguments that the bombers could not know they
were using a harmless charge.

The three were convicted under anti-terrorism laws which carried a maximum
sentence of life imprisonment.

Danish detectives, tipped off by Scotland Yard, intercepted the bombs after
Nakaba posted them on January 17 in the Swedish port of Malmo, a short ferry
-trip from Copenhagen.

Police raided the suspects' house north of Copenhagen the next day in a swoop
during which Nakaba shot a detective in the thigh.

He said that he had believed himself under attack by leftist opponents and fired
in self-defence through a closed door.

During the trial Nakaba said that he was acting under orders from a faction of
Combat 18, named for the first and eighth letters of the alphabet, A and H -
Adolf Hitler's initials.

He said that an Englishman, linked to the group, gave him what was said to be
explosives, a pistol and the addresses to which the finished bombs were to be
sent.

Nakaba was a member of the Danish National Socialist Movement (DNSB), a local
neo-Nazi group, from 1987 to 1990 and again from 1993 to 1995 but the DNSB has
said it has not seen him since and has no connection with the bomb plot.

Denmark's liberal freedom of speech laws have made it something of a neo-Nazi
haven, to the irritation of neighbouring Germany, where Nazi tracts and
paraphernalia are banned and to the discomfort of Danes who remember wartime
Nazi occupation.-Reuter.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1997 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              141 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                               September 4, 1997

Gaddafi human rights prize for two dock strike wives

BYLINE: Andrew Loudon

SECTION: Pg. 27

LENGTH: 630 words


TWO women involved in one of Britain's longest-running industrial disputes were
being feted as heroines yesterday - by Colonel Gaddafi.

Doreen McNally and Sue Mitchell, wives of sacked Liverpool dockers, are in Libya
to accept a $30,000 'human rights' prize from the dictator.

But as they enjoyed his hospitality, they were accused of being stooges of the
man regarded as a world pariah for his sponsorship of terrorism - and Britain
was demanding an apology for his latest affront.

Gaddafi claimed that British and French secret service agents arranged the crash
which killed Princess Diana and Dodi Al Fayed.

They did so to prevent Diana marrying an Arab, he alleged.

Britain has lodged a formal protest over his remarks.

A Foreign Office spokesman said: 'This outrageous statement shows, once again,
how far short the Libyan government falls of international norms of behaviour.'
Mrs McNally and Mrs Mitchell flew to Libya last Friday for a week of festivities
centred on the presentation of the Gaddafi Prize on Human Rights.

They were handed their award on Sunday, hours after Diana died and only hours
before the dictator's distasteful comments.

They received it on behalf of Women of the Waterfront - the wives and partners
of 329 dockers sacked by the Mersey Docks and Harbour Company nearly two years
ago for refusing to cross an illegal secondary picket line.

The money will go into the fighting fund to boost the dockers' bid for
reinstatement.

Their two-year picket of the Seaforth container terminal shows no sign of
diminishing despite the company's refusal to take them back.

The dispute remains unofficial, with no backing from the Transport and General
Workers Union.

Last night Steve Fitzsimmons, a Liverpool Tory councillor who worked on the
docks for 14 years and was a TGWU shop steward, accused Mrs McNally and Mrs
Mitchell of being misguided.

'They are very naive - Gaddafi finances these awards himself and he is just
using them as stooges,' he said.

'These ladies should be very careful dealing with such a dictator who will stop
at nothing to promote his own ideas.

'They are accepting money from a country linked to the Lockerbie They are being
extremely naive

atrocity and other terrorist incidents and I just think it is totally wrong.'

But Mrs McNally's husband Charles, 51, said at his home in Litherland,
Merseyside: 'I can't tell you how proud I am of Doreen.

'Since the day I was sacked she has campaigned tirelessly for us to get our jobs
back and to be honoured this way on an international level is just amazing.

'The women aren't involved in politics - they're just fighting for what they
think is right. Doreen has always been interested in my work and now all the
dockers are benefiting from the effort she's put into our campaign.'

Another sacked docker, 50-year-old shop steward Kevin Robinson, said he had no
qualms about accepting money from Gaddafi.

'We are very honoured and proud to be considered for this,' he said.

'This is a human rights award, not a political thing. The Gaddafi connection
doesn't have any bearing on it with us. With human rights there are no
boundaries.' Gaddafi established his prize in 1989 after the U.S.

bombing of Tripoli. Recipients are chosen annually by a Geneva-based
organisation called Nord-Sud 21.

Last year's winner was the black American racist Louis Farrakhan, head of the
Nation of Islam, whom President Clinton accused of fostering 'malice and
division'.

This year about $150,000 was divided equally among five recipients from five
continents, with the Liverpool wives being selected as the most deserving in
Europe.

The Asian prize recognises 'the suffering of the Iraqi people under UN
sanctions'.


LOAD-DATE: September 5, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1997 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              142 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          September 4, 1997, Thursday

HER LAST JOURNEY;
DIANA 1961-1997: FINAL GOODBYE FIVE MILLION PEOPLE TO LINE DIANA'S 76-MILE ROUTE
HOME;
FUNERAL ROUTE FOR PRINCESS DIANA TO ALTHORP

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6, 7

LENGTH: 1247 words


The people of Britain are expected to line the route of Diana's last journey on
Saturday to say a final farewell.

Up to five million are likely to be on the roadside as the the princess is taken
to her final resting place.

They will witness Diana's 76-mile journey home - through the silent streets of
London, past the home of her former love Dodi Fayed and up the M1 to the family
seat in Althorp, Northamptonshire.

The cortege is likely to travel at 10-20mph through central London, then 40
-45mph on the M1 before reducing its speed to 10mph on the way to Althorp.

After the funeral service the hearse will journey back along the procession
route to Constitution Hill.

From there it will continue to Apsley Way and Wellington Arch, to Hyde Park
Corner and along Park Lane, Cumberland Gate, Tyburn Way, Marble Arch, Oxford
Street, Portman Street to Gloucester Place.

Turning towards Lord's cricket ground, the procession will swing along Park Road
to Wellington Road (A41) and then north along the busy Finchley Road.

Moving into Hendon Way, it will then journey over the Brent Cross flyover, where
thousands more will turn out to pay their respects.

It will then proceed around the North Circular Road (A406) to Staples Corner -
scene of the 1993 IRA bomb blast - to the start of the M1 at Junction 1.

The procession will join the M1 from the North Circular Road at Hendon in north
west London at Junction 1.

Within two miles it will pass J2, the A1 Barnet bypass and a further three miles
will take it to J3, the Scratchwood Services junction.

Junction 4 - the A41 Watford bypass junction - follows shortly afterwards as the
procession heads into Hertfordshire.

Junction 5 is Watford, followed three miles later by the A405 Watford North
junction 6. After that, the procession will reach J6A which is also junction 21
on the M25.

Another motorway, the M10, crosses the next M1 junction - J7 and after that the
procession will pass through J8 at Hemel Hempstead, J9 (the A5) and J10 (Luton
Airport).

Junction 11 is the Luton North and Dunstable turn off and the procession then
passes through J12 (Toddington), J13 (Milton Keynes South and Bedford) and J14
(Milton Keynes North).

After passing the Newport Pagnell Service area, the procession will reach J15 at
Northampton South before leaving the motorway at J15A - the A43/Rothersthorpe
Services.

It will then drive along the A43 dual carriageway, continuing along the A45
Upton Way on the outskirts of Northampton.

It will pass Northampton Town's Sixfields Stadium and travel along Bants Lane to
its junction with Harlestone Road before travelling along the A428 through
Harlestone and on to the main gates of Althorp House, where the cortege will
leave public view.

There are thought to be around 29 road bridges crossing the M1 between London
and junction 16 near Northampton, which are all likely to be packed with crowds.

Thousands more are expected to turn out around the towns of Luton and
Northampton.

An RAC spokesman admitted: "People from the areas on the route will be able to
go to fields and footbridges they know of.

"But it is a real problem advising mourners of both the best and safest places
to watch."

And Northamptonshire emergency planning officer Cliff Snelling told the Mirror:
"I've heard that people have already started making a pitch on bridges and other
vantage points."

Diana's cortege will pass through four different counties - Hertfordshire,
Bedfordshire, Buckinghamshire and North-amptonshire - before arriving at Diana's
final resting place, the family burial vaults in the pretty village of Great
Brington.

Last night the different police forces, local authorities and the Highways
Agency were finalising the funeral plans.

Bedfordshire police said they will use a rolling road block on their 30-mile
stretch to keep the northbound carriageway clear for the Princess's cortege.

But a decision has still not been made on whether or not to close the road
southbound.

David Rogers, safety adviser for the Royal Society for the Prevention of
Accidents, said: "Closing the road southbound for a time must be an option.

"There are safety issues with the crowds and drivers passing who may watch the
funeral cortege and cause an accident. It is a nightmare for police."

Northants police appealed to drivers on the southbound carriageway not to use
their journeys to view the cortege travelling in the opposite direction.

A spokesman warned of the dangers if drivers slowed down for a better look - and
veered over towards the central reservation.

"We are obviously aware of the problem, but at this stage there are no plans for
any changes on the southbound carriageway.

"The decision not to close the motorway is in line with the family's wishes as
well as the practical aspects.

"We are expecting people to drive normally.

"We would urge motorists that if they have to travel on the M1 southbound they
should bear in mind the events of the day and take every precaution, driving
responsibly. In particular they should not allow themselves to be distracted by
the passing of the cortege on the opposite carriageway."

Police are to seal off the village of Great Brington for the private burial of
Princess Diana on Saturday.

Members of the public will be turned back by police road blocks from tonight and
the village will probably remain sealed off until at least midnight on Saturday.

Northants police assistant chief constable Frank Whiteley said: "We will do
everything possible to ensure that the grieving family have privacy for the
burial itself.

"The public will have every opportunity to watch the funeral procession on
television or in person - all we ask is that they do so with dignity and that
they respect the wishes of the family." Villagers in Great Brington were last
night being issued with special passes to allow them access to their homes.

Yesterday hundreds of sightseers continued to throng the country lanes around
Great Brington.

Police believe that hundreds of thousands of people from all over the country
could turn out to see the procession at the end of its journey rather than
making the trip to London to see it there.

Officers say the exclusion zone around Great Brington would remain in force at
least until midnight on Saturday but could continue through Sunday and longer
depending on the pressure from the public to see her last resting place.

An air exclusion order is also to be imposed by the Ministry of Defence over the
area from 6am on Friday to 6am on Monday.  Detectives refused to give any
details about the timing of the final committal service at the church saying
that, at the request of the family, the arrangements would be kept secret.

Mr Whiteley added: "We are urging people to stay away on Saturday from the
village of Great Brington and from the Althorp estate itself to give the family
the privacy for which they have asked.

"In agreeing the route the procession will take, the family have taken into
account the fact that very many people will want to watch and feel that they are
part of what is happening.

"In achieving this, their wishes and public safety have been of paramount
importance."

Vicar David MacPherson of St Mary the Virgin Church, in the village of Great
Brington, said "It will be a short and simple service, reflecting the family's
wishes. No villagers will be there."

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PEACEFUL: The crypt at St Mary the Virgin where Diana will be laid to
rest after service;; SOLEMN: Great Brington vicar David MacPherson said the
service for Diana in the tiny village church will be short and simple

                            Copyright 1997 MGN Ltd.

                              143 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 8, 1997

SINN FEIN LEADERS' US 'DOUBLE ACT' SENDS CONFUSING SIGNALS ON TALKS;
Ed Vulliamy on the messages sent out from a top Irish republicans' tour

BYLINE: Ed Vulliamy

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 536 words


ON THE eve of Sinn Fein's historic acceptance of the Mitchell peace principles
for Northern Ireland, the party's leadership ended a tour of the United States
by sending out confusing signals as to its agenda at the forthcoming peace
talks.

At the end of what has been a largely conciliatory tour, marked by toned down
rhetoric from Sinn Fein president Gerry Adams, his chief negotiator at the talks
- which begin on September 15 - visited a trio of IRA prison escapees, one of
them a convicted murderer.

Martin McGuinness, who will head Sinn Fein's team at the talks chaired by George
Mitchell, a former senator for Maine, visited Terrance Kirby, Kevin Artt and Pol
Brennan in their cells at Pleasanton prison near San Francisco, where they are
awaiting extradition to Britain, having been part of the 1983 Maze jail break.

Artt is convicted of murder, and Brennan and Kirby of possessing explosives. All
three are also convicted of participating in an IRA attack. They have appealed
that they face persecution in Britain because they believe in a united Ireland,
but their case was overruled by a California judge.

Mr McGuinness said he found the men "on very good form" and "very supportive" of
the peace talks. Mr Adams has hallmarked his tour with speeches acknowledging
that a united Ireland is an unlikely short-term prospect, and gushing sympathies
for future King William. Mr McGuinness has, however, played a different tune by
sticking closer to Sinn Fein's roots and calling for the release of the men.

He said that freeing the three San Francisco prisoners and others who had
"sought refuge" in the US would "send a powerful message to the British about
the peace process". He said none of the men posed a security threat to the US,
and were "victims of a conflict, albeit that they were participants in that
conflict".

He added: "I think Americans should give them liberty and find a way to let them
stay in this country."

Mr McGuinness followed his prison visit with a fund-raising rally at a Russian
community centre in downtown San Francisco, along with California senator Tom
Hayden and the city's mayor Willie Brown, who presented him with a proclamation
of support and a key to the city.

The double act by the two Sinn Fein leaders in America has created a confused
forewarning for the talks as to what the party's negotiating position may be. Mr
Adams, who addressed 600 guests at a $ 500-a-ticket dinner at Manhattan's
Waldorf Astoria hotel, said unequivocally that a united Ireland would be an
"unlikely" outcome of the talks, and that it was unrealistic for Sinn Fein to
table British withdrawal as part of their agenda.

He said Sinn Fein recognised a "democratic peace settlement" to be the goal of
the talks.

But Mr McGuinness has raised very different expectations. In an interview with
the Boston Sunday Herald, he said that he was looking for British withdrawal as
an outcome to the talks.

"I think what it is reasonable to expect is that we could get the British to
accept that it is time for them to end their jurisdiction in this part of
Ireland," he told the paper. "I think we can get an outcome that can bring an
end to British rule."

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              144 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                               September 9, 1997

Free, the Briton full of hate who ordered a bomb for Sharron

BYLINE: David Williams

SECTION: Pg. 31

LENGTH: 835 words


A TERRORIST plot to send parcel bombs to sports stars in mixed-race marriages
was masterminded by a British neo-Nazi.

The 26-year-old former skinhead ordered a Danish thug to select targets
including former Olympic swimmer Sharron Davies.

The Briton supplied a hit list, explosive and a handgun. He was secretly
recorded by police during telephone conversations discussing the plot.

Yet even though three Danish neo-Nazis were jailed by a Copenhagen court last
week for posting bombs to England, the South Londoner who played the pivotal
role has escaped prosecution.

Danish detectives have told the Daily Mail that they wanted to bring terrorist
charges against the racist Briton, who cannot be named for legal reasons. They
cannot do so because the conspiracy was hatched in Britain and there is a lack
of concrete evidence in Denmark.

The Briton - a key figure in the extreme Rightwing Combat 18 group - was named
as the man who supplied the addresses of targets including Sharron Davies, the
former Olympic swimming medallist who is married to black athlete Derek Redmond.

Three bombs built into video cassettes destined for Britain were intercepted by
detectives in the Swedish seaside city of Malmo in January after a
telephone-tapping operation following a tip-off from Scotland Yard.

Police moved in and arrested neo-Nazi thug Thomas Derry Nakaba, 27, and his two
accomplices Michael Volder and Nicky Steensgaard, both 21, who were last week
all convicted under Danish antiterrorism laws.

Nakaba, who used the gun to shoot a policeman who tried to arrest him, was
jailed for eight years and Volder and Steensgaard for three years.

At Nakaba's modern flat in the town of Nivaa, north of Copenhagen, police found
a Combat 18 'hit list' of dozens of sports stars, celebrities and politicians.

Following the arrests other sports stars, such as boxer Frank Bruno, England
soccer player Paul Ince and Olympic medallist Kriss Akabusi, who are in mixed
marriages, were warned they could be targets.

Among others listed at Nakaba's home were MPs Peter Hain and Kate Hoey, TV
presenter Denis Norden, Vanessa Redgrave, Anna Ford and Bernard Levin.

'The Briton told Nakaba that Sharron Davies was a race traitor and that she
should be taught a lesson,' said Danish detective Tom Damgaard. 'In his
apartment we found literature from Combat 18 in England describing exactly how a
bomb could be made and how it should be sent.

Police also found dozens of Combat 18 'calling cards' with skull and crossbones
and messages to be left on the crumpled bodies of their victims.

One said : 'You are under surveillance and registered. Combat 18.' and another
'Combat 18 - Don't Try and Mess with the Master Race. Sieg Heil.' It was at a
rally in Denmark, attended by neo-Nazis from throughout Europe, that crop-haired
Nakaba met the Londoner and a second member of Combat 18 with an equally
disgraceful record.

He was one of the thugs behind the violence in 1995 that caused England's
football match in Dublin to be abandoned. Nakaba told Danish police he was
impressed by the ruthless violence shown by the Britons. One picture seen by the
Mail shows the Londoner punching a passer-by in the face, another shows him
throwing a bottle.

Nakaba was invited to England and over the following months members of Combat 18
made several trips to Scan-danivia. He told detectives that he was hugely
impressed by the man and his colleague, the fact that they earned more than
$100,000 a year from the hardcore neo-Nazi music industry and by the fear spread
by the Combat 18 movement.

The group was formed in 1992 and derived its name from the first and eighth
letters of the alphabet, A and H - Adolf Hitler's initials. At one stage it drew
its members almost exclusively from football thugs, including those attached to
Chelsea, Arsenal, Millwall, Charlton, Reading, Oxford and Portsmouth. They were
identified as being behind violence at several games and as victims lay bleeding
they dropped 'calling cards' which read : 'You have been ethnically cleansed by
Combat 18.' In October last year he and a third member of Combat 18 travelled to
Denmark from Poland and handed explosives to Nakaba together with a Czech-made
9mm handgun.

In January detectives eavesdropped as the Briton asked the Dane to confirm he
had sent the bombs.

Nakaba made three devices to be posted to England, each powered by 9-volt
batteries.

He addressed one to Sharron Davies and Derek Redmond, one to the Anti-Fascist
Action organisation and the third to a wing of Combat 18 which was involved in
an internal struggle with the Briton.

On January 17 police watched as Nakaba, carrying the packages in a plastic bag,
travelled the 45 minutes on the ferry from Copenhagen to Malmo where he posted
them.

Detectives say that in one of the bugged telephone conversations, the Briton
told Nakaba: 'I am very glad you have done this for me because then we can go on
to something bigger.'


LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: TARGET: SHARRON DAVIES AND HER HUSBAND DEREK REDMOND. THE BRITON TOLD
HIS DANISH HENCHMAN THAT SHARRON WAS A 'RACE TRAITOR AND MUST BE TAUGHT A
LESSON' (2) TARGET: KATE HOEY (3) TARGET: ANNA FORD

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1997 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              145 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 12, 1997

'NAZI' PUBLISHER JAILED FOR 21 MONTHS;
Judge urges parliamentary crackdown on race-hate offences as Bruno's mother
tells of terror campaign that hounded her from home

BYLINE: Gary Younge

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 633 words


THE publisher of a magazine which waged a race-hate campaign against Frank
Bruno's elderly mother, hounding her out of her home, was jailed for 21 months
yesterday.

Mark Atkinson, a leading member of the far right Combat 18 group, was caught
"red-handed" with hundreds of copies of the magazine, Stormer, just before they
were dispatched to subscribers across Britain. The magazines also targeted Anna
Ford, Vanessa Redgrave, Paddy Ashdown and synagogues, and gave detailed
instructions on how to make lethal car bombs.

Judge George Bathurst-Norman, at Southwark crown court, said that in 37 years in
the legal profession he had "never encountered such vile outpourings of hatred
and incitement to violence as revealed in these magazines".  He suggested the
two-year maximum sentence for publishing material likely to stir up racial
hatred should be increased, but sentenced Atkinson to 21 months because he had
not contested two charges of publishing "threatening, abusive and insulting"
material likely to stir up racial hatred.

He told Atkinson, a dustman, aged 31: "I have to say to you, and any others like
you, that those who seek to spread such evil discord in our midst can expect no
mercy from the courts. For we are all entitled to live in our own homes and walk
our streets free from such conduct, no matter what our race, colour or creed."

Lynette Bruno, aged 67, a lay preacher and mother of the heavyweight boxer, told
the court how she first received a letter bearing a swastika and the words: "Go
home and die."

Then came a series of equally frightening phone calls, full of abuse, followed
by a second letter which warned: "Bang. It is that easy to blow your head off."

As a result, she suffered sleepless nights, was forced to move house, and, more
than a year later, was still too scared to go home alone.

"In disclosing her name and address and stirring up racial hatred against her,
Mrs Bruno, the mother of a man who has brought nothing but credit to this
country, is driven from her home," the judge said.

Atkinson had also published the addresses of several Jewish organisations and
synagogues were targeted with hate mail.

"One synagogue was even defaced and a window broken, bringing back memories of
the conduct of the supporters of the Nazi regime in Germany in the 1930s," the
judge said."

After Mr Ashdown, the Liberal Democrat leader, spoke out against racism in his
Yeovil consistuency, the magazine said "he doesn't deserve to live" and
celebrated the fire-bombing of his car.

One of Atkinson's close friends, Robin Gray, a 35-year-old former National Front
byelection candidate, was convicted of possessing the magazine with a view to
distributing it.  Sentencing was adjourned for reports, the judge warning that
he too faced almost certain jail.

The court heard the pair were arrested after police battered down the door of
their then home in Feltham, Middlesex, and found boxes full of Stormer, a
computer used to prepare the issues, and a list of many of those who bought it.

"It may be that Parliament should look again at the activities of people such as
you and others like you and reconsider whether the present maximum sentence is
sufficient. In my view it is not," the judge said.

Last night, Labour MP Harry Cohen denounced the 21-month sentence as derisory.
"It seems to me that the courts are not taking vicious and dangerous racial
abuse seriously enough."

Liberal Democrat MP Simon Hughes also called for a tougher sentence for
Atkinson. "Clearly there will be pressure for the sentence to be referred to the
Court of Appeal. More importantly, in this coming session of Parliament, I am
sure there will be a widespread wish to change the law for dealing with this
very serious sort of pervert."

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              146 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                           September 14, 1997, Sunday

NEW BRITAIN: PROTESTANT URGE TALKS BUT FEAR THE OUTCOME

BYLINE: Mary Holland

SECTION: THE OBSERVER NEWS PAGE; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 965 words

HIGHLIGHT: Optimism may be misplaced


'THEY want us to go to the ball at Stormont and we probably should accept the
invitation, but all that's on offer is Irish music and Irish dancing.' This wry
comment by a Belfast businessman sums up how many of Northern Ireland's
Unionists feel about the start of all-party talks.

Tony Blair's 'peace train' is scheduled to leave the station and an opinion poll
last week showed that 93 per cent of voters who support David Trimble's Ulster
Unionist Party want him on board, while 76 per cent of those who vote for the
Rev Ian Paisley - who is boycotting the proceedings - think he should be, too.

But Unionists are more divided on whether their leaders should actually sit down
with Sinn Fein, particularily after its rejection of the Mitchell Principles.
And support for their leaders going into negotiations should not be confused
with the idea that Unionists are optimistic about the outcome.  Many in the
Protestant community feel that the political tide is flowing strongly against
them and cannot be reversed.

A Presbyterian minister, with long experience of working across the sectarian
divide, said: 'What I am picking up, over and over again, from members of my
congregation is that they want Unionist politicians to go into the talks, but
they are deeply fearful about the future.  They recognise that this may be an
opportunity for the two communities to make peace.  But fundamentally, they
believe that the game is up for the Unionist community.

'That may sound paranoid, but they know that the political thrust of these talks
will be for closer links with the Irish Repub lic . . . The sad thing is that
this community withstood 30 years of IRA violence and now, in some ways, feels
its identity more threatened than ever.'

This threat does not appear to be connected with fear of a return to violence.
Unionist anxiety has to do with the long-term political strategy at the heart of
the peace process.  On the Nationalist side they see a strong and politically
coherent alliance stretching from Sinn Fein, through the SDLP and the new
government in Dublin, to a powerful Irish-American lobby.

By contrast, their own political parties appear divided and they suspect that
the Unionists have few friends at Westminster. Many in the Protestant community
were heartened by Blair's speech proclaiming commitment to the Union during a
visit to Belfast within days of his election victory.

But they know that successive governments have reiterated the policy first put
forward by the former Northern Ireland Secretary, Peter Brooke, that Britain has
no long-term interest in remaining in Northern Ireland.

This week's devolution vote in Scotland has also narrowed their options.
Unionist leaders such as James Molyneaux have argued that closer integration
with the United Kingdom was the way ahead for Northern Ireland. In the wake of
the Scottish vote that seems unrealistic.

Unionists are also deeply resentful of what they see as a string of concessions
to Sinn Fein to secure the IRA's ceasefire. 'Keeping Gerry happy, that's the
name of the game now,' one Loyalist said. He contrasted the kid-glove treatment
of Sinn Fein with an alleged lack of sensitivity towards Loyalist groups.

Many moderate Unionists suspect the Government is determined to ensure that the
IRA does not resume its violence, particularly on the British mainland.

ONE woman whose family has suffered from IRA violence said: 'Of course, nobody
in their right mind wants the ceasefire to break down, but what political price
will we have to pay to satisfy the IRA? They haven't handed in a single bullet,
they haven't accepted the principle of consent, but Gerry Adams is still getting
into the talks.'

The message to the Ulster Unionist leadership from Church and business leaders
is emphatically in favour of going into negotiations. But there is also
apprehension about how Trimble and his colleagues will fare when difficult
compromises have to be made.

One leading businessman said: 'Who's going to provide cover for him when the
going gets really tough? He'll be facing a solid Nationalist front. Paisley and
McCartney will be sniping at him from outside. Will Blair protect him, or the
Irish government? I doubt it.'

This view of an apparently invincible Nationalist political juggernaut is not
shared by members of the Nationalist community. They also see deep divisions
between their political representatives and fear the talks will not result in a
settlement which guarantees them equality.  Nationalists repeatedly say:
'Unionists talk about all they have had to give up, but what concessions have
they made?'

In each community there is a deep sense that it alone has been the loser. This
is evident in what has become known as 'parity of esteem' - which includes the
symbols of nationalism and unionism. Nationalists see no reason why they (or
Sinn Fein MPs) should swear a loyal oath to a Queen to whom they have no
allegiance. But every time a Nationalist local council abandons these symbols,
Unionists feel that their British identity is being attacked.

One middle-aged, middle-class Unionist woman complained of Belfast City Council,
now controlled by Nationalists, 'deliberately rubbing our noses in our defeat'.
She added: 'I do hope that in the old days we didn't make our Nationalist
opponents feel like that. I honestly don't believe we did.'

I told this story to a distinguished Catholic writer. He said immediately: 'I
hope you told her that they made us feel like that every single day that they
were in power.'

Both communities in Northern Ireland have a long way to go before they can even
acknowledge the hurt inflicted on the other. The hope must be that the talks
will allow the healing to start.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1997 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              147 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               September 19, 1997

British tourists clear out of Cairo

BYLINE: By Ron Mackenna

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 519 words


BRITAIN'S tour operators were last night scrambling to switch holidaymakers away
from the Egyptian capital Cairo following a terrorist attack on tourists which
left 10 people dead and wounded many more.

Thomson Holidays and Saga immediately cancelled all trips and both companies
began moving people in Cairo to other resorts. Thomas Cook is offering
alternatives to those still to fly out. The Foreign Office, which has consular
staff at the scene of the incident, said security cannot now be guaranteed.

The shooting comes three days after an Egyptian court convicted 72 militants of
subversion in the country's largest trial of suspected Islamic militants. Four
of the extremists were sentenced to death and eight to life imprisonment.

At least three gunmen opened fire on the tourists who were sitting on a bus
outside the Egyptian Museum in central Cairo. The vehicle burst into flames and
it is believed grenades or a bomb were thrown.

Police were reported to have shot it out in a bloody street battle with the
terrorists.

The popular tourist area was turned into a chaotic scene of burning vehicles
littered with the dead and wounded. Witnesses said that as the shooting stopped
two bodies, one riddled with bullets, lay across the stairs of the bus. Others
were sprawled across the aisle inside.

Mohammed Fadl, an office worker, said: "One man hurled a Molotov cocktail at the
left side of the bus, while another opened fire. There was a lot of commotion,
and people began running everywhere."

Around 500 officers, carrying riot shields, assault rifles and tear gas
canisters sealed off the area as elite police units searched it for gunmen.
Uniformed and plainclothes police officers pushed away thousands of onlookers
who rushed to the museum - which houses one of the world's most extensive
collections of Pharaonic treasures.

An Interior Ministry statement said last night three attackers were in custody,
referring to them as "terrorists," the word usually used for Islamic extremists.
There was no immediate claim of responsibility.

The ten who died included at least seven German tourists. Four foreign tourists,
none believed to be British, and 15 Egyptians were also wounded in the incident.

In its updated travel advice on Egypt following the attack, the Foreign Office
said the Egyptian authorities attached the highest priority to protecting
visitors.

It added: "But, as the latest attack has shown, security cannot be guaranteed.
Visitors are advised to be vigilant and respect any advice from the local
security authorities."

The Association of British Travel Agents said its members would closely follow
any new advice sent out by the Foreign Office.

A spokesman for Thomson, which accounts for about half of the 320,000 Britons a
year who travel to Egypt, said: "All those due to fly out on Sunday are being
informed by letter of the change of plan."

Nineteen Saga clients due to go to Cairo today were staying in Giza instead,
while 13 due to fly back tomorrow were being put up at Cairo airport rather than
spend the night in the city.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Egyptian police secure the area outside the Egyptian Museum after the
attack on the bus carrying tourists.  Picture: NORBERT SCHILLER/AP

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1997 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              148 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                           September 21, 1997, Sunday

KLAN COMES TO BRITAIN;
KU KLUX KLAN SEEKS BRITISH EXPANSION

BYLINE: Dennis Rice

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8, 9

LENGTH: 1040 words


One of the most evil organisations in the world is on the march in Britain.

The hate-fuelled Klu Klux Klan has gone on the offensive here after being taken
over by a ruthless new leadership.

The KKK made its name in the Deep South of America where white hoods and burning
crosses became its chilling trademark.

Now burning crosses have been found by roadsides in the English Midlands where
heavy recruiting is taking place.

And prospective Klan members are being summoned to meetings across the country
to be quizzed about their anti-black, anti-gay and anti-Jewish credentials.

Our undercover reporters witnessed two of these "auditions" - one outside Bow
Road underground station in East London and another at Glasgow Central rail
station.

There were no white hoods or capes. Everyone had been ordered not to wear
anything that might indicate their affiliation to the KKK.

Instead shaven-headed minders glared menacingly at the recruits as they were
quizzed about their schooling, passport numbers, jobs and religious upbringing.

The man carrying out the London interviews knew exactly what he was doing...he
has had a career in Army intelligence. Now Alan Winder, the Klan's new UK Grand
Dragon, is on a mission to increase the 130,000 reported cases of verbal and
physical clashes over race in Britain last year.

"The new Klan is attracting the worst kind of racists to it here in Britain,"
says Gerry Gable, editor of the anti-racist magazine Searchlight.

He added: "These people are attracted by the history of the Klan - the murders
of thousands of blacks in America - and would delight in the same thing
happening here.

"These are racists who have no interest in spreading their message of hate
through elections but through terror campaigns and attacks."

Under Winder - sworn in as Britain's No.1 racist by the Klan's American leaders
during a secret visit last summer to Britain - the UK Klan is thought to be more
tightly organised than ever before.

An example can be found deep in the vaults of Companies House in Central London
where business firms are obliged by law to file records and accounts.

Company number 03409828 is a newly-formed business, Invisible Empire (Europe)
Limited.

The words "Invisible Empire" were coined by America's early Klansmen to describe
the way that identities were protected so they could carry out lynchings and
murders of non-white people. Winder is listed as a director of Invisible Empire
(Europe) Ltd and his home address is the company's registered office.

The limited company has been set up not just to channel funds, but also to make
it more difficult for the police to prosecute Klansmen. Under British law it is
more difficult to secure a criminal conviction against a company than it is
against individuals.

And so when Britain's Klansmen produce hate-filled literature and racist T
-shirts and badges, they can shield behind Invisible Empire (Europe) Limited.

The company secretary and No.2 to Winder is Bill Binding, who at last May's
General Election stood in Dagenham as a British National Party (BNP)
candidate...a clear example of the close links between ultra right- wing
organisations.

The Klan claims to have 400 activists, including Mark Atkinson, the far-right
Combat 18 member jailed last week for 21 months for terrorising boxer Frank
Bruno's mother.

The KKK - the words Klu Klux are derived from the Greek for circle - was
initially set up as a social circle in Tennessee for Confederate veterans of the
1861-65 American Civil War in which 620,000 lives were lost.

But it was soon taken over by black-hating "rednecks" furious at the freedom
given to slaves following the Northern States' victory over the South.

The shadowy organisation has remained intact and six years ago American KKK
leaders - known as wizards - helped form the British Knights of Ku Klux Klan.

Winder, 35, a salesman, and Binding, 65, a former railman, wrested control of
the British KKK earlier this year from its former commander Allan Beshella, 40,
now based in Wales.

After his coup, Winder made his intentions clear in a secret letter to Klan
activists: "I intend to make us a success.

"By a 'success' I mean nothing short of our being the leading group throughout
Europe for the fight for the preservation of our race and community, and the
exile of the Jewish and mud races."

He added chillingly: "The Invisible Empire is exactly what it says - the
Invisible Empire.  We shall not be contesting parliamentary seats, nor holding
mass rallies."

To reduce the risk of the authorities interfering with their activities, the
formation of para-military-style cells is planned by Winder, previously involved
in the far-right BNP, National Front, British Movement, National Action Party
and National Socialist Alliance.

The British KKK is most active in Nottinghamshire, Derby, Glasgow, West
Yorkshire, Surrey, Hampshire, Thames Valley and South Wales. Two years ago it
was revealed that a leading Klan member was Mike Putley, a civilian computer
operator in the Royal Navy.

It has other supporters in the armed services.

A letter posted in Cyprus by an anonymous serving soldier to a UK-based KKK
paper said: "When I hear the trouble we get with blacks in British streets it
makes me sick to think that I can't do anything while I'm stuck here.

"When I return I want to join the Klan and I know a lot of people in my regiment
who feel the same. We don't have any blacks."

Asian gangs have been formed to hit back at white attackers but this has
delighted the far right. It wins them more recruits and increases the racial
tension on which they thrive.

Mr Gable, whose Searchlight magazine has bravely monitored and reported on the
far-right groups, said: "If anybody thinks the Klan is about people dressing up
in white sheets and messing around, they should took at their criminal records.

"They parade in America in combat fatigues like a militia and are now organising
and arming themselves as such.

"The fact that they have set up a company here suggests they are going to be
better organised than they have been before.

"These new developments are particularly worrying."

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAND DRAGON: Alan Winder is masterminding the Klan's British campaign

                            Copyright 1997 MGN Ltd.

                              149 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                           September 21, 1997, Sunday

SECURITY FORCES ON ALERT OVER BOMB BLITZ;
CONTINUITY ARMY COUNCIL VOWS TO LAUNCH CHRISTMAS BOMB BLITZ IN BRITAIN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8, 9

LENGTH: 461 words


Security on both sides of the border was stepped up last night as the renegade
Continuity Army Council vowed to launch a Christmas bomb blitz in Britain.

The move came as a senior source close to the CAC claimed responsibility for the
bomb attack which devastated part of Markethill, Co Armagh, last Tuesday - and
warned they will plant bombs at Army bases in Ulster until the British
government gives a declaration that it is leaving.

Security forces in Belfast said police on both sides of the border were worried
the group might attack again before the peace talks session in Stormont on
Tuesday. CAC leaders delayed owning up to the Markethill bombing to embarrass
the IRA - which has been accused of the outrages by Unionists.

Unionist sources last night confirmed that their leader David Trimble will sit
down at the negotiating table with Sinn Fein leader Gerry Adams.

But the party wants Sinn Fein expelled from the process. A senior Unionist said:
"The Markethill operation may not have been sanctioned by the IRA command, but
you don't drive a 400lb van bomb through the South Armagh countryside without
the IRA knowing about it and about who was involved.

"There is no doubt in our minds IRA elements unhappy with the ceasefire and
Adams" leadership took part in this operation." The CAC has previously planted
several bombs - including the 1200lb jeep bomb which partially destroyed
Enniskillen's Killyhevlin Hotel in 1996. They also masterminded the failed
bombing outside an hotel near Enniskillen, Co Fermanagh, seven weeks ago.

Security forces claim to know the names of the CAC's seven-strong army council,
made up of paramilitaries from Fermanagh, Belfast, Tyrone, Armagh and Donegal,
and joined in recent weeks by former IRA bombers who oppose the ceasefire.

The chief of staff is said to live in County Donegal and two women are alleged
to have posts on the army council.

It is believed the terror chiefs met in recent weeks to give the go ahead for a
bombing campaign to wreck the talks.

Sources claim they are also set to strike at the Loyalist Volunteer Force, which
has promised to revenge the Markethill bombing. A CAC representative said last
night: "The current so-called talks process is a sham and a farce.

"It is working towards an internal settlement which the Provos will sell to
their people as some kind of interim arrangement.

"Our legitimate targets include all British security installations both in the
six counties and in Britain.

"We will take the war to them as we are only too well aware that one huge bomb
in England is more effective than several dozen bombs over here.

"We can see they have abandoned all Republican principals and the ultimate goal
of a country united."

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1997 MGN Ltd.

                              150 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                           September 21, 1997, Sunday

WE'LL HIT YOU WITH A BOMB BLITZ, WARN TERROR CHIEFS;
CONTINUITY COUNCIL PROMISES CHRISTMAS BOMB BLITZ IN BRITAIN

BYLINE: Martin Breen

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 400 words


Security on both sides of the border was stepped up last night as a renegade
terror group vowed to launch a Christmas bomb blitz in Britain.

The move came as a senior source close to the Continuity Army Council claimed
responsibility for the bomb attack which devastated part of Markethill, in
County Armagh, last week.

He also warned that they will plant bombs at Army bases in Ulster until the
British Government gives a declaration that it is leaving.

Security forces in Belfast said police on both sides of the border were worried
the group might attack again before the next peace talks in Stormont on Tuesday.

CAC leaders delayed owning up to the Markethill bombing to embarrass the IRA -
which has been accused of the outrages by Unionists.

Unionist sources last night confirmed that their leader David Trimble will sit
down at the negotiating table with Sinn Fein leader Gerry Adams.

But the party wants Sinn Fein expelled from the process. A senior Unionist said:
"The Markethill operation may not have been sanctioned by the IRA command, but
you don't drive a 400lb van bomb through the South Armagh countryside without
the IRA knowing about it and about who was involved.

"There is no doubt in our minds IRA elements unhappy with the ceasefire and
Adams's' leadership took part in this operation."

The CAC has previously planted several bombs - including the 1200lb jeep bomb
which partially destroyed Enniskillen's Killyhevlin Hotel in 1996.

They also masterminded the failed bombing outside an hotel near Enniskillen, Co
Fermanagh, seven weeks ago.

Security forces claim to know the names of the CAC's seven-strong army council,
made up of paramilitaries from Fermanagh, Belfast, Tyrone, Armagh and Donegal
Donegal, and joined in recent weeks by former IRA bombers who oppose the
ceasefire.

It is believed the terror chiefs met in recent weeks to give the go-ahead for a
bombing campaign to wreck the talks.

Sources claim they are also set to strike at the Loyalist Volunteer Force, which
has promised to avenge the Markethill attack.

A CAC representative said last night: "The so-called peace talks are a sham and
a farce.

"Our legitimate targets include all British security installations both in the
six counties and in Britain.

"We are well aware that one huge bomb in England is more effective than several
dozen over here."

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DEVASTATION: Aftermath of the terrorists' bomb blast in Markethill last
week

                            Copyright 1997 MGN Ltd.

                              151 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 25, 1997

COMMENTARY: NOW LET'S HEAR WHAT THE IRA HAVE TO SAY;
The allies of Irish nationalism in the US have been forced to surrender their
romantic fallacies

BYLINE: Hugo Young

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGE; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1134 words


BRITAIN has spent so long refusing to negotiate with the IRA that the sight of
Gerry Adams in the conference-room shocks to the quick. In the famous phrase, it
turns your stomach. Martin McGuinness, his lieutenant, has blood on his hands,
and Adams has the same commodity on his conscience if nowhere else. Dealing with
the human face of terrorism, which swathes itself in rectitude, is almost more
repellent than dealing with active gunmen. Yet, among the burdens of a political
leader, a tolerance for stomach-turning ranks among the lighter obligations.
Would that it had been shown years ago.

Like many other things in the modern era, we owe the contrary piety to Margaret
Thatcher. In her time, it became axiomatic that men of volence should never be
humoured by engagement with a British minister. The rule was simply not open for
discussion. Whether as victims of Islamic extremism or Irish republican martyr
-lust, a fair number of people suffered directly in the name of it. Terry Waite
returned a hero, but a pointlessly damaged man. The last days of Bobby Sands,
committing suicide by hunger-strike, attracted the indecent relish of a prime
minister delighted with the opportunity to show how immovable she could be.

Such absolutism was not a policy, but a substitute for policy. Based on the
simplistic theory that any concession to extremists would only excite further
demands or repeat performances, its truth was challenged by the experience of
other countries. France and Germany took a different line on hostages. Their
people were usually bargained-over much sooner, and they did not suffer an
increase in hijackings or hostage-takings. But Britain's posture prevailed
throughout the Tory years, with results that were as catastrophic in policy as
in individual terms.

The most flagrant case was that of Mandela. Our prime minister spent a decade
proclaiming that, because the ANC had committed terrorist acts (though very few
of them), its leader should be ostracised. Hansard is awash with statements of
principle from her and many other ministers whose prophetic errror should be as
embarrassing to them as their absurd exaltation of Chief Buthelezi, a man whose
followers were soon to show rather greater aptitude for butchery than Mandela's.

We want politicians with principles, but what they owe us above all is realism
not pretence. By negotiating with the IRA, this is what Mr Blair, at last, is
offering. Which is why, now that it has begun, the spectacle seems so obviously
necessary as to have attracted the approval even of Mrs Thatcher's latest
successor. So much for Conservatism's famous principles. Even the defiantly
Thatcherite Mr Hague, hedged around by proto-Thatcherites from way back, is
apparently able to reject the point of principle that mis-guided British policy
for so long.

Mr Blair's public reversal of strategy was prompted from an unlikely source, the
security service. Northern Ireland was, naturally, one of the earliest subjects
on which he was briefed, and he learned that, unless something was done to
relieve the pressures, the province faced a possibly uncontrollable breakdown of
order. The implication of this was the need for an initiative which he had
little difficulty accepting, as, in a more obscure way, had his predecessor. But
there was a critical difference between Mr Blair and Mr Major, in that Major, he
whose stomach so famously churned, was obliged to mislead Parliament about the
secret talks with Sinn Fein which he authorised and supervised for months.

Mr Blair's purpose is to bring the matter of Ulster, as far as he is able, out
of the realm of brazen doctrine into the world from which most of its main
actors wish to exclude it: that of political reality. In that world, it makes
elementary sense to admit the IRA and to call it, moreover, by its proper name
without the top -dressing of Sinn Fein. One piece of honesty deserves another.
Just as Mr Blair can be open about his dealings, these should cease to be
disguised behind the fatuities of Adams's and McGuinness's pretended
disconnection from terrorism. One precondition of negotiating with terrorists
has to be that they truly speak for the cause with which democratic leaders are
prepared to meet and soil their hands.

Another is that the democrats should have democratic support for treating with
anti-democrats. And here what has changed is the evidence that such realism
extends beyond the British mainland, which has few delicate sensitivities in the
matter, to the streets of Ulster. At Westminster, the tidal wave of May 1 makes
Blair invulnerable to the Unionist tyranny. In Belfast, even Mr Trimble,
alongside his frantic posturing in the last ditch, feels pressure to speak the
words that do not exclude him from the table.

By dealing with these terrorists, Blair is not committing an insult to
democracy, as the inaugural rotundities of the Unionists declared. Quite the
contrary. All stomachs may be turned by the presence of murderers and their
apologists but, once drawn into talks, they can be put to the democratic
question. This is the question which the tactics of Orangery have conspired to
let them avoid for 30 years. Do they or do they not admit the principle of
consent as the immutable basis of any Northern Ireland settlement?

The presumption is that their answer is in the negative. That is what the
bombings and the murders of 30 years have been about. It does remain, quite
obviously, the answer of some significant Republicans. But it is no longer the
answer of politics. Dublin governments long since abandoned it. The allies of
Irish nationalism, in Washington and even Boston, have been forced to surrender
their romantic fallacies. Only the exclusion forced upon them by successive
manifestations of British Conservatism has afforded the IRA's own leaders the
luxury of pretending that the question need not be addressed. Grandly refusing
to deal with terrorists, while being an intelligible emotional response from
time to time, has been, as a British strategy for three decades, a manifest
disaster, the scale of which can be measured in the graveyards of Fermanagh and
Tyrone.

Now we have another strategy. It attracts the fulminations of moralists against
something of which morality is a futile test. Still they posture, 30 years on.
The strategy may not work, because the IRA may not have what it takes to pass
the democratic test they have set themselves. But the proper test does now
exist. By coming to the table, Adams and McGuinness oblige themselves to express
an opinion. They allow their bluff to be called. By comparison with this,
arms-decommissioning, for example, is an irrelevance: yet another distraction
from the only issue which, in Unionism's own interest, matters.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              152 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 27, 1997

INTERNATIONAL NEWS: HAMAS ACCUSED OF USING INTERNET AS TERROR TOOL

BYLINE: Julian Borger In Jerusalem

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FOREIGN PAGE; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 481 words


HAMAS and other militant Islamic groups are using encryption methods originally
designed for doing business on the Internet to co-ordinate suicide bomb attacks
on Israel, Israeli security officials said yesterday.

The officials say there is little that can be done to counter the use of the
computer network as a terrorist tool. "These are serious people and they know
what they're doing on the Internet. It is basically not a problem for them to
keep one step ahead of us," an Israeli military computer expert admitted
yesterday.

The army expert confirmed an article in the Foreign Report newsletter, published
this week by Jane's Information Group, which quoted investigators from the
Israeli civilian intelligence organisation, Shin Bet, as saying instructions for
"terrorist attacks, including maps, photographs, directions, codes and even
technical details of how to use bombs, are being transferred through the
Internet".

The Foreign Report said Shin Bet suspected that many of the computer-coded
instructions were sent from Britain, which Israel considers to be a hotbed of
Hamas activity.

Military intelligence has accused Palestinian charities in Britain of
channelling funds to Hamas, which has claimed responsibility for two suicide
bomb attacks in the past two months that killed 20 Israelis. Israel has asked
Britain on several occasions to close the charities down, but British diplomats
say they have yet to be given conclusive proof.

An Israeli army officer said there was more evidence of orders coming from
external leaders of the Hamas military wing in Damascus and Khartoum to cells on
the West Bank.

"There is no contact between the cells and the political leadership inside the
country. The risk of being tracked down is too great. There has to be a link
with the outside that is untraceable. That is why the Internet is perfect for
them."

Shmuel Levine, an Internet expert based in Haifa, said the militant groups were
making use of encryption systems originally developed to allow credit card
details to be transferred across the Internet without risk of interception.

"The codes being used on Internet today are very safe, and if someone is
changing the paths they use all the time, and the ways they encrypt it, you
never catch up," Mr Levine said.

Hamas has already demonstrated its ability to exploit the Internet to the full.
Its elaborate home page was recently illustrated with a cartoon showing two
suicide bombers holding their detonators aloft, proclaiming: "See you in
paradise!"

The Israeli government says it has identified four of the five suicide bombers
who died in the two recent attacks as Hamas members from a village on the West
Bank. Troops have sealed off the village, but the Israeli army has warned that
more cells are still operating on the West Bank and that further bomb attacks
are possible.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              153 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 1, 1997

COURT SET TO EXTRADITE MCALISKEY;
Lawyers say Osnabruck bomb suspect is too ill to attend hearing

BYLINE: Owen Bowcott

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 494 words


ROISIN McAliskey, who is being cared for by a London psychiatric hospital's
mother and baby unit, was yesterday ordered to appear in court so she can be
transferred to Germany to face IRA bombing charges.

The demand came from the stipendiary magistrate at Bow Street court, Nicholas
Evans, after he confirmed he was prepared to grant the German government an
extradition order.

"I can indicate that on the basis of what has been said to me, were she here, I
would commit her," Mr Evans told the court. But he was not prepared to make the
order in her absence.

Lawyers for Ms McAliskey insisted they had received medical advice that the 25
-year-old, who gave birth to a girl while on bail four months ago, was not well
enough to appear in court.

Her mother, the former Mid-Ulster MP Bernadette McAliskey, who was in court,
called out: "She's not coming."

Later she said her daughter was suffering from "very severe post-traumatic
stress disorder" following her treatment in Northern Ireland's Castlereagh
holding centre, where she was taken after her arrest 10 months ago, and in two
London prisons.

"This is just getting crazier by the minute.  Now we cannot get out of this
court. Meanwhile this is all affecting my daughter's health. I think she will be
very seriously set back by the proceedings."

Roisin McAliskey has repeatedly denied taking part in the IRA's mortar attack on
the British army barracks at Osnabruck in June 1996. Three bombs were fired from
a lorry parked outside the base but only one exploded. No one was injured.

Both James Lewis, the lawyer for the German government, and Edward Fitzgerald
QC, for Ms McAliskey, were prepared yesterday for the court to make an
extradition order in her absence.

Mr Fitzgerald, who plans to challenge the ruling in the High Court or by way of
judicial review at a later stage, said: "Ms McAliskey has maintained her
innocence throughout."

The Britain and Ireland Human Rights Centre, which has campaigned for her to be
freed, claims she has never been to Germany and has witnesses to prove she was
in Belfast in the run-up to the bombing.

The German arrest warrant, read out in court yesterday, said evidence against
her relied upon the statement of an eyewitness who claims to have seen her at
the holiday home the IRA unit rented near Osnabruck, and fingerprints on a
cellophane wrapping.

Her supporters maintain neither is reliable. The eyewitness, they say, has
retracted his statement, and the prints may have been found elsewhere.

Since Ms McAliskey's arrest neither the German police nor the RUC "made any
attempt to ascertain her whereabouts" during the month of the Osnabruck attack,
the Human Rights Centre claims. "A mass of witness and documentary evidence,
including extensive workplace records, confirms she was in Northern Ireland
throughout the whole of June 1996."

The magistrate fixed a hearing for Ms McAliskey to appear on October 9.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              154 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           October 1, 1997, Wednesday

'Traumatised' McAliskey to attend court

BYLINE: Steve Boggan

SECTION: NEWS; Page  4

LENGTH: 509 words


Her family claims she is suffering from post-traumatic stress, and she has an
eating disorder. But bomb suspect Roisin McAliskey has been told she must be in
court to hear her extradition case.

Steve Boggan reports

A magistrate yesterday ordered the terrorist suspect Roisin McAliskey to be
brought to his court from her hospital sickbed so he could extradite her to
Germany.

Nicholas Evans, sitting at Bow Street Magistrates' Court in London, said he was
prepared to grant an extradition application from the German government, but
only if Ms McAliskey, 25, were present.

His ruling angered her supporters and appeared to astonish lawyers acting for
both sides. Edward Fitzgerald QC, representing Ms McAliskey, and James Lewis,
for the Germans, argued that an order committing her to be extradited could be
granted in her absence after psychiatrists ruled she was too ill to attend.

She was arrested more than 10 months ago on attempted murder and conspiracy
charges after a mortar bomb attack on the Quebec barracks in Osnabruck in June
1996 in which no one was injured. Despite being heavily pregnant and suffering
from an eating disorder, she was classed as a category A high-risk prisoner and
was granted conditional and highly restrictive bail only days before giving
birth to her daughter, Loinnir, in May.

Both sides asked Mr Evans to grant an order yesterday so the case could move on
to the High Court, which can overrule extradition in certain circumstances, or
to Jack Straw, the Home Secretary, who also has the power to prevent extradition
if he were satisfied that the case against Ms McAliskey were flawed. She has
always denied the charges and insists she has never visited Germany.

Yesterday, Mr Lewis, acting for the Germans, said he accepted that Ms McAliskey
was too ill to attend. But Mr Evans said: "I am not prepared to commit her in
her absence". He adjourned the hearing to 9 October, when he said he would take
"just five minutes" to make his ruling with Ms McAliskey present.

After the hearing, her mother, Bernadette McAliskey, the former nationalist MP,
said doctors had warned that attendance would have a terrible effect on her
daughter's health. She is suffering from symptoms of post-traumatic stress
following her arrest and detention in prison while pregnant.

"We wanted this to move on up through the courts so we could argue there was no
prima facie case against her," she said. "Her doctors have told me that her
recovery would take 18 months . . . more stress like this will set her right
back and I won't allow it."

Paul May of the Britain and Ireland Human Rights Centre said her lawyers had
proof that she was in Northern Ireland throughout the period the German
authorities claim she was there. Her presence at a cottage from which the
bombing raid was launched has also been put in doubt. Annaliese Schmidt, whose
husband owns the cottage, has told investigators that Ms McAliskey was not the
woman - known as Beth - who stayed there before the bombing.


LOAD-DATE: October 01, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1997 Independent Print Ltd

                              155 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 8, 1997

LIBYAN SUSPECTS 'MUST FACE TRIAL IN SCOTLAND'
Ian Black Diplomatic Editor

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FOREIGN PAGE; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 449 words


BRITAIN is to tell the International Court of Justice that two Libyans accused
of the Lockerbie bombing must face trial in Scotland, but Foreign Office
officials said yesterday that they were encouraged by Arab responses to a new
offer to allow Libyan and international observers to be present.

The Lord Advocate, Scotland's senior legal officer, will personally present
Britain's case to the court in The Hague next Monday, setting out the charges
against the two men as well as Libya's record on terrorism.

Britain will reject Libya's claim that the court has jurisdiction in the matter
and is confident that its position will be upheld, the officials said.

But the hearing comes at a time of heightened international pressure over
Lockerbie, including last month's decision by the Arab League to breach an air
embargo against Libya, and calls on the United Nations Security Council for a
trial in a neutral location.

Robin Cook, the Foreign Secretary, has said this is not possible because there
is no provision in Scottish law for a court to sit outside its jurisdiction. But
he has offered to allow Libyan and other international observers to attend a
Scottish trial.

Praise for this idea by Egypt's foreign minister, Amr Moussa, was being seen
yesterday as a positive development. British embassies in the Arab world and
Africa were ordered to generate publicity for it. Egypt, widely accused of
breaching UN sanctions, has taken the lead in trying to find a way out of the
impasse.

The entire Lockerbie file was reviewed shortly after the Labour government took
office. But there was embarrassment over a report which quoted a senior figure -
widely believed to be the Scottish Secretary, Donald Dewar - predicting that the
two suspects would never be brought to trial.

The ICJ, the highest legal body of the UN, was first asked to look at the case
in 1992 when Libya was trying to prevent the adoption of sanctions to punish
Colonel Muammar Gadafy for refusing to hand the suspects over.

Libya will present its case to the ICJ a week later.

In the worst terrorist act in British history, 270 people were killed whem Pan
Am flight 103 exploded over Lockerbie just before Christmas 1988.

Officials said, meanwhile, that preliminary investigations by the Department of
Trade showed no breach of sanctions by a British firm said to have supplied
water pipes to Libya.

Suggestions by a United States customs official that the pipes were actually
intended for an underground chemical weapons facility at Tarhuna were being
discounted in London. Both US and British intelligence agencies have concluded
that there was, in fact, no such facility.

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              156 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 9, 1997

CONSERVATIVES IN BLACKPOOL: CULTURAL CRUSADER HAS IT WRONG AGAIN, SAY FELLOW
TORIES;
Michael White on an ill-judged campaign

BYLINE: Michael White

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 516 words


AS NORMAN Tebbit entered Blackpool's ABC Cinema to address a meeting of
Conservatives Against a Federal Europe on Tuesday night, a nervous colleague
asked him whether he would be repeating the warning against multi-culturalism he
had delivered at lunchtime.

"I have been attacked for what I said and I am not going to take it lying down,"
he replied. Nor did he. Lord Tebbit repeated his onslaught against what he
called a "divisive force", found time to warn that Britain is also being chopped
up into "bite-sized morsels" by Brussels, and on Radio 4's Today programme
yesterday extended his attack on the leadership to gays. Mr Hague should not
have sent them a friendly note last summer.

All in a day's work to Norman Beresford Tebbit, whose dad famously got on his
bike and found work in the Depression, who became an RAF and later a militant
British Airways pilot, before becoming a Thatcherite pioneer - his memoirs were
called Upwardly Mobile - as MP for Chingford after 1974.

It is a closely-guarded secret at Westminster that "the Chingford Skinhead" is a
much nicer man than he would have us believe. His solicitous concern for his
wife, Margaret, since the IRA bomb at Brighton crippled her in 1984, is
testimony to that. Yet there is a dark side to his nature which was evident long
before that dreadful night.

Friends say that what the former employment secretary and Tory chairman (1986
-7) was trying to warn against this week was cultural relativism which puts all
social attitudes, values and achievements on an equal plane and makes it harder
to instil any values at all into disaffected young people, especially racial
minorities in the inner cities.

Lord Tebbit is 66 and left office in 1987 after falling out with his heroine.
Busy with a clutch of directorships, he has been searching for a role ever
since. "Bitterness" is the word that comes to mind, despite the mordant wit.

As early as 1991 he ran an ill-judged campaign against the bill to admit even
50,000 Hong Kong residents and their families to Britain. He was wrong then,
badly isolated from his party, and is even more so now. Over breakfast in
Blackpool's Imperial Hotel rightwing Tory MPs who have campaigned with him
against Euro-federalism shook their heads yesterday. "He's got it wrong," they
told each other.

But Lord Tebbit did not wholly waste his time in Blackpool. He remains a
compelling public speaker. He knows how to play the media he so readily
denounces. Yesterday's Daily Mail joined the pack in denouncing him and
69-year-old Alan Clark ( who had suggested murdering 600 hardline IRA men) as
"the march of the dinosaurs" but printed his views at length.

One day in the unforseeable future his warnings of ethnic division may acquire
potency.

But in multi-cultural Britain of the 90s, when even the Queen acknowledges its
attractions on her visit to Pakistan, his themes seem out of date, especially
when the British history of which he reverentially speaks consists of endless
assimilation. Even the Tebbits once came from Belgium, as he wryly admits.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              157 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                October 9, 1997

Political pawn crossed off loyalists' shopping list

BYLINE: Russell Edmunds, Belfast

SECTION: Pg. 9

LENGTH: 720 words


THE story of the transfer of Jason Campbell has raised nearly as many eyebrows
in Northern Ireland as in Scotland. His slim family attachment to the province
has left people wondering how he met the guidelines for the transfer of
prisoners from British jails to Northern Ireland.

Prisoners considered for transfer are usually directly connected with terrorist
organisations or have been jailed for acts of terrorism carried out in Britain.
Both Irish republican and Ulster loyalist groups have "shopping lists" of
prisoners whom they demand should serve out the sentences in the Maze Prison
near Belfast, where they can be closer to relatives. However, in the case of
Campbell there appeared little or no argument to be made on this score since he
grew up in Glasgow, and when he committed his brutal murder of a 16-year-old
Catholic youth, was hardly acting on orders from the Ulster Volunteer Force or
any other loyalist group.

Campbell's name was first raised by the tiny Progressive Unionist party in
Northern Ireland. It has very little electoral support but nevertheless is seen
as a key player in the current peace talks at Stormont, chiefly because it is
regarded as the political wing of the UVF. Despite the ruthless reputation of
the UVF, the Progressive Unionists have presented a very positive face towards
the Ulster peace process.

Unlike the Rev Ian Paisley, the Progressives, led by Billy Hutchinson and David
Irvine, are participating enthusiastically. It is against this background that
the transfer of Campbell must be viewed. When the loyalist leadership met
Northern Ireland prison authorities recently to discuss transfers from British
jails and other conciliatory measures Campbell's name was on its list.

Mr Hutchinson described the Government's acceptance in September of his demands
as "a positive move". It appears that Campbell was closely associated with the
organisation and remains so. It is also clear that the UVF links with Campbell's
family go back a long way since his father and uncle were jailed in Glasgow in
1979 in connection with the loyalist terrorists.

The British and Irish governments are anxious to please both republicans and
loyalists to keep them talking. Loyalists argue that the IRA and Sinn Fein have
been focal points for "confidence-building" over the summer.

While the concessions have been mainly on the political front, prisoners' issues
have also loomed large. Short of accepting Sinn Fein's requirement that all
"political prisoners" should be released, the authorities appear to be looking
sympathetically at early releases for some and the transfer of others.

What republicans want and get, loyalists also demand. The Stormont talks cannot
survive without the participation of each side and so both are trying to extract
maximum concessions from the Government in return for taking part.

Jason Campbell is a pawn in this game which began in earnest this week with the
first full sessions of negotiations at Stormont on Tuesday. The Ulster Secretary
of State Dr Mo Mowlam confirmed on September 26 that a loyalist prisoner was
moving from Scotland to Ulster.

Progressive Unionist prison spokesman William Smith was the first to confirm
that Campbell was the prisoner in question. Notably, he added that Campbell is
"well rated here". Smith also confirmed that the PUP had a "shopping list" of
demands in relation to loyalist prisoners which had been presented to Ms Mowlam.
The decision on Campbell and on another loyalist prisoner, David Russell, moving
from England to Scotland, "only ticked a couple of items of that list".

Yesterday at Stormont, a special committee began deliberations on further
confidence building measures, which in future may lead to the release or
transfer of more prisoners. Everyone appears to accept that unless trust can be
established little progress will be made.

Seen in that light the transfer of Jason Campbell is a sop to hard-line
loyalists, even a reward for their continued active participation. Controversial
it most certainly is but if the move tempers loyalist suspicions that the IRA
and Sinn Fein have been getting too much their own way lately, Ms Mowlam will
have won another small victory for confidence-building in Ulster, no matter
about the hue and cry elsewhere.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1997 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              158 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                       October 13, 1997, Monday Edition 3

Anger on meeting

SECTION: BRITAIN TONIGHT, Pg. 10

LENGTH: 132 words


    Stayaway Unionists accused Tony Blair of insulting the victims of IRA
violence by meeting Sinn Fein president Gerry Adams in Belfast today.

MPs Ian Paisley and Robert McCartney claimed the Prime Minister was making a
huge mistake he would bitterly regret once the Provisionals started shooting
again.

Their parties withdrawn from the peace talks because of Sinn Fein's admission
and will not be at Stormont when Mr Blair meets leaders and representatives of
the other eight parties involved in the process later today.

The scheduled meeting with Mr Adams was to be the first between Sinn Fein and a
British Prime Minister since 1921, when Lloyd George and Michael Collins signed
the Treaty which left Ireland divided. Their expected handshake will be private.


LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  SHAKING ON IT - Prime Minster Tony Blair

                Copyright 1997 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              159 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                October 13, 1997

Security tight as Queen lands in Delhi

SECTION: Pg.9

LENGTH: 303 words


SECURITY was stepped up as the Queen arrived in New Delhi last night, following
three bomb attacks and anti-British demonstrations.

Police in the Indian capital used water cannon on Sikh protestors calling for an
apology from the Queen for a 1919 massacre by troops of the British Raj.

On Friday night bomb blasts in Delhi killed a child and injured 16 people.
Police suspect Moslem militants demanding independence for Kashmir were
responsible.

The Queen and Duke of Edinburgh arrived at the city's Palam Airport at the start
of a six-day state visit marking the 50th anniversary of India's independence
from Britain.

A Royal Squadron British Aerospace 146 jet brought them from Islamabad after
last week's state visit to Pakistan.

Earlier dozens of Indians, mainly Sikhs, staged demonstrations close to the
British High Commission.

Apology

They are demanding a royal apology for the massacre 78 years ago at Amritsar in
which 379 civilians were shot dead and a further 1,200 wounded.

The Queen is to visit Amritsar and will lay a wreath at the scene of the
killings tomorrow.

''We would like the Queen to apologise for the killings,'' said Paramjit Singh
Pamma, leader of the 50-odd demonstrators.

The Queen was welcome to visit Amritsar, he said, but an apology from her would
help soothe the pain and anguish felt by the families of those killed.

Bhushan Behl, president of a committee of relatives, said: ''It's not enough to
lay a wreath. A few words from the Queen would help heal old wounds.

''We would have liked her to apologise and remove this black mark on the British
Crown.''

The 71-year-old monarch and Prince Philip, 76, will rest overnight before
today's ceremonial welcome by India's President Narayanan at his official
residence, Rashtrapati Bhawan.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1997 Bristol United Press

                              160 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                October 15, 1997

Libya 'trying to sidestep UN over Lockerbie suspects'

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 420 words


BRITAIN and the United States yesterday accused Libya of going to the World
Court in an attempt to sidestep UN orders to hand over two agents accused of the
Lockerbie bombing, which killed 270 people.

London and Washington claim that the World Court in The Hague has no
jurisdiction in the case and cannot review a Security Council decision. The
court relies on states to voluntarily comply with its rulings.

"Libya challenges the court to declare itself the ultimate arbiter of the
correctness of any decision of the Security Council," said Scotland's Lord
Advocate, Lord Hardie, as Britain wound up its presentation to the court.

"If such a principle were ever to be admitted, it would hang a sword of Damocles
over every decision of the Security Council," he said.

The United States claimed it had jurisdiction to prosecute the two Libyans .

"The United States has criminal jurisdiction to prosecute the two Libyans
implicated in the bombing of Pan Am 103, based on the US nationality of the
aircraft and the US nationality of many of the passengers and crew," said Mr
Sean Murphy, counsellor for legal affairs at the US Embassy in The Hague.

As the legal wrangling continues, suspects Abdel Basset Megrahi and Lamen
Khalifa Fhimah remain in Tripoli - and the victims' frustrated families still
await justice.

Dr Jim Swire, whose 23-year-old daughter Flora was a passenger on the doomed
flight, sat silently in court yesterday watching the proceedings.

He represents a group of relatives of Scottish victims which wants British and
US authorities to sanction a Scottish-style trial in a neutral country - a
compromise supported by Libya.

In his closing statement, British delegation leader Sir Franklin Berman cut
through the legal jargon echoing through the halls of the Peace Palace, the
World Court's ornate headquarters.

"What this case is about is a human tragedy, a terrorist attack on a civil
airliner in flight which deliberately caused the death of 270 innocent persons,"
said Mr Berman.

"This case is about uncovering what happened and who was responsible, and more
precisely it is about our duty to see to it that those who committed this
outrage are put fairly on trial so that terrorism is not given refuge or
condoned," he said.

Libya will present its arguments on Friday.

However, it has not yet reacted to Britain's offer on Monday to try the suspects
in Scotland in the presence of international monitors who could ensure a fair
and impartial trial.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1997 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              161 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                October 17, 1997

Security tightened after blast

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 261 words


Colombo

Sri Lanka deployed hundreds of soldiers in Colombo a day after suspected Tamil
Tiger rebels stunned the nation with a deadly attack on the capital's financial
district.

President Chandrika Kumaratunga vowed that Wednesday's bombing and subsequent
gun battle - which killed 18 people and wounded 105, including seven Britons -
would not affect her quest to end 14 years of ethnic conflict. "Such acts will
not undermine our commitment to peace," she said.

UN Secretary-general Kofi Annan called the bombing a "terrorist attack" and
countries including Britain, Australia, and Germany joined a chorus of
condemnation. German Foreign Minister Klaus Kinkel called the blast a "cowardly
and senseless attack".

Police arrested three suspects at Colombo's main railway station yesterday, and
two others were sought.

About 100 others were detained on Wednesday for questioning, but most were
released afterwards.

Three died overnight, raising the death toll to 18, and about 50 were still in
hospital with minor injuries after Wednesday's blast, which the government
blamed on Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE).

Troops set up checkpoints and cordoned off the immediate site of the explosion,
which severely damaged three hotels and several office buildings, including the
World Trade Centre that houses the central bank and the stock exchange.

The stock exchange was moved to a secret site and remained closed yesterday but
trading was likely to resume today despite considerable damage to the main
computer system.-Reuters.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1997 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              162 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     The Times Higher Education Supplement

                                October 17, 1997

Scotland looks at defence

BYLINE: OLGA WOJTAS, Scottish Editor

SECTION: Issue 1302, Pg.9

LENGTH: 516 words


WHEN the Scottish devolution bill is published later this year it will exclude
foreign affairs and defence. These will remain in the hands of Westminster as
United Kingdom concerns.

But what if devolution leads to independence? The Scottish Centre for War
Studies at Glasgow University has dared to think the unthinkable in its
publication, Some Thoughts on an Independent Scottish Defence Force, which
argues that an independent defence force would be both necessary and feasible.

The paper is written under the pseudonym 'Jack Hawthorn', provoking speculation
that he is a serving officer sparking off debate.

Hew Strachan, director of the Glasgow centre, said: 'One of the problems of the
devolution debate was that the knock-on effects, particularly in tax-raising
powers, were unclear to people when they cast their votes in the referendum.
Only if we open out these issues now can they be explored if independence were
ever to become politically realistic.'

The paper was not an endorsement of an independent Scotland, he said. But it was
an attempt to define what constitutes an adequate defence force for 'a
comparatively small but developed state without any obvious enemies' and can
therefore be seen as a possible template for other nations.

But Scotland has a clear military identity, partly through its infantry
regiments such as the Royal Scots, the Black Watch, and the Argyll and
Sutherland Highlanders. It provided many soldiers in both world wars and
recruitment is higher than south of the border.

'This paper starts with the idea of an integrated, all-round capability which
proportionately reduces the infantry in relation to the rest,' said Professor
Strachan.

Since any future military operations are likely to involve two or more of the
three services, a Scottish defence force should be jointly organised at the top
level.

Scotland is unlikely to face any major military threat, although oil and gas
installations in the North Sea could attract terrorist attacks and there could
be conflicts over fishing areas. Scotland is unlikely to want to retain any part
of Britain's nuclear deterrent. But the paper suggests ballistic missiles as a
cheap alternative.

It also rules out aircraft carriers for economic reasons, but not attack
submarines, frigates for maritime diplomacy, patrol vessels for fishery and oil
rig protection, and minehunters to keep shipping routes open.

It envisages about eight squadrons totalling 100 aircraft, compared with the ten
squadrons stationed in Scotland. It sets a 'realistic minimum' of 12,500 men and
women in the Scottish army, based on the six infantry battalions of the Scottish
Division, with the Royal Scots Dragoon Guards and two Royal Artillery regiments.
It foresees few recruitment difficulties, with 10 per cent of the navy, 13 per
cent of the army, and 14 per cent of the air force coming from Scotland.

Some Thoughts On An Independent Scottish Defence Force is available from the
Scottish Centre for War Studies, Glasgow University, Glasgow G12 8QQ, Pounds
2.50 including p&p.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Magazine

                      Copyright 1997 TSL Education Limited

                              163 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 18, 1997

Lockerbie families 'call Gadafy's bluff'

BYLINE: IAN BLACK DIPLOMATIC EDITOR

SECTION: The Guardian Foreign Page; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 366 words


LIBYA went on to the attack at the world court yesterday to accuse the United
States and Britain of exploiting the Lockerbie bombing for political purposes,
as relatives of the 270 dead said they were ready for a trial in a third
country.

Abdelrazeg Suleiman, a Libyan law professor, told the International Court of
Justice in The Hague: "The reactions of the two states after the tragic
explosion at Lockerbie are explained by geopolitical and ideological reasons."

He repeated an offer by Colonel Muammar Gadafy to hold a trial of the two
suspects - said by London and Washington to be Libyan intelligence agents - in a
neutral country under Scottish law.

Britain and the US insist that the trial must take place on their terms and in
their countries, though both are sharply aware of the mounting international
unease at the long impasse and the UN sanctions imposed in 1992 because of
Libya's refusal to hand the men over.

But they both came under increased pressure yesterday when American relatives of
the victims of Pan Am Flight 103 said they were now ready to have a trial in the
Netherlands or another neutral country.

"We're calling Gadafy's bluff," said Bert Ammerman, of New Jersey, whose brother
died in the December 1988 explosion, the worst terrorist incident in British
history.

"We're also asking the president to show some backbone, to bring this matter to
a resolution."

The chairman of UK Families Flight 103, Jim Swire, who has long supported the
neutral venue position and accused the British government of evading the core
issue, lost his patience yesterday.

"I am fed up with the lot of them," he told reporters in The Hague.  "I could
bang their heads together. We should have had a trial years ago."

Dr Swire's daughter Flora died in the bombing.

The court is being asked to rule only on a legal technicality: whether or not it
has jurisdiction to hear Libya's request for a ruling that it has the right to
try the suspects in its own courts.

Libya insists that the two suspects could not get a fair hearing in Scotland or
the US, though there are strong doubts whether Col Gadafy would hand them over
in any circumstances.


LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              164 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                      October 18, 1997, Saturday Edition 1

World Round-up

SECTION: INTERNATIONAL NEWS, Pg. 24

LENGTH: 370 words


    RUSSIA: A new banknote has provoked protests because it depicts a Soviet
labour camp. The banknote shows a 15th Century monastery on an island in the
White Sea which was a camp from 1917 to 1939.

UNITED STATES: Christina Reveruzzi, 11, wrote a letter addressed to "President
of the United States, Mr William Clinton," at 1600 Pennsylvania Ave, Washington,
DC, the White House's official address, but the postal service sent the letter
back stamped: "Moved, Not Forwardable."

NORWAY: A three-party moderate coalition government took power yesterday under
the leadership of Kjell Magne Bondevik, a Lutheran minister with a dream of
restoring the "traditional values" of modesty and personal thrift.

GREECE: Dozens of flights to and from Athens were delayed or cancelled yesterday
after air traffic controllers walked out for four hours in support of more
job-related bonuses.

EUROPE: The European Union is to take Britain, France, Finland, Denmark,
Germany, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Ireland, Spain and Italy to court for not
complying with European law on habitats for endangered animals and plants.

ITALY: Police have recovered a stolen 15th Century painting in London with the
help of Scotland Yard. The Madonna del Poggio, attributed to Benozzo Gozzoli,
was stolen from a church near Pisa in 1995.

ISRAEL: A Hamas leader targeted by Mossad assassins was involved in two bombings
of Jewish targets in Argentina and plotted recent attacks in Israel, a security
report said.

AUSTRALIA: Fathers of young children are being urged to do more to help their
partners in a campaign to boost breastfeeding. The health minister wants men to
be prepared to get up in the small hours to settle a restless baby so their
partners can get desperately needed sleep.

INDIA: A Hindu mob attacked a Moslem religious procession in Hyderabad, injuring
at least 20 people including two policemen. Some of the attackers were armed
with swords.

VIETNAM: Marx and Lenin are fading from lecture halls due to a lack of funding,
says the Communist Party. There is a shortage of teachers qualified to teach
Marxist theory, despite Vietnam being one of the last Marxist-Leninist countries
in the world.

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 1997 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              165 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                           October 18, 1997, Saturday

Bombs hit Sri Lanka recovery

BYLINE: Steve Keenan

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 470 words


Island's image takes a dent after rebel attack. Report by Steve Keenan

THE Sri Lanka bombings that killed 18 people this week threaten to wreck hopes
of a tourism recovery for the island this winter.

The bombs, which destroyed the ballroom of the luxury Galadhari Hotel and parts
of the nearby Hilton in the capital, Colombo, marked a new drive by terrorists
to disrupt Sri Lanka's tourist industry. And they exploded just two weeks before
charter flights from the UK begin their winter season.

Ranjit de Silva, director of the UK office of the Sri Lankan Tourist Board, said
he had hoped this year for a return to 1995 tourism figures, when a record
63,582 UK visitors flew to Sri Lanka.

The numbers fell last year to 52,095 following a suicide bomb attack in January
1996 on the Central Bank in Colombo, in which 81 people were killed and 1,500
injured.

But following a lull in terrorist incidents in popular resort areas, the number
of UK visitors in the first seven months of 1997 had grown by 10.7 per cent.

Rohan Christopher, executive director of Toureast, a ground handler for holiday
firms including Kuoni, Trailfinders, Asia World Travel and Thomas Cook Holidays,
said: "The bomb comes at a bad time for us.

"Tourism was picking up at a good pace. We expected numbers to rise a quarter
this year, with a record number coming from Britain. For us, it is one step
forward and ten steps back.

"After the 1996 Colombo bomb we saw a 25 per cent drop in numbers. We were
recovering from that. Army security is very tight in Colombo, but you can't
check every single human being. We could lose bookings next week to Kenya,
Thailand or South America."

An estimated 1,000 British tourists were in Sri Lanka when the bombs went off.
But most were in resort areas such as Negombo and Kalutara, or on round-island
tours.

British Airways Holidays moved four customers out of a city centre hotel on
Wednesday to one at the airport 20 miles away. Customers already booked to
travel to Sri Lanka are being offered alternatives.

Thomson Holidays had 200 customers in Sri Lanka this week but said none was in
Colombo. Customers booked to travel are being told to contact their travel agent
or Thomson.

THOMSON expected to carry 7,000 Britons to Sri Lanka in the charter flight
season from November to April. The first charter is due to leave on November 4.
But neither Thomson nor BAH would immediately say whether they will offer
refunds. "We will judge each case on its merits," said Thomson.

The bombings were the first time that suspected terrorists from the Liberation
Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) have targeted hotels. But there have also been five
attacks since June on the country's most popular wildlife sanctuary, Yala
National Park, in the southeast of the island.


LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1997 Times Newspapers Limited

                              166 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            October 20, 1997, Monday

POUNDS 14B TUNNEL LINK TO BRITAIN;
RAILWAY PLAN FOR IRISH SEA;
IRELAND TO BRITAIN TUNNEL LINK PLANNED

BYLINE: Paul Smith

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 235 words


An ambitious pounds 14 BILLION tunnel is being planned between Ireland and
Britain, it was revealed last night.

The 56-mile rail line would link Holyhead and Dublin. It would be 24 miles
longer than the Channel tunnel and the journey from London to Dublin would take
just three-and-a-half hours.

The tunnel would be constructed about 100 yards beneath the surface of the Irish
Sea.

It would be in a tube close to the sea bed, and probably formed by a twin -track
railway and a maintenance passage.

Symonds Group, the consultancy that proposed the idea, said an initial study
would take a year and cost pounds 8 million. If all went to plan, the earliest
possible date for opening the link would be 2010.

Around 25 per cent of the cost of the link would come from the British and Irish
governments and the EU. Gareth Davies, from

the Symonds Group, said: "We possess the techniques to allow tunnelling at this
depth and to this length. I am confident our proposal is practical and
technically sound.""

Mr Davies said there was some scepticism over the financial viability of such
projects, following the Channel tunnel.

But he added: "We need to learn from that experience and move forward."

He said any financial backers would need to consider the risk of terrorist
attacks.

But the tunnel could be seen as an aid to maintaining Ireland's booming Celtic
Tiger economy.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1997 MGN Ltd.

                              167 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 23, 1997

Mandela widens Lockerbie divide

BYLINE: IAN BLACK DIPLOMATIC EDITOR

SECTION: The Guardian Foreign Page; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 363 words


TONY BLAIR is to urge Nelson Mandela to stop opposing Britain's position on the
Lockerbie bombing after the South African president arrived in Libya last night
before heading to the Commonwealth summit in Edinburgh.

British officials confirmed that the Prime Minister would raise the issue with
Mr Mandela, but were anxious to avoid a public row that will overshadow the
Commonwealth heads of government meeting.

After diplomatic exchanges in the past few days, including an explicit reminder
that the issue is especially sensitive in Scotland, Mr Mandela said in Tripoli
that he remained unimpressed by opposition to his high-profile mission.

"Those who say I should not be here are without morals," he said before meeting
Colonel Muammar Gadafy. "I am not going to join them in their lack of morality."

Mr Mandela's support for Libya is a serious blow to Britain and the United
States, which insist that it must hand over two intelligence officers accused of
carrying out the worst terrorist incident in British history.

Two hundred and seventy people were killed when Pan Am flight 103 exploded over
Lockerbie in December 1988.

United Nations sanctions were imposed in 1992 when Libya refused to surrender
the two. But mounting sanctions, fatigue and resentment at Western
high-handedness have been compounded recently by pressure from the victims'
families for a trial in a neutral location.

South Africa supports a proposal by the Organisation of African Unity for a
neutral venue, such as The Hague. The US and Britain say it can be held only on
their territories.

Mr Mandela said he had spent 27 years in jail rather than abandon his principles
under pressure and said he felt the same way about his debt to Col Gadafy and
the Libyan people for their support in the struggle against apartheid.

"This man helped us at a time when we were all alone, when those who say we
should not come here were helping the enemy," Mr Mandela said.

He said he would try to resolve the stalemate at the Commonwealth summit.

British sources said there was no agreement that Mr Mandela would refrain from
raising the issue while in Edinburgh.


LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              168 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 23, 1997

Britain bans Iranian leader

BYLINE: KATHY EVANS

SECTION: The Guardian Foreign Page; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 340 words


THE Home Office issued an exclusion order yesterday banning the leader of an
Iranian opposition group, whose London representatives attended last month's
Labour Party conference as official delegates and were photographed at a
cocktail party with Tony and Cherie Blair.

The volte-face over Mariam Rajavi, leader of the National Council of Resistance
of Iran, comes just two weeks after the United States secretary of state,
Madeleine Albright, declared Mujahedin al Khalq (MKO), the largest faction
within the council, a terrorist organisation. Collecting funds for the MKO is
now a criminal act in the US.

The decision was immediately welcomed by Iranian officials in Tehran who have
long argued that the group has carried out numerous terrorist attacks in Iran.

A Foreign Office spokesman in London said: "We have decided her presence in
Britain is not conducive to the public good. Mrs Rajavi was formerly the MKO's
secretary-general and we know she travels regularly to Baghdad."

The official added that the Government had long regarded the MKO as a terrorist
organisation and it had never had any contact with its front organisation, the
National Council of Resistance.

But for years, the council has successfully passed itself off to Western
politicians as the only democratic alternative to the clergymen who rule in
Tehran. The reality, say exiled Iranians, is that the group is little more than
an authoritarian-style cult built around the personalities of the MKO's founder,
Massoud Rajavi, and his wife, Mariam.

Western politicians have proved vulnerable to the council's slick officials and
their talk of human rights abuses in Iran and the need for democracy. Last
month, representatives from the organisation's London office were invited as
official delegates to the Labour Party conference. They were also invited to a
cocktail party where they were photographed with the Blairs and the Foreign
Secretary, Robin Cook.

The council is one of the best-funded foreign groups operating in Britain.


LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              169 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                       October 27, 1997, Monday Edition 1

Nigeria Left Out In The Cold By Leaders

SECTION: BRITAIN TONIGHT, Pg. 8

LENGTH: 221 words


    Commonwealth leaders were ending their four-day Edinburgh summit today with
a tough statement on human rights abuses in Nigeria.

They were expected to stop short of making it a pariah state, but to continue
its suspension while stepping up efforts to bring it back into the fold.

Nigeria is one of several controversies to overshadow Tony Blair's hopes of
making economics and trade the focal point of the Commonwealth.

Even before the summit began, controversy erupted over the role of the Queen as
head of the 54-nation grouping.

But the event was overshadowed even more by Nelson Mandela's adoption of the
crusade by relatives of the victims of the Lockerbie terrorist bombing, which
claimed 270 lives.

He backed their call for a trial of the two accused Libyans but felt it should
be in a neutral country, saying one country could not be complainant, prosecutor
and judge.

Mr Mandela remained the undoubted star of the show walking arm in arm with the
Prime Minister at the leaders' "away-day" in St Andrews yesterday.

This event put the finishing touches to their final decision on the Nigeria
question.

The Commonwealth will impose sanctions, such as visa restrictions, if inadequate
progress is made towards democratic elections in the military-run African state
next October.


LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 1997 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              170 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 27, 1997

Passport controls face axe

BYLINE: ALAN TRAVIS HOME AFFAIRS EDITOR

SECTION: The Guardian Home Page; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 787 words


PASSPORT checks at air and sea ports will be scrapped, except for targeted
passengers, and a pounds 2 tax for every passenger introduced under a radical
shake-up of Britain's border controls being considered by Home Office ministers.

The proposals to abolish Britain's traditional border controls are contained in
internal Home Office documents, sent to the Guardian, which form part of the
Government's "comprehensive spending review".

They have gone to ministers who are said to be "quite supportive".

Immigration Service chiefs have proposed repealing the legal requirement that
all passengers arriving in Britain from outside Europe must have "written leave
to enter" in favour of a "simpler, more selective, control", the documents show.

Home Office unions fear that this "more selective approach" - in which only
people arriving on targeted flights are interviewed by immigration officials -
will be seen as racist and could lead to a repeat of scenes such as the
detention of a planeload of Christmas travellers from Jamaica.

Ministers are being asked to redeploy the staff who currently check the
passports of the 75 million people a year who arrive in Britain. Under the new
proposals they would be used to bolster efforts to deport illegal immigrants
already in the country and tackle absconders, as well as for surveillance,
intelligence and preventive work overseas.

The documents admit that the plans for what is part of Europe's "external
frontier" may be limited by Tony Blair's comments at the EU's Amsterdam summit
in June. The Prime Minister said he had no intention of throwing away Britain's
strength as an island by weakening its border controls.

The Immigration Service is also pressing ministers to scrap all remaining
passport controls on passengers leaving Britain.

About 60 per cent of people leaving the country have their passports inspected.
The abolition of this control would mean an end to routine "all ports warnings"
in cases of child abduction or terrorist attacks.

The Immigration Service says that these checks make "no contribution to
immigration control" but admits that their abolition would have an impact on the
work of the police and the security services who, it is expected, would lose a
routine source of intelligence.

Immigration chiefs want an early decision to abandon these checks because, they
say: "We will be able to staff the embarkation control this autumn/winter only
at the expense of the arrivals control."

In a development which will shock human rights organisations, the papers show
that immigration officers have already started working at airline check-in desks
around the world to prevent asylum seekers from travelling to Britain before
their claims for refugee status can be heard.

The documents show that the Home Office wants to expand from five to 20 its
force of "airline liaison officers" who work abroad alongside airline check -in
staff in such places as New Delhi, giving airlines informal advice about who
they should allow aboard their aircraft. Airlines that carry passengers with
inadequate papers face fines.

The documents boast that the liaison officers have since December intercepted
about 450 "improperly documented passengers who would very probably have claimed
asylum on arrival here".

Refugee groups argue that many genuine refugees have to travel to Britain on
false papers to claim asylum because it is often the authorities they are
fleeing who issue the passports. The practice also implies that Britain is
dodging its international obligations to examine the individual merits of each
asylum case.

The immigration officials argue that the pounds 575,000 a year spent on the five
airline liaison officers has already saved the Treasury pounds 9 million - the
cost of examining the claims of 450 asylum seekers, had they arrived in Britain.

The documents also disclose that a pounds 2 tax on all passengers is under
consideration to pay for the expansion in "preventing abusive claimants
travelling here". They note that opposition to the tax is expected from the
shipping industry.

Officials say traditional border controls cannot be scrapped until appropriate
legislation has been passed, but they say ministers should also look at ways of
adapting existing laws to enable them to act sooner.

They acknowledge that any reduction in checks by immigration officers on
arriving passengers will increase the potential for abuse of the system and will
impair any deterrent effect.

But the papers also imply that the rapidly rising number of travellers, combined
with public spending limits, means that checks on every arriving passenger can
no longer be afforded.


LOAD-DATE: April 10, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              171 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                            October 31, 1997, Friday

MORNING VIEW: MOVE ON INTERNMENT APPEARS ILL-JUDGED

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 586 words


Internment without trial in the Northern Ireland context has been an extremely
contentious issue and both Labour and Tory governments at Westminster have been
very wary of re-introducing the Draconian measure to off-set any security
contingency which may arise at a given time in the future.

However, the wisdom of removing internment completely from the statute book, as
the present Government is now proposing to do, sends entirely the wrong message
to those who still harbour thoughts of murder and mayhem or at worst remain
actively involved in pursuing a violent agenda against the established
institutions and citizens of this nation.

The Government counters accusations of apparent weakness on its part by stating
that there are two laws which cover the holding of terrorist suspects and court
procedures for dealing with such offenders: the Prevention of Terrorism Act and
the Emergency Provisions Act.

Both measures are subject to the whim of parliament and opponents of the
Government move to abandon internment will quickly remind the Labour
administration of its consistent hostility to the Prevention of Terrorism Act
when official Opposition to the Tories for 18 years.

When introduced to combat IRA terrorism in the early 1970s, internment proved an
unsatisfactory method to effectively put down what was a serious insurrection by
violent forces against the state of Northern Ireland.  The main reason for the
ineffectiveness at a time when Northern Ireland was dangerously engulfed in
flames was the lack of reliable intelligence available to the then Stormont
Government and the RUC on the real terrorist godfathers and conscripts operating
the vicious and violent campaign.

Internment was used to good effect to quell the1956-62 IRA campaign, but the
vital difference then from the early 1970s measure was that it was used on both
sides of the border on the orders of the governments in Belfast and Dublin.

From the earliest years of the Irish Free State, internment was implemented by
successive Dublin administrations, even those headed by that arch republican
Eamon De Valera, to put down IRA terrorist activity. Indeed, governments headed
by this guru of 20th century Irish republicanism had no compunction in using
capital punishment to remove from the scene rogue elements who were a threat to
the stability and government in the South.

With the passage of time, it has become decidedly unfashionable, some observers
might say it is politically incorrect, to suggest capital punishment or even
internment as the ultimate panaceas for dealing with murderous campaigns
directed against innocent law-abiding people. Only a minority of MPs at
Westminster today favour capital punishment to deal with the various degrees of
murder and it is highly unlikely that this measure will ever be resurrected,
even to deal with terrorism.

Internment without trial does not present the same grim starkness of life or
death choice, but should naked terrorism ever raise its ugly head again in
Britain, whether the perpetrators are Irish republicans or Middle East fanatics,
government and our security forces require the necessary powers to act
decisively in the interests of the nation at large.

Only time will tell if the Government is being a little too hasty in totally
removing internment from the Statute Book, but backed by an overwhelming
majority in the Commons Tony Blair and his cabinet have set their faces towards
change and they will be hard to dissuade.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1997 Century Newspapers Limited

                              172 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                October 31, 1997

Straw lifts terror ban as bomb scares hit Ulster

BYLINE: John Deans

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 437 words


THE ban on IRA terror suspects entering mainland Britain was lifted by the
Government last night, hours after two bomb scares in Northern Ireland.

The latest apparent concession to Gerry Adams and Sinn Fein was announced by
Jack Straw in another move to spearhead a shakeup of the UK's anti terrorism
legislation.

The Home Secretary's decision follows plans to scrap the Government's powers to
intern Ulster paramilitaries without trial.

It is designed to give further momentum to the all-party peace talks, which are
struggling to find an agreed new political framework for Northern Ireland. The
decision

to scrap exclusion orders means 12 suspected terrorists, until yesterday
subjected to the ban, may now travel from the province to mainland Britain.

Yet in Northern Ireland only yesterday, lives were put at risk as a terrorist
carried a bomb through Londonderry, just as another device was found in Armagh.

In the Commons, Mr Straw said exclusion orders were of limited use, and
prevented Britain from playing an effective role in the battle for improved
human rights.

He said exclusion powers had been used sparingly in recent years, with numbers
dropping from 248 terrorists banned in 1982 to 74 in 1994.

The orders 'provided an easy argument for the apologists for terrorism to use
against us'.

The powers will lapse next year when the Government seeks to renew existing
antiterrorist legislation ahead of the introduction of permanent UK-wide powers.
'We need a robust and clear set of powers which will enable the police, security
forces and the courts to deal effectively with all forms of terrorism for the
foreseeable future,' he said.

The scrapping of the exclusion system left Tories concerned.

Home affairs spokesman Sir Brian Mawhinney said it needed close examination
before his party

would support it. Ulster Unionist leader David Trimble accused the Government of
being naive and of relaxing its stance on the terrorist threat.

But Mr Straw said: 'This Government will never drop its guard in the fight
against terrorism.' Responsibility for the London-derry blast was put down to
dissident republicans opposed to Sinn Fein's peace strategy.

A masked gunman left an incendiary device containing one and a half lbs of
Semtex at a Government office building in London-derry. The detonator exploded,
but not the main charge.

The Continuity IRA later admitted responsibility.

The use of Semtex means this breakaway group has got its hands on a type of
powerful explosives which previously only the Provisional IRA apparently had
access to.


LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1997 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              173 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            October 31, 1997, Friday

BRITISH BAN ON TERROR SUSPECTS TO BE LIFTED;
GOVERNMENT TO END BAN ON IRISH TERROR SUSPECTS FROM ENTERING MAINLAND B RITAIN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 235 words


British Home Secretary Jack Straw yesterday signalled the end of Government
powers to ban Irish terror suspects from mainland Britain.

He lifted exclusion orders on 10 Republican and two Loyalist suspects security
chiefs fear could commit terror acts.

And he told MPs that, if the ceasefire holds, he will let the controversial 23
-year-old precaution lapse when the Prevention of Terrorism Act is renewed next
year.

The act will be replaced by a new and permanent anti-terror law early in the New
Year.

Mr Straw's announcement coincided with a terror attack by a Republican splinter
group - the Continuity IRA - on a Londonderry tax office.

A masked man dumped a holdall containing 1.5lbs of Semtex and petrol- filled
canisters on the counter of a tax office.

As he fled, 300 staff calmly walked to safety. Minutes later the detonator blew
up but failed to activate the main device.

The group later issued a statement saying their action was: "to remind Britain
there will be no peace until three Republican demands are met.

"Those are troops out, release of all Republican prisoners and holding an all
-Ireland convention to draw up a constitution for a 32-county Ireland."

Mr Straw highlighted the attack when he told MPs Britain still needed tough laws
"to counter terrorism". But the govern-ment opposed exclusion which amounted to
"inter-nal exile without trial".

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1997 MGN Ltd.

                              174 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                November 8, 1997

The Jackal at bay;
The world's most wanted man goes on trial next week after a career in terrorism
lasting two decades. But, as Alex Duval

BYLINE: ALEX DUVAL SMITH

SECTION: The Guardian Features Page; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2905 words


THE shot which for more than 20 years established him as the world's most wanted
man was fired in a leafy north London suburb on December 30, 1973. In the crisp
winter stillness in St John's Wood, the doorbell rang at the home of Joseph
Edward Sieff, head of Marks & Spencer. It was around 7pm. His Portuguese
employee opened the door to a young, dark-haired gunman who forced his way in
and rushed upstairs.

The man found Sieff in the bathroom and shot him in the face at close range.
Sieff, the 68-year-old deputy chairman of the Zionist Federation of Great
Britain and Ireland, a fundraising group for Israel, collapsed in a pool of
blood, wounded from a bullet lodged in his jaw. Two years later, after a
reader's tip-off to the Guardian, Scotland Yard found the 9mm Browning used for
the attempted murder in a Bayswater arms cache which they linked to Carlos the
Jackal.

At the Paris Assizes Court next month, nearly 24 years after the Sieff shooting
which marked the start of Carlos's terrorist career, he will make his first
appearance before a jury. Now aged 48, he will face charges that he shot dead
two French secret service officers and injured another at a flat at 9 Rue
Toullier in the Latin Quarter in June 1975. The case will be a rerun of a 1992
trial in which he was found guilty in absentia.

As the prisoner takes the stand, his status will shift from that of the world's
most wanted man to its least desired defendant. Ilich Ramirez Sanchez -
nom-de-guerre Carlos, dubbed the Jackal after a 1975 Guardian article - has been
linked to more than 80 politically-motivated deaths in half a dozen countries
since 1973 and with groups ranging from the IRA to Baader Meinhof and the
Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine (PFLP).

His knowledge of terrorist networks and their backers during the cold war years
is unmatched, and therein lies the danger. Since French secret agents scored an
amazing publicity coup by abducting him from Sudan in August 1994 he has never
ceased to remind his captors of how politically explosive his revelations in
court could be.

Though Scotland Yard detectives have travelled to Paris to interview Carlos
about the Sieff shooting, Britain has failed to request his extradition. The
same applies to Austria, which sent investigators to question him about the
December 1975 kidnapping of 12 oil ministers in Vienna.

Over several months the Guardian has explored the character of Carlos the
Jackal, drawing on his correspondence, interviews with his lawyers who are the
only people allowed to visit him in jail, testimony of his former friends and
lovers, and the experience of one of Carlos's rare court appearances last year.

The picture that emerges is of a man who seems as obsessive as he is shrewd, a
voracious reader of more than 30 daily and weekly publications from around the
world, which are delivered to his isolation cells at La Sante and Fresnes jails.
He has a television set in his cell and reads fringe books. His unpredictability
and veiled threats leave his lawyers as well as his captors unsure of whether
they are being manipulated by a clever man or misled by a confused inmate
trapped in a timewarp.

Journalists and authors who have written about Carlos have received letters from
him, reeking with vanity, in which he denies things said about him such as that
he has owned a Ferrari, that he used to be on the run, or has a 'weak'
personality. But he does not question assertions of guilt.

In a letter written in May and seen by the Guardian, Carlos demands that Le
Figaro should correct an assertion that his father was a champagne socialist.
'My father is a doctor of criminal law and a revolutionary. It is not thanks to
me that the Arab world should have become 'synonymous with terrorism', but due
to Zionist propaganda.' The letter, written in near-fluent French, ends with the
greeting: 'revolutionary best wishes'.

Jean-Louis Bruguiere, the investigating magistrate and specialist in terrorism
who led the inquiry into the Rue Toullier shootings, also appears at times to
have been led a merry dance, as his interrogations deteriorated into long
discussions about French semantics. The interviews were held every month between
August 1994 and May 1997. Each began with Carlos listing his occupation as
'professional revolutionary'.

Some of the interviews at Bruguiere's tightly-guarded office in the Palais de
Justice in Paris would last several hours. Sometimes Carlos held the whip hand:
'Your question touches on the virtue of a Venezuelan woman from a very good
family. I cannot possibly answer,' he said in an interview in February this
year.

Equally, he can be moody and rude. 'The judges of the Federal Republic of
Germany are true descendants of Nazi justice,' he told a Frankfurt state
attorney on November 27, 1996. A week earlier, two Scotland Yard detectives made
a wasted journey to Fresnes where Carlos refused to see them because his guards
would not let him wear a belt.

In a French secret service report, he is described as having 'a personality
characterised by a feeling of superiority and a high opinion of himself. He
displays unpredictable reactions and behaviour in certain situations. Unable to
accept being contradicted, he cannot control himself and reactions of pride and
revenge should not be excluded. He speaks Spanish, English, Arabic, French and
Russian.' Yet despite Carlos's erratic behaviour, his early years, particularly
the political context in which he grew up, go a long way towards explaining how
his mugshot ended up on the wall of virtually every customs post in the western
world.

Ilich Ramirez Sanchez (the name is not coincidental - his two younger brothers
are called Vladimir and Lenin) was born in Caracas, Venezuela, on October 12,
1949. The son of a leftwing lawyer, Ilich grew up to live and breathe Marxism at
a time when his country was ruled by a rightwing dictatorship. 'My father was a
man of conviction, with a quasi-religious sense of commitment to the cause,'
Carlos told Bruguiere.

In 1964, at the age of 15, he joined the banned Venezuelan Communist Youth
League, in which he appears to have co-ordinated anti-government demonstrations.
Perhaps out of concern for his safety, Ilich's mother, Elba Maria Sanchez,
travelled to London with her three sons.

Vladimir, Ilich and Lenin rented a flat with their mother in west London and
were sent to a public school in Kensington. In 1967, aged 17, Ilich passed A
levels in physics, chemistry and maths.

Some of Carlos's biographers claim that in 1965 or 1966 he spent his summer
holidays at a paramilitary youth camp in Cuba. At an interrogation in October
1994, Bruguiere asked him if this was true. The answer was typical of Carlos's
stubborn style: 'You know there is discipline in organisations like the
Venezuelan Communist Youth League. I do not have permission to speak in its
name. You would have to ask the Venezuelan Communist Party, which still exists,
whether I went to Cuba at that time, and also the Cuban authorities.' Ilich left
London in 1968 for Moscow, to study chemistry and physics at Patrice Lumumba
People's Friendship University. In June 1970, he was thrown out of the Soviet
Union with other students who had taken part in a demonstration. It has been
suggested that the expulsion was a cover for his recruitment as a KGB agent.

But last May, in one of Carlos's customary 'right to reply' letters to French
newspapers, which remain unpublished but which has been seen by the Guardian, he
rebutted the KGB connection: 'I was thrown out of Patrice-Lumumba at the request
of the Venezuelan Communist Party which had expelled me for Guevarism.' (In the
mid -1960s, the Venezuelan Communist Party split because the 'Castro-Guevarists'
refused to renounce the armed struggle.) Ilich went from Moscow to Jordan,
probably at the invitation of a PFLP contact he had met in Moscow. The PFLP,
headed by George Habash and Wadi Haddad, was a Marxist-Leninist anti-American,
anti-Zionist group which pioneered high-profile terror to draw attention to the
plight of the occupied territories. In 1969, its members hijacked a TWA
London-Tel Aviv flight and in 1970 they opened fire at Munich airport on a bus
carrying passengers to an El Al plane.

It was in Jordan that Ilich was given his nom de guerre, Carlos - a corruption
of Khalil (intimate and sincere friend) to suit his Latin American roots. Carlos
had barely begun his PFLP guerrilla training when King Hussein of Jordan ordered
the bombing of Palestinian camps around the capital, Amman.

This 'Black September' plunged Carlos into active service. 'I was in a frontline
position in the mountains. I fought until the winter of 1971,' he told
Bruguiere, adding that Habash then ordered him to set up a European base.

So it was back to London - studies with his brother Lenin at the LSE and, to
earn some money and a benign alibi, teaching Spanish at Langham Secretarial
College. There, Carlos impressed the female students with his seductive charm.

He also swept a Colombian woman, Maria Nydia Romero de Tobon, off her feet when
they met at a Christopher Columbus day party on October 12 1972, Carlos's
birthday. 'I found myself opposite a man with a very different smile from those
I had known before,' she has written. 'He had a magnetism which was true
charisma.' Tobon, separated from her husband and living alone in London with one
of her three children, was typical of the many women Carlos befriended and used
in Europe: intelligent, leftwing, Spanish-speaking and a long way from home.
Tobon was from an eminent Colombian family; her grandfather was a founder of its
powerful Liberal Party and her father was a successful businessman. She was a
qualified lawyer and studied in London at the LSE.

In her memoirs she quotes Carlos as saying: 'Nydia, I have formed a group and I
need you. We are revolutionaries who identify with the people of the whole
world, who fight injustice in Vietnam, Chile, Palestine, Cambodia. The battle
will be long and bloody but I do not see any difference between the Palestinians
and ourselves. We are all fighting (for) the same cause.' Responsibility for the
attack on Edward Sieff was claimed, from Beirut, by the PFLP. It would be
followed, three weeks later, by the bombing of the Hapoalim Israeli bank in
Cheapside, in which several people were injured, although no firm link between
this attack and Carlos has ever been proved.

In late January, 1974, Carlos is believed to have travelled to Paris for a
meeting with Michel Moukharbel, the Lebanese joint chief of the PFLP in Europe.
It was the first of a series of increasingly regular trips to France during
which Carlos establis hed a network of safehouses in the flats of women who
admired him.

RUE TOULLIER, a narrow street between the Sorbonne and the Luxembourg Gardens,
is every foreign student's dream location for a pad in Paris: the buildings
aren't quite straight, it has literary links, there is a cafe on the corner and
a bistro half-way down. On June 27, 1975, Carlos invited Moukharbel to a party
at a studio flat at 9 Rue Toullier, rented by two Venezuelan women, Nancy
Sanchez Falcon and Maria-Theresa Lara Santa-Maria. The Guardian is not aware of
any evidence to suggest that either woman played a part in the killing to come.

Accounts of the evening, which left Moukharbel and two secret policemen dead,
vary. We don't know which version will be heard at next month's court case. But
the events shot Carlos to global fame.

According to a 1979 interview in the then pro-Iraqi weekly, Al Watan Al Arabi,
which Carlos now claims never took place, Moukharbel had been arrested and
beaten into agreeing to lead the policemen to Carlos. Three secret police
officers, apparently unarmed, appeared with Moukharbel at the studio. Two of
them, Raymond Dous and Jean Donatini, were shot dead by Carlos with a 7.62
Tokarev, as was Moukharbel for being a traitor. The third policeman survived the
attack, but has since died.

However, according to the former Mossad agent, Victor Ostrovsky, Moukharbel had
begun working for the Israeli secret services. In return for safe passage out of
the country, he had told French police that he would lead them to an arms dealer
called Carlos. Such a vague promise, at a time when Carlos was barely known in
France, could possibly explain why the French police were unprepared for a
shoot-out. According to Ostrovsky, Carlos killed Moukharbel and the two
policemen with a .38 calibre submachine gun.

Carlos's whereabouts after the shooting are little known. French police were
left with no other leads than a series of names in Moukharbel's address book,
several of which ultimately led to arms caches in the homes of female students.

Police interviews from the time seen by the Guardian portray the stocky,
auburn-haired Carlos as seductive in these women's eyes. He was soft-spoken,
they said, charming and committed. Apparently, they would do almost anything for
him.

Transcripts of a contemporary police interview with 24-year-old Silvia Asmela
Amparo show that officers found a stash of M-26 hand-grenades, stolen by Baader
Meinhof terrorists from a US army base in Germany, and several false travel
documents at her flat near the Invalides air terminal. 'He told me that girls
were always used to carry arms between countries. I always refused,' she told
police after her arrest on July 4, 1975.

Amparo, who was Colombian and a cashier at Lloyd's Bank in Paris, admitted that
Carlos had visited her flat after the Rue Toullier shooting, and made foreign
telephone calls.

Angela Armstrong, a South African-born Briton, aged 29, admitted to French
police that she met Carlos the day after the shooting at the Invalides air
terminal. He asked her to write to Nancy Sanchez Falcon, the tenant of the Rue
Toullier studio, who was in Venezuela at the time of the shooting.

In an interview from 1975 which is expected to be read to the court next month,
Armstrong tells French police: 'I used to go to Nancy's for coffee at lunchtime.
I realised over time that she was very much in love with Carlos, who she said
was a European sales rep.' Asked why she thought Carlos had wanted to see her at
the Invalides terminal the day after the shooting, she says: 'He bumped into me
by chance. He grabbed me by the shoulder and said, 'I'm not used to killing men.
A filthy Arab betrayed me. I kill people who betray me. Write to Nancy and tell
her to stay in Venezuela. I am going to the Middle East.' ' In London, a
Guardian-reading engineer, Barry Woodhams, found fake travel documents,
ammunition, plastic explosives, three hand grenades, the 9mm Browning from the
Sieff attack, a 7.65 Mauser pistol and a 7.65 Beretta automatic at the flat he
shared with his Basque girlfriend, Maria Angela Otoala Baranca, who was close to
Carlos.

Perhaps because he thought it would protect his girlfriend, Woodhams contacted
the Guardian rather than the police with news of his discovery. Two reporters,
Anne McHardy and Peter Niesewand, went to Woodhams's Bayswater home, saw the
cache and also came across a copy of Frederick Forsyth's The Day Of The Jackal.
The novel, in which a hitman is hired to assassinate General de Gaulle, seemed
to the reporters to be a fitting handbook for the mysterious Carlos. From that
day on, he became Carlos the Jackal.

Bruguiere, the terrorism investigator, still has files open on several terrorist
attacks with which Carlos has been linked. His investigation into the Rue
Toullier shootings formally ended in May but he is still gathering information
on the 1974 bombing of a cafe and shopping centre called the Drugstore
Saint-Germain, in Paris, in which two people died.

He is also looking into a rocket attack on El Al at Orly airport in 1975 and the
bombing, in April 1982, of the Paris offices of Al Watan Al Arabi which left one
man dead. On top of all that, Carlos is a suspect in 15 further attacks on
French targets between 1982 and 1984 which may have been a personal revenge for
the arrest of his German wife, Magdalena Kopp, and co-conspirator, Bruno
Breguet. Kopp has been pulled in already to give evidence.

Whatever happens with next month's case and with the other attacks which Carlos
has been linked to, it is almost certain that he will not be receiving prison
visits from the women he hung around with in the 1970s. Tobon and Maria Angela
Otaola Baranca were both deported from Britain. Tobon was granted political
refugee status in France, where she still lives. It is unclear what happened to
Silva Asmela Amparo, the Lloyd's bank employee whom Carlos visited after the Rue
Toullier shootings.

In as much as it is possible to judge from his erratic instructions to his
lawyers, Carlos is determined to keep the political stakes high and avoid being
judged merely as a cold-blooded murderer facing life imprisonment. Is the man
who for decades ran rings round the police across continents finally to be
pinned down as nothing more than a sordid criminal? Or is he still playing a
game whose purpose only he knows and which he will reveal when it suits him, to
the maximum embarrassment of governments world-wide? At this point it seems a
safe bet that he will live up to the badge of the world's least wanted
defendant.

Additional research: Darius Bazargan


LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              175 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           November 8, 1997, Saturday

HEIGHT OF FASHION;
BLAIR SHOWS BRITAIN'S GOT SUMMIT TO BE PROUD OF;
TONY BLAIR HOSTS SUMMIT WITH JACQUES CHIRAC AT CANARY WHARF TOWER

BYLINE: David Garfinkel

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 663 words


When he wanted to impress the French with Britain's architectural flair and
style, Prime Minister Tony Blair opted for the home of The Mirror.

It was on the 38th floor of the stunning tower on London's Canary Wharf that he
hosted this week's crucial summit with French President Jacques Chirac (pictured
above).

And high above London - in Europe's second tallest building - Mr Blair proved
that Britain is tops.

Here we take a look at some of the facts and figures that make Canary Wharf
Europe's most exciting development.

The tower's correct address is One Canada Square, Canary Wharf. The entire
complex cost pounds 1.5 billion to develop.

Designed by architect Cesar Pelli, the stunning pyramid-topped design took three
years to build with a workforce of 2,000 people.

At 800 feet, it is more than two-and-half times taller than Big Ben.  Only the
Messetrum in Frankfurt is taller at 850ft.

The tower has 50 floors.

The area is called Canary Wharf because, when it was used as a dock, many of the
imports came from the Canary Islands.

Made of flexible steel, the building is designed to sway as much as 13- and
-three quarter inches in the strongest winds. But no one inside notices.

On a clear day, Windsor Castle - 31 miles away - is visible from the top.

It is so strong that if a plane from the nearby City Airport hit the building
only windows would be broken. The tower itself would remain intact.

None of the windows on the tower shattered when a huge IRA bomb exploded nearby
in February 1996.

Specifically built to withstand bomb blasts, experts say it would need an
explosion on the scale of a nuclear bomb to destroy the tower.

Occupied to the 40th floor, it is home of eight national newspapers including
The Mirror, The Independent, the Sunday Mirror, the People and the Daily
Telegraph. L!VE TV is broadcast from the 24th floor.

The 3,960 windows are scrubbed and polished on a daily basis by an army of
cleaners - going up and down the side of the building in cradles. All the
windows are double-glazed.

There are a leg-buckling 4,388 steps inside the building - divided into four
emergency fire stairways.

Twenty one different companies can be found in the tower itself - including the
Bank of China International, the International Sugar Organisation and
accountants KPMG.

Meanwhile 21,000 people travel to work in the Canary Wharf complex every day.
6,000 work in the tower itself.

There are more than 100 security guards patrolling the building 24 hours a day.

There are 32 passenger lifts, split into four banks. Each serves a different
section of the building. It also has two freight and two firemen's lifts.

The lifts travel from the lobby to the 50th floor in just 40 seconds - that's
about 13.4 mph.

500,000 bolts were used in the construction of the tower, and the exterior walls
are clad in some 370,000 sq ft of stainless steel.

The average floor size in the tower is 28,000 sq ft, about one-fifth of the size
of Wembley Stadium.

The aircraft warning light at the very top of the tower flashes 40 times a
minute - 57,600 times a day.

The Canary Wharf complex surrounding the tower is like a mini city, with its own
station - for the Docklands Light Railway - police station and shopping centre.

About 28 million kilo-watts of electricity are used in the tower every year -
three and a half per cent of the daily consumption in England and Wales.

The fountain outside the tower is computer-controlled. A sensor detects the
strength of the wind, and adjusts the water to ensure that people are not
soaked.

Surrounding the tower there are 378 trees of 20 different species including
English oaks, silver limes, horse chestnuts and Norway maples. There are 40,000
seasonal bedding plants, 4,000 shrubs and 83,500 blooming bulbs.

There are 16 restaurants, cafes and pubs in the complex.

More than 80,000 deliveries are made to the tower every year.

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1997 MGN Ltd.

                              176 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            November 9, 1997, Sunday

Food & Drink: WHERE EVERY DAY IS PANCAKE DAY; Sri Lanka's culinary star is
rising, says Michael Bateman, who welcomes the country's spicy mix of curries,
dahls and sambals. But it should be approached with a little

BYLINE: Michael Bateman

SECTION: SUNDAY REVIEW; Page  60

LENGTH: 3582 words


Sri Lanka certainly has its share of problems, but its food is among the
tastiest, spiciest and most tempting you could imagine. And given British links
with the island (we established its tea industry) it seems surprising we don't
know its cooking better. But that's about to change.

Thanks to burgeoning package holiday deals, a new generation of travellers is
coming back with reports of hoppers (coconut-flavoured pancakes), red, white and
black curries, fish with gamboge (a sour fruit which tastes like tamarind), and
buffalo milk curds (yogurt) with jaggery treacle (made from palm sugar). Next
Saturday, the island's most distinguished chef, Publis Silva, flies in with his
team from the Mount Lavinia Hotel in Colombo for a week-long festival of Sri
Lankan food at Le Meridien Hotel in Piccadilly.

There are other little signs which indicate that Sri Lanka's star is rising. A
recipe book embracing Sri Lankan dishes by Priya Wickramasinghe, Leith's Indian
& Sri Lankan Cookery (Bloomsbury, pounds 16.99) was published only last month,
and it is from this that we take the recipes which follow.

There's certainly still room for one more cuisine from this exotic part of the
world. Latest research shows that the food of the sub-continent is now the most
popular in Britain, and Indian takeaways are outstripping their Chinese
counterparts. Over 20 million people eat out every week in Britain's 8,000
Indian restaurants.

In the UK we can enjoy at least a dozen distinct cooking styles, according to
Pat Chapman's 1998 Good Curry Guide; including tastes from Burma, Gujarat and
Pakistan. Now Sri Lanka has made it into the Guide's Top 100 with London
restaurants, Sigiri and Prince of Ceylon (see end for details).

I had the good luck to see Sri Lankan cooking at source. I was even luckier that
my snap preview, a few weeks back, just missed a bomb attack in the capital,
Colombo. Sri Lanka is a tropical paradise cursed with a civil war which has been
raging in the north of the island for more than a dozen years. Sporadic fighting
tends to be some way from tourist routes, but it was with trepidation that I
flew into the capital the day after a Tamil Tiger bomb exploded in the
commercial centre killing 11, shattering the windows of the twin trade towers
and four major hotels, and potentially shattering tourist aspirations, too.

It was the first such incident for 18 months, apparently prompted by President
Clinton's act in declaring the Tamil Tigers a terrorist organisation.  A
tremendous security operation was under way, bringing extra chaos to the
capital's already chaotic traffic system, further aggravated by flash floods
deposited by the seasonal monsoon rains.

Late each afternoon the heavens opened and the rain curtained down, accompanied
by deafening thunder and strobic sheet lightning. But the monsoon season is
ending and November to March promises clear blue skies and a mirror- smooth,
see-through ocean.

So how was it, apart from the bombs, the rain and, what was that, the wind? The
wind, ah, that brings us back to the food. Unsuspecting occidental digestions
will not be used to this diet; the mass of fibrous vegetable curries (especially
dhal, the Indian lentil) whose windiness is often compounded by the ready use of
onion and garlic.

Having said that, in four days I didn't have a single meal which wasn't
delicious. Most were forms of curry, from hot to mild. The best were chilli-
hot, lime-sour and coconut-sweet. But all glowed with warm combinations of fresh
spices, peppercorns, cinnamon, cardamom, cumin, coriander, cloves, nutmeg,
ginger and curry leaf.

Sri Lanka is a spice island, and it is particularly educational to visit a spice
garden and see them growing. Cloves are the pale flower buds of a tree whose
leaves are every bit as hot and pungent as the spice itself.  Cardamom pods are
the seeds of orchid-like flowers; fresh nutmegs are green like walnuts;
peppercorns grow on thick-fleshed jungle vines with bead-like clusters of green
seeds.

There's a spice garden on the route between Colombo and the spiritual capital,
Kandy. The food of the island unfolds along this road, past the rice paddies
serviced by buffaloes (two kinds of rice here, white and red). The backdrop is a
forest of coconut palms, trees which provide everything from food to hair oil,
roofing material to fuel.

It's only 72 miles to Kandy but you'll be lucky to make it in under three hours.
It's a complicated process of avoiding pedestrians and untethered cows while
ducking the oncoming stream of lorries, coaches, cars and "autos" as they call
the two-seater taxis mounted on three moped wheels.

Half the country seems to be at the roadside, manning shops and stalls.  There
are pendulous displays of green and yellow plantains, and mounds of fruit and
unusual vegetables such as snake gourds. Each village has its own speciality,
whether it's growing fruit - green mangoes, perhaps or orange-coloured king
coconuts - or making ceramic cooking pots and cane chairs.

It is startling to be confronted by dozens of glamorous sari-clad sirens, their
arms stretched out horizontally, palms turned down, bidding you to stop. But
their smiles freeze quickly enough when you decline their freshly harvested
cadjus, the new season's cashew crop.

My mission is to meet chef Publis Silva, so the next day I made my way to the
Mount Lavinia Hotel in the south of the capital. A former governor's residence,
it is still manned with colonial pomp by white-uniformed staff in pith helmets.
Publis has, in a career spanning 40 years, cooked for governors and prime
ministers alike and written Traditional Sri Lankan Food, the most comprehensive
collection of the island's cooking. He started at the hotel as a labourer
shifting coal, but devoted every unpaid hour in the day to watching the cooks
and helping them out.

Publis has been rehearsing for the London food festival with his sous- chef
Kirthi Senevaratne, organising equipment as well as food. He shows me some of
the essential tools: granite and wooden mortars, clay chatty pots and clay
plates, a kulla (winnowing fan for cleaning rice), a coconut scraper and string
hopper moulds.

Hopper is the English approximation of the Tamil word appa or aappam.  Two kinds
of appa are eaten in Sri Lanka. They bear no resemblance to each other, although
both are made with the same ingredients of rice flour and thick coconut milk.
This milk is not the liquid from inside the nut, but a cream made from steeping
grated coconut in a little boiling water and straining it.

String hoppers (originating in Kerala) are like sturdy vermicelli. These are
served, often at breakfast, with sambal (dry spicy mixtures usually made of
grated coconut, ginger, onion and chilli) or a little curry sauce.

The non-string hopper is a crispy pancake, cooked in a lidded hopper pan (shaped
like a small wok). This, too, is served with sambal or curry, or you can have it
with an egg cooked in it - not so different in principle from the North African
brik (deep-fried pastry), and just as likely to spill egg yolk down your front.

When I visited Publis, he was busy marshalling ingredients for his journey to
London. Meat, fish and chicken may be among the few essential ingredients
available in the UK. His list progresses from ash plantain (banana) and Bombay
onions (small, mild and red) via rampe (a spicy leaf) and snake gourd to winged
beans and wood apple.

Of great importance to Sri Lankan cooking is gamboge (rhyming with foggy) - a
dried fruit used as a souring agent - and the savoury Maldive fish (salty dried
tuna). Both may be shredded into sambals. Combined, they give a savoury, sour,
smoky, dry flavour. A tuna curry cooked with gamboge will keep for days as the
acid is a preservative.

In the brief space of half an hour the Magician (as Publis is known in the
hotel) conjures up six exquisite curries. Three of them are typically Sri
Lankan: white, black and red. The white is prawns with lemongrass; black, tuna
with gamboge; and red, spicy hot chicken. The others are vegetable: brinjal
(aubergine), pumpkin and jackfruit.

Hardly a dish comes without its cargo of grated coconut or coconut milk, chopped
green chillies, garlic and fresh ginger. It is in the judicious use of spices
that Publis is a master; measuring quantities, dictating the order in which they
must be added, then tempering, concentrating or diluting.

He will also seek to achieve a harmony in accordance with the Ayurvedic
philosophy relating to hot and cold foods. Those which heat the blood are red
meat, shellfish, acid fruits, pineapple, mango, tomato; those which cool it are
white meat, fish, milk curds and most vegetables. Spices have their medicinal
properties, too. Turmeric is antiseptic, cloves anaesthetic, fennel digestive
and, aha, fenugreek and ginger are anti-flatulent.

Sri Lankan food is essentially home-cooking, though Publis has raised it to an
art. I had a chance to compare it with the cooking of chef Rasheed whose Indian
restaurant in the luxurious Taj Sumadra hotel is rated the best on the island.

Rasheed comes from Kerala, but trained at the Taj hotel school in Delhi, and
features many dishes similar to those of Publis. His hoppers are of the curly
kind and for breakfast he offers yet another regional pancake, the thin, crisp
dosa, also served with a sambal or curry. This is the sort of tasty combination
that could wean you off bacon, sausage and egg for ever.

The main difference in cooking at the Taj centres on the use of the tandoori
oven for roasting. Chicken, fish and shellfish were superb, as were pulses and
vegetables. I pass on the tough mutton (and not just because I later discover
that mutton is Sri Lankan for goat).

When I got back to the UK, I read a restaurant review in which a meal for two
for a hundred plus pounds was described as a bargain. I cast my mind back to
lunch at the spice garden - five delicious curry dishes, buffalo yogurt, beer,
pounds 8.50 for two. A fabulous dinner at Chef Rasheed's in the most luxurious
Indian restaurant in Colombo, came to pounds 18 for two, with drinks.

Sigiri, 161 Northfields Avenue, London W13 (0181 579 8000); Prince of Ceylon, 39
Watford Way, London NW4 (0181 202 5967)

SRI LANKAN FISH CURRY

MALU KARI

Fish is much more popular than meat in Sri Lanka, with fish cooked in a spicy
coconut sauce the favourite dish.

Serves 4

12 teaspoon fenugreek seeds

2 tablespoons hot water

2 pieces of gamboge

2 large mackerel, weighing about 1.5kg/314lb

1 lime or lemon

3 cloves garlic, chopped

2 green chillies, chopped

5cm/2in piece fresh root ginger, grated

1 teaspoon ground cumin

2 teaspoons ground coriander

14 teaspoon ground turmeric

5 curry leaves

4 tablespoons coconut milk powder

100ml/312fl oz cold water

salt

Soak the fenugreek seeds in the hot water. Wash the gamboge and set aside.

Cut off the mackerel heads and tails. Make a 3cm (114in) slit along the belly of
each fish and remove the entrails and any roe. Cut each fish into four cutlets
and, without washing, put into a large bowl. Squeeze the lime or lemon juice
over the fish and leave aside in a bowl with the lime or lemon skins. After 15
minutes wash each cutlet quickly under cold running water and pat dry on kitchen
paper.

In a wide pan large enough to hold the eight pieces of mackerel in a single
layer, combine the fenugreek, garlic, chillies, ginger, cumin, coriander,
turmeric and curry leaves. Add the coconut milk powder and water, and mix
thoroughly. Now add the mackerel, and carefully spoon over the spicy mixture to
ensure that the fish is thoroughly coated. Bring to the boil over a medium heat
and simmer for 15 minutes. Turn the pieces of fish over, add salt to taste, and
cook for a further seven minutes.  Discard the pieces of gamboge and serve.

LENTIL CURRY

PARIPPU

Orange lentils cooked in coconut milk are eaten almost daily in Sri Lanka and
South India.

Serves 4

225g/8oz Mysore dhal (orange lentils)

3 cups water

1 medium onion, roughly chopped

55g/2oz creamed coconut

2 green chillies, chopped

14 teaspoon ground turmeric

12 teaspoon ground cumin

12 teaspoon ground coriander

2 tablespoons oil

12 teaspoon cumin seeds

12 teaspoon black mustard seeds

1 onion, very finely chopped

10 curry leaves

salt

Pick over the lentils and wash them in several changes of cold water.  Put them
into a medium saucepan, together with the water. Add the roughly chopped onion,
creamed coconut, chillies, turmeric, cumin and coriander and bring to the boil.
Simmer and cook, uncovered, stirring occasionally, for about 25 minutes until
the lentils are a soft mush. If all the water has evaporated before the lentils
are cooked, add a cup of boiling water.

While the lentils are simmering, heat the oil in a small pan. Add the cumin and
mustard seeds, cover and allow the seeds to pop over a low heat.  Add the finely
chopped onion and curry leaves, and fry over a low heat until the onion is
golden-brown.

Pour the onion mixture into the lentil mixture. Season to taste with salt and
cook for a further five minutes. Serve hot with rice.

PUMPKIN CURRY

VATTAKKA KARI

In Sri Lanka, large orange pumpkins are a popular vegetable. This traditional
dish is delicious.

Serves 4

450g/1lb pumpkin

2 tablespoons desiccated coconut

5 cloves garlic, chopped

12 medium onion, chopped

2 tablespoons cold water

1 teaspoon oil

14 teaspoon black mustard seeds

a few curry leaves

1 teaspoon ground coriander

12 teaspoon ground cumin

14 teaspoon ground turmeric

30g/1oz creamed coconut

1 cup hot water

salt

Wash the pumpkin, peel off the skin and remove the seeds and the fibrous flesh
around the seeds. Cut the pumpkin into 2.5cm (1in) cubes.

Dry-roast the coconut in a heavy-based frying pan over a low heat until dark
brown, stirring constantly to prevent from burning. In a food processor, combine
the garlic, onion and roasted coconut. Add the cold water and grind to a smooth
paste.

Heat the oil in a medium pan. Add the mustard seeds, cover and allow to pop over
a low heat. Add the curry leaves, coriander, cumin and turmeric and fry for 30
seconds.

Dissolve the creamed coconut in the hot water and add it to the pan together
with salt to taste. Add the coconut mixture to the pan and lastly add the
pumpkin. Bring to the boil, then simmer, covered, for 12 to 15 minutes, or until
a skewer inserted into the pumpkin pierces it easily.

HOT ONION SAMBAL

LUNIMIRIS

This is a popular Sri Lankan accompaniment.

Serves 4

225g/8oz shallots or small red onions (available in Chinese supermarkets)

1 teaspoon coarsely ground chilli powder

1 teaspoon lime or lemon juice

salt, to taste

12 tablespoon Maldive fish

Peel the shallots and wash them thoroughly. Combine the shallots, chilli powder,
lime or lemon juice and salt in a food processor. Blend until the onions are
ground. Add the Maldive fish. Mix and serve.

SPICY PRAWNS

JHINGA KARI

This dish takes time to prepare but is well worth it.

Serves 2

400g/14oz raw shell-on prawns

juice of 12 lime

2 tablespoons fine desiccated coconut

2 ripe plum tomatoes (if fresh tomatoes are not available use canned tomatoes)

3 cloves garlic

2.5cm/1in piece of fresh root ginger, peeled

12 medium onion

1 teaspoon fennel seeds

112 teaspoons ground coriander

1 teaspoon ground cumin

18 teaspoon fenugreek seeds

1 teaspoon chilli powder

14 teaspoon ground turmeric

2 tablespoons oil

10 curry leaves

100ml/3.5fl oz water

salt

coriander leaves, to garnish

Shell and de-vein the prawns. Put them into a bowl, add the lime juice and leave
for about five minutes. Wash each prawn under cold running water and then pat
dry with kitchen paper.

In a food processor, blend the coconut, tomatoes, garlic, ginger and onion to a
puree. Grind the fennel seeds, ground coriander, ground cumin, fenugreek seeds,
chilli powder and ground turmeric to a fine powder.

Heat the two tablespoons of oil in a medium saucepan. Put the curry leaves and
the combined ground spices into the pan and fry over a low heat for a couple of
seconds. Add the blended ingredients and fry for a further two to three minutes.
Pour in the water and bring slowly to the boil and then simmer for two minutes.
Add the prawns, salt to taste and bring back to the boil. Simmer for a further
six to eight minutes, or until the prawns are cooked through. Garnish with
coriander leaves and serve.

SHREDDED GREENS

MALLUNG

This dish forms an integral part of a Sri Lankan rice-and-curry meal (see left
served with spicy prawns). A green leafy vegetable is shredded so finely that
identification is difficult.

Serves 2

225/8oz spring greens or cabbage

12 medium onion, chopped

12 teaspoon ground cumin

12 teaspoon ground black mustard

12 teaspoon ground coriander

14 teaspoon ground turmeric

salt

2 tablespoons desiccated coconut

2 green chillies, finely chopped

1 tablespoon water

Wash and shred the greens or cabbage as finely as possible, a food processor can
be used for this. In a large bowl combine the shredded greens or cabbage with
all the remaining ingredients.

Stir-fry this mixture in a heavy-based frying pan or wok over a low heat for
about four minutes. This dish should be barely cooked and should retain its
green colour.

BLACK PORK CURRY

OORU MUS KALUVETA

Traditional Sri Lankan curries are usually referred to as black when the spices
used are dry-roasted before being ground.

Serves 4-6

900g/2lb leg of pork

3 tablespoons oil

2 tablespoons coriander seeds

3 teaspoons cumin seeds

1 teaspoon fennel seeds

12 teaspoon ground turmeric

1 teaspoon chilli powder

55g/2oz tamarind

290ml/12 pint water

2 medium onions, finely chopped

5 cloves

5 cardamom pods

5cm/2in stick cinnamon

4 cloves garlic, chopped

5cm/2in piece of fresh root ginger, peeled and grated

10 curry leaves

2 pieces of gamboge

4 tablespoons coconut milk powder

salt

Trim any excess fat from the pork and cut the meat into 2.5cm (1in) cubes.
Reserve any bones. Heat the three tablespoons of oil in a frying pan and fry a
few pieces of pork at a time, reheating the oil after each addition.

In a heavy-based frying pan, dry-roast the coriander seeds, cumin and fennel
over a low heat, until dark brown.  Grind together with the tur-meric and chilli
powder.

Bring the tamarind and 100ml (312fl oz) of the water to the boil in a small
saucepan. Simmer for three minutes. Put the tamarind into a fine strainer and,
using the back of a metal spoon, press down to extract the pulp and juice.
Reserve the water and the strained pulp and discard the fibres.

Reheat the oil in the pan, adding more if necessary to make up to about four
tablespoons. Put in the onions, cloves, cardamom and cinnamon, and fry until the
onions are golden brown. Add the garlic, ginger, curry leaves and ground spices
to the pan and fry for a couple of seconds. Then add the pork, including any
bones, and the gamboge, and stir until well mixed.  Lastly, add the tamarind,
coconut milk powder, remaining water, and salt to taste, and bring slowly to the
boil. Cover and simmer for about one hour, or until the meat is tender

COCONUT CHUTNEY

POL SAMBAL

This hot chutney combines the grated kernel of the coconut with hot chilli
powder.

Serves 4

110g/4oz freshly grated coconut

1 teaspoon coarse chilli powder

salt

14 teaspoon ground black pepper

3 small red onions, or 2 shallots

3 cloves of garlic

juice of 1 lime

Combine all the ingredients in a food processor and blend together until well
mixed.

Unsweetened desiccated coconut can be substituted for freshly grated coconut.
Finely chopped spring onions can be added to make an interesting variation.

SRI LANKAN RED CHICKEN

KUKUL MUS MIRISATA

In Sri Lanka curries are distinguished by their colour - red, black and white.
This red chicken is fiery and hot. The hotness can be reduced by substituting
paprika for the chilli powder in the recipe.

Serves 4

8 chicken thighs, skinned not boned

12 teaspoon ground black pepper

salt, to taste

500ml/18fl oz cold water

3-4 tablespoons oil

2 medium onions, finely chopped

20 curry leaves

8 cloves garlic, finely chopped

5cm/2in-piece of fresh root ginger, peeled and grated

3 teaspoons chilli powder

1 teaspoon paprika

2 teaspoons granulated sugar

Put the chicken, pepper and salt into a pan with the water, bring to the boil.
Cover, lower heat and simmer for an hour. Remove the chicken to a plate. Bring
this stock rapidly to the boil and boil until reduced to about 150ml (14 pint).
Set aside.

Heat the oil in a medium pan. Put the onion, curry leaves, garlic and ginger
into the pan and fry until the onions are golden-brown. Add the chicken and fry
for a further two to three minutes. Then add the chilli powder, paprika, sugar
and stock and bring to the boil. Cover and simmer for five to seven minutes,
stirring occasionally.


LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1997 Independent Print Ltd

                              177 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           November 10, 1997, Monday

THEY'LL NEVER FORGET, MA'AM;
BLAIR KIDS JOIN QUEEN MUM AT CENOTAPH;
QUEEN MOTHER ATTENDS REMEMBRANCE DAY CEREMONY

BYLINE: Jane Kerr

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 447 words


Old and young, symbolised by the 97-year-old Queen Mother and Premier Tony
Blair's three children, mourned Britain's war dead yesterday.

The brave Queen Mum appeared at the traditional Remembrance Day ceremony before
the Cenotaph for the first time in four years.

Wearing a dark coat and black beret, she braved rain and cold for 15 minutes as
the Queen led members of the Royal Family in laying wreaths at the London
memorial.

Cheered by the crowd, the Queen Mum was probably the oldest person at the
ceremony. She was 18 when the First World War ended.

First World War veterans no longer take part in the service. The Queen Mother
has been unable to attend for the last three years because of ill health.

Last night, the Royal British Legion said: "It was wonderful to see her there.
To still attend the service at her age shows her deep commitment to the men and
women who fought to secure our freedom."

Standing on the next-door Foreign Office balcony were Euan Blair, 13, his
brother Nicholas, 11, sister Kathryn, nine, and their mother Cherie.

In sharp contrast to the sombrely dressed Royals, the children wore sweatshirts
and casual trousers.

But their appearance at the ceremony drew praise from war veterans for setting
an example to other children. George Gunn, of the King's Own Scottish Borderers,
said: "It's important that they were there. Too many children have no idea what
Remembrance Sunday means."

Downing Street rebuffed criticism of the youngsters' casual dress.

A spokesman said: "They were not taking part in the ceremony, so it didn't
really matter what they wore."

More than 10,000 veterans stood in the rain to pay their respects to the fallen.
There was a two-minute silence at 11am ended by the firing of a gun and the
sounding of the Last Post.

The Queen then stepped forward to lay her wreath followed by Prince Philip,
Prince Charles, Prince Andrew and the Duke of Kent.

Servicemen in the traditional march past were joined for the first time by a
group of 40 gay veterans calling themselves Rank Outsiders.

Smaller ceremonies were held across the nation. Heathrow airport came to a
standstill as the two-minute silence was observed.

In Ulster, tearful relatives mourned the 11 killed and 63 hurt by an IRA bomb at
the Enniskillen war memorial on Remembrance Sunday in 1987.

Joan Anderson, Ruth Blair and Margaret Veitch held each other close as they
stood on the spot where their mum and dad - Nessie and Billy Mullan - perished
in the blast.

Joan, who travelled from the US, said: "I haven't been to a Remembrance Day
service since my parents died. It's painful, but I'm glad I came."

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TRIBUTE: Nicholas, Euan and Kathryn Blair with mum Cherie at
yesterday's ceremony Picture: TIM ANDERSON;; BRAVE: Queen Mum

                            Copyright 1997 MGN Ltd.

                              178 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           November 14, 1997, Friday

IRA MAVERICKS PLAN 'CITY-BUSTER' BLITZ;
POLICE FEAR A BREAKAWAY FACTION OF THE IRA PLANS TO BRING NEW MAYHEM TO MAINLAND
BRITAIN

BYLINE: Jeff Edwards Chief Crime Correspondent And John Kierans

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 542 words


A maverick IRA group is planning to bring new mayhem to mainland Britain.

Police fear a breakaway faction of the Provos is set to smash the peace process
with a huge lorry bomb in the heart of an English city.

Scotland Yard terrorism specialists believe a stash of the explosive Semtex and
enough home-made explosives for a two-ton "city buster" bomb is already on the
mainland.

They say an IRA unit has earmarked a target for the "spectacular" blast - and
believe the attack may take place before Christmas.

Special Branch and Army bomb squads moved to a "war footing" three weeks ago
after warnings from Belfast sources.

Security around key targets including the City of London, Westminster and the
huge Docklands development at Canary Wharf - already hit by a bomb - has been
stepped up.

Police in provincial cities including Manchester - scene of the IRA's last
devastating mainland explosion - have been warned.

The fear of renewed violence has been fuelled by reports that several key hard
-liners from the Border regions have resigned from the Provisional IRA, taking
dozens of loyal supporters with them.

The dissidents include an entire battalion from the South Armagh brigade -
regarded by many as the IRA's most dedicated battalion.

They have been joined by other influential members from the Dundalk and Monaghan
regions of the Republic.

They are said to be unhappy about the peace strategy of leaders Gerry Adams and
Martin McGuinness and Sinn Fein's decision to sign up to the principles of
non-violence and disarmament drawn up by American peacebroker, Senator George
Mitchell.

The dispute came to a head last week in a secret but very angry meeting between
IRA and Sinn Fein leaders in the Republic.

When it broke up 20 of the IRA's top terrorists and 12 leading lights in Sinn
Fein announced they were quitting.

The breakaway group is known to control a large arsenal of weapons carefully
hidden in the Republic. Special Branch sources in Dublin say those splitting
from the main body of the IRA have used this year's ceasefire to perfect new
weapons, including sophisticated long-range mortars.

In an interview with The Mirror one of the main Republican rebels said: "Certain
guarantees were given when the new ceasefire was announced in June.

"We were told prisoners would be released soon. British army activity in
Republican areas would be scaled down and surveillance on Republicans by the
police in Eire would stop.

"The British and Irish governments and Gerry Adams have failed to deliver on
these issues."

In London yesterday an anti- terrorist source said: "We have learned from
Ireland that bomb attacks on the mainland are set to start again very soon -
possibly before Christmas.

"We have been warned that the peace process was likely to fail and that the
Provos would be back - more deadly and more difficult to stop than ever before."

And he warned of a new bombing offensive.

"Unless things are straightened out quickly there will be attacks on the
mainland, and it will be open season on the British army here.

"The dissidents control large stocks of explosives.

"They are well capable of hitting England with a series of 'spectaculars'."

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TARGET: Westminster;; TARGET: Canary Wharf

                            Copyright 1997 MGN Ltd.

                              179 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                          November 15, 1997, Saturday

THE STATE OF UNIONISM: UNITED WE STAND: DIVIDED WE FALL;
          A CHALLENGING SERIES OF SATURDAY MORNING INSIGHTS, WRITTEN BY NEWS
LETTER JOURNALISTS NEWS LETTER ASSISTANT EDITOR BILLY KENNEDY UNDERLINES THE
NEED FOR UNITY OF PURPOSE IF THE UNION IS TO BE PRESERVED IN A MEANINGFUL WAY.

BYLINE: Billy Kennedy

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 920 words


News that the main pro-Union parties and supporting interests on the mainland
are to participate seriously in a unity conference in Hertfordshire at the end
of this month will be warmly welcomed in the unionist heartlands of the
Province.

Unionist disunity is the one issue which acutely perplexes the broad mass of
pro-Union voters at grassroots. Traditional unionist voters are convinced that
if Northern Ireland is to survive as an integral part of the United Kingdom,
there can be no room for discord in the ranks of those who believe in the Union.

Lord Carson's prophetic words "United We Stand, Divided We Fall" still have as
much relevance at the close of the 20th century as they did at the start. They
are words which usually find a shrill echo when the constitutional imperatives
of Northern Ireland are under the greatest pressure, like as of now.

Unionism is a broad church, which extends beyond the party political remit of
the UUP, the DUP and the UK Unionist. It encompasses a wide range of people who
would vote Alliance, Conservative and Labour and, very definitely, includes
those who would support the fringe loyalist parties the PUP and UDP.

The pro-Union ideal is much more than a political creed, it is a manifestation
of approximately one million people, Roman Catholics as well as Protestants and
adherents of other creeds, identifying clearly that they are British and desire
to remain so even against the threat of terrorist violence.

Unionism urgently requires a coheshiveness and a vitality to take it confidently
into the 21st century; it needs to set aside the petty party bickerings that
have resulted in so much negativity over the past three decades, dangerously
creating a level of disillusionment at grassroots level which has led many
traditional voters to stay away in important elections.

The apathy that has now become so apparent in strongly unionist constituencies
east of the Bann is a luxury the pro-Union cause can ill afford. This is a
matter which has got to be urgently addressed, otherwise an imbalance will
continue to surface in the electoral returns in favour of the nationalist
position as expounded by the SDLP and Sinn Fein.

Unionist voters who have been playing truant in safe affluent areas like North
Down, South and East Antrim must be encouraged to return to the fold. All the
pro-Union parties have a responsibility to make this happen.

Sloganising is unlikely to persuade these erstwhile voters to heed the call for
a return to their natural habitat; it will require the articulate presentation
of meaningful policies which are unashamedly and pluralistically centred on the
economic, social and cultural benefits of being British.

Irish nationalism has found a fresh dynamic for its ideology and aspiration
through a coming together of the SDLP, IRA/Sinn Fein and the Eire government,
with sympathetic backing from sundry groupings in the United States, mainland
Britain and continental Europe.

The fact that this alliance may find considerable expression for the narrow
republican agenda, as represented by a republican movement still bolstered by
its huge illegal arms caches, matters little in the overall scheme of things.
What is important in the minds of the committed nationalist/republican
population is that there is movement towards the establishment of a unitary
Irish state.

This is exactly where nationalism/republicanism is coming from today and there
could be a day of reckoning if unionists of all shades are not alert to the
dangers.

Set against the background of pan-Irish nationalism, the unionist electorate
notes with concern the disarray and turmoil which has plagued the forces of
unionism since Stormont was prorogued by Tory Prime Minister Edward Heath in
March, 1972. They wonder will their politicians ever again find the unity of
purpose that for 50 years sustained the will to maintain the Union against
anything which sought to undermine it from inside and outside the borders of
Northern Ireland.

The forthcoming two-day conference in Hertfordshire could herald a new era for
unionism whereby the leading players will all be singing from the same hymn
sheet. Sacrifices will require to be made on party political policy and personal
ambitions and, if progress is to be made, there will be little point in getting
bogged down on the merits of who is inside the Stormont talks or who is outside.

Unionist activists and their constituent supporters need to be aware of the
bigger picture and all energies must be harnessed in the one direction.

The next year will be a difficult period for those guiding the fortunes of
unionism and, largely depending on the outcome of the Stormont deliberations,
decisions could be taken at government level which might mitigate against the
constitutional status quo in this Province. Even the most marginal chink in the
resolution of the unionist population could radically alter the political
landscape of this Province and permit the Dublin government to increase its
influence here.

The cause of unionism is bigger than any individual - David Trimble, Ian Paisley
or Robert McCartney - just as it was bigger than Lord Carson and Lord Craigavon
75 years ago. Unionism has been part of the landscape of Ulster for centuries;
it is an inheritance that was not handed down lightly by a people who saw in the
continued link with the mainland of Britain undoubted benefits which were not
hidebound by the strictures of class or creed.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WARNED AGAINST DISUNITY: Lord Carson during the campaign against; Home
Rule

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1997 Century Newspapers Limited

                              180 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           November 16, 1997, Sunday

Iraq threatens Britain with terror as Saddam prepares for air strikes

BYLINE: John Carlin

SECTION: NEWS; Page  1

LENGTH: 326 words


An Iraqi newspaper owned by Saddam Hussein's eldest son Uday called yesterday on
political sympathisers in the Arab world to launch terrorist attacks against
British and American civilian targets in the Middle East, writes John Carlin in
Washington.

In a gesture that would seem brazenly calculated to invite a military response
from the Western allies, the Baghdad daily Babel said that all targets - be they
military, civilian or commercial - would be fair game.  "American and British
interests, embassies and naval ships . . . in the Arab region should be the
targets of military operations . . . and attacks by Arab political forces," said
the paper's front page editorial.

Clearly irked by the British government's decision to deploy an aircraft carrier
to the Persian Gulf, where the US already has a powerful flotilla in place, Iraq
is pointedly extending its rhetorical attacks beyond America to include Britain.
On Friday the Iraqi foreign minister, Mohammad Said al-Sahaf, described the
British as America's "stooges".

Last night Mr Sahaf reiterated that Iraq would try to shoot down a US U-2 spy
plane expected to fly over the country on behalf of UN arms inspectors.  "We
have informed the UN that our position is stable: If a U-2 plane is going to fly
over us, we will be obliged to defend our security . . . which indicates we are
going to shoot such planes." Asked how near Iraq was to a military conflict with
the United States, Mr Sahaf said: "How near are the Americans and their stooges,
the British, from launching an aggression against Iraq? Well, any moment. This
would not surprise us at all."

President Clinton himself upped the ante in Washington when, as if preparing a
political justification for an attack on Iraq, he declared Saddam's pursuit of
major weapons systems to be "one of the three or four most significant security
threats that all our people will face".

A media war, page 20


LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1997 Independent Print Ltd

                              181 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               November 17, 1997

Supermarkets on alert over 'Mardi Gra' bomb threat

BYLINE: Raymond Duncan

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 447 words


Sainsbury's Scottish supermarkets have been put on alert over fears that the
company is the victim of a hate campaign, after a man was injured when devices
were detonated at stores in west London on Saturday.

The devices are believed to be the work of a man who has been terrorising
Barclays Bank over the past three years, and styles himself the "Mardi Gra"
blackmail bomber.

Last year, he was reported to have turned his attention to Sainsbury's, which
has eight Scottish premises in Glasgow, Edinburgh, Aberdeen, Hamilton, East
Kilbride, and Kirkcaldy.

The man, who has threatened to bomb supermarkets unless he is paid $ 500,000,
was described yesterday by London-based Commander John Grieve, head of the
anti-terrorist branch, as "a cynical and reckless criminal".

A Sainsbury's spokeswoman said that the message had gone out to all stores in
Britain to be on alert, but she would not comment on security measures

"We are working closely with the police. We have the safety of our customers and
staff at the forefront of our minds," she said.

The weekend incidents involved supermarkets at South Ruislip, West Ealing, and
Greenford.

Each explosive was hidden in the box of the video Grand Canyon and placed in a
Sainsbury's carrier bag with other shopping.

A blue sticker was then placed on the box offering a $ 5 reward if it was
returned to a Sainsbury's store. Police believe the writing on the computer
-printed sticker was deliberately made difficult to read so that it would
explode near the victim's face.

"This individual is wholly indifferent to the possibility that this might appeal
to innocent children," said Mr Grieve.

As a result of two of the incidents one man was treated in Ealing Hospital,
while a Sainsbury's employee suffered shock. No person or group has claimed
responsibility for the attacks.

The "Mardi Gra" blackmail bomber launched a lengthy campaign against Barclays
Bank in 1994, when he sent six devices to West London branches all worded
"Welcome to the Mardi Gra experience".

A total of 25 devices, interspersed with blackmail demands, have been sent. Some
were placed in public telephone boxes and many - intended as "frighteners" -
were made minus a crucial component.

The bomber wrote to a national newspaper saying Mardi Gra was the codename of a
small group of Barclays Bank victims "in the process of reversing the tide of
fortune".

The last attack, in Ealing last year, injured three people waiting at cash
machines. It then emerged he had turned his attention to Sainsbury's, after he
sent a blackmail demand threatening to bomb its supermarkets unless he was paid
a reported $ 500,000.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1997 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              182 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               November 17, 1997

Blair and Adams to meet at Number 10

BYLINE: Denis Campbell Political Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 520 words


SINN Fein president Gerry Adams will become the first Irish Republican leader in
almost 80 years to enter 10 Downing Street when he meets the Prime Minister
there before Christmas.

Tony Blair will become the first British premier since Lloyd George to welcome
the leader of the IRA's political wing into his official residence, which the
Provisionals attacked with mortar bombs in 1991.

Downing Street last night played down the significance of the encounter and
portrayed it as simply the latest of Mr Blair's meetings with the leaders of
political parties in Northern Ireland over the multi-party peace talks. He met
representatives of the moderate nationalists SDLP at Westminster last week.

However, the get-together may assume more political urgency for Mr Adams, whose
backing for the IRA ceasefire and talks process has been criticised by
republican hardliners. Both the IRA and Sinn Fein have recently been hit by a
spate of resignations from activists unhappy that the negotiations might not
deliver their goal of a united Ireland.

The Sinn Fein president may seek to use what would be a historic and high
-profile visit to the heart of government, through security gates erected to
prevent IRA attacks, to convince doubting colleagues that his strategy is paying
off.

The last republican leader to pass through the most famous front door in Britain
was Michael Collins when he met Mr David Lloyd George in 1921 to negotiate the
partition of Ireland.

The Prime Minister shook hands with Mr Adams, the west Belfast MP, when he met
him for the first time last month in Belfast.  Soon after, Mr Blair was jostled
and verbally abused by outraged Loyalists at an east Belfast shopping centre who
threw a rubber-glove at him and shouted insults including "traitor", "scum" and
"shame".

A Downing Street spokesman said that although there were "no immediate plans"
for a Blair-Adams meeting at Number 10 and no date had been fixed, "we have
always made clear that there would be another meeting at some stage" after the
initial contact.

There were clear indications that the two men would not meet in the next three
weeks, but a face-to-face discussion at Downing Street appears probable before
Christmas.

Mr Andrew Mackay, the Conservative spokesman on Northern Ireland, said that
"such meetings between Mr Adams and the British Prime Minister are decidedly
premature because Sinn Fein-IRA have yet to properly prove their democratic
credentials. The talks are at an early stage and the ceasefire has not been in
place for very long".

The Sinn Fein leader's visit was "unfortunate" and "sends a bad signal at this
stage", Mr Mackay continued. "I would ask Mr Blair to think very carefully
before entertaining Mr Adams at Downing Street".

The Ulster Unionist Party made no public comment yesterday about the meeting.
But party sources indicated that party leader David Trimble and security
spokesman Ken Maginnis would use their latest meeting with Blair in Downing
Street tomorrow to voice their ''considerable anxiety" about the premier's
personal contact with Mr Adams.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1997 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              183 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               November 18, 1997

OUR VICTIMS;
5-year-old girl, her mother and grandmother die together at Luxor

BYLINE: Gervase Webb;Andy Gardner

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 777 words


A GIRL of five, her mother and grandmother were among the Britons named today as
victims of the Luxor temple massacre.

Three generations of the Turner family died - Shaunnah Turner, five, her mother
Karina 24, and Karina's mother Mrs Joan Turner. The family, from Halifax, West
Yorkshire, were on a private excursion by taxi to the Luxor area with a local
guide when they were caught in the hail of bullets fired by six Islamic
fundamentalist terrorists outside the temple of Queen Hatshepshut.

Karina Turner was an employee of Air 2000, holiday company First Choice's
charter airline.

An elderly couple from Kent were also named as victims of Egypt's worst
terrorist outrage in five years of unrest. George Wigham, 68, died alongside his
wife Ivy, 71, after they were shot with a machinegun.

Their son, Paul Wigham, today told how he believed they were forced to kneel
before being executed in cold blood.

The sixth Briton to die in the outrage was named this afternoon as Sylvia
Wilder, nee Toderova, who holds dual British and Bul- Continued on Page 4 garian
nationality. A Foreign Office spokesman said two British tourists who were
earlier unaccounted for had been found.

At least 70 people - including 60 foreign tourists - were killed when gunmen
opened fire on tourists who had just got off buses to visit the Queen
Hat-shepsut temple on the banks of the Nile outside the city.

Friends and family of the dead Britons today spoke of their horror at the
killings.

The Turner family shared a home at Ripponden, near Halifax, with Karina's sister
Deborah, 30.

An officer stationed at the Turner family home, Pc Mick Holroyde, said:
"Deborah, the sole surviving member of the family, is absolutely heartbroken.

She has had the world

advice to UK travellers terrible, Paul is dreadfully upset, he is just trying to
come to terms with it at the moment." One other British victim remains unnamed,
although a Foreign Office spokesman said two British tourists who were earlier
unaccounted for had now been found.

"We now know the identities of all those killed in the attack and the next of
kin have been informed, he said. At least 70 people - including 60 foreign
tourists were killed when gunmen opened fire on tourists who had just got off
buses to visit the temple on the banks of the Nile. The Foreign Office today
repeated its

to avoid the area but stopped short of saying that they should not go to Egypt
at all. The British Ambassador to Egypt, Sir David Blatherwick, said the embassy
was advising travellers not to go to Luxor.

The grim disclosure of the rising death toll came as a fleet of aircraft flew to
Egypt to begin airlifting hundreds of British tourists cutting short holidays in
case of further attacks.

Two London women were among the first British holidaymakers to fly into Gatwick.

They described huddling together in a ancient tomb as panicking tourists
frantically tried to escape the attack.

Marilyn Lee and Ann Futter, both 45, lay together as a policeman standing above
them exchanged shots with the gunmen.

They told of automatic gunfire all around the temple and scenes of panic and
confusion with no one knowing who the gunmen were or where they were hiding.

Finally, after two hours they escaped at breakneck speed in a taxi. The two
friends, both mothers of two

teenage children, decided to pay a last-minute visit to the temple before flying
home after a one week holiday. They found themselves on the gunmen's escape
route.

Both heard the shots at the same time. Mrs Fut- ter saw dogs and men running.
The two women took what cover they could on the floor of a tourist kiosk only to
have it taken over as a firing position by Egyptian police.

Mrs Lee said: "I knew immediately that something horrible was happening.

You don't get shots fired in a tourist area like that for no reason.

"We were extremely worried and very frightened. We were huddled together and two
policemen in flak jackets and carrying machineguns came down and started
shooting from where we were.

"We were trapped in that spot for two hours with 30 or 40 English, French and
Italians with us. I don't know how we got out."

Mrs Lee said security at Luxor, one of Egypt's premier tourists sites, appeared
lax, perhaps because earlier terrorists attacks had been in Cairo.

"The temple is completely open," she said,"You are totally exposed there.

We saw no security at all apart

from the odd policeman." A 20-strong group of students from the University of
Warwick were caught in the crossfire.

They told how bullets kicked up dust just yards from them.


LOAD-DATE: November 24, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1997 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              184 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 18, 1997

Massacre at Luxor: World voices outrage

BYLINE: REUTERS

SECTION: The Guardian Foreign Page; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 248 words


WORLD leaders were united in condemning the Luxor massacre yesterday.

President Bill Clinton called it a "terrible tragedy" in a telephone call
offering his condolences to the Egyptian president, Hosni Mubarak.

In New York a spokesman for the United Nations secretary-general, Kofi Annan,
said he condemned in the strongest terms "this senseless act".

Britain's Foreign Secretary, Robin Cook, said he was "horrified" by the
killings, and the Foreign Office warned British tourists to stay away from
Luxor.

In France, President Jacques Chirac expressed solidarity with Mr Mubarak, saying
he was certain Egypt would "overcome this ordeal", while the prime minister,
Lionel Jospin, voiced horror, sadness and indignation at the "cowardly attack".

"I am convinced that Egypt will again be able to face up to the challenges of
this criminal violence," Mr Jospin said in a message of condolence.

The German foreign minister, Klaus Kinkel, said: "I utterly condemn this
repulsive act of violence by misguided fanatics . . . Our thoughts and our
sympathies are with the relatives of the victims at this time.  Terror must
never be part of political conflict."

The Russian foreign ministry said it condemned any terrorist incident,
especially "if innocent people suffer as a result".

In Switzerland the foreign minister, Flavio Cotti, condemned the attack, calling
it a major tragedy.

"We see that evil . . . is still an element of daily life," he said.


LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              185 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               November 18, 1997

Eight Britons shot dead as terrorists attack tour buses

BYLINE: Elizabeth Buie

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 906 words


SEVENTY-EIGHT people, including up to eight British tourists, were killed
yesterday in a three-hour gun battle in the ruins of Luxor when Islamic
fundamentalists launched their bloodiest attack in Egypt.

Among the dead, 69 were said to have been tourists, the majority of them Swiss,
German, and Japanese, six were assailants, and three Egyptian police.

The Foreign Office said last night that six Britons were confirmed dead in the
massacre. Two more Britons are said to be missing.

Among the wounded there 16 foreigners and eight Egyptians.

Professor Paul Wilkinson of St Andrews University's International Relations
department, said the attack was probably carried out as an act of vengeance by
the Gema'a Islamiya (Islamic Group) following the jailing of about 100 of its
members.

Throughout the day, the death toll and accounts of the sequence of events
varied.

Tourist police said that six men in police uniforms had flagged down a bus
carrying Japanese tourists. They boarded it and shot the occupants with assault
rifles near Hatshepsut temple, on the west bank of the Nile.

Two policemen fired at the attackers but were shot dead. The gunmen then
hijacked a second bus and killed its passengers, mainly French, Swiss, and
German tourists, before driving it into nearby hills and abandoning it.

An American tourist, Matthew Moyer, told CNN television what happened next.

"We ran to the tomb because we didn't know where the shots were coming from and
we saw one soldier run over an adjoining hill with his gun drawn. At that point
the shots continued for quite some time.

"Probably about half an hour later, soldiers showed up with AK-47s and what
appeared to be grenade launchers and went up into the surrounding hills and we
heard shots continuing after that."

Egyptian witnesses said police had taken a long time to arrive after the
shooting began and that they believed the gunmen had killed themselves in the
mountains. However, the Egyptian Interior Ministry said that six gunmen had
tried to escape in an empty tour bus but were cornered and killed.

One security source in Luxor said a seventh attacker had escaped. Some reports
spoke of 11 gunmen being involved.

In another report, police claimed the attackers had burst into the courtyard of
the Hatshepsut Temple and fired indiscriminately at tourists who had disembarked
from a bus.

Mohammed Nasser, an archaeologist in Luxor, said the attackers opened fire when
a large group of tourists was about to enter the mortuary temple for the ancient
Egyptian queen, Hatshepsut. The tourists panicked and tried to hide behind
pillars, said Nasser.

About 100 Egyptians are believed to have gathered at the temple as police
brought the bodies of three attackers down from the mountain. Some spat on the
uncovered corpses and others shouted "No to terrorism."

Foreign Secretary Robin Cook said Britain sympathised with the Egyptian
Government "with whom we stand together in condemning this sickening act of
violence".

Prime Minister Tony Blair phoned the Egyptian president to express solidarity in
the fight against terrorism wherever it may be.

The state-run Cairo television referred to the attackers as "terrorist
elements", a phrase reserved for Islamic militants who have been campaigning to
oust President Hosni Mubarak's secular government and replace it with strict
Muslim rule. There was no immediate claim of responsibility, however.

Militants who have staged attacks in the past have fought for the imposition of
Islamic law, including a ban on alcohol, the veiling of women, and a tax on
religious minorities, They consider it a religious duty to fight the government
for not imposing the code, known as Sharia.

A curfew was imposed in Luxor, one of Egypt's top tourist destinations, 315
miles south of Cairo. In Luxor, a British tourist told of how he felt he was
"caught in a war zone" in the wake of the massacre.

John Ainscough, from Leytonstone, London, said terrified Britons were staying
inside their hotels and contacting worried relatives while waiting to be flown
home.

"There is just utter terror and confusion," he added as British holidaymakers
were leaving for flights home.

Saga Holidays, which specialises in breaks for the over-50s, said it was
bringing all its clients out of Egypt and cancelling flights to the country.

Thomson, the UK's biggest holiday company, said it was cancelling its three
Egypt-bound flights tomorrow and flying home early any clients who no longer
wanted to stay in Egypt.

Other tour operators were also offering their clients the chance to come home as
well as offering those due to fly out to Egypt a full refund or a change of
destination.

The Tourist Minister for Egypt, Mamdouh el-Beltagi, said that Egypt was as safe
as any country in the world for visitors, despite the attack.

In September, nine German tourists and their Egyptian bus driver were killed by
two brothers, who said they were defending Islam, in an attack carried outside
the Egyptian Museum in Cairo. In 1996, 18 Greeks were killed by Islamic
militants in Cairo who had apparently mistaken the victims for Israelis.

The Foreign Office, which has advised Britons not to travel to Luxor, last night
issued two emergency numbers for people concerned that relatives or friends
might have been caught up in the incident - 0171-270-1500 and 0171-839 -1010.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: The aftermath of a shoot-out: soldiers carry the body of a terrorist
after the carnage reached a bloody conclusion in the mountains.  Picture: ALADIN
NABY/Reuters

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1997 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              186 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                      November 18, 1997, Tuesday Edition 1

Ten Britons feared dead as Egyptian terrorists shoot tourists.

BYLINE: By Peter Woodman

SECTION: INTERNATIONAL NEWS, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 623 words


   As many as 10 Britons may have died in yesterday's terrorist gun attack on
holidaymakers in Egypt.

The Foreign Office said last night that five Britons are confirmed dead in the
massacre in the southern resort of Luxor, but the figure is likely to rise to
six after confirmation of the identities of other victims.

And four more British people are said to be missing or unaccounted for.

British Consul Jenny Taylor has travelled to Luxor and was last night still
trying to confirm the number of British victims.

A spokesman for the British embassy in Cairo said: "There are people unaccounted
for, unidentified bodies, but we don't know what nationalities they are.

"The consul is talking to the authorities and tour companies and offering
comfort and assistance where possible."

News of British victims in the atrocity in which 70 people, including more than
60 foreigners, were killed came as British holidaymakers were being flown out of
Luxor.

Many of the dead are thought to be Japanese.

The Foreign Office in London said its first concern was to ensure next of kin
were informed.

"It will be some time before we can be sure that that has been done, so we
cannot confirm any

further details at this stage," said an official.

The Foreign Office last night advised UK travellers to avoid the area and issued
two emergency numbers for people concerned that relatives or friends might have
been caught up in the slaughter.

The numbers are [0171] 270 1500 and [0171] 839 1010.

Until today's atrocity, which is being blamed on Islamic extremists, the Foreign
Office was merely advising Britons visiting Egypt to be vigilant.

But after the attack near a temple on the west bank of the Nile holidaymakers
were warned to avoid the area and officials said Luxor was reported to be under
curfew.

Foreign Secretary Robin Cook said he was horrified by the attack, which is also
thought to have left six terrorists and three policemen dead.

Prime Minister Tony Blair phoned Egypt's President Hosni Mubarak to pass on his
condolences and express solidarity in the fight against terrorism.

Extremists have conducted a campaign of violence against the Egyptian government
since 1992 and for a time British holidaymakers stayed away.

But by the mid-1990s numbers had recovered and over the last three years more
than 900,000 UK visitors have travelled to Egypt, with many going to Luxor as
part of a Nile cruise or as an excursion.

Holiday companies yesterday swung into action to bring tourists home or organise
alternative trips for people booked to go to Egypt.

Saga Holidays, which specialises in travel for the over-50s, said it was
bringing all its clients out of Egypt and cancelling future flights.

More than 40 Saga travellers in Luxor were being flown to Cairo last night
before joining 60 others for a flight back to Heathrow tomorrow.

Thomson said it was cancelling its three Egypt-bound flights on Wednesday and
flying home any clients who no longer wanted to stay in Egypt.

Tour operator First Choice Holidays said it has 100 people in the country.

"We are arranging flights home for people who wish to leave immediately and
offering alternatives to people flying out this week," a spokeswoman said.

Airtours has made arrangements to fly home its 351 holidaymakers staying in the
Luxor area.

A hotline for anyone wanting information has been set up on [01706] 909050.

Meanwhile Thomas Cook Holidays said it has 140 Britons in Egypt on Nile Cruises.
One boat was in Aswan but a second was moored at Luxor.

All 70 passengers on board had been offered the opportunity to return to
Britain, but so far only two had said they wanted to leave, a spokesman said.

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Death: Soldiers carry the body of one of the suspected terrorists.

                Copyright 1997 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              187 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                      November 18, 1997, Tuesday Edition 2

Massacre in the desert Six Britons among 70 killed as Egyptian terrorists shoot
tourists

BYLINE: By Peter Woodman

SECTION: INTERNATIONAL NEWS, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 627 words


   SIX Britons were killed in a terrorist gun massacre of holidaymakers in
Egypt, the Foreign Office said.

Two other Britons remain unaccounted for after yesterday's atrocity in the
southern city of Luxor, the bloodiest attack yet on tourists in a five-year
campaign by Islamic militants.

The grim disclosure of the rising death toll came as hundreds of Britons were
being flown home in case of further attacks.

British Consul Jenny Taylor has travelled to Luxor and was last night still
trying to confirm the number of British victims.

A spokesman for the British embassy in Cairo said: "There are people unaccounted
for, unidentified bodies, but we don't know what nationalities they are.

"The consul is talking to the authorities and tour companies and offering
comfort and assistance where possible."

News of British victims in the atrocity in which 70 people, including more than
60 foreigners, were killed came as British holidaymakers were being flown out of
Luxor.

Many of the dead are thought to be Japanese.

The Foreign Office in London said its first concern was to ensure next of kin
were informed.

"It will be some time before we can be sure that that has been done, so we
cannot confirm any

further details at this stage," said an official.

The Foreign Office last night advised UK travellers to avoid the area and issued
two emergency numbers for people concerned that relatives or friends might have
been caught up in the slaughter.

The numbers are [0171] 270 1500 and [0171] 839 1010.

Until today's atrocity, which is being blamed on Islamic extremists, the Foreign
Office was merely advising Britons visiting Egypt to be vigilant.

But after the attack near a temple on the west bank of the Nile holidaymakers
were warned to avoid the area and officials said Luxor was reported to be under
curfew.

Foreign Secretary Robin Cook said he was horrified by the attack, which is also
thought to have left six terrorists and three policemen dead.

Prime Minister Tony Blair phoned Egypt's President Hosni Mubarak to pass on his
condolences and express solidarity in the fight against terrorism.

Extremists have conducted a campaign of violence against the Egyptian government
since 1992 and for a time British holidaymakers stayed away.

But by the mid-1990s numbers had recovered and over the last three years more
than 900,000 UK visitors have travelled to Egypt, with many going to Luxor as
part of a Nile cruise or as an excursion.

Holiday companies yesterday swung into action to bring tourists home or organise
alternative trips for people booked to go to Egypt.

Saga Holidays, which specialises in travel for the over-50s, said it was
bringing all its clients out of Egypt and cancelling future flights.

More than 40 Saga travellers in Luxor were being flown to Cairo last night
before joining 60 others for a flight back to Heathrow tomorrow.

Thomson said it was cancelling its three Egypt-bound flights on Wednesday and
flying home any clients who no longer wanted to stay in Egypt.

Tour operator First Choice Holidays said it has 100 people in the country.

"We are arranging flights home for people who wish to leave immediately and
offering alternatives to people flying out this week," a spokeswoman said.

Airtours has made arrangements to fly home its 351 holidaymakers staying in the
Luxor area.

A hotline for anyone wanting information has been set up on [01706] 909050.

Meanwhile Thomas Cook Holidays said it has 140 Britons in Egypt on Nile Cruises.
One boat was in Aswan but a second was moored at Luxor.

All 70 passengers on board had been offered the opportunity to return to
Britain, but so far only two had said they wanted to leave, a spokesman said.

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 1997 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              188 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               November 19, 1997

ACTION AGAINST TERROR SECTS;
TERROR Britain pledges new law to end 'safe haven'

BYLINE: Patrick Hennessy

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 427 words


URGENT moves to end Britain's unwanted status as a "safe haven" for Middle
Eastern and other international terrorists were pledged today by Home Secretary
Jack Straw.

Speaking in the wake of the atrocity in Egypt which saw 58 tourists killed,
including six Britons, Mr Straw signalled a "major overhaul" of the country's
antiterrorist laws.

It will become illegal, he promised, to conspire in Britain to commit a
terrorist act abroad - something not covered by current legislation. Mr Straw,
who described the Luxor carnage as "absolutely appalling", also announced moves
to target the fundraising activities of those who drum up cash here to buy arms
for use overseas.

He said the Government was being "very active" in this area and hoped soon to
have the framework of new laws in place. There was currently a "very serious"
problem of groups being attracted to Britain to raise funds and support for
their activities overseas.

The Home Secretary was less moved, however, by demands to clamp down on the
number of often-bogus "students" coming in from Arab countries.

A report commissioned by the Tory government recommended adding Middle Eastern
and other terrorist groups to the list of officially "proscribed organisations"
which includes the IRA.

It would then be a criminal offence to raise money on behalf of them. Mr Straw
said he accepted these findings and would publish a consultative document in
January.

The new laws could be in place by the next session of Parliament, the Home
Secretary said.

"There is very great urgency. These are very important issues. I think everybody
who knows anything about this knows that there are some very fine balances to be
achieved. What happened in Luxor was absolutely appalling - terrible - but we
have to be intelligent in the way in which we counter terrorism," he told Radio
4's Today pro-gramme. "If we try to deal with this in a crude way then we might
end up with a greater problem than before. You've got to be fair. You've got to
be extremely firm when it comes to the threat of terrorism."

Egypt's most powerful Islamic faction, the al-Gama'a al-Islamiya group, has
admitted responsibility for the Cairo attack.

Maverick Tory MP Alan Clark sparked fresh controversy today when he called for
Sinn Fein's Gerry Adams and Martin McGuinness to be allowed to take their seats
in the Commons despite a refusal to swear the traditonal oath of allegiance to
the Queen.

He was promptly slapped down by Mr Straw who said bluntly: "My view is that it
is unacceptable."


LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1997 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              189 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               November 19, 1997

Witnesses tell of confusion and panic after gunmen opened fire on Luxor
tourists;Scots took lucky detour

BYLINE: Craig Watson And Chris Holme

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 774 words


TRAVELLERS returning from Luxor yesterday spoke of their fear at being caught in
one of Egypt's worst terrorist atrocities.

But one lucky group of Scots described how they only avoided the scene of the
massacre because their guide took an unexpected detour to visit some historic
sites.

And a Scottish Television crew filming a new edition of Scottish Passport was
stranded in Egypt last night after abandoning a trip to Luxor.

British holidaymakers who witnessed the gun battle said it had been like a ''war
zone".

Ms Victoria McIlvenna, 27, from London, said: "I could hear a lot of guns firing
and screams and cries, but there was dust and the sand was like a cloud. People
were running in all directions."

Ms Anne Futter told how she and a friend had taken refuge in tombs to escape the
gunfire during the massacre.

She added: "There seemed to be very little security at the site. It was an
obvious place to attack people from. The general feeling was that attacks on
tourists was something that happened in Cairo and not in Luxor."

A group of Britons told how experience of IRA violence helped them through the
ordeal.

Ms Karen Dean, 36, from Coventry, said a group of 20 Britons on a field trip
with Warwick University had to duck under the fire of terrorist bullets as
police chased the killers into surrounding mountains.

Ms Dean said: "We have to deal with the IRA back in England. There are some
among us who remembered Warrington so we were better equipped to deal with the
situation."

She said that, because there were older people in the party who had endured the
Blitz, they were able to keep their nerve under fire.

The group of Scots, who were travelling with a Saga tour, had been due at the
Pharaonic temples around the time of the massacre, but their guide took them on
an unexpected detour to visit some statues.

Margaret Goatley, 58, from Arran , said tourists were herded into buses and
driven with a police convoy to Cairo.

She said: "There was a lot of confusion, we really didn't know what was going
on. It was really frightening. We packed our bags in less than an hour to get
ready to come back to Cairo on time to catch the plane today. I'm going to need
a holiday to get over all this."

Speaking from a friend's house in Northampton last night , she said: "It is only
now that it is sinking in. I just can't believe how lucky we were."

"If it had been half an hour later, it could have been our party and not the
Japanese people. We were very lucky," said Mrs Nessie Brisbane, of Galloway
Street, Falkirk, after she flew into Edinburgh Airport last night.

"We were told to stay where we were, then the Egyptian authorities rushed us out
of the site. At that point we did not know what was happening. We saw a
policeman run up a hill chasing an Arab and we thought that was strange. But it
was only later that the news came flooding though."

Meanwhile, Scottish Passport presenter Elaine Hill was among a film crew of four
trying to leave the country last night. They dropped plans to visit Luxor
tomorrow. A spokeswoman said they were unharmed and not in any immediate danger,
but experiencing difficulty finding an available flight.

Many of the UK tour operators are bringing home all their Egypt clients and
nearly all have cancelled out-going flights.

Seven empty aircraft left Gatwick Airport bound for Luxor yesterday. At
Manchester, four special flights from Egypt were due to land last night.

Holiday company Cosmos said it was bringing all its customers in the area back
to Britain, with sister company Monarch having arranged two flights out of
Luxor.

Airtours said it was arranging to fly its 351 holidaymakers in the Luxor area
home.

It would fly about 600 holidaymakers to Manchester and Gatwick yesterday - 351
Airtours clients plus customers of Golden Joy, Cosmos, First Choice and Aztec.

The company had cancelled flights to Egypt from Gatwick and Manchester on
Friday, and was offering 350 holidaymakers alternative trips or their money
back.

Saga Holidays, which specialises in travel for the over-50s, was bringing all
its clients out of Egypt and cancelling flights.

Thomson, Britain's biggest holiday company, said it was cancelling its three
Egypt-bound flights today and flying home any clients who no longer wanted to
stay in Egypt. First Choice said it was arranging flights home for those among
100 customers.

Thomas Cook Holidays said it had 140 Britons in Egypt on Nile Cruises.

One boat was in Aswan, well away from the scene of the slaughter, but a second,
The Royal Rhapsody, was moored at Luxor.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: A Swiss holidaymaker - 31 of his countrymen died in the Luxor massacre
- gets an emotional welcome from his sister at Zurich airport yesterday Picture:
CHRISTOPH RUECKSTUHL/AP

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1997 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              190 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          November 19, 1997, Wednesday

Egypt Killings: Major travel firms cancel holiday flights

BYLINE: Clare Garner

SECTION: NEWS; Page  8

LENGTH: 419 words


Tour operators gave a mixed response yesterday about how hard the terrorist
attack in Luxor, which claimed the lives of 58 foreign visitors, would hit
Egypt's tourist trade. Many flights have been cancelled over the next few days,
but the impact in the long term is less clear.

British travel companies are offering clients due to travel to Egypt refunds or
alternative holidays and several countries are considering whether to warn
tourists against travelling there.

Egypt has become an increasingly popular holiday destination among Britons, with
350,000 travelling there last year. Until now, this year's tourist numbers had
been buoyant, reaching 3.5 million - up from 3.2 million in 1996.  However,
three major British tour operators who arrange trips for a large share of these
tourists have cancelled all holiday flights to the country over the next three
days.

If the tourist figures dip in the longer term, the loss of revenue will be
sorely felt. Egypt's tourist industry has an annual turnover of more than pounds
2bn, and up to 10 million people - almost one in six Egyptians - depend on
foreign visitors for their livelihood.

Thomas Cook Holidays, Britain's largest tour operator, said it did not
anticipate a huge decline in tourist interest in Egypt. Only two of its 140
clients currently in Egypt have decided to come home and only 50 of its 300
holidaymakers due to travel there before the end of the year have decided to
cancel or transfer to another destination following Monday's tragedy.

The company is accepting cancellations and transfers without charge for all
departures to Egypt until the end of the year. Its next scheduled departure for
the country, a Nile Discovery tour leaving on Saturday, is going ahead for those
who still wish to go, although the itinerary is being adapted to comply with
Foreign Office advice to tourists to avoid the Luxor area.

Britain and the United States have issued emergency advice urging visitors to
avoid areas along the Nile in upper Egypt, and Japan has followed suit.

An employee at the Shin Nihon Travel Company, a Japanese company which arranged
tours to Egypt for approximately 3,000 tourists last year, said many clients had
called in since the attack to cancel trips.

France's National Travel Agents' Union (SNAV) said in a statement that it
recommended that members suspend sales of tours to Egypt "until further notice",
and delay or shift to another holiday destination packages already sold.


LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1997 Independent Print Ltd

                              191 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          November 19, 1997, Wednesday

Egypt killings: Firms cancel holidays

BYLINE: Clare Garner

SECTION: NEWS; Page  8

LENGTH: 269 words


Tour operators gave a mixed response yesterday when asked how hard the terrorist
attack in Luxor, which claimed the lives of 58 foreign visitors, would hit
Egypt's tourist trade. Many flights have been cancelled over the next few days,
but the impact in the long term is less clear.

British companies are offering clients due to travel to Egypt refunds or
alternative holidays.

Egypt has become an increasingly popular destination among Britons, with 350,000
travelling there last year. This year's tourist numbers had been buoyant,
reaching 3.5 million - up from 3.2 million. However, three major British tour
operators have cancelled all holiday flights there over the next three days.

If the tourist figures dip in the longer term, the loss of revenue will hit
hard. Egypt's tourist industry has an annual turnover of more than pounds 2bn,
and up to 10 million people depend on it for their livelihood.

Thomas Cook Holidays, Britain's largest tour operator, said it did not
anticipate a huge decline in tourist interest in Egypt. Only two of its 140
clients currently in Egypt have decided to come home and only 50 of 300 due to
travel there before the end of the year cancelled or transferred.  The company
is accepting cancellations and transfers without charge for all departures to
Egypt until the end of the year.

Britain and the United States have issued emergency advice urging visitors to
avoid areas along the Nile in upper Egypt, as has Japan. France's National
Travel Agents' Union (SNAV) recommended members to suspend sales of tours to
Egypt "until further notice".


LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1997 Independent Print Ltd

                              192 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 20, 1997

Analysis: Islamophobia: Pronouncing a fatwa on extremes;
 Madeleine Bunting charts the problems for British Muslims faced with hatred.
Ian Black, below right, lists prominent

BYLINE: MADELEINE BUNTING

SECTION: The Guardian Home Page; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 854 words


IN REPORTING on the Luxor massacre in Egypt on Monday, the media did not mince
their words: the Muslim fanatics or maniacs behind it were evil and brutal.
Sinister photographs of Muslim leaders were juxtaposed with those of the
enchanting five-year-old Briton Shaunnah Turner, who was killed with her mother
and grandmother. For some of Britain's 1.4 million Muslims, this was yet another
act of extremism that was to lead colleagues and neighbours to call them to
account on behalf of the faith.

What happened in Luxor has more to do with politics than Islam, but the media
coverage ensures that such terrorist attacks affect the lives of Muslims
thousands of miles away. British Muslim said yesterday that Luxor would only
reinforce the stereotypes and prejudices which to some in Britain link Muslim
inextricably with violence and irrationalism. Indeed, the media - in their
search for drama and conflict - have tended to seek out the most extreme voices
from the British Muslim community; thus we had Omar Bhakri on the BBC's Today
programme yesterday describing his fundraising for Hamas.

What gets left out is the vast majority of British Muslims who feel in no way
represented by the likes of Bhakri. It is this lack of an authentic and
representative voice that has helped lead to the formation of the Muslim Council
of Britain, to be launched this weekend in London. It is the biggest umbrella
body to emerge in the 40 years since immigration built up a distinct British
Muslim community: already 250 organisations have affiliated. The council's
founders hope that it will provide the focus and structure for intra-community
co-operation.

These are big ambitions given the history of attempts to unite the community,
which have repeatedly run into the enormous difficulties of pulling together
such diverse ethnic, linguistic and religious traditions from Pakistan,
Bangladesh, India, Africa and the Middle East. Even within the Pakistani
community, which makes up almost half of British Muslims, there are divisions
which can often be traced back to disputes between neighbouring villages and
mosques in Pakistan. Take the hijab, for instance. Within the Muslim community,
there are vastly different interpretations of what constitutes proper
head-covering for a woman; to some, a loose scarf will suffice; to others, every
scrap of hair must be covered, or even the face.

Muslim leaders point to the furore over Salman Rushdie's Satanic Verses as a key
experience in drawing together communities whose leaders had never sat down
around the same table. It will be no easy task to build a common identity which
is both British and Muslim; yet the Muslim Council of Britain seeks to do just
that.

There is a strong sense of grievance that Muslims are suffering a high degree of
economic discrimination which government has not addressed. Bangladeshis and
Pakistanis combined have a long-term unemployment rate which is nearly three
times that of the next most disadvantaged ethnic minority, Caribbeans. In the
inner cities, nearly half of Bangladeshi and Pakistani men and women are
unemployed.

The consequences of this in terms of social breakdown is becoming apparent: the
numbers of Muslims in prisons in England and Wales increased by 40 per cent
between 1991 and 95, when they rose to 9 per cent of the prison population. As
the Runnymede Trust has warned(1): 'There are trends amongst young British
Muslims, particularly those who are unemployed or who expect to be unemployed,
towards territoriality and gang formation, and towards anti -social conduct,
including criminality.' AN earlier Muslim organisation, the Muslim Parliament,
claimed to be the first representative body for British Muslims. Initially it
generated enthusiasm in the community, but with the fading of the Satanic Verses
issue, support ebbed away.

The new council will primarily address how the community can better help itself
- though not without government funding. There are more than 600 mosques in this
country, and a growing number are developing as cultural and community centres,
with programmes for youth, the elderly and for women. There is extra tuition in
English and maths and classes of religious instruction.

As one of the prime movers behind the Muslim Council has argued, the most
effective way to combat Islamophobia is not to participate in futile debate in a
media which is heavily stacked against you, but to build up gradually another
positive image of Islam. An image of Islam which emphasises its tradition of
justice, of responsibility to the weaker members of the community and of
peaceful co-operation which is credible because it is putting such principles
into practice.

Sources: (1) Islamophobia: A Challenge For Us All (Runnymede Trust, October
1997).

Graphics sources: Ethnic Minorities in Britain, by Tariq Modood and others
(Policy Studies Institute, 1997); Islamophobia (Runnymede Trust); Muhammed
Anwar.

Graphics: Finbarr Sheehy.

Research: Mark Espiner.

Madeleine Bunting is the Guardian's religious affairs editor; Ian Black is
diplomatic editor


LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              193 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 20, 1997

Analysis: Islamophobia The dissidents

BYLINE: IAN BLACK

SECTION: The Guardian Home Page; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 521 words


EGYPT, reeling from the effect of Monday's Luxor massacre, has been complaining
for years that Britain is a haven for Islamic extremists linked to terrorism at
home. But like other Arab or Muslim regimes facing enemies living abroad, Cairo
is far from satisfied with the response.

Arab and Muslim dissidents come to Britain because of a tradition of tolerance
that was enjoyed by Karl Marx and Victor Hugo. British officials point to
liberal asylum laws and say they must observe the distinction between legitimate
political opposition and involvement in violence.

Protests about activists of the Egyptian Jihad (Holy War) group - responsible
for assassinating Anwar Sadat in 1981 and trying to kill Hosni Mubarak in 1995 -
have brought little action, though a handful of suspects is kept under
surveillance by MI5 and the Special Branch. Organisations like the Egyptian
Action Group make no secret of their opposition to the Mubarak regime, but like
most Islamist groups in Britain are not involved in violence.

Terrorist activity is very rare, but complaints from Algeria, given weight by
support from France, have brought limited British action against supporters of
the Armed Islamic Group and the Islamic Salvation Front. There have been several
extraditions to France. Israel has demanded a ban on fundraising for the
Palestinian group Hamas.

Last year Britain faced angry protests from Tunisia, Bahrain and Saudi Arabia
over plans for a London rally organised by Al-Muhajiroun, (the Emigrants) a
radical international Islamic group led by a Syrian-born cleric named Sheikh
Omar Bakri Muhammad. It had planned to broadcast messages from exponents of
political Islam who have been accused of involvement in terrorism. One was
expected from the blind Egyptian Sheikh Omar Abdul-Rahman, convicted of
conspiring to blow up the New York World Trade Centre - and allegedly the reason
for the Luxor attack.

Britain's most famous Middle Eastern dissident in recent years has been Muhammad
al-Masari, the Saudi exile and head of the Committee for the Defence of
Legitimate Rights. The previous government tried and failed to deport him to the
Caribbean island of Dominica after admitting it was trying to protect British
military sales to Saudi Arabia. But Masari's activities were essentially
propagandist and his star has waned.

Another controversial figure is Dr Rashid Gannouchi, leader of the opposition
Tunisian Nahda, or Renaissance Party. He was jailed by the late President
Bourguiba, released, accused of involvement in a bomb outrage, but cleared, and
later fled. Officials say he was allowed to enter Britain by mistake.

One group which is disliked by mainstream Muslims is Hizb ut-Tahrir, the Party
of Liberation, an international movement dedicated to a global Islamic state.
The group is vehemently opposed to Muslims who would co-operate with secular or
'evil' regimes - that is to say, all existing governments. The British section
was banned from campus activity by the National Union of Students after it
insisted that 'the only place to meet Jews is on the battlefield'.


LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              194 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 20, 1997

Anti-terror bill sparks fears of witch-hunt

BYLINE: DAVID PALLISTER AND VIVEK CHAUDHARY

SECTION: The Guardian Home Page; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 407 words


SCORES of political groups and charities operating in Britain could come under
increased scrutiny from the police and government if a new terrorism bill is
introduced next year.

After the massacre at Luxor, the Home Secretary, Jack Straw, yesterday
reiterated his intention to table an anti-terrorism bill which would make it a
criminal offence to conspire to commit terrorist acts abroad and to raise money
for political movements which use violence.  Britain, particularly London, has
long been recognised as a centre for fund-raising - often through charities -
for a number of political causes around the world.

Groups such as the Tamil Tigers, Kurdish guerilla groups, Kashmiri and Sikh
separatists, and a whole range of Islamic organisations have bases in London.

While there has been no direct evidence linking charities raising money with
armed militants abroad, governments such as India, Sri Lanka and Israel have
claimed for years that some of their funds go directly to arm militant groups.

According to a Sri Lankan official at the High Commission, the Tigers in Britain
raise up to pounds 200,000 a month. "They raise it through the sale of videos
and publications, through collections and extortion," he claimed.

Until now, no action has been taken because no offence has been proven under
British law.

Muslim charities and groups, in particular, have been accused of funding
militant Islamic groups in the Middle East and fear the Government's proposal
could lead to a witch hunt.

In August, Israeli sources claimed that pounds 7 million was raised in Britain
each year to help Hamas via Interpal, a Leicester-based charity.

Last year Interpal, which does charity and development work in the West Bank and
Gaza, had its accounts frozen and was investigated by the Charity Commission,
which cleared it of any wrongdoing.

Home Office officials recognise the political minefield of identifying which
groups the police and Special Branch should target. "It will have to be a
delicate balance," an official said yesterday.

There is also an argument that the Special Branch and M15 would prefer groups to
operate openly so that they can be more easily monitored.

In the past, as Mr Straw has said, such a bill would have caught members of the
African National Congress fighting apartheid - and today would logically include
Iraqi Kurds opposed to Saddam Hussein.

Analysis, page 19


LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              195 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               November 20, 1997

Funding crackdown after Luxor massacre

BYLINE: Benedict Brogan;

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 324 words


ISLAMIC terrorists who use Britain as a base for fund-raising and organising
their activities face a crackdown in the wake of the Luxor massacre, Home
Secretary Jack Straw promised yesterday.

As the families of the six British victims came to terms with their loss, he
announced he would publish a report in January on measures designed to stop
Middle East groups who abuse Britain's asylum laws.

The Government's overhaul of terrorism legislation unveiled last month will
include new powers to allow Ministers to prosecute those who conspire to commit
terrorist activities abroad.

The security services have gathered alarming evidence which identifies groups
and individuals operating in the UK who have raised funds and provided support
for terror groups such as Hamas in Israel and the group which murdered 58
tourists in Luxor.

Under current law such activities are legal.

Mr Straw has accepted the findings of a Tory review which recommended adding
Middle East terrorist groups to the list of officially proscribed organisations,
such as the IRA.

"We are very active on that and there are measures I can take, as Home Secretary
- I can exclude them, and individuals who commit offences of that kind can be
extradited and can be prosecuted for actions they might have committed abroad,"
he told the BBC Radio 4 Today programme.

"I announced an overhaul of our system to deal with this continued threat of
international terrorism in October and it should be easier to prosecute people
who have conspired to commit terrorist activities abroad."

He stressed: "There are very fine balances here. What happened in Luxor is
absolutely appalling but we have to be intelligent in the way in which we
counter terrorism.

"If we try to deal with this in a crude way then we might end up with a greater
problem than before. You have got be fair but also extremely firm in a free
society to ensure the right approach."

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1997 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              196 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 24, 1997

Britain accused of harbouring terrorists;
Egyptian president points finger in wake of massacre at Luxor

BYLINE: JULIAN BORGER IN CAIRO AND EWEN MACASKILL

SECTION: The Guardian Home Page; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 581 words


EGYPT'S president, Hosni Mubarak, yesterday accused Britain and other foreign
states of bringing terrorism on their own people by offering shelter to Islamic
militants he said were behind attacks such as last Monday's killing of 58
tourists in Luxor.

Mr Mubarak, struggling to salvage his country's pounds 2 billion-a-year tourist
trade in the wake of the massacre, attempted to deflect at least some of the
blame abroad.

"If you do not want your sons to be killed, why do you protect killers?" the
president asked while opening a museum in the southern resort of Aswan.

"Terrorists are protected in countries such as Britain and Afghanistan . . .
They live on British soil and elsewhere collecting money and planning with those
in Afghanistan. They are all killers."

The Home Office, while reluctant to get involved in a tit-for-tat argument with
President Mubarak, countered that the British Government was taking a series of
measures aimed at clamping down on international terrorism.

"We are acting against terrorists, national and international. We have pledged
to strengthen the law on terrorism abroad. There are a cocktail of proposals," a
Home Office spokesman said. "This country is not a safe haven. We are tackling
it."

In a direct challenge to President Mubarak, the Home Office pointed out that
there were existing extradition treaties and if countries believed Britain was
harbouring terrorists, it was up to those countries to make requests to have
them brought back to face trial.

The president did not offer any evidence linking the attack, in which six
Britons were killed, with British-based opponents. The Egyptian interior
ministry has said one of the six gunmen who took part in the attack had been in
Pakistan and Sudan, where he allegedly received terrorist training, shortly
before the attack.

A slip of paper found on the body of an attacker said: "We are at your service,
Mustapha Hamza," a reference to the military leader of Gama'a al-Islamiya (the
Islamic Group) which claimed to have carried out the attack. Mr Hamza is thought
to be living in Afghanistan with other Gama'a militants.

Exiles in Britain have so far not been explicitly linked to the killings at
Luxor's Queen Hatshepsut temple, in which four Egyptians were also killed. But
Egypt has repeatedly portrayed London as a haven for Islamic extremists.

Cairo has protested at the presence of members of Gama'a, the Egyptian Action
Group, the Jihad (Holy War) movement - which was behind the assassination of
Anwar Sadat in 1981 and an attempt on President Mubarak's life in 1995 - and its
offshoot, the Vanguards of Conquest, who also claimed responsibility for last
week's attack.

In recent years, Britain has also been accused by Tunisia, Algeria, Saudi Arabia
and Israel of harbouring alleged terrorists.

They have pointed out that under British law it is not an offence to conspire to
commit acts of terrorism abroad. Jack Straw, the Home Secretary, said last week
the laws would be reviewed.

Mr Mubarak yesterday signalled that he would continue to take a hard line
against Islamic radicals. Reacting to suggestions of a possible dialogue, he
responded: "What kind of dialogue? It will be a dialogue between the blind and
the deaf."

The Egyptian leader vowed that an attack like that at Luxor would not happen
again but added: "Terrorism is an international phenomenon and no one can
guarantee 100 per cent safety for everybody."


LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              197 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                            December 1, 1997, Monday

BRADFORD'S VIEW: RUC IN FIRING LINE OF POLITICS;
 BRADFORD'S VIEW

BYLINE: Roy Bradford

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1329 words


The Chief Constable of the RUC announces that daytime Army foot patrols are to
be taken off the streets of West Belfast.

He says that this decision to reduce security was "prudent", that his prime
concern is the safety of the public and of his officers and that the decision
was not in the slightest degree political but was based on the "intelligence
assessment".

There is just one thing wrong with this statement - and I regret having to
underline it. When Ronnie Flanagan says that his decision was totally
uninfluenced by political considerations, nobody believes him.

Let us examine the background. Mo Mowlam, the Chief Constable's superior and
arbiter of his fate, has been, and is at her wit's end to propitiate Sinn Fein
and to persuade them to maintain the ceasefire. For months now Sinn Fein and the
IRA directly, have been demanding the removal of British troops from the streets
and for the reduction of the British military presence throughout the province.

A few days ago 250 troops were withdrawn from Northern Ireland. Sinn Fein
leaders are being offered official protection against terrorist attack, though
there is no evidence that they are any more in danger than they ever were.

In an attempt to meet Sinn Fein and SDLP demands for changes in the RUC, Mo
Mowlam has announced a meaningless charter of "performance indicators" against
which the police success in dealing with various aspects of their activities are
to be judged.

The charter consists of a list from terrorism, violent crime drugs and robbery
to road deaths which simply sees out the matters which any self- respecting
police service is expected to deal with and which certainly the RUC has manfully
coped with over the past difficult years. The only value of this charter is as a
cosmetic presentation device designed to convince Sinn Fein that RUC change is
in the air.

But all this is, as I have said, in a vain effort by Mo Mowlam to keep the talks
going and Sinn Fein comparatively happy.

Withdrawing Army patrols in west Belfast is, according to Ronnie Flanagan,
"prudent" and in the interests of greater safety for the public and for his
officers.

One asks the obvious question? How, in the name of all that's logical, at a time
when IRA punishment shootings are increasing, when the IRA is becoming more
militant, when significant sections of it are seeking to end the ceasefire, how
can the withdrawal of Army protection for police and public, conceivably improve
their safety and security?

At best the Chief Constable is taking an unwarranted risk. The decision is not
calculated to improve safety nor can it. Its only possible purpose is to placate
Sinn Fein who have given it, as they give every concession, a lukewarm welcome
while saying that it does not go far enough. The SDLP too have greeted it with
approval: "positive and significant."

In other words, the Flanagan decision was, by any standard, a political one. To
pretend otherwise is an insult to the intelligence of the ordinary citizen. And
this is the man, in whose hands, guided by the Northern Ireland office, the
future of the RUC largely rests.

That hardly inspires confidence at a time when the air resounds to the clamour
of Sinn Fein and SDLP crying out for fundamental change in the structure and
conduct of the RUC. That clamour has been up to now unspecific, a demand for
radical transformation with little or no indication of what precisely is
required in the way of change.

Now with the help of Alex Attwood, one of the brighter young SDLP spokesmen, we
can be more specific. The changes demanded are: (1) Regionalisation, that is,
the RUC split up into three to five regional forces; (2) Disarming of the
police; (3) Policemen must adhere to international policing standards as laid
down in European conventions; (4) Training and recruitment must be altered to
include "community and cultural awareness ".

At the moment, according to Attwood less than 10 per cent of training time is
devoted to indoctrinating recruits with minority cultural and traditional
attitudes.

There you have it, the shopping list. Against it, let me endeavour to set the
views of Leslie Rodgers, present head of the Police Federation, views which he
has clearly and robustly expressed at their recent conference.

First the nationalist demands. We can dismiss the preposterous Sinn Fein
requirements. They amount simply to the disbandment of the RUC and an all
-Ireland police force. So, regionalisation, first floated by Seamus Mallon.

Using the analogy of Great Britain which has up to 44 police forces, the call is
to split up the RUC into four or five local forces which would inevitably become
tight little sectarian bodies dominated by either a republican or unionist
ethos.

In the old days a bank manager was never allowed to serve in his own area for
the good reason that he would be subject to local, even wider incestuous
pressures, that would make impartiality impossible.

The same applies to the fragmentation of the RUC which, in any case runs
entirely counter to the existing trend in England as elsewhere , where financial
economy, technological efficiency with a nationwide computer bank on criminal
activity, all dictate amalgamation of police effort and not further division.

As for disarming the police, as Leslie Rodgers has said, all talk of reforming
the force is not even anchored in reality until the parties can agree among
themselves how Northern Ireland is to be governed so that peace is permanent.

The effect of this one-sided criticism is, he says, to leave the force with an
impending sense of betrayal. I can confirm this. I talk to a lot of policemen.
Morale is desperately low and their trust in their superiors markedly lacking.
As Rodgers says bluntly "policing in Northern Ireland requires and gets
community support. It must have more obvious government support".

As regards standards, the RUC is looked up to and admired by other forces
throughout the world. Its whole training and recruitment programme is permeated
with the prime need for impartiality and professionalism. It has been attacked
by both tribal factions because of that non-partisanship.

It is nonsense to claim that the predominantly Protestant force - Protestant
because the IRA have made it so by murdering officers and targeting Catholics
who think of joining - is unaware of cultural and traditional differences
between the two communities or that officers are not constantly enjoined to take
account of them.

What nationalists are demanding is an hibernicised force shorn of all British
connections.

Let Leslie Rodgers answer that: "We are criticised because we hold on to our
traditional symbols of the RUC, the badge, the Royal Prefix, the allegiance to
the Crown, the flying of the Union flag on pre-ordained days.

"All these are what makes us a British police force, not the French Gendarmerie
or the German Polizei.

"It is what gives a disciplined force its esprit de corps, the sense of
comradeship and identity which enables it to survive the loss of 301 officers
and 8,000 injured in its determination to protect the community.  The government
must understand that it can have no position of neutrality on the police; we
must be supported.

"Anything less is weakness and will be exploited by terrorists and their
fellow-travellers as a sign of a government prepared to compromise on the rule
of law."

The rule of law must be paramount. Until that happy day when the Catholic
population is properly represented in the force and when some political
accommodation is reached, all that can reasonably be expected of the RUC is to
ensure that the rule of law is impartially imposed, that the right of equal
citizenship is astringently enforced and that everyone, Protestant and Catholic,
gets a fair crack of the constabulary whip.

Until then, to quote W S Gilbert "the policeman's lot is not a happy one."

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PRUDENT - AND POLITICAL: RUC Chief Constable Ronnie Flanagan

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1997 Century Newspapers Limited

                              198 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                December 1, 1997

McAliskey move angers Unionists

BYLINE: JOHN MULLIN IRELAND CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: The Guardian Home Page; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 408 words


ULSTER Unionists were dismayed yesterday when David Andrews, Ireland's Minister
for Foreign Affairs, confirmed he had asked the German government to drop its
attempts to have Roisin McAliskey extradited from Britain on bombing charges.

At the beginning of a crucial week for the multi-party peace talks in Northern
Ireland, it was the second time within 24 hours that Mr Andrews had angered
Unionists. They regard his move as interference in the internal affairs of the
United Kingdom. He said it could help the peace process.

In a BBC interview the previous night Mr Andrews had called for the
establishment of cross-border bodies "not unlike a government". He appeared to
be raising the stakes ahead of what government sources believe is a make-or
-break week at Stormont.

Unionists were also worried over an interview is the Dublin-based Sunday
Business Post. Mr Andrews indicated the Anglo-Irish Agreement could be replaced;
articles 2 and 3 of the Irish constitution, which lay territorial claim to
Northern Ireland, amended; and London-Dublin links strengthened.

But Mr Andrews said Unionists would have to concede powerful cross-border
institutions. They strongly reject those, fearing they represent the first step
to a united Ireland.

David Trimble, the leader of the Ulster Unionists, said on GMTV yesterday: "I
wonder what on earth he is playing at. He was present at my meeting with the
Irish Prime Minister last Thursday week in which we made it absolutely clear
that there was no question of any arrangment ressembling an embryonic all
-Ireland government.

Mr Andrews made a personal approach over Ms McAliskey to Klaus Kinkel, the
German Foreign Minister. She has been on remand in England for more than year,
wanted in Germany for the IRA bombing of the Osnabruck barracks. Her daughter
was born in jail this year.

Mr Andrews said there was the case against her was "patently weak".

The Government confirmed Tony Blair will meet Gerry Adams, the Sinn Fein
president, at Downing Street a week on Thursday. It will be the first time a
prime minister has meet a republican leader there since Lloyd George and Michael
Collins settled partition in 1921.

There will be no public handshake, but Mr Adams and his delegation will be able
to address the media on the Downing Street steps afterwards. He will be treated
like the leader of any other party participating at Stormont, said a spokesman.


LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              199 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          December 3, 1997, Wednesday

Terrorist victims were mutilated

BYLINE: Kim Sengupta

SECTION: TITLE; Page  1

LENGTH: 301 words


The remains of the Luxor massacre victim Joan Turner were eventually flown back
to Britain yesterday. The body of her daughter, Karina, is still missing.

Behind the difficulties in identifying the bodies of the family lies the brutal
fact that their Muslim fundamentalist killers had deliberately disfigured the
bodies of their victims after stripping them. They had been shot in the face
after they were dead.

None of the shot Britons were carrying passports on security advice when the six
Islamic terrorists carried out last month's attack at the Valley of the Queens
in which 58 tourists were killed. The gunmen also stripped them of anything they
were carrying which could have revealed their names and addresses.

One Arab source said: "According to witnesses the terrorists were in a frenzy,
they were chanting and shouting.They seemed to have deliberately shot people
already dead in the head and face."

The only way to identify victims is by checking dental records.

The confusion over identifying members of the Turner family caused a lot of
added distress for the family. A relation of the Turners had positively
identified bodies flown to London as those of Joan Turner, 53, her 24- year-old
daughter Karina and five-year-old granddaughter Shaunnah.

However, it emerged that Joan Turner's body was in Switzerland - from where it
was returned yesterday - and that of Karina was still missing.  At one stage
searches led to Colombia, only for the Foreign Office to be told that the two
bodies sent there had already been cremated. However, neither matched Ms
Turner's details, and enquiries are concentrating on Switzerland.

The funeral of the Turners was due to take place last Wednesday, but was halted
when Mrs Turner's body proved to be the wrong one.


LOAD-DATE: December 03, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1997 Independent Print Ltd

                              200 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                December 4, 1997

Visit by UN team over Lockerbie suspects' trial

SECTION: Pg. 9

LENGTH: 545 words


THE two legal experts sent by UN Secretary General, Kofi Annan, to look at the
arrangements for a trial of the two Libyans suspected of the Lockerbie bombing
will begin work today with a visit to the High Court of Justiciary in Glasgow,
writes William Russell.

Dr Enoch Dumbutshena, a former Chief Justice of Zimbabwe, and Professor Henry
Schermers, a Dutchman who is a former Justice of the European Court of Human
Rights, will be given the opportunity to observe High Court trials in process,
and will tour the facilities including the cells.

On arrival at Glasgow Airport last night, Professor Schermers made a brief
statement to journalists on behalf of the delegation.

He said: "We are pleased to be here at the request of the United Nations
Secretary General Kofi Annan and at the invitation of the British Government to
study the Scottish legal system in connection with the Lockerbie incident."

This afternoon they will visit Barlinnie prison, where they will inspect the
Special Holding Facility.

The two-day visit to Scotland continues with a meeting in Parliament House,
Edinburgh, tomorrow morning attended by representatives of the Crown Office, the
Scottish Court Service and the Scottish Prison Service. In the afternoon they
may visit Dumfries Sheriff Court.

Tonight they will have dinner in Glasgow with Lord Sutherland, Senator of the
College of Justice, Mr Alistair Campbell QC, Home Depute, and Mr Colin
Sutherland QC, Treasurer of the Faculty of Advocates.

They met Foreign Secretary Robin Cook yesterday in London and had talks with
Foreign Office legal officials before leaving for Scotland. Mr Cook said he was
pleased the Secretary General had accepted the Government's invitation to send
legal experts to look at the trial arrangements.

He regretted that the Arab League and the Organisation of African Unity, which
had also been asked to send legal experts, had decided not to accept the
invitation at the same time. The offer still stood, he added.

Mr Cook hoped they would reconsider their decision. Britain had nothing to hide,
and was ready to answer any questions they might have about conditions and the
conduct of a trial in Scotland.

Meanwhile, Libya yesterday accused Britain of harbouring suspected terrorists
and formally asked that four people living in Britain be turned over to Libya.

The statement was carried on JANA, Libya's state-run news agency. It did not
give the names or nationalities of the four people, but implied they were Libyan
and said they were "accused of committing terrorist acts, domestically and
abroad".

In London, an official with the Foreign Office said Britain does not know which
individuals the Libyans are seeking.

The agency said the Foreign Ministry summoned the Italian ambassador, whose
country represents British interests, and asked him to convey the message to the
British Government.

"The United Kingdom is still accommodating terrorist elements and enables such
elements to declare publicly their subversive intentions," the agency said the
ambassador was told.

It said Britain was asked to surrender four people to "prove it is resisting
terrorism and co-operating with the countries that are threatened or vulnerable
to terrorist acts".

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1997 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              201 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           December 9, 1997, Tuesday

Police raid Kurdish exiles in terrorism crackdown

SECTION: NEWS; Page  10

LENGTH: 457 words


In the lead-up to a visit to London by the Turkish Prime Minister today, police
have raided two Kurdish community centres in north London.  Kurds in Britain see
this as part of a creeping campaign against them.

The raids took place at Kurdish centres in Haringey and Stoke Newington, under
the terms of the Prevention of Terrorism Act. The search warrant for last
month's raids talked of "evidence of contributions towards acts of terrorism
money, accounting records, computer records and other documentation".

Legislation still in the pipeline will make it possible to bring prosecutions
against those who fundraise in Britain for what are regarded as terrorist
activities elsewhere. The authorities already seem eager, however, to toughen
up. A police spokesman said yesterday that the raids were in connection with an
"ongoing investigation into alleged money-laundering", but added: "As in all
laws, there is a certain amount of latitude." Under existing legislation,
searches can be carried out under the terms of the Prevention of Terrorism Act
for material of substantial value for the investigation of a terrorist offence.

Many Kurds in Britain are sympathetic to the aims of the Kurdish Workers' Party,
the PKK, which is involved in a long-running guerrilla struggle against the
Turkish armed forces for Kurdish independence. It is legal in Britain, but the
PKK is banned in several European countries, including Germany - which is
especially keen to have good relations with Turkey.

Mizgin Sen, co-ordinator of the Kurdish Information Centre, expressed the fear
that tougher action against Kurdish groups is "part of a criminalisation
campaign against the PKK . . . this is definitely a sign in that direction."

The US State Department also placed the PKK on a recently published blacklist of
"foreign terrorist organisations". Under the American rules, it is a criminal
offence to supply funds to the designated organisations. Members of the listed
organisations can be denied entry or expelled from the United States. Bank
accounts can be blocked.

Last month's swoop on the offices of the Kurdish Workers' Association came ahead
of today's visit to London by the Turkish Prime Minister, Mesut Yilmaz, who is
due to meet Tony Blair at 10 Downing Street. Turkey's bid for membership of the
European Union will be on the agenda. Harsh Turkish policies towards Kurds have
been raised by critics of the Turkish government as an important reason for
refusing the Turkish application.

The peace campaigner, Bianca Jagger, delivered a letter to 10 Downing Street
yesterday, which called for a "peaceful settlement to the Kurdish conflict" and
an end to human rights abuses.

- Steve Crawshaw


LOAD-DATE: December 09, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1997 Independent Print Ltd

                              202 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                               December 12, 1997

Don't blow this chance for peace, Blair urges Adams

BYLINE: John Deans

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 793 words


TONY BLAIR faced Gerry Adams across the Cabinet table yesterday and warned him
not to squander 'the best possibility for peace' for a generation.

During their historic talks at 10 Downing Street, the Prime Minister told the
Sinn Fein leader that if the IRA broke the latest ceasefire, it would wreck the
four-year-old Ulster peace process.

'This is a choice of history: violence and despair, or peace and progress,' he
told Adams.

But however strong Mr Blair's warning, there was little doubt the day belonged
to Sinn Fein, who scored an enormous propaganda coup simply by being there.

Taking tea with the Prime Minister in the Cabinet room the IRA tried to bomb six
years ago, Adams and his six-strong team - including four convicted of terrorist
offences - held a press conference afterwards outside Number 10.

They seized on the political respectability the surroundings gave them.

And Adams - who only a few hours earlier brazenly wished 'good luck' to escaped
IRA prisoner Liam Averill - was in no doubt who had gained most from the
historic event.

Having achieved Sinn Fein's re-admission to the heart of British government for
the first time since 1921, he described the event as as 'a good moment in
history'. He made a point of answering several questions in Gaelic, to the
bemusement of the majority of journalists in the crowd.

Mr Blair, who shook hands with both Adams and his deputy Martin McGuinness in
the privacy of the Cabinet room, claimed it had been a 'risk worth taking' to
keep the Irish peace process on track. He added: 'There is the real possibility
of a settlement. What I think is worth doing is taking risks, even with people
who in prior times have been engaged in activity we have all condemned.' Downing
Street called the meeting 'constructive and positive'.

The 55-minute encounter was dominated by exchanges between Mr Blair and Adams.

According to No 10, Adams restated his support for the principle of non-violence
set down by the peace talks chairman, U.S. Senator George Mitchell. He also
reiterated his demand that British withdrawal from Northern Ireland is necessary
to achieve a lasting settlement.

For the hard-line Ulster Unionists, yesterday's drama in Downing Street marked
another step on the road to a sell-out to the Republicans over Northern Ireland.

Democratic Unionist leader Ian Paisley said: 'Talk about dancing at Christmas on
the graves of Ulster dead. They have been given the facility so to dance by the
British Prime Minister. God help this country when its leaders are prepared to
stoop so low in order to attain a moment or two of a peace which will soon be
shattered by a colossal IRA bomb. The whole thing was an exercise of outrageous
hypocrisy and deliberate lying.

'Here we saw the godfathers of those who planned the bombing of Downing Street,
standing outside there and piously pretending they were engaged in a search for
peace.' The Tories also accused Mr Blair of jumping the gun. 'We believe it was
premature. Sinn Fein/IRA have yet to prove their democratic credentials,' warned
Opposition Ulster spokesman Andrew Mackay.

But Colin Parry, whose 12-year-old son Tim was killed by the 1993 Warrington
bomb blast, applauded the Premier. 'I'm fully supportive of his initiative in
bringing the Sinn Fein leadership to Downing Street,' he said.

'It is anything but premature.

Had we been in this position several years ago, my son would still be alive.'
Adams clearly relished the occasion and extracted the maximum propaganda
advantage.

As rival loyalist and nationalist supporters traded insults outside the gates of
Downing Street, the Sinn Fein team were allowed to march up to the door of No 10
where they posed before a battery of TV and press cameras, before entering some
ten minutes ahead of their scheduled 2pm meeting with Mr Blair. Once inside -
without the inconvenience of any security check - the delegation waited in the
hallway until they were ushered into the Cabinet room on the dot of 2pm.

Adams and McGuinness were welcomed by Mr Blair, and took their seats alongside
one side of the coffin-shaped table, while the seven-strong Government team sat
on the other. The rest of the Sinn Fein delegation comprised Lucilita Bhreatnach
and Siobhan O'Han-lon, members of Sinn Fein's talks team, Michelle Gildernew,
head of Sinn Fein's London branch, former gunrunner Martin Ferris, and Richard
McAuley, Adams's press officer.

Mr Blair was accompanied by Northern Ireland Secretary Mo Mowlam, political
affairs minister Paul Murphy, Northern Ireland civil servant Quentin Thomas,
Downing Street chief of staff Jonathan Powell, principal private secretary John
Holmes and press secretary Alastair Campbell.


LOAD-DATE: December 15, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1997 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              203 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               December 12, 1997

'A risk worth taking';
Seven years after IRA mortar attack, Sinn Fein enters Downing Street: Blair says
choice is violence and despair or peace

BYLINE: JOHN MULLIN AND EWEN MACASKILL

SECTION: The Guardian Home Page; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 931 words


Quotes of the day

'It is important I can look you in the eye and hear you say that you are
committed to peace'

Tony Blair

'I think it's clear that all of us in this process have to take risks for peace'

Gerry Adams

A FEW degrees more accurate in their calculations, and an IRA active service
unit would have claimed the terrorist organisation's greatest coup. Downing
Street would have been devastated, and a good proportion of the British
government with it.

Seven years on, the Irish republican movement was back in the heart of
Whitehall. An entourage looking for all the world like seasoned statesmen and
women strolled up to the world's most famous front door, through the wrought
iron gates Mrs Thatcher had erected to keep out IRA bombers before they devised
a missile strategy.

Gerry Adams, MP for West Belfast, and his team shared jokes with journalists as
they went. They were at the citadel of British power at the invitation of the
Prime Minister, and this was history.

The volley Mr Adams delivered to Tony Blair was rather less fearsome than the
last republican missive sent to Downing Street. He told the Prime Minister that
it was time for Britain to quit Northern Ireland. Politely and firmly, he was at
pains to stress.

He was in the Cabinet Room as he told the Prime Minister this. It overlooks the
garden where the IRA mortar bomb exploded in February 1991 while John Major's
cabinet discussed the Gulf War.

Mr Adams was the first Sinn Fein leader to admire the Downing Street decor since
Michael Collins in 1921. He even spotted a portrait of David Lloyd George, the
IRA hit man's opposite number 76 years ago. It prompted him to tell Mr Blair
they had unfinished business.

Out of the view of the cameras it may have been, but Mr Adams and his seven
-strong team were each extended a handshake as business commenced. They were
even offered tea.

Mr Blair told Mr Adams across the cabinet table: "It is important I can look you
in the eye and hear you say that you are committed to peace. This is a choice of
history: violence and despair, or peace and progress."

Issues raised during the meeting included demilitarisation, the release of
prisoners, Bloody Sunday and the plight of Roisin McAliskey - held with her baby
in London after being arrested on suspicion of involvement in an IRA mortar bomb
attack on a British barracks in Germany.

Afterwards Mr Adams said: "We had a good meeting because I think we engaged. We
faced up to the difficulties. In many ways the engagement could be described as
a moment in history.

"We certainly had the opportunity to put our view that all the hurt and grief
and division which has come from British involvement in our affairs has to end.
That will obviously mean facing up to the future with some resilience and with
the determination to make a new history.

"I think it's clear that all of us in this process have to take risks for
peace."

The Prime Minister afterwards explained why the meeting took place. He said:
"What I think is worth doing is taking risks, even with people who in prior
times have been engaged in activity we have all condemned.

"It's important to take those risks to give us that chance. I know it's
difficult for people when they see Sinn Fein coming into Number 10 Downing
Street. But they have signed up to the Mitchell Principles. They are part of
this process. They have got to be treated like other parties in the process."

Unionists had always been unhappy about Mr Blair's invitation to the IRA's
political wing. They were apoplectic yesterday, an escape across the Irish Sea
the previous night threatening to cast a pall over proceedings.

Mr Adams was never going to criticise a republican prisoner for escaping from
the Maze. He tried it himself when an internee there, and received an 18-month
sentence. But he went four words too far in appealing to his own constituency.

He told Irish radio: "While there are prisoners, there will be prisoners who try
to escape. I tried it myself. Liam Averill succeeded where I did not. Good luck
to him."

There was another jolt for Mr Adams at the door of Number 10. Rita Restorick,
mother of Stephen Restorick, the soldier shot dead by the IRA in Bessbrook in
February, presented him with a Christmas card. She bore no bitterness, but
wanted to know if he was sincere about peace. On her card was a photograph of
her boy, aged 24 when he was assassinated.

Inside Number 10, Mr Blair dominated for the Government. Mr Adams and Martin
McGuinness, MP for Mid-Ulster, were the most vocal for Sinn Fein.They deny they
are members of the IRA's Army Council. One of their colleagues yesterday, Martin
Ferris, from Kerry, is said to be on the seven-member ruling body.

They spoke about a British apology for Bloody Sunday, when 14 Catholics were
shot dead at an anti-internment parade in Londonderry in January 1972. Dr Mowlam
promised a response soon.

They also discussed progress at the peace talks. Sinn Fein underlined its
frustration at the Ulster Unionists, who it believes are trying to frustrate the
process.

The Sinn Fein members were pleased with the meeting, and the Prime Minister
remained optimistic of a settlement for Northern Ireland's problems by the May
deadline.

Unionist demonstrators booed the Sinn Fein entourage as they made their way back
to the Thatcher gates. And then they clambered into purple people carriers, the
transformation to statesmen and women complete.

Sketch, page 2; Leader Comment, page 20; Decca Aitkenhead, page 21


LOAD-DATE: December 15, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              204 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          December 13, 1997, Saturday

Terrorism: Britain accused of harbouring Egypt's 'evil mastermind'

BYLINE: Steve Crawshaw

SECTION: NEWS; Page  14

LENGTH: 841 words


After the slaughter at Luxor last month, the Egyptian President, Hosni Mubarak,
lashed out at Britain for "harbouring terrorists under the slogan of human
rights" and Egypt published a list on the Internet of "wanted masterminds of
terrorism". Steve Crawshaw hears what a "terrorist mastermind" has to say, and
finds some strange ambiguities.

High on the Egyptians' hate-list is Yasser el-Serri, whose application for
asylum in the UK is now being considered. Mr el-Serri was convicted in his
absence in Egypt in connection with the attempted assassination in 1993 of the
prime minister, Atef Sedki, in which a young girl died.  He is one of the main
reasons why Egypt claims that Britainadopts a soft policy on terrorism.

Mr el-Serri was no longer in Egypt at the time of the assassination attempt.  He
insists, too, that he was not involved in the attack from afar. "Mubarak feels
no shame to do whatever suits him. It's a fabricated propaganda, aimed at Great
Britain. It's obvious that because Mubarak has failed in his internal policies,
he wants to attract the attention of abroad."

He condemns the slaughter at Luxor, where 58 tourists died, while seeking to
spread the blame. "I condemn the massacre in Egypt - and also the Egyptian
regime which is responsible for terrorist activities." He is happy to describe
himself as an Islamic fundamentalist - reason enough for him to be anathema to
the Egyptian government. He insists on his belief in Islamic sharia law - and
argues that this belief includes an abhorrence of violence. "As Muslims, we are
not allowed to kill innocent people."

In Britain, Mr el-Serri occupies a political no-man's land. He is under constant
surveillance by Special Branch and MI5 - as potential suspect, and as potential
victim.His Special Branch minders advised him to change his address for his own
safety (in Mr el-Serri's words: "not because we like you - but because we don't
let these things happen here"). He insists that his Islamic Observatory Centre,
which he runs from his flat, is only a "humanitarian and media platform", and
does not raise funds for potential terrorist activities - awhich would become
illegal under proposed new UK laws.

Egypt has repeatedly demanded that he be returned to Egypt in connection with
his conviction in absentia. "Many times, the Egyptian government asked me to be
transferred back to Egypt . And many times the British Government refused.  They
kept saying: 'Give us evidence'." The Home Office refuses to comment on the
details of Mr el-Serri's case, beyond confirming that an application for asylum
has been received.

Mr el-Serri insists that he accepts the ambiguous terms of his stay in the UK.
He says it is right that both sides can be punished for a violent foul. "The
British Government is like the referee. They will give the red card to the
Egyptian secret police - or to the fundamentalists. I respect that."

Certainly, the Egyptian security services are interested in gathering more
information. At a recent anti-government demonstration at its embassy in
Mayfair, besuited men with video cameras peered from behind the curtains,
filming the crowd.

None the less, Egyptian policy towards opponents of the regime remains
mysterious. The Egyptian embassy in London has been in touch with Mr el- Serri
about the possibility of "opening a dialogue". The Independent has spoken to a
go-between involved in the tentative approaches, which apparently included
representatives of the Egyptian security services. Mr el-Serri confirmed that
the approaches had taken place, but claimed that Special Branch had told him to
be wary. Egyptian officials deny that there have been any approaches. But it is
clear that, when it comes to "terrorist masterminds", not all is as it seems.

A safe haven since Conrad's day

Britain's liberal treatment of asylum seekers caused frequent clashes with the
rest of Europe in the nineteenth century: it was seen as a safe haven for
terrorists and anarchists. Reactionary regimes in Vienna and Moscow, in
particular, believed that Britain's openess to refugees was just the cover for
hostile scheming against them.

This formed the background to Joseph Conrad's 1907 novel, The Secret Agent.
Verloc, a double agent, is encouraged by Vladimir, an official at an unnamed
European embassy (probably the Russians) to mount a terrorist outrage aimed at
shocking the British into a clampdown. Vladimir lectures Verloc: "England lags.
This country is absurd with its sentimental regard for individual liberty. . . .
The imbecile bourgeoisie of this country make themselves the accomplices of the
very people whose aim is to drive them out of their houses to starve in ditches.
And they have the political power still, if they only had the sense to use it
for their own preservation.  . . . What they want just now is a jolly good
scare."

Verloc is told to mount a bomb attack on the Greenwich Observatory, on the basis
that "The whole civilised world has heard of Greenwich."


LOAD-DATE: December 15, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1997 Independent Print Ltd

                              205 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          December 13, 1997, Saturday

Terrorism: Where freedom and law collide

BYLINE: Michael Streeter Legal Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Page  14

LENGTH: 324 words


For any democracy, dealing with alleged terrorists seeking asylum from abroad
involves a difficult balancing act. The Government has to reconcile the likely
impact on its bilateral relations with the other country involved - in this case
Egypt - and its commitments to combat terrorism, against obligations under
international treaties.

The result can often be to upset both human rights campaigners and the
terrorists' home-government.

In the United Kingdom, all applications for asylum are individually considered,
under the terms of the 1951 UN Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees,
and a later 1967 Protocol. Even if someone is categorised as a terrorist
applying for asylum, they cannot simply be shipped back to their home country.
Under Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights, soon to be
incorporated into British law, a terrorist cannot be returned to a country where
he or she fears "cruel or degrading" treatment. People considered to be plotting
in this country to cause terrorist acts elsewhere can be prosecuted, but such
cases are rare.

A recent report into anti-terrorism laws by Lord Lloyd of Berwick described the
lack of a general offence to conspire to commit such acts abroad as a "major
gap" in British law.

It is an area which Jack Straw, the Home Secretary, is to consider in the review
of anti-terrorist legislation. However, Mr Straw has himself raised the issue of
the "Mandela" question. Would a democracy wish to treat those fighting against
oppression, as the ANC were against the apartheid regime, in the same way as
other supposed "terrorists"?

At the same time Mr Straw has made it clear he wants to toughen up on extremist
groups using Britain as a fund-raising base. And as the focus on Irish terrorism
fades, however temporarily, more attention is being given to the question of
extreme Islamic groups using Britain as a centre for their operations.


LOAD-DATE: December 15, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1997 Independent Print Ltd

                              206 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               December 17, 1997

Lorry blast campaign ended in hotel shoot-out;The IRA bombers defused by a raid

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 711 words


Three IRA men were last night starting long prison sentences for their part in a
plot to launch a lorry bomb campaign.

An Old Bailey jury convicted Patrick Kelly, 31, Brian McHugh, 31, and James
Murphy, 26, of being involved in a gang which amassed more than six tons of
homemade explosive to devastate London.

A fourth man, Michael Phillips, 22, a British Airways engineer, was acquitted
after the jury considered their verdicts for more than 20 hours.

The gang was foiled by the biggest counter-terrorist surveillance operation ever
carried out in mainland Britain.

Police smashed the IRA cell in a raid on a hotel in Hammersmith, London, in
September last year in which one gang member, Diarmuid O'Neill, 27, was shot
dead.

The men had denied conspiring to cause explosions between January 1 and
September 24 last year and possessing explosives.

Ringleader McHugh was jailed for 25 years on both charges; Kelly for 20 years
and Murphy for 17 years. All sentences were concurrent.

Although he did not give evidence, McHugh said he was sent to London to
decommission the explosives cache.

He said his orders were to dispose of arms as the Republican movement moved
towards peace and wanted to join "historic" settlement talks in Northern
Ireland.

But Mr Justice Smedley criticised his story as "sheer hypocrisy".

He told Kelly, the active service unit's driver: "You are not a sophisticated
terrorist but you are a dedicated IRA member."

Murphy, the judge said, was not a member of the inner circle of the IRA and had
come under the spell of O'Neill who was of "greater intelligence".

Murphy, of Chelsea, an assistant groundsman at a school in Shepherd's Bush, was
involved from the start with O'Neill in planning the campaign.

McHugh and Kelly, both of Chelsea, did not arrive in London from Ireland until
later.

The trial was told that O'Neill, the cell's quartermaster, was shot dead when
police raided the hotel.

Police broke into the room where he was hiding with two other gang members. They
feared members of the unit were armed and were about to unleash their campaign.

With CS gas blinding both the IRA unit and police, O'Neill was shot by an
officer, known only as Kilo, in the confusion at room 303 of the Premier West
Hotel. O'Neill and his fellow conspirators were later found to be unarmed.

The bombing campaign was to follow the end of the IRA ceasefire. The gang had
access to tons of explosives and was using a secure storage unit in north London
as a bomb factory. Bombs were to be left on at least one lorry.

The cache included a total of more than six tons of homemade explosives, 22lb of
Semtex, 25 time and power units, two under-car booby traps, ammunition and
firearms.

Commander John Grieve, head of the Metropolitan Police's anti-terrorist branch,
said: "These terrorists were planning a devastating bombing campaign which could
have killed and injured many people and caused massive disruption.

"The quantity of explosives seized by police was enough to make three large
vehicle bombs, each one comparable to the size of the South Quay explosion.

"These men lived in the heart of this city, they travelled on the Underground,
drank in local pubs, and all the time they were planning to bomb innocent
people."

The police marksman who shot O'Neill now fears for his life. The trained
firearms officer, known only as Kilo, was given special protection when he
testified in the trial.

The officer told the court he believed his life and those of his colleagues were
in danger when he fired six shots into the hotel room occupied by the three
terrorists.

The death of O'Neill is now subject of an official inquiry and a public inquest
is due.

Kilo, with other officers, had attended a briefing about the suspected IRA unit
the group was about to arrest.

During it, they were told that their targets were prepared to shoot their way
out if confronted by police.

David Waters, prosecuting, told the court: "The unit had expressed the intention
of killing any coppers from whom they feared apprehension."

Some of the terrorists' conversations were bugged and taped in the course of a
six-week intensive surveillance operation by the security services.

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: The tools of death: timing and power units used to arm and detonate
devices and found in police raids in London.  Picture: PA;Joseph Kelly: jailed
for 20 years.;Brian McHugh: jailed for 25 years.;James Murphy: jailed for 17
years.;Diarmuid O'Neill: shot dead by policeman.

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1997 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              207 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               December 17, 1997

Lorry blast campaign ended in hotel shoot-out;The IRA bombers defused by a raid

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 711 words


Three IRA men were last night starting long prison sentences for their part in a
plot to launch a lorry bomb campaign.

An Old Bailey jury convicted Patrick Kelly, 31, Brian McHugh, 31, and James
Murphy, 26, of being involved in a gang which amassed more than six tons of
homemade explosive to devastate London.

A fourth man, Michael Phillips, 22, a British Airways engineer, was acquitted
after the jury considered their verdicts for more than 20 hours.

The gang was foiled by the biggest counter-terrorist surveillance operation ever
carried out in mainland Britain.

Police smashed the IRA cell in a raid on a hotel in Hammersmith, London, in
September last year in which one gang member, Diarmuid O'Neill, 27, was shot
dead.

The men had denied conspiring to cause explosions between January 1 and
September 24 last year and possessing explosives.

Ringleader McHugh was jailed for 25 years on both charges; Kelly for 20 years
and Murphy for 17 years. All sentences were concurrent.

Although he did not give evidence, McHugh said he was sent to London to
decommission the explosives cache.

He said his orders were to dispose of arms as the Republican movement moved
towards peace and wanted to join "historic" settlement talks in Northern
Ireland.

But Mr Justice Smedley criticised his story as "sheer hypocrisy".

He told Kelly, the active service unit's driver: "You are not a sophisticated
terrorist but you are a dedicated IRA member."

Murphy, the judge said, was not a member of the inner circle of the IRA and had
come under the spell of O'Neill who was of "greater intelligence".

Murphy, of Chelsea, an assistant groundsman at a school in Shepherd's Bush, was
involved from the start with O'Neill in planning the campaign.

McHugh and Kelly, both of Chelsea, did not arrive in London from Ireland until
later.

The trial was told that O'Neill, the cell's quartermaster, was shot dead when
police raided the hotel.

Police broke into the room where he was hiding with two other gang members. They
feared members of the unit were armed and were about to unleash their campaign.

With CS gas blinding both the IRA unit and police, O'Neill was shot by an
officer, known only as Kilo, in the confusion at room 303 of the Premier West
Hotel. O'Neill and his fellow conspirators were later found to be unarmed.

The bombing campaign was to follow the end of the IRA ceasefire. The gang had
access to tons of explosives and was using a secure storage unit in north London
as a bomb factory. Bombs were to be left on at least one lorry.

The cache included a total of more than six tons of homemade explosives, 22lb of
Semtex, 25 time and power units, two under-car booby traps, ammunition and
firearms.

Commander John Grieve, head of the Metropolitan Police's anti-terrorist branch,
said: "These terrorists were planning a devastating bombing campaign which could
have killed and injured many people and caused massive disruption.

"The quantity of explosives seized by police was enough to make three large
vehicle bombs, each one comparable to the size of the South Quay explosion.

"These men lived in the heart of this city, they travelled on the Underground,
drank in local pubs, and all the time they were planning to bomb innocent
people."

The police marksman who shot O'Neill now fears for his life. The trained
firearms officer, known only as Kilo, was given special protection when he
testified in the trial.

The officer told the court he believed his life and those of his colleagues were
in danger when he fired six shots into the hotel room occupied by the three
terrorists.

The death of O'Neill is now subject of an official inquiry and a public inquest
is due.

Kilo, with other officers, had attended a briefing about the suspected IRA unit
the group was about to arrest.

During it, they were told that their targets were prepared to shoot their way
out if confronted by police.

David Waters, prosecuting, told the court: "The unit had expressed the intention
of killing any coppers from whom they feared apprehension."

Some of the terrorists' conversations were bugged and taped in the course of a
six-week intensive surveillance operation by the security services.

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: The tools of death: timing and power units used to arm and detonate
devices and found in police raids in London.  Picture: PA;Joseph Kelly: jailed
for 20 years.;Brian McHugh: jailed for 25 years.;James Murphy: jailed for 17
years.;Diarmuid O'Neill: shot dead by policeman.

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1997 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              208 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          December 17, 1997, Wednesday

IRA Bomb Plot: The London schoolboy who turned Republican terrorist

BYLINE: Michael Streeter

SECTION: NEWS; Page  6

LENGTH: 731 words


Three members of an IRA bombing unit were jailed for a total of 62 years
following the biggest security surveillance operation on mainland Britain.  They
may now be questioned by officials investigating the shooting of another member
of the gang. Michael Streeter, Legal Affairs Correspondent, looks at the
London-born middle-class terrorist who was killed.

Diarmuid O'Neill, had an unusual profile for an IRA terrorist. He went to the
London Oratory school - better known now as the school where Tony Blair's son
Euan is a pupil - where he was remembered as cheerful, well-behaved and
outgoing.

However, he became fascinated by Irish Republicanism as a teenager, selling
newspapers in bars and he was said to have idolised the IRA activist Bobby
Sands, who died while on hunger strike in May 1981.

Soon after leaving school London-born O'Neill, whose parents later moved back to
Ireland, was serving nine months in a young offenders' institution for his part
in a pounds 75,000 cash fraud from a Bank of Ireland branch in Shepherd's Bush,
west London, where he worked.

O'Neill, who was 27 when he was shot by police in a hotel in Hammersmith, west
London, was by that time a committed Republican and some of the cash was
siphoned to the IRA.

On his release from jail he became a "sleeper" waiting to be activated by his
IRA bosses.

His private life was involved in nationalist politics as well. O'Neill's
girlfriend was Karmele Ereno, a sympathiser of the Basque separatist movement
from Amorebieta, near Bilbao.

After his death, his Spanish friends paid tribute to "Ginger" as he was known in
a Basque language newspaper sympathetic to the separatist movement ETA,
promising: "We will never forget you."

The Police Complaints Authority will now ask his fellow terrorists if they want
to assist its investigation into O'Neill's shooting on 23 September 1996.  A
file will then be sent to the Crown Prosecution Service and the coroner, pending
an inquest.

Yesterday, after more than 20 hours of deliberation, an Old Bailey jury decided
that the IRA active service unit, which included O'Neill, who was the group's
quarter-master, had been plotting a major bomb attack on the capital.  A fourth
defendant was cleared.

The leader of the unit, Brian McHugh, claimed the team had been trying to
preserve peace rather than destroy it.

He had been sent to London to decommission the weapons cache - which contained
6.3 tonnes of home-made explosives - as the Republican movement moved towards
peace and wanted to join "historic" settlement talks in Northern Ireland, he
said.

Sentencing the three men, the judge, Mr Justice Smedley, described this claim as
"sheer hypocrisy" .

Senior Scotland Yard officers later heralded an "intelligence triumph",
involving 50,000 hours of surveillance, which they say prevented a "devastating"
attack.

Listening bugs were planted in the suspects' cars and rooms, their electronic
pagers and telephone calls - even from public telephone boxes - were monitored,
and film from mobile video recorders and surveillance cameras in train stations
was taken.

Commander John Grieve, head of the Anti-Terrorist Branch, who co-ordinated the
evidence gathering after the arrests, said the scale of Operation Tinnitus,
involving the Metropolitan Police and MI5, who handled the audio surveillance,
was the largest and longest of its kind on the mainland.

"It thwarted a major attack on London," said Mr Grieve, who added that the
terrorists had enough material to plant four bombs similar in size to the one
which devastated the centre of Manchester last year.

Mr Grieve said officers "regretted" O'Neill's death, but said he had been part
of an active unit intent on causing destruction. The firearms unit deployed,
including the man known only as "Kilo" who fired the bullets, had been briefed
on the amount of explosives and guns the IRA unit possessed.

Those convicted yesterday were Patrick Kelly, 31, who was jailed for 20 years;
McHugh, 31, who was given 25 years and James Murphy, 26, who was sentenced to 17
years. All had denied charges of conspiring to cause explosions between 1
January and 24 September last year, and of possessing explosives.

Michael Phillips, 22, a mechanical aircraft engineer with British Airways at
Gatwick airport was cleared of the charges.


LOAD-DATE: December 17, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1997 Independent Print Ltd

                              209 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          December 17, 1997, Wednesday

LET'S JUST KILL THE COPS;
 PROVO'S CHILLING BOAST REVEALED AS GANG GET 62 YEARS;
 IRA BOMBER DIARMUID O'NEILL WAS SHOT DEAD BY POLICE AFTER BRITAIN'S
BIGGEST-EVER ANTI-TERROR SURVEILLANCE OPERATION.

BYLINE: Don Mackay

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4, 5

LENGTH: 1123 words


IRA bomber Diarmuid O'Neill was shot dead by police after a spy bug picked him
up urging an accomplice to "kill the cops", it was revealed yesterday.

The net closed on O'Neill and his gang after Britain's biggest-ever anti- terror
surveillance operation.

Six weeks of shadowing with listening and tracking devices ended in a bloody
climax in a backstreet hotel in west London.

Quartermaster O'Neill - about to launch a huge lorry-bomb blitz - fell dead from
six bullets fired by a police marksman who believed it was kill or be killed.

In fact, O'Neill was unarmed.

Yesterday three of the four men alleged to be his accomplices were convicted of
explosives charges after a 42-day Old Bailey trial.

Patrick Kelly and Brian McHugh, both 31, and James Murphy, 26, were jailed for a
total of 62 years. The fourth man, Michael Phillips, 22, was cleared.

The gang's capture was hailed by anti-terror chief Commander John Grieve last
night as an "intelligence triumph".

O'Neill, 27, had more than six tons of home-made bombs which he and his unit
were set to unleash on London in the autumn of 1996. The IRA ceasefire had ended
earlier that year.

Their planned attacks would have rivalled the atrocity in Manchester that summer
and similar bombings in the capital.

But from August their every step had been monitored by Operation Tinnitus,
involving MI6, MI5, Scotland Yard's anti-terror unit and Special Branch.

Even a street corner phone box in Castleblaney, Co. Monaghan - used by Provo
bosses to pass on orders - was bugged.

On the day O'Neill was shot, the team believed a terror bombing was "absolutely
imminent".

And they also knew that O'Neill - educated at the London Oratory School attended
by Premier Tony Blair's son - would try to shoot his way out of any arrest
attempt.

He had been picked up by a bug saying that if police approached a hideout,
accomplice Brian "Eddie" McHugh would have to "come out and kill the two cops
out front".

It is thought bugs were planted in a work yard where the Provo squad had hidden
an Audi truck earmarked to carry a deadly consignment.

O'Neill was heard telling co-plotter Kelly that he had a codeword arrangement
with McHugh if police stumbled across their lair.

This is how the conversation unfolded:

O'Neill: "I've got to organise it with Eddie, but when I'm in front and come and
say something like 'Mr Wilkinson the police are here. They want to talk to you'.

"You've got to go 'What's going on here, mate. I dunno, I'm just a member
of...going to that lorry.  Just bought it...it needs a service'.

"If I say that, you come out. Just let Eddie do it.

"You come out and kill the two cops out front."

Kelly: "Yeah."

O'Neill: "You've got no f*****g choice. No f*****g choice."

Kelly: "The s**t has hit the fan."

O'Neill: "Then we have to whack two of them. They have no ID. We have a little
bit of breathing space. Three or four hours of breathing space.  You're f****d
anyway. If it gets to that stage, you'll have to kill the coppers or get caught
otherwise.

"If you're not prepared to shoot, you leave yourself wide open.

"They'll be on the radio, cars will be all round the place. You'll never get
away.

"You've got to kill them and take a car. You've got to put as much physical
distance between you and them as possible.

"There's no point in hiding in a ditch round the corner."

Kelly: "Yeah."

O'Neill: "Then, as soon as possible, dump that car. Get on buses or whatever.

"Just f*****g, just put as much distance in every way between you and where it
all happens. Stick your cap on and drift back to the digs.

"Stay in and s**t yourself quietly. Wait till you see the f*****g ID. You see if
you whack the two of them, for example.  We are compromised at this yard?"

Kelly: "Yeah."

O'Neill: "And the two cops come into the yard where you and Eddie are, and you'd
kill the two of them, right? Right, OK. Eventually the two bodies would be found
within a few hours I imagine."

Police caught up with O'Neill in Room 303 of the Premier West bedsit hotel in
Hammersmith, on September 23, 1996.

An electronic key failed to open the door of the room where O'Neill was with two
accomplices. Officers used a hand-held battering ram to try to burst the hinges
off. That didn't work, either.

CS gas was eventually fired into the terrrorists' hideout - and an elite SO13
squad marksman known only as Officer Kilo confronted O'Neill.

The prosecution told the court: "All Kilo could see was a figure kneeling
towards him. He thought he was going to be shot, so he fired. He thought he had
missed and fired more shots."

Kilo, who was in the hallway, told the court he had shouted "Show me your
hands", but there was no response.

The figure facing him had "aggressive" body language and was in "almost a
boxer's-type stance".

Defence lawyers claimed O'Neill - a committed Republican born in London - had
shouted "Whoa, whoa" and "We give up. We're unarmed."

"Kilo" is said to be distraught over the death.

Fifty thousand man-hours of surveillance and thousands of hours of closed-
circuit film had preceded the swoop.

Cars were fitted with tracing devices as O'Neill's unit travelled Britain
putting their plan together. His precise targets for bombing are unknown.  But a
storage unit in Hornsey, north London, had four wooden crates packed with
explosives and booster tubes containing high performance detonator cord.

Detonators and timing units were alongside with 100 bags of makeshift bomb
materials.

Just before the trial, a second store was found near Chelsea football ground.
There were traces of Semtex, Kalashnikov rifles and ammunition.

Yesterday ringleader McHugh got 25 years for conspiracy to cause explosions and
possession of explosives.

Kelly got 20 years and Murphy, a school's assistant groundsman, was given 17
years for similar offences. All three lived in Chelsea.

Fourth man Phillips, a British Airways engineer, of Crawley, Sussex, was driven
away without comment after being cleared. The jury had deliberated for 20 hours.

Mr Justice Smedley condemned as "nonsense" McHugh's story that he had been sent
by the IRA to defuse bombs as part of the peace process.

He said Kelly was the driver in the team and "not a sophisticated terrorist".

Murphy, a schoolboy pal of O'Neill, had come under the quartermaster's
"charismatic spell".

As they were found guilty, there were shouts from the public gallery of: "This
trial will halt the peace process." Relatives broke down and sobbed "Oh my God."

O'Neill once worked for the Bank of Ireland in London and served a jail term
after pounds 39,000 went missing.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 25 YEARS: McHugh plotted a devastating lorry bomb attack;; 20 YEARS:
Kelly was the driver for the IRA terrorist gang;; LETHAL HAUL: Semtex and guns
kept by the gang;; 17 YEARS: Murphy came under spell of school pal O'Neill;;
KILLED: O'Neill was shot dead when police foiled the plotCARRIER: Lorry; O'Neill
planned to use in bombingEVIL: Timers for the home-made devicesSHOOTING; SCENE:
Hammersmith hotel where O'Neill died

                            Copyright 1997 MGN Ltd.

                              210 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           December 19, 1997, Friday

ON THE HUNT FOR LACK OF COMPASSION;
 MARY RIDDELL'S OPINION PAGE

BYLINE: Mary Riddell

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 949 words


In the past year Princes William and Harry have lost their mother in the most
tragic circumstances imaginable.

They have mourned her with the glare of TV cameras and the eyes of the nation
scrutinising every move.

Young as they are, it has been their duty to uphold the image of a creaking
monarchy, beleaguered and criticised.

In addition, they have had to pick up their studies, resume some semblance of a
normal life and come to terms with their grief.

Christmas approaches. This is the time when the loss of a mother hurts the most.
There will be others who fill stockings and buy gifts, but nothing will seem the
same.

Prince Charles, one of this year's unsung heroes, does his best. Having
organised a minibus trip to the Spice Girls' movie premiere, he takes his sons
to watch a meet of the Beaufort Hunt. This is one privileged expedition too far
for MPs and lobbyists of the anti-blood sports camp.

"Charles has said he wants to be part of Tony Blair's compassionate Britain,"
says Kevin Saunders, of The League Against Cruel Sports.

"Yet he still takes part in barbaric activities."

I do not approve of fox-hunting, though I dislike more the smug urge that has
overtaken this country to remove freedoms in the name of moral superiority.

But, as barbaric activities go, I can think of little more cruel than carping at
bereaved children who - like it or not - are scarcely going to be corrupted by a
pursuit they have grown up with or a father who has striven to support them.

Surely we can leave Charles and his sons to struggle through Christmas as best
they may, without foisting on them the additional burden of other people's
self-righteousness.

As for "Blair's compassionate Britain", the jury is out.

But one cannot help feeling that, if only it addressed itself more to the rights
of lone parents, children and the disabled and less to those of the fox, we
should all be a great deal better off.

A brave gesture of peace

Both Tony Blair and Gerry Adams took chances by opting for a Downing Street
meeting.

Blair's gamble my have been the braver, but both have much to lose.

Rita Restorick is familiar with loss. Her soldier son, Stephen, was murdered by
the IRA.

As a token of her hope and faith, she handed Adams a Christmas card bearing
Stephen's image.

For that gesture, she stood accused by some of propping up the IRA. That charge
is both pathetic and cruel.

If there is to be a chance of lasting peace, it does not depend only on the
goodwill of politicians and the courage of nations.

It depends also on the ability of those who have wept and suffered and hated to
embrace the spirit of reconciliation.

Blair was brave. Adams too. But true fortitude belongs to those who, like Rita
Restorick, see - beyond their own children's graves - some faint hope of the
promised land.

Good luck to William and Ffion, who have more to worry about than their wedding
today.

According to fanciful Tories, the golden couple will now miraculously transform
the party's tarnished image. And I am Joan of Arc. And she who is pictured above
right is Ann Widdecombe.

Screams that haunt us all

Toddler Sarah Adams was tortured to death. Her stepfather taped his attacks as
she cried in terror.

Neither he nor Sarah's mother could be convicted of murder or manslaughter
because it was unclear which one had dealt the fatal blow.

Rightly, there are demands for the law to be changed. But remember too that here
is one more case where neither neighbours nor authorities apparently lifted a
finger as a little girl screamed for her life.

Certainly we need better justice for the dead. We also need better safety nets
for the living.

Melinda Messenger has been named Rear Of The Year.

She is delighted by this change of focus. "Normally I am better known for my
other assets," she says. Ah yes. Now, how many O levels was it?

The Christmas ambitions of a third of men are to eat, drink, be merry and have
sex with a colleague at the office party.

I'm sure they tell themselves that three out of four is a pretty impressive
score.

Mum's the word for sad Paula

The Paula Yates drama is becoming a bit like the last act of Hamlet.  Bodies
litter the stage.

I still sympathise with what she must have suffered after the death of Michael
Hutchence.

Selling her story, for which she has been much criticised, does not necessarily
signify that she has bought out her own grief.

I cannot, however, get interested in the saga of the two dead fathers.  In terms
of sheer unpleasantness, there was never much to choose between Jess Yates and
Hughie Green.

Paula herself has implied, at different stages of her life, that she found both
Jess and Hughie, her real father, to be awful men.

All the more reason to draw a line under the past and concentrate instead on
improving the cold and loveless relationship with her mother, Helene.

I can see how misery and disappointment has driven them apart. But attempting to
rebuild links with the living has to be better than feuding over the dead.

I'd plump for Harrod's ban

The American tourist debarred from Harrods because she was "too fat" is to sue
the store.

Eilene Kadden's list of alleged results of her banishment is impressive.  It
includes battered emotions, no motivation, an aversion to shopping.  Oh, and a
wrecked marriage.

Having recently visited horrible, over-crowded, over-large Harrods with husband
in tow, I perfectly understand.

One word of consolation. The distressing reactions she mentions could certainly
be induced by being kicked out.

But the symptoms are even worse if they let you in.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PRESSURE: Wills and Harry GRIEVING: Yates

                            Copyright 1997 MGN Ltd.

                              211 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                      December 23, 1997, Tuesday Edition 6

Loyalist warning as bombers are freed for Christmas - Peace on line say
prisoners

BYLINE: By DERIC HENDERSON

SECTION: BRITAIN TONIGHT, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 302 words


   BRIGHTON bomber Pat Magee was among 160 paramilitary prisoners released on
Christmas parole today - as loyalists warned the Ulster peace process had
entered into a dangerous new phase.

Magee, 46, serving a minimum 35 years for his part in the IRA attack which left
five people dead at the Tory Party conference in 1984, walked away stony-faced
as he was met by a woman friend outside top security Maze prison, Lisburn, Co
Antrim.

Arrest

He is expected to spend the next 10 days with republican associates in west
Belfast, where he lived before his arrest for the bombing which came within feet
of killing then Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher and wiping out her Cabinet at
Brighton's Grand Hotel.

Also released were Chelsea Barracks bombers Paul Kavanagh and Thomas Quigley.

Magee left refusing to answer any questions. But Republicans, who looked on as
his car sped off, said he would be spending Christmas quietly with family and
friends.

One said: "I doubt very much if they'll be parading him around West Belfast. He
wants to keep out of the limelight."

The Republican and loyalist paramilitaries set free today have served at least
10 years, but this was the first time Christmas parole for all prisoners was
extended to 10 days.

But loyalist prisoners warned they would be re-assessing their position to the
talks process over Christmas and the New Year.

They claimed the Government was bowing to IRA and Sinn Fein demands for
concessions. UDA and UFF men released today said the situation was totally
one-sided and claimed Republicans were dictating the Government's agenda.

The loyalist paramilitary ceasefire of October 1994 is still in force, but the
prisoners warned its future could be in doubt unless Northern Ireland Secretary
Mo Mowlam changed her attitude.

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: chelsea blast - Paul Kavanagh

                Copyright 1997 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              212 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               December 23, 1997

Prudential going to the shops

SECTION: The Guardian City Page; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 189 words


P&O, the shipping and property company, has agreed to sell the Arndale Centre,
the shopping complex in central Manchester hit by an IRA bomb last year, to the
insurance group Prudential for pounds 325 million.

The price is a substantial premium to the pounds 215 million book value of the
15-acre site, one of Britain's busiest shopping centres.

The Arndale is now well on the way to restoration after the explosion which
injured some 100 people. P&O said the repair programme would be complete in
March 1998.

For P&O, the sale caps a plan to raise a net pounds 500 million in property
sales by the end of next year to reinvest in its main businesses of cruise
liners, container shipping and ferries.

"With this sale in place we will have comfortably achieved our target well ahead
of time," P&O chairman Lord Sterling said.

The Pru will pay pounds 315 million in cash and make up the balance by
transferring interests in London properties where P&O is the tenant.

The Pru will pay pounds 265 million on completion of the transaction early next
year and the remaining pounds 50 million in December 2000.


LOAD-DATE: December 23, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              213 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           December 23, 1997, Tuesday

Libyans will get fair hearing in Lockerbie trial, says UN report

BYLINE: Jason Bennetto

SECTION: NEWS; Page  4

LENGTH: 399 words


The two Libyans suspected of the Lockerbie bombing would get a fair trial by
jury in Scotland, according to a report by the United Nations, it was announced
last night.

But despite the apparent backing of the UN the Libyan authorities have no
intention of handing over the suspects, say campaigners.

A Lockerbie support group has also cast doubt on the findings of the UN report
and have called for the full details to be made public.

The UN legal experts' opinion follows a fact-finding visit to Scotland earlier
this month.

A Crown Office spokesman in Edinburgh said: "The Crown Office welcomes the
report of the UN legal experts who, contrary to speculative and ill- informed
reports, have concluded that the accused would receive a fair trial under the
Scottish judicial system.

"We are particularly pleased to hear that they concluded that a trial by jury
would not prejudice the accuseds' right to a free trial.

"Libya should now stop prevaricating and secure the appearance of the accused
for trial."

Relatives and campaigners for the 270 people who died when Pam Am 103 was blown
up by a terrorist bomb December 1988 called earlier this week for the Government
to allow the trial of the two Libyans to be held in a neutral country.

Tam Dalyell, the Labour MP and Lockerbie campaigner, questioned last night the
contents of the UN report and has asked for it to be made available in the
Commons. He said there were reports that some members of the UN team were
unhappy about a trial in Scotland.

He added that it would not matter "a damn" either way because the Libyans would
not surrender the two suspects to Britain or the United States.  Libya has
refused to hand them over despite UN sanctions.

The statement from the Crown Office came the day after relatives of the dead
organised a press conference in Edinburgh where Mr Dalyell called for the Lord
Advocate to step aside from deciding where the suspects should stand trial.

The event on Sunday was staged to mark the ninth anniversary of the tragedy, in
which 270 passengers and Lockerbie residents died when a bomb destroyed the
airliner.

Among those taking part were the spokesman for the British relatives, Dr Jim
Swire, the Edinburgh University law professor Robert Black, and Dr David
Fieldhouse, a GP from Bradford who gave evidence at the fatal accident inquiry.


LOAD-DATE: December 23, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1997 Independent Print Ltd

                              214 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                      December 23, 1997, Tuesday Edition 1

Arndale goes to Prudential for £315m

BYLINE: By Andy Gales

SECTION: BUSINESS NEWS, Pg. 27

LENGTH: 219 words


   THE Arndale Centre in Manchester, Britain's biggest city centre shopping mall
and the scene of an IRA bomb attack in June 1996, is being sold for £325m.

Ferry and property group P, the UK's largest life assurer.

Prudential will pay £265m early next year, when a further announcement on the
deal will be made, and another £50m in December 2000.

The balance will be made up with the transfer of Prudential's interests in
London properties, where P

P's IRA bomb attack.

"Demand from shoppers and from unit owners in the centre has never been
stronger. The centre has a great buzz about it and remains the number one
shopping area in the city centre," he said.

He said the sale had been a good deal for P

"It has gone for its proper market value and the Prudential have got a good deal
because of all the regeneration schemes brought in after the bomb. It is a very
strong growing concern which is going from strength to strength."

The Arndale Centre, which first opened in 1976, got its name from owners Arnold
Hagenbach and Sam Chippendale.

The IRA bomb attack caused £50m of damage.

Capital Shopping Centres, which owns the MetroCentre at Gateshead and Eldon
Square in Newcastle, is believed to have withdrawn from the bidding after
putting a ceiling of £270m on an offer.

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 1997 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              215 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                     December 24, 1997, Wednesday Edition 1

Carlos the Jackal jailed

SECTION: BRITAIN TONIGHT, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 132 words


   A French court convicted former terrorist "Carlos the Jackal" of a 1975
triple murder and sentenced him to life in prison today.

The verdict capped an eight-day trial in which Venezuelan-born Ilich Ramirez
Sanchez, linked to some of the Cold War's most sensational terror attacks, was
convicted of shooting two French undercover policemen and a student in 1975.

"Viva la revolucion," Ramirez said after hearing the verdict in a Paris court. A
nine-member jury deliberated for nearly four hours before convicting Ramirez of
the shootings which took place during an investigation into attacks on Israel's
El Al airline at Orly Airport.

Captured by French agents in Sudan three years ago, Ramirez has long been
inactive after his support dried up with the Cold War's end.

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FEARED - Carlos the Jackal in his heyday

                Copyright 1997 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              216 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          December 24, 1997, Wednesday

IRA prisoners will leave Britain next month

BYLINE: David McKittrick

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Page  1

LENGTH: 828 words


Seven IRA prisoners held in British jails are to be moved to the Irish Republic
in a move which will please Sinn Fein but may increase Unionist disillusionment
with the peace process. Our Ireland correspondent says the development follows
yesterday's release on Christmas leave of Patrick Magee, serving life for the
Brighton bombing

It is understood the transfer of the seven republicans has been approved and
will take place in the new year. It is the latest in a series of transfers to
both Northern Ireland and the Republic. It is believed that all those wishing to
transfer to Northern Ireland will by then have had their requests granted.

Even before the news of the latest transfers became known, loyalist
representatives were warning of "severe alienation" among the Protestant
population which they said could threaten both the talks process and the
loyalist ceasefire.  Meetings between the Secretary of State for Northern
Ireland, Mo Mowlam, and two key loyalist parties appeared to have had little
immediate effect in soothing ruffled feathers and allaying their concerns.

Rather, a loyalist prisoner being released from the Maze on Christmas parole
announced that Ulster Defence Association (UDA) inmates were reviewing their
support for the "faltering" peace process. Billy Adams, complained of
"appeasement and constant concessions to Sinn Fein / IRA".

He added: "We have witnessed government concessions to republicans on all
fronts, be it a reduction in security levels or the erosion of our political and
cultural identity. Where is the parity of esteem for loyalist prisoners?"

He was speaking as around 160 prisoners, including loyalists, republicans and
others, were released over Christmas for 10 days, a longer period than usual.
Among those released was Patrick Magee, who was jailed for life for the Brighton
bomb attack which in 1984 killed five people at the Conservative Party
conference and which narrowly missed assassinating Margaret Thatcher. He is
among those who have already been transferred from England to Northern Ireland.

Republicans are by no means delighted with the pace of movement on the prison
issue. They are pressing for the early release of all paramilitary prisoners,
describing this as a confidence-building measure needed to underpin the IRA
ceasefire. They have also criticised Dublin for assuring London that transferred
prisoners will continue to face their full sentences.

Loyalists are aggrieved, however, that in terms of prison concessions they
regard republicans as being well ahead. Both sides are benefiting from the
Christmas parole while both also qualify for the increased remission which was
announced in 1995. But republicans have also benefited from early releases from
prisons in the Irish Republic, as well as transfers of IRA prisoners from
prisons in Britain to Northern Ireland and the Irish Republic.

There are no loyalist paramilitants held in prison in the Republic; if there
were, Dublin would almost certainly agree to their speedy release.  Similarly,
there are no loyalists left in British jails who qualify for transfer to
Northern Ireland. This means that only republicans are benefiting from the
recent relaxation in prison policy.

While loyalists do not necessarily disapprove of the transfers and releases in
the Republic, they feel their prisoners are missing out. The feeling of
alienation is compounded by events in the political arena such as the recent
meeting in Downing Street between Tony Blair and the Sinn Fein president, Gerry
Adams.  Such developments are regarded as clear advances for republicans and
therefore as unhelpful to the general loyalist cause.

The authorities will most immediately be concerned that the loyalist unrest
might result in an outbreak of violence which could cost lives.  Already this
year loyalist violence has resulted in 11 deaths, compared to three killings by
the IRA, and there is an ever-present danger that a rise in tension might
produce a resort to the gun by either mainstream loyalist paramilitants or
breakaway elements.

The other question is whether the Ulster Democratic party and the Progressive
Unionists, the two political groupings which represent the main paramilitary
groups, will attend the multi-party talks when they resume at Stormont on 12
January.

Ms Mowlam said yesterday that she was concerned at the announcement that UDA
prisoners would review their attitude to their ceasefire. In a Christmas
message, however, she declared: "I am confident that an agreement can be reached
against a background of peace on both sides."

The UDP leader, Gary McMichael, who met Ms Mowlam yesterday, said afterwards:
"There is a growing feeling within Unionism and loyalism that the Government is
valuing the concerns of nationalism above those of loyalism and Unionism.  There
is a need for rapid movement on Mo Mowlam's part to try and retrieve this
situation."


LOAD-DATE: December 24, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1997 Independent Print Ltd

                              217 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               December 26, 1997

Lockerbie legal charade Victims' relatives deserve the truth

SECTION: Pg. 14

LENGTH: 417 words


NINE years on from the night when a terrorist bomb blasted PanAm 103 out of the
sky over Lockerbie, relatives of the 270 US and Scottish victims are no closer
to seeing justice done on behalf of their loved ones. The two Libyans accused of
planting the device remain safe in their homeland and will probably never be
brought to trial in Scotland or any other country. It is also increasingly
obvious that no government, including those of the UK and the United States, is
particularly anxious to have even a fraction of its involvement in the tangled
web of Middle Eastern geopolitics unravelled in open court. Besides, Iran is the
natural counterweight to Iraq in that troubled region. Teheran's well-documented
export of terrorism by means of financial backing, training, and weaponry for
disaffected militants is designed to upset Western policy in what it regards as
its own backyard and to destabilise hostile local regimes. But it remains
preferable to the West to absorb the nuisance value of such terrorist activity
rather than confront Iran directly. Breaking Iran's power would allow Saddam
Hussein's still-powerful military machine to dominate surrounding states, and,
longer term, might jeopardise lucrative industrial contracts if and when
Teheran's hardline Islamic stance mellows.

America's other basic concern is that gelding Iran in any strategic sense would
require a huge and expensive increase in its own military stance in the region
to fill the consequent gap in the local balance of power. This extra commitment
would be unpopular domestically and politically suicidal if it resulted in even
relatively small numbers of American casualties. Britain will follow the lead of
its main ally, a decision predicated on the fact that it would be expected to
participate in any conflict triggered by a more aggressive policy towards Iran.
Set against these factors, seeking the truth about the murder of 270 innocent
victims and the prospect of public opinion forcing some form of retribution
against the perpetrators of the outrage is not a viable option. The days of
dispatching an avenging column or even a gunboat to salve national pride are
long gone, subborned by oil money and power politics. However, the relatives of
those so callously slain deserve at least a truthful explanation of events. It
may not be physically possible to bring Iran to book, but blame should be laid
at the door of those who deserve it instead of merely playing out a pointless
legal charade.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1997 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              218 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               December 26, 1997

Israel pins Lockerbie blame on Iran

BYLINE: Exclusive Ian Bruce Defence Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 568 words


IRAN planned, financed and ordered the terrorist bombing of PanAm 103 over
Lockerbie, and the Libyans being sought for extradition and trial for the
outrage are merely "foot soldiers" subcontracted for the job, according to
Israeli military intelligence sources.

A senior officer based in Tel Aviv also claims that information identifying the
late Iranian leader Ayatollah Khomeini as the architect of the attack, and
intelligence data to support that accusation, was passed to both Britain and the
US within months of the incident.

"In the nature of international counter-terrorism, certain information is shared
between intelligence agencies whose interests coincide. Both your own government
and that of the United States were informed," he said.

''The fact that neither has acted upon information they must know to be true is
down to national policy in the region. Iran is seen as a counter-balance to
Iraq. Maintaining that balance is obviously preferable to seeking justice for
the families of those who died."

The bomb in 1988 caused the deaths of 259 passengers and crew and 11 Lockerbie
residents.

The man who led the murder hunt nine years ago, now Strathclyde Chief Constable
John Orr, still insists that although there was a maze of leads pointing in a
variety of directions, there was only ever enough solid evidence to indict the
two Libyan intelligence agents, Abdelbaset Ali Mohmed Al Megrahi and Al Amin
Khalifa Fhimah.

Libya refuses to hand over the accused, despite a ruling last week by a UN
investigative team they would be guaranteed a fair trial under the Scottish
justice system.

The men, being held in protective custody in Libya, are charged with unlawfully
acquiring airline baggage tags immediately before the bombing, and placing or
causing to be placed on an Air Malta flight from Luqa Airport to Frankfurt a
suitcase containing explosives and a detonating system packed into a cassette
recorder.

According to the Israelis, despite powerful evidence of Libyan involvement, all
roads lead back to Tehran. They say the Iranians tried to leave a false trail by
implicating the Palestinian terrorist movement Abu Nidal. Palestinian extremists
train in Syria, in camps paid for by Iran.

The reason the Ayatollah ordered the bombing attack in the first place is itself
steeped in controversy.

Ostensibly, it was in revenge for the shooting down of an Iranian civilian
airliner over the Gulf in 1988 by the cruiser USS Vincennes, killing all 290 on
board. The majority were Islamic pilgrims bound for Mecca.

There is evidence, however, that the incident was engineered by the Iranians to
achieve a cynical propaganda victory and curtail US naval deployment in the
region.

The Vincennes picked up the airliner on radar as it emerged without warning over
the Zagros Mountains on the Iranian coast. Its computer tagged the contact as a
potential hostile threat because it was not on a recognised civilian flightpath
and was closing rapidly on a heading which would bring it directly over a
patrolling US naval task force.

With no acknowledgement of a radio challenge from the Vincennes on commercial
airline frequencies, and with seconds to go before the intruder would be in a
perfect attack position, the warship launched its missile in what was deemed to
be self-defence. The US captain was court-martialled.

Leader comment Page 14

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1997 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              219 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                      December 29, 1997, Monday Edition 1

Sadness and joy, comings and goings - a year to remember - It was the year that
18 years of Tory government came to a dramatic end. It was also the year Channel
5 and Comet Hale-Bopp came and the year Diana, Princess of Wales died. Today and
tomorrow we look back at 1997.

SECTION: NEWS REVIEW OF THE YEAR, Pg. 40

LENGTH: 2874 words


   January

Pensioner Wilf Mann, 90, of Durham, was found strangled in his own home by his
85-year-old brother on New Year's Eve.

Former swimming pool attendant Lily Whipps, of Stanley, County Durham,
celebrated a prosperous New Year after scooping a £1.2m Lottery win.

Kevin Keegan hailed his £15m super striker the best in the business after Alan
Shearer's brace of goals helped Newcastle United to a 3-0 New Year's Dday win
over Leeds.

Schoolgirl Nicola Dixon, 17, of Sutton Coldfield, was sexually assaulted and
murdered while her parents visited relatives at Lesbury, near Alnwick.

Three North schools were among 41 across the country allowed to become
specialised centres of excellence. Monk-seaton Community High, North Tyneside,
and Dallam School, Cumbria, became language colleges while Hermitage School,
Chester-le-Street, was named a technology college.

MP Terry Dicks called for the England cricket team to be brought home in
disgrace rather than travel on to New Zealand after they were bowled out for 118
by Zimbabwe.

Health authorities across the region began the year facing a £6m short-fall -
part of a £140m national deficit.

Education chiefs' secret plans to shut two Tyneside comprehensives were
uncovered by The Journal. Officials said a glut of schools in Gateshead meant
Lyndhurst and Blaydon should close.

Kevin Keegan's resignation left Newcastle United shell-shocked. Money men
preparing for the club's flotation on the stock market were blamed for his
abrupt mid-season exit. Kenny Dalglish quickly moved in to fill the legendary
manager's shoes.

Hundreds of operations had to be postponed as a major flu epidemic put North
hospitals in chaos.

South Shields mother-of-two Margaret Lee was killed when guns were fired into
the air at New Year celebrations in North Carolina, USA. Her husband Michael,
who was holidaying with her, was arrested on suspicion of murder.

Diana, Princess of Wales was dragged into a political row after visiting Angola
to highlight the plight of landmine victims. Government sources described her
support for the Red Cross campaign as "ill-advised" and branded her a "loose
cannon".

Motormouth Chris Evans quit Radio 1 after a row with station controller Matthew
Banister. The DJ - credited with saving the station - simply failed to turn up
for his stint on the breakfast show.

Teen heart-throb Brian Harvey was sacked from pop group East 17 after claiming
the drug Ecstasy was safe.

Factory worker Muriel Simpson, 43, was awarded a record £186,000 by a High Court
judge after being left with debilitating tennis elbow by 12-hour shifts making
toilet rolls.

Parents were on the alert after a salmonella outbreak infected baby milk. Across
Britain 12 babies were struck by the rare form of food poisoning.

During a visit to the region Prince Charles asked young guitarists at a Prince's
Trust project if they had penned The Wonder of You - a hit for Elvis Presley.

A leading doctor called for a specialist network of "flying doctors" to be set
up to ferry critically ill patients between hospitals. Teesside-based Dr Paul
Lawler said that paramedic-style teams are vital to save lives.

Topaz the tom cat was released from a greenhouse after surviving 10 days in
horticultural captivity by eating tomatoes.

February

A reclusive Kevin Keegan broke a three-week silence to back successor Kenny
Dalglish after being cornered by The Journal's Doug Moscrop as he enjoyed a day
out at Catterick races.

Athletics club official Mick Page, 46, of Newton Hall, near Durham, died after
collapsing during the 10km Chester-le-Street road race.

Lottery winner Alan Collins, of Gateshead, had to borrow £20 from his works
social club to celebrate his £2.5m win.

Six workers at Cumbria's Sellafield nuclear plant were hit by a radioactive leak
in the decontamination area.

Grandfather John McKenna, 62, of Billingham, made history when he shared a
single human liver with a baby in a pioneering operation at Newcastle's Freeman
Hospital.

As the General Election approached John Major's Government caused outrage by
holding back part of an annual pay rise for doctors, nurses and teachers.

The husband and two sons of teacher Eve Howells were unanimously convicted of
her murder at Leeds Crown Court.

Schoolgirl Billie-Jo Jenkins was found battered to death in the back garden of
her foster parents' home in Hastings, East Sussex.

Border Wind, of Hexham, unveiled plans for a commercial wind farm generating
electricity half a mile from Blyth.

Health chiefs at Newcastle's Royal Victoria Infirmary were under fire for
producing brochures promising patient "guests" a chef, satellite TV and a fax as
the trust faced mounting debts.

Carol Sharp wept for joy as a health trust dropped its appeal and agreed to pay
£1.7m to her Olympic sprinter husband Cameron, who suffered severe brain damage
due to doctors' negligence following a road accident.

A 19-year campaign to clear the names of the Bridgwater four ended in victory
when the

convictions for the murder of newspaper boy Carl were overturned by the High
Court.

Cousins Michael and Vincent Hickey and James Robinson were eventually freed.
Patrick Molloy had died in prison 16 years earlier protesting his innocence.

A Newcastle landmark which provided the backdrop for many TV adaptations of
Catherine Cookson novels was destroyed when fire swept through the derelict
warehouse on the City's Quayside.

Miner John Hall, 56, was killed by a roof fall as he worked in the Castle Drift
pit, Haltwhistle.

A young police officer went to ground after claiming he

spotted wallabies ambling through a Gosforth field. A passing motorist supported
his claims but no evidence of the small kangaroos was found and the officer was
not named to spare his blushes.

Redundant bank manager and treasurer of Bishop Auckland Golf Club Alan Craddock
almost ruined the club after siphoning off £124,000 to fuel his taste for high
living.

Widow Diane Blood won her battle to try for a baby using her dead husband's
sperm.

MARCH

Margaret Thatcher came third in a poll of who should lead the Tory Party if they
lost the General Election.

Comet Hale-Bopp came in from the very outer reaches of the solar system to be
visible in the night sky. Those who missed it will not see it again for 8,000
years.

Sex-change science teacher Tony Bradley faced her old pupils when she went back
to St Peter's Church of England School, Exeter, as Ms Toni Bradley.

Schizophrenic Horrett Campbell was locked up "without limit" for his playground
machete attack in Wolverhampton. Nursery teacher Lisa Potts became a national
heroine when she shielded children from his blows.

An irate football fan threw his shirt over the head of Newcastle United manager
Kenny Dalglish after the team lost 4-3 to Liverpool.

Four sixth-form girls from a Harrogate School died in a car smash during a
lunch-time spin. Their car careered off a quiet country road and caught fire.

A grey five-storey prison ship arrived on the Dorset coast to a chorus of
protest after a two-week voyage from New York.

Government Minister Michael Bates backed a bid to bring the Lindisfarne Gospels
back home to the North-East from the British Museum and establish a Museum of
Christian Heritage.

Comic Relief capers raised millions of pounds for charity. Stunts in the region
included five male bankers dressing up as the Spice Girls.

Down's Syndrome girl Joanne Spendiff lost her fight to attend a mainstream
school with her friends. The local authority wanted to send the 13-year-old from
Wallsend to a special needs school.

Top model and '60s glamour girl Jean Howells nee Callaghan who starred in The
Saint with Roger Moore said her life was destroyed by X-ray dye Myodil.

The General Election was announced for May 1 paving the way for a marathon
election campaign.

An avid Newcastle United fan who made a black and white bikini for the team's
Uefa cup match at Monaco was banned from wearing her costume on the streets by
local police.

Controversial film Crash showing characters sexually aroused by car crashes was
passed uncut by the British Board of Film Classification.

Four out of 10 trains on the flagship Great North Eastern Railways line were
failing to run on time, confidential figures revealed.

Roman Catholic priest Canon Laurence Hollis died at the altar as he consecrated
communion at an early morning mass in Shotley Bridge, Durham.

Former Newcastle United footballer Chris Waddle fulfilled a childhood dream when
he came home - and signed for Sunderland.

A new Millennium window was unveiled at Durham Cathedral. Artist Joseph Nuttgens
spent two years on his work which showed past and present industries.

Half of Marsden Rock was brought down with a bang after 81 charges of explosive
brought the distinctive oastal landmark crashing into the sea. The famous arch
had crumbled a year before, leaving an unstable pillar next to the main rock.

Former Newcastle MP Piers Merchant was accused of having an affair with
17-year-old Anna Cox.

Channel 5, Britain's first new terrestrial television channel for 15 years, went
on air - but many homes in the region were unable to receive it.

April

A 40ft sperm whale called Moby died stranded on mudflats in the Firth of Forth
after he got lost on the way to the Atlantic.

Supermac - former footballing hero Malcom Macdonald - was given a two year
driving ban and vowed to give up alcohol.

Ratboy - a youth who terrorised the elderly from lairs in the heating ducts of
Newcastle's Byker Wall - was named as Anthony Kennedy, 17.

Zulu dancers took the region by storm when they performed in the MetroCentre.

Pop star Liam Gallagher of Oasis married girlfriend Patsy Kensit in a secret
ceremony.

Lord Gyllene, a horse owned by Newcastle racecourse owner Stan Clarke, won the
150th Grand National. The race was held on a Monday after Saturday's race at
Aintree was abandoned following an IRA bomb alert.

BBC Correspondent Martin Bell put himself forward as an independent
anti-corruption candidate to stand against Tory MP Neil Hamilton.

Redcar MP Mo Mowlam revealed to the world she had been receiving treatment for a
benign brain tumour.

Pop star Mark Morrison was found guilty of threatening a police officer with an
illegal stun gun.

Lady Thatcher returned to the site of her Teesside Walk in the Wilderness 10
years on.

Middlesbrough Football Club lost the Coca-Cola Cup final to Leicester City.

Car giant Nissan unveiled plans for a £1m rail terminal to link its Wearside
plant and Europe.

IRA bombs exploded at Leeds and Doncaster train stations and caused travel chaos
across the country.

A retired couple in Low Row, Northumberland, had a lucky escape when a car
ploughed into the wall of their lounge as they were watching television.

A Newcastle woodwind repairer designed a one-handed sax for a paralysed
musician.

Agony Aunt Denise Robertson married the man who comforted her after the death of
her husband.

The world's longest road-rail suspension bridge, built in Hong Kong by a
North-East firm, is opened.

Durham-born actress Gina McKee won best actress Bafta for her role in TV drama
Our Friends in the North.

MAY

Tony Blair and the Labour Party storm to a General Election landslide victory
and a clutch of North MPs are given key Cabinet posts.

North-East soap opera Quayside is axed after one series.

An opportunist house hunter could secure a home only a few doors away from Tony
Blair's constituency address in Trimdon for only £8,750.

North archaeologist Clive Waddington uncovers giant prehistoric stones buried in
Northumberland believed to be 800 years older than Stonehenge.

Former Newcastle lord mayor Arthur Stabler dies aged 77, after serving the city
as a councillor for more than 34 years.

Taking the City by surprise, Labour Chancellor Gordon Brown announces the Bank
of England set interest rates without any political interference.

Israeli warplanes attack suspected Hizbollah terrorist targets in Lebanon's
Bekha Valley in response to attacks on Israeli troop patrols.

Shamed North radio presenter Peter Hetherington has his five-year jail sentence
for sexually abusing young boys increased to eight years by the Court of Appeal.

Childless London couple Julie and Anthony Cohn become the parents of triplets,
thanks to surrogate mum Anne Keep, a 41-year-old grandmother.

Zaire's President Mobutu announces he is to stand down after years of unrest and
opposition to his decades of corrupt and dictatorial rule.

A Loyalist mob kicks a Catholic man to death in Northern Ireland while RUC
police officers are said to have watched.

A lifelong friend tells mourners at Hughie Green's funeral that the
Canadian-born presenter of Opportunity Knocks was the father of TV celebrity
Paula Yates.

On the last day of the season, Newcastle United clinch runner-up spot and a
place in the Champions League. Sunderland and Middlesbrough are relegated.

More than 2,000 are reported dead after a massive earthquake flattened Afghan
homes and villages.

Sunderland play their last game at Roker Park, their home for 99 years.
Liverpool are beaten 1-0 in a friendly to mark the move to the Stadium of Light.

Doctor's son Hytham Hamad, 18, who suffered racial abuse at Newcastle's Dame
Allan's School is awarded thousands of pounds compensation.

Middlesbrough lose the FA Cup final 2-0 to Chelsea to complete an unwanted
hat-trick which includes losing in the Coca-Cola Cup final and Premiership
relegation.

More than £200m is set to flow into North council's coffers as the Government
announces it is unlocking receipts from the sale of council houses.

The Conservative Club in former prime minister John Major's Huntingdon
constituency announces it is closing after 28 years because of a lack of funds.

In two incidents World War Two machine guns were removed from North-East
auctions after police fears that criminals were reactivating the weapons.

Eric Cantona stuns the world of football by announcing he is quitting the game
to concentrate on other interests, such as acting and painting.

Undercover RUC agent Martin McGartland, who infiltrated the IRA, was cleared at
Newcastle Crown Court of perverting the course of justice by using different
driving licences.

JUNE

Oklahoma City bomber Timothy McVeigh is sentenced to death by lethal injection
for blowing up the Alfred P Murrah federal building, killing 168 people.

An off-duty RUC officer is kicked to death outside an Ulster bar by a Loyalist
mob, angry at a ban on Orange Order parades through Catholic villages.

Lee Clark moves from Newcastle United to Sunderland in a £2.5m deal that makes
him the Wearside club's record signing.

North MPs lobby Transport Minister Gavin Strang to have a killer stretch of the
A1 north of Newcastle made into a dual carriageway.

England dismiss Australia for 118 at Edgebaston as the Ashes series is given one
of its most dramatic starts in history.

It is announced the Hatton Gallery at Newcastle University is to close despite
pleas by art lovers, students and staff.

A Newcastle industrial tribunal awards 28 women working in Durham City Council
sheltered accommodation £400,000 compensation for discrimination.

BA spends £60m on a new image which drops the Union Jack from most planes'
livery.

Newcastle City Council reveals plans to ban free access for cars to the city
centre during peak times.

Electrical goods manufacturer Electrolux, which employs 2,000 at plants in
Spennymoor and County Durham, announces 12,000 job cuts worldwide.

Nursery nurse Lisa Potts is awarded the George Cross in The Queen's Birthday
Honours for protecting children from a machete-wielding maniac.

The North's newest rail franchise, Virgin Trains, promises tilting trains on the
West Coast route between London and Cumbria by the year 2002.

Wendy Worrall, from Consett, County Durham, who killed her husband, is spared
jail by a Newcastle Crown Court judge after he accepts she had suffered years of
abuse.

Two policemen are shot dead by the IRA in Lurgan, Ulster, plunging the Northern
Ireland peace process into crisis.

Newcastle University Professor John Knapton is made a tribal chief in
Ekumfi-Atakwa, Ghana, after boosting reading and literacy skills in the country.

William Hague sweeps to victory in the Tory leadership

battle and pledges to lead the Conservatives to power at the next General
Election.

McLibel, the 313-day trial at the High Court between two ecology campaigners and
McDonald's, ends with the fast food giant winning £60,000 damages.

The libel action brought by former Tory minister Jonathan Aitken against The
Guardian collapses.

Cardiff-based property group

TBI indicates it would be interested in buying Newcastle Airport, valued at
£70m, if it came on the market.

A US-style arson squad, the first of its type in Britain, is to be established
in the West End of Newcastle.

The British Lions win the rugby test series against South Africa.

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Cometh the hour: Tony Blair in Stockton during the General Election
campaign, which ended in a landslide victory for Labour on May 1.

                Copyright 1997 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              220 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                      January 1, 1998, Thursday Edition 1

1997 NATIONAL NEWS

SECTION: FEATURES, Pg. 17

LENGTH: 485 words


   JANUARY

The New Year was given a chilly welcome as an Arctic Britain in the grip of the
big freeze .

Oasis bad-boy Liam Gallagher escaped with a caution after being stopped on
London's Oxford Street carrying cocaine.

Richard Branson's bid to fly non-stop round the world in a balloon ended in
failure after just 19 hours.

DJ Chris Evans quit Radio 1 after being refused permission to take Fridays off,
while pop band East 17 sacked singer Brian Harvey over comments about using
Ecstasy.

FEBRUARY

England won a Test match, at last, beating New Zealand by an innings and 68
runs. They won the series 2-0.

The Daily Mail named five men as the killers of black London teenager Stephen
Lawrence after an inquest found he was stabbed to death in a racist attack - and
challenged them to sue for libel.

The Bridgewater Three were released from prison pending an appeal hearing, which
later threw out their 18-year-old convictions for the murder of 13-year-old
paper boy Carl Bridgewater.

MARCH

Prime Minister John Major called a General Election for May 1, sparking a
marathon six-week campaign.

The Spice Girls continued their domination of the British pop scene making
history when their new AA side single, Mama/Who Do You Think You Are, gave them
their fourth No 1 with their first four singles.

The Hale-Bopp comet was clearly visible in the skies above Britain as it reached
its closest point to the Earth.

Channel 5 was launched.

APRIL

Two terrorist bombs, planted beside the M6, paralysed the heart of the country's
road network and heralded.

The Grand National at Aintree was abandoned and the course evacuated, following
IRA bomb warnings. The race was re-staged two days later, with Lord Gyllene
romping home in a 25-length victory.

Oasis lead singer Liam Gallagher and actress Patsy Kensit married in secret
after previously calling off a wedding because of media attention.

MAY

Labour swept to power with a 179-seat majority, making Tony Blair Britain's
youngest Prime Minister this century.

Following his party's defeat John Major resigned as Tory leader - and headed for
the Oval to watch the cricket.

Katrina and the Waves won the Eurovision Song Contest for Britain with Love
Shine A Light.

The race for the Tory leadership began with Michael Howard, John Redwood,
Kenneth Clarke, Stephen Dorrell, Peter Lilley and William Hague throwing their
hats in the ring.

Manchester United won their fourth English championship in five years without
even playing - after nearest rivals Liverpool and Newcastle both failed to win.

JUNE

The Halifax Building Society became Britain's newest bank with a shares windfall
for its 7.6 million members.

William Hague, 36, became the youngest Tory leader for 200 years.

A auction in New York of Princess Diana's dresses succeeded in raising almost £2
million for charity.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 1998 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              221 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                      January 1, 1998, Thursday Edition 1

Gunmen bring terror to city - Man shot dead and five injured in Belfast bar
attack

BYLINE: By TIM MOYNIHAN

SECTION: BRITAIN TONIGHT, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 388 words


   One man died and five other New Year's Eve revellers were injured when masked
gunmen sprayed bullets into a packed Catholic bar in Belfast.

The RUC confirmed that the unnamed man, thought to have been shot in the head,
died of his injuries in the city's Royal Victoria Hospital after the attack at
the Clifton Tavern in north Belfast.

Madness

A leading Sinn Fein official claimed the peace process had been "shattered" by
the attack, thought to have been the work of Loyalist terrorists in revenge for
the killing in the Maze prison of their leader, Billy Wright, by Republicans.

But RUC Deputy Assistant Chief Constable George Livingstone appealed to both
sides of the sectarian divide to show restraint, describing last night's attack
as "utter madness".

He added: "If we cannot find an alternative to attempting to solve every problem
with guns or bombs then nothing but grief beckons as we herald in a New Year.

"There's no justification for such violence; there's no hope for ourselves or
our children in further violence.

"Let this be the end of it, for all our sakes.

"For our part, the police will devote whatever it takes to bringing to justice
those who would threaten the safety of this society.

One eyewitnesses said the gunmen pulled up outside the pub in a white car: "Two
men got out, one armed with an Uzi sub-machine gun and the other with a handgun.

"They fired into the off-sales then kicked in the door of the bar and opened
fire around them before jumping back in the car and speeding off."

Billy Wright, 37, was buried on Tuesday in his hometown of Portadown.

Loyalist terrorists retaliated by shooting dead convicted IRA murderer Seamus
Dillon, 45, and wounding three other Catholics, among them a 14-year-old boy,
outside a crowded hotel.

Appalling

Police and troops remained on full alert and possible Catholic targets,
including pubs and Gaelic Athletic Association clubs had been warned to be on
their guard.

Leading Sinn Fein member Gerry Kelly, said: "The peace process is shattered.
This was a abominable and appalling attack on innocent Catholics."

Sam Cushnahan, director of Families Against Intimidation and Terror, said:
"These are despicable and appalling attacks on the eve of a New Year, which
should be a time of hope for both communities."

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: REVENGE - Loyalist terrorist Billy Wright's killing in jail has sparked
new violence

                Copyright 1998 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              222 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 3, 1998

Imploding loyalists risk Ulster peace: Tribes of Northern Ireland

SECTION: The Guardian Home Page; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 425 words


Main Loyalist paramilitary groups

Ulster Defence Association

Which includes the Ulster Freedom Fighters.

Origins: Launched in 1971, an amalgam of vigilante groups defending Unionist
areas from IRA violence.

Link to Stormont: The Ulster Democratic Party, led by Gary McMichael (above
left) and John White (above right) .

Members: 600, with maybe 300 of them involved in terrorism.

Power-base: The lower Shankill Road, west Belfast.

Ideology: Pragmatic, sometimes linking with right wing groups in Britain.

Criminal activities: Rackeetering, drug- dealing and extortion.

Hero figure: Johnny Adair, the hardline sectarian terrorist now serving 16 years
for terrorist offences.

Most notorious attack: The Rising Sun, Greysteel, Co Londonderry, 1993, when six
Catholics and one Protestant were shot dead, below.

Ulster Volunteer Force

Origins: Reformed in 1966, invoking name of Carson's army founded in 1912 to
fend off Irish independence.

Link to Stormon t: The Progressive Unionist Party, led by David Ervine (above
left) and Billy Hutchinson (above right) .

Membership: Between 300 and 600.

Power-base: The upper Shankhill in west Belfast, Shore Road in the north of the
city, and east Belfast.

Ideology: sees itself as socialist, and invokes past history, including role in
first world war.

Criminal activities: Less so than the UDA, and has less money.

Hero figure: Gusty Spence, the UVF commander who shot dead an innocent Catholic
on Shankill before the Troubles, and who is now committed to peace process.

Most notorious attack: O'Toole's Bar, Loughinisland, Co Down, 1994 when six
Catholics were killed as they watched Ireland versus Italy World Cup match.

Loyalist Volunteer Force

Origins: August 1996 from the renegade mid-Ulster brigade of the Ulster
Volunteer Force.

Link to Stormont: None, opposes loyalist ceasefire and peace process.

Membership: Claims 500 volunteers .

Power-base: Mid-Ulster, centred on Portadown, but becoming stronger in
Ballymena, Co Antrim.

Ideological: Fundamentalist loyalist with religious overtones, believing talks
process is skewed to a republican agenda.

Criminal activities: Denies involvement in drug-dealing and racketeering.

Hero figure: Billy Wright, its charismatic leader, shot dead last Saturday at
the Maze prison by the Irish National Liberation Army.

Most notorious attack: New Year's Eve killing of Eddie Treanor, 31, in attempted
spray job at Clifton Tavern in Catholic north Belfast.


LOAD-DATE: January 6, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              223 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 3, 1998

Imploding loyalists risk Ulster peace: Tribes of Northern Ireland

SECTION: The Guardian Home Page; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 425 words


Main Loyalist paramilitary groups

Ulster Defence Association

Which includes the Ulster Freedom Fighters.

Origins: Launched in 1971, an amalgam of vigilante groups defending Unionist
areas from IRA violence.

Link to Stormont: The Ulster Democratic Party, led by Gary McMichael (above
left) and John White (above right) .

Members: 600, with maybe 300 of them involved in terrorism.

Power-base: The lower Shankill Road, west Belfast.

Ideology: Pragmatic, sometimes linking with right wing groups in Britain.

Criminal activities: Rackeetering, drug- dealing and extortion.

Hero figure: Johnny Adair, the hardline sectarian terrorist now serving 16 years
for terrorist offences.

Most notorious attack: The Rising Sun, Greysteel, Co Londonderry, 1993, when six
Catholics and one Protestant were shot dead, below.

Ulster Volunteer Force

Origins: Reformed in 1966, invoking name of Carson's army founded in 1912 to
fend off Irish independence.

Link to Stormon t: The Progressive Unionist Party, led by David Ervine (above
left) and Billy Hutchinson (above right) .

Membership: Between 300 and 600.

Power-base: The upper Shankhill in west Belfast, Shore Road in the north of the
city, and east Belfast.

Ideology: sees itself as socialist, and invokes past history, including role in
first world war.

Criminal activities: Less so than the UDA, and has less money.

Hero figure: Gusty Spence, the UVF commander who shot dead an innocent Catholic
on Shankill before the Troubles, and who is now committed to peace process.

Most notorious attack: O'Toole's Bar, Loughinisland, Co Down, 1994 when six
Catholics were killed as they watched Ireland versus Italy World Cup match.

Loyalist Volunteer Force

Origins: August 1996 from the renegade mid-Ulster brigade of the Ulster
Volunteer Force.

Link to Stormont: None, opposes loyalist ceasefire and peace process.

Membership: Claims 500 volunteers .

Power-base: Mid-Ulster, centred on Portadown, but becoming stronger in
Ballymena, Co Antrim.

Ideological: Fundamentalist loyalist with religious overtones, believing talks
process is skewed to a republican agenda.

Criminal activities: Denies involvement in drug-dealing and racketeering.

Hero figure: Billy Wright, its charismatic leader, shot dead last Saturday at
the Maze prison by the Irish National Liberation Army.

Most notorious attack: New Year's Eve killing of Eddie Treanor, 31, in attempted
spray job at Clifton Tavern in Catholic north Belfast.


LOAD-DATE: January 13, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              224 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           January 3, 1998, Saturday

CENTURY MAKERS;
 ONLY 24 MONTHS TO GO AND WE'RE INTO A NEW MILLENNIUM. DAVID GARFINKEL AND
AMANDA WARD LOOK BACK OVER THE PAST 100 YEARS;
 NOTABLE EVENTS OF THE TWENTIETH CENTURY

BYLINE: David Garfinkel And Amanda Ward

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 33, 34, 35, 36

LENGTH: 4094 words


1900

Invention: The paperclip, by Norwegian Johann Waler, who thought the bent wire
would hold papers together better than a few pins.

Event: The Prince of Wales opened the first 'Twopenny Tube' which ran between
Shepherd's Bush in west London and Bank in the east.

Word: Brunch - lunch and breakfast combined.

1901

Invention: King Camp Gillette launched the disposable razor blade, designed to
be thrown away after one use.

Event: The world's first 'fingertip' file was installed at Scotland Yard
following the discovery that no two fingerprints are the same.

Word: Fetishism - inanimate object causing sexual arousal.

1902

Invention: Teddy bears were invented by a Russian immigrant, based on a
newspaper cartoon depicting President Theodore 'Teddy' Roosevelt on a bear hunt.

Event: Egypt unveils its new 590- mile long Aswan dam.

Word: Curriculum vitae - an employee's professional and educational history.

1903

Invention: American Italo Marcioni patents the first mould of an ice cream cone.

Event: The first flight by Orville and Wilbur Wright . They were airborne for 59
seconds in their wood and string plane at Kitty Hawk, North Carolina.

Word: Clone - reproduced genetic material.

1904

Invention: Teabags are first brewed up by US businessman Thomas Sullivan.

Event: Charles Rolls and Henry Royce became partners in the motor car business.

Word: Hangover - the after effects of drinking too much.

1905

Invention: French scientist Alfred Binet developed IQ tests.

Event: The opening of America's first pizzeria. Until then the dish had never
been heard of outside Naples, Italy.

Word: Smog - thick industrial fog over cities

1906

Invention: The washing machine was first marketed by the Hurley Machine Company
in America.

Event: SOS becomes the international distress signal.

Word: Hot dog - frankfurter served hot in a long bread roll.

1907

Invention: German Paul Erlich developed chemotherapy to be used against
syphilis.

Event: The world's first helicopter flight by French designer Paul Cornu.  It
only lasted a couple of seconds.

Word: Racist - aggressive behaviour on the grounds of race.

1908

Invention: Paper cups by the International Paper company, New York.

Event: Ford Model T heralds the age of the motor for the masses. A new car,
costing just $ 900, was produced every 24 seconds.

Word: Haute couture - high fashion.

1909

Invention: Belgian chemist Leo Baekeland invents Bakelite, a plastic that sets
hard after moulding.

Event: American explorer Robert Peary finally conquers the North Pole after
failing on five previous occasions.

Word: Camp - effeminate.

1910

Invention: Neon lighting, by French physicist Georges Claude.

Event: The first talking motion picture is demonstrated by Thomas Edison in
America's New Jersey.

Word: Intelligentsia - educated people.

1911

Invention: Airmail is first carried in a Bleriot aircraft from London to
Berkshire.

Event: King George V crowned at Westminster Abbey, London.

Word: Jinx - an unlucky person or thing.

1912

Invention: First electric cooker, developed by British engineer Charles Belling,
goes on sale.

Event: The Titanic sinks in the Atlantic with the loss of more than 1500 lives.

Word: Blues - African-American music.

1913

Invention: Thomas Edison made the telephone recorder on May 23.

Event: Crisps went on sale in London for the first time.

Word: Isotope - term describing two or more forms of a chemical element.

1914

Invention: First bra was made by socialite Mary Phelps Jacob when she asked a
maid to stitch together a piece of ribbon and two handkerchiefs.

Event: Britain declares war on Germany.

Word: Birth control - artificial means of contraception.

1915

Invention: The first all-metal airplane is built in Germany.

Event: Poison gas first used as a weapon by the German army at the battle of
Ypres.

Word: Sonar - underwater location device.

1916

Invention: Coca-Cola unveiled a new bottle styled on the cola nut ... making it
instantly recognisable.

Event: More than one million Allied and German troops die in the battle of the
Somme.

Word: X-ray - image of internal organs and bone structure.

1917

Invention: First women taxi drivers appeared on the streets of Britain.

Event: Battered by military disasters and food shortages, Russia exploded into a
revolution that changed the face of world politics till the late Eighties.

Word: Jaywalk - to cross a street in an illegal place.

1918

Invention: Electric blender in America.

Event: The First World War ends and women in Britain are allowed to vote for the
first time.

Word: Climax - orgasm.

1919

Invention: The wireless telephone to help pilots communicate in flight.

Event: British captain John Alcock completed the first non-stop flight across
the Atlantic.

Word: Banger - worn-out old car.

1920

Invention: Fox's Glacier mints.

Event: 'Big' Bill Tilden becomes the first American to win the Wimbledon men's
trophy.

Word: Gaga - slightly crazy.

1921

Invention: Lie detector, by Californian medical student John Larson.

Event: Chanel No 5 sold for the first time in Paris. It was named No 5 after
being launched on the fifth day of the fifth month.

Word: Junkie - drug addict.

1922

Invention: Canadian Joseph Bombardier makes the first snowmobile. Scientists
also discover how to manufacture insulin for diabetics.

Event: A car designed especially for police work was first used in Denver.  It
was known as 'the bandit-chaser'.

Word: Bimbo - attractive but unintelligent woman.

1923

Invention: Electric shaver patented by American Jacob Schick.

Event: Astronomer Edwin Hubble discovered the existence of new galaxies, meaning
the universe was far larger than anyone had thought.

Word: Hijack - to seize a vehicle while in motion.

1924

Invention: The spindryer.

Event: Gold mask recovered from the inner shrine in Tutankhamun's

tomb.

Word: Superstar - extremely popular film star.

1925

Invention: The frisbee was devised by a group of bored Yale students.

Event: China began a Civil War which finally led to the country's revolution.

Word: Tabloid - a new style of newspaper.

1926

Invention: Scotsman John Logie Baird unveiled the first television.

Event: A General Strike followed the miners' strike, lasting for nine days.

Word: Gimmick - something designed to attract attention.

1927

Invention: American doctors Philip Drinker and Lious Shaw develop the iron lung.

Event: First automatic telephone exchange opens in Britain.

Word: Nappy - soft towelling wrapped around a baby.

1928

Invention: Scottish biologist Alexander Fleming discovers penicillin.

Event: Morris Minor motor car is launched.

Word: Socialite - a prominent person in fashionable society.

1929

Invention: The car radio is installed in a Cadillac.

Event: Popeye makes his debut in the Thimble Theatre strip.

Word: Lifestyle - habits associated with a particular person.

1930

Invention: Electric kettle by GEC.

Event: Sliced bread goes on sale in America and peas become the first vegetable
to be successfully frozen.

Word: Whodunnit - play about crime.

1931

Invention: Rickenbacker markets the first electric guitars.

Event: The Empire State building opened, becoming the world's tallest man-made
tower.

Word: Microwave - an electromagnetic wave of extremely high frequency.

1932

Invention: Mars Bar is invented by American Forrest Mars in Slough, Berks.

Event: Democrat Franklin D Roosevelt sweeps to power in the US presidential
elections.

Word: Sweatsuit - set of garments made of soft fabric often worn during athletic
activity.

1933

Invention: The first Goblin Teasmaid - an alarm clock with a teapot.

Event: Adolf Hitler becomes Chancellor of the German Reich.

Word: Mob - a gang of criminals, especially the Mafia.

1934

Invention: Monopoly.

Event: The world's first set of female quintuplets are born in Ontario. Cecile,
Yvonne, Annette, Emilie and Marie became international celebrities.

Word: Call girl - prostitute hired by phone.

1935

Invention: Nylon created by American chemist Wallace Hume Carothers.

Event: Hitler takes over Germany when Hindenberg dies.

Word: Ecosystem - relationship between a community and its environment.

1936

Invention: Volkswagen Beetles appear on the streets for the first time.

Event: Edward VIII renounces the Throne to marry American divorcee Wallis
Simpson.

Word: Satellite - a country under the domination of a foreign power.

1937

Invention: Spam (tinned pork and ham) launched by the Hormel Company.

Event: World's biggest airship, the Hinderburg, catches fire and turns into a
blazing inferno.

Word: Wide Boy - unscrupulous man, often a Londoner.

1938

Invention: Shopping trolley introduced in Oklahoma.

Event: Hitler announces Anschluss, thepolitical union of Germany and Austria.

Word: One-armed bandit - lever operated gambling machine.

1939

Invention: VS-300 prototype helicopter, designed by the Russian Igor Sikorsky.

Event: Hitler invades Poland and the Second World War begins. Pan Am's flying
boats mark first scheduled passenger flights across the Atlantic.

Word: Intercom - system of communication by radio or telephone.

1940

Invention: Kentucky Fried Chicken.

Event: Triumphant German army marches into Paris. Winston Churchill becomes
British Prime Minister.

Word: Blitz - attack with lightning speed and maximum terror.

1941

Invention: American army unveils four-wheel drive vehicle - the first Jeep.

Event: Destruction of the US naval base at Pearl Harbour signals the American
entry into the Second World War.

Word: Teenager - person from 13 to 19.

1942

Invention: Tupperware developed by American Earl Tupper to store household
items. US Navy introduces the T-shirt.

Event: The film Casablanca is released starring Bogart and Ingrid Bergman.

Word: Freebie - something free.

1943

Invention: Colossus, a code breaking machine is the first digital computer.

Event: Italy surrender to the Allied forces.

Word: Soap opera - serialised drama.

1944

Invention: First ballpoint pen goes on sale.

Event: Allies liberate Paris.

Word: Bebop - a type of jazz style.

1945

Invention: Microwave oven developed by American Percy LeBaron after a factory
radar power tube melted a chocolate bar in his pocket.

Event: Britain celebrates victory in the war.

Word: Genocide - systematic extermination of a group of people.

1946

Invention: The bikini makes its debut.

Event: Nuremberg war crime trials end with 12 of Hitler's henchmen sentenced to
death.

Word: Iron Curtain - political barrier between the Communist East and West
Europe.

1947

Invention: Subbuteo football game is launched in Britain.

Event: India gains independence from the British Empire.

Word: Cold War - opposition between Capitalism and Communism.

1948

Invention: British carmakers Daimler make the first electric windows.

Event: Israel is created - the first Jewish state since Biblical times.

Word: Cybernetics - electronic and mechanical control systems.

1949

Invention: Adidas creates the first training shoe.

Event: Chinese Communists take power.

Word: Baby Boom - temporary increase in the birth rate.

1950

Invention: First passenger lift with automatic doors installed in Dallas.

Event: The first kidney transplant performed in Chicago.

Word: Hassle - a great deal of trouble.

1951

Invention: Univac 1, made by Remington Rand, is the first commercially available
computer.

Event: The first Miss World competition is held in London and won by Miss
Sweden.

Word: Moonlight - extra job on the side.

1952

Invention: Pocket-sized transistor radio by Sony.

Event: King George VI died in his sleep and is succeeded by his eldest daughter,
Princess Elizabeth.

Word: DIY - Do-It-Yourself applied to household work.

1953

Invention: Fish fingers first produced by American company, Gortons Fish Sticks.

Event: James Dewey Watson and Francis H Crick first described the exact
structure of DNA.

Word: Think Tank - a body employed to solve problems.

1954

Invention: World's first nuclear power station begins producing electricity in
Obninsk, Russia.

Event: British medical student Roger Bannister breaks the four-minute mile.

Word: Discotheque - place where people dance to pop records.

1955

Invention: British chemist Dorothy Hodgkin discovers make-up of the vitamin B12.

Event: BBC experiments with colour broadcasts.

Word: Karate - style of Japanese martial art.

1956

Invention: Transatlantic telephone system using an automatic exchange.

Event: Suez invaded by Britain and France in response to President Nasser's
nationalisation of the Suez Canal, a major shipping route.

Word: Pop group - musicians playing music of general appeal, especially to the
young.

1957

Invention: Trousers with permanent creases invented by Australian government
research body.

Event: Sputnik becomes the first satellite in orbit around the Earth.

Word: See You Later Alligator - way of saying goodbye.

1958

Invention: Lego, meaning 'play well', launched by the Danish toymakers.

Event: Eight Manchester United players tragically killed in an aircrash on their
way home from Yugoslavia - marking the end of the Busby Babes.

Word: High fidelity - equipment capable of producing new stereo sounds.

1959

Invention: Barbie dolls make their first appearance.

Event: Revolutionary leader Fidel Castro takes Cuba by storm

Word: Psychedelic - altered perceptions with hallucinatory drugs.

1960

Invention: Dr Martens - chunky work boots were designed in the UK.

Event: US submarine Triton makes the first round-the-world undersea voyage
lasting 84 days.

Word: Catsuit - tight one-piece women's clothing.

1961

Invention: The contraceptive pill is launched, the result of the work of Dr
Gregory Pincus.

Event: Last steam train chugs to a halt on the Central line on the London
Underground.

Word: Quirk - odd trait or characteristic.

1962

Invention: Cans that can be opened by pull tabs, by the Iron City Beer Company
of Pittsburgh.

Event: Marilyn Monroe is found dead in her bed.

Word: Computer chip - tiny wafer of semiconductor material, forming an elec
trical circuit in a computer.

1963

Invention: 'Hover' lawnmower by Flymo.

Event: John F Kennedy shot in the head by a hidden assassin as he drove through
Dallas in an open limousine.

Word: One Night Stand - sexual encounter lasting only one night.

1964

Invention: World's leading computer company IBM unveils a new typewriter - which
makes mistakes disappear.

Event: Nelson Mandela and eight other leaders of the black struggle against
apartheid in South Africa jailed for life.

Word: Biodegradable - capable of being decomposed by bacteria.

1965

Invention: McLaren buggy, a lightweight collapsible pushchair.

Event: Ian Brady and Myra Hindley charged with the murder of ten-year- old
Lesley Ann Downey.

Word: Rubber Johnny - condom.

1966

Invention: First British credit card, Barclaycard, is introduced.

Event: 116 children and 28 adults died when a colliery tip slid down into the
Welsh mining village of Aberfan. England win the World Cup.

Word: Acid - slang for LSD.

1967

Invention: Human heart transplanted from one person to another for the first
time.

Event: Six days after surprise air attack on its Arab neighbours, Israel accepts
United Nations' call for a ceasefire.

Word: Bell bottoms - trousers with very wide flare from knee.

1968

Invention: Epidural anaesthetic to ease the pain of childbirth.

Event: Assassinations of civil rights leader Dr Martin Luther King and Senator
Robert Kennedy.

Word: Dayglo - very bright colours that glow.

1969

Invention: Anglo French Concorde takes off for the first time at Toulouse.

Event: Neil Armstrong becomes the first man on the Moon.

Word: Ego trip - self-centred or self-obsessed action.

1970

Event: Apollo 13, the US moon rocket that was nearly lost in space, splashes
down in the South Pacific.

Invention: IBM introduces a computer that can store date on 'floppy disks'.'

Word: Black hole - exhausted and collapsed star that sucks in light.

1971

Invention: First video cassette recorder designed for the home hits the shops.

Event: Britain adopts decimal currency.

Word: No-Go area - place that is too dangerous to enter.

1972

Invention: Pocket calculator and Polaroid camera.

Event: British troops open fire on civil rights marchers in Londonderry's
Bogside area.

Word: Veggieburger - vegetarian version of hamburger.

1973

Invention: The mountain bike.

Event: Princess Anne and Captain Mark Phillips are married at Westminster Abbey,
London.

Word: Child abuse - maltreatment of a child by adults.

1974

Invention: Disposable lightweight plastic razors.

Event: Disgraced Richard Nixon becomes the first American President to step down
from office before the end of his term.

Word: Page turner - book with a compelling storyline.

1975

Invention: Platform shoes, flared trousers, skinny hipsters and turtlenecks.

Event: Half a decade of a war which killed 250,000 came to an end when Cambodian
government surrended to Khmer Rouge.

Word: Sloane Ranger - young upper class person.

1976

Invention: Volkswagen spices up the hatchback with the Golf GTi.

Event: Viking I probe begins to transmit pictures of Mars's surface.

Word: Slam dunk - basketball term for vigorous overhand shot.

1977

Invention: US Space Shuttle prototype, Enterprise, makes its first flight.

Event: 25th anniversary of Queen Elizabeth II's accession. Elvis Presley is
found dead in Memphis.

Word: Pogo - dance consisting of jumping on the spot, popular with punk rockers.

1978

Invention: Space Invaders, first arcade video game.

Event: World's first 'test tube ' baby, Louise Brown, born at Oldham District
Hospital.

Word: Trainer - shoe for athletic training.

1979

Event: Lord Mountbatten killed when his holiday boat is blown up by the IRA.

Invention: Sony launches first personal stereo with headphones, the Walkman.

Word: Heavy metal - loud, crashing rock music.

1980

Invention: Conductor Herbert von Karajan gives his blessing to a new kind of
record, the compact disc.

Event: John Lennon is shot dead in New York. Saddam Hussein invades Iran.

Word: Car boot sale - sale of small items from the back of a car.

1981

Event: Prince Charles and Lady Diana Spencer wed at St Paul's Cathedral, watched
by millions on TV.

Invention: PacMan, a round gobblin, becomes the most popular video game ever.

Word: Loony left - derisory phrase to describe far- left members of Labour
Party.

1982

Invention: Barney Clark, becomes the first person to have an artificial heart.

Event: Margaret Thatcher announces that Argentina's surrender had ended The
Falklands War.

Word: Airhead - unintelligent person.

1983

Event: Soviet Sukhoi fighter plane shoots down Korean Airlines Boeing 747 bound
for Seoul, killing all 269 passengers and crew.

Invention: Hopes raised for AIDS cure as HIV virus identified. Swatch plastic
watches.

Word: Toyboy - much younger male lover of an older woman.

1984

Invention: Apple Computer launches revolutionary new product, the Macintosh,
designed to change the face of personal computing.

Event: Christopher Dean and Jayne Torvill win Gold medal at the Winter Olympics
in Sarajevo.

Word: Yuppie - city based young person with large income. Young, urban
professional.

1985

Invention: Scientist Dr Joe Farman announced the existence of a 'hole' in the
atmosphere over Antarctica. Some scientists blame the CFCs in polystyrene foam
coffee cups.

Event: Valley Parade football ground, home of Bradford City, goes up in flames
within four minutes. 52 fans die.

Word: Wannabe - someone who aspires to be like their idol.

1986

Invention: London Stock Exchange introduces computerised trading. Nicorette
chewing gum for smokers.

Event: A reactor fuel pile at Chernobyl nuclear power plant in Ukraine explodes
and spews tons of radioactive gas into the air.

Word: Bonk - to have sex.

1987

Invention: Robert Melias found guilty of rape by Bristol Crown Court on the
basis of DNA testing, first criminal conviction using the new means of
identification 'genetic finger-printing'.'

Event: The Herald of Free Enterprise ferry sinks killing 193 people.

Word: Glasnost - policy of political frankness and accountability developed by
Mikhail Gorbachev.

1988

Invention: US Air Force unveils its latest secret weapon, the Lockheed F-117A
Nighthawk 'stealth' aircraft, which is invisible to radar.

Event: Pan Am 747 Jumbo jet, heading for New York, crashes in Lockerbie in
Scotland, killing 270.

Word: Bum bag - small bag attached to belt and worn around waist.

1989

Invention: Scientists at the University of Utah claimed they had discovered cold
fusion, a cheap method of generating power. It didn't work.

Event: 94 football fans crushed to death at FA Cup semi-final between Liverpool
and Nottingham Forest at Hillsborough stadium in Sheffield.

Word: Karaoke - machine that plays songs without the vocals, enabling user to
sing the words.

1990

Event: Iraqi leader Sadam Hussein given a two-week ultimatum to move his troops
out of Kuwait - or face the prospect of a war.

Invention: Hubble space telescope launched into orbit 375 miles above the Earth.

Word: Yuppie flu - chronic fatigue experienced by people in high-pressure jobs.

1991

Event: War in the Gulf is over and Kuwait is liberated.

Invention: Crop Circles keep the world guessing. The circles, geometric patterns
found in fields, were reported across Britain.

Word: Ecoterrorism - acts of violence or obstruction by green activists.

1992

Event: Serbian forces continued their siege of Sarajevo.

Invention: Astronomers announce they have discovered the 'seeds' from which the
Sun, the stars and the planets evolved.

Word: Ethnic cleansing - the extermination of an ethnic group.

1993

Invention: Plan to map and sequence the entire genetic structure of humankind -
the Human Genome Project - launched in San Diego.

Event: Yasser Arafat and Yitzhak Rabin, once sworn enemies, shake hands on the
White House lawn, promising a new relationship between Israel and the
Palestinians.

Word: Stalk - to spy on, harass and follow someone, usually famous in a
threatening and obsessive fashion.

1994

Invention: The Chunnel is opened by the Queen and France's President Francois
Mitterrand.

Event: Leaders of the IRA declare a cessation of military operations' raising
hopes for an end to 25 years of conflict in Northern Ireland.

Word: Road rage - state of anger and frustration induced by traffic conditions
and the behaviour of other motorists.

1995

Event: 168 people killed in Oklahoma City when a government office building is
devastated by a huge bomb blast.

Invention: Bill Gates's Microsoft launches Windows 95, a new system promising to
make computers easier to use, faster and more reliable than its predecessor.

Word: Gangsta - style of Jamaican-influenced US rap music accompanied by violent
culture and lifestyle.

1996

Invention: Quake and Doom computer games - the first generation of computer
games that are almost impossible to master completely.

Event: British scientists issue warnings of a new form of deadly brain disease
which may be linked to eating beef from cattle infected with 'mad cow disease.

Word: Cyberspace - the virtual realm of the Internet.

1997

Invention: Scientists in Edinburgh announce they have successfully cloned a lamb
known as Dolly - created from the tissue of an adult ewe.

Event: Diana, Princess of Wales, 36, is killed with companion Dodi Al Fayed when
the armoured Mercedes they were travelling in crashed into a Paris underpass.
The world mourns the loss of the 'People's Princess."

Word: New Lad - a man who combines 'Eighties 'lad" with 'Nineties 'new man','
joining new sensitivity with traditional male chauvinism.

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1998 MGN Ltd.

                              225 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 7, 1998

Sri Lankans call for royal regret

BYLINE: SUSANNAH PRICE IN COLOMBO

SECTION: The Guardian Foreign Page; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 372 words


NATIONALIST groups in Sri Lanka have called on Prince Charles to apologise for
Britain's behaviour during more than a century of colonial rule before he visits
the country next month for the 50th anniversary celebrations of its
independence.

The National Joint Committee, which represents the extremist wing of the
Sinhalese majority, says the British killed thousands of people while
suppressing popular rebellions in the 19th century. It also blames the British
for taking land from the Sinhalese to give to British settlers.

"Prince Charles or the Queen must either apologise to the Sri Lankan people or
the visit should be cancelled," said Piyasena Dissanayaka, secretary of the
committee - an umbrella group which claims 10,000 members.

"We cannot undo history, but if Prince Charles comes without this apology the
people will recall these massacres, and relations between the UK and Sri Lanka
are likely to suffer," he added.

Prince Charles is due to attend the ceremonies in Kandy, a lakeside hill town
whose main attraction is the Temple of the Tooth - home to the country's most
sacred Buddhist relic. The town resisted Portuguese and Dutch colonialists
before falling to British rule.

A big parade is planned for February 4 - the anniversary of independence - when
President Chandrika Kumaratunga is to give a speech.

The committee may have been inspired by protests against the Queen's visit to
India last year. The Queen, who refused demands from relatives of those shot by
British troops at Amritsar in 1919 for an apology, did lay a wreath at an
obelisk to the victims.

The Foreign Office said last month that there were no plans to change the visit.

There appears little support for the nationalists in the capital, Colombo, where
observers say there is respect for the royal family. Thousands of people signed
the book of condolence at the British High Commission in Colombo after the death
last year of Diana, Princess of Wales.

The Sri Lankan government has made no comment on the visit. There is tight
security in both Kandy and Colombo, but the government is less worried about the
nationalists than about the Tamil Tiger separatists, blamed for a bomb attack in
October.


LOAD-DATE: January 7, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              226 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                January 7, 1998

Enjoy benefits of second sight at first hand

BYLINE: Diary

SECTION: Pg. 15

LENGTH: 774 words


Tom Shields

IT is the time of year for prognostication and who better for this than Swein
MacDonald the Highland seer. Using his unique gift of second sight, he predicts
the year ahead will contain troubles for Tony Blair, illness for one of the
royal family, and generally mild weather.

But don't hold your breath waiting for these eventualities. We have been
checking on swein's predictions for 1997, as published in The Herald a year ago.
He warned "a meteor the size of a small planet will narrowly miss the earth".
And he was only out by a couple of million miles.

Then there was the resumption of hostilities between Britain and Argentina over
the Falkland Islands, as exclusively forecast by the seer. Not to mention the
"colossal earthquake" which caused hundreds of deaths in Los Angeles. Yes, the
one that saw half of California dropping into the Pacific Ocean.

It was to be a bad year for the Windsors suffering a terrorist bomb attack. As
Swein said: "I think the royal family are in great danger. I see something like
an explosive going off at a private function."

On the economic front, "unemployment will rise dramatically". Or it might fall
dramatically. One prediction which came true was on the political front where
Swein risked his credibility by forecasting a Labour victory in the General
Election. But watch out Tony Blair and pals: "It will soon become clear that the
promises that have been made cannot be kept and the new leaders will not last
long." Well, Malcolm Chisholm did resign as Junior Minister at the Scottish
Office.

THE future is bright, the future is Orange for St Patrick's Church in Dumbarton.
The telecommunications company needed to install a satellite dish on a tall
building in the Dumbarton area and the tower of St Patrick's was identified as
the ideal location. After suitable negotiations, the priests at St Patrick's
agreed to help spread the Orange message with a deal that will see $ 3500 going
into the church coffers annually for the next 10 years.

n Meanwhile, spotted at Celtic Park, a T-shirt based on the Orange company
advert but changed to: "The future's bright. The future's green."

OUR department of arcane and recondite information receives a communication from
a Mr Iain V Monk of Edinburgh. It is a page from the latest edition of Record
Collector magazine.

Included in the list of discs for sale is "Hoops McCann Band Plays the Music of
Steely Dan". We did not know that Fergus the Celtic chairman was musical, far
less had a most appropriate musical nom de guerre.

n Still on a Celtic theme, we have a report of a break-in at the Glasgow office
of the Manpower recruitment agency. The burglars ignored all the hi -tech
equipment and other potentially lucrative bits of kit and made off with just the
one item - a poster of Celtic's new Norwegian striker Harald Brattbakk.

WE have to report an outbreak of new year frolicking in the normally staid town
of Stranraer. A local chap and a couple from out of town were apprehended
running through the streets verging on a state of undress.

Our informant tells us that the lady was wearing a fur coat

and nothing else. You will not be surprised to hear that she is

from Edinburgh.

TODAY'S recipient of the bottle of Auld Lang Syne all-singing, all-

dancing whisky for services to the Rabbie Burns industry is Mr Joe Caldwell,
mine host of the Eglinton Arms in Irvine.

Mr Caldwell invented the concept of the Burns Breakfast and for many years he
plied customers at his howff with whisky, haggis, recitations, and bagpipe music
at 7am on the bard's birthday.

This year the 25th falls upon a Sunday and licensing regulations prohibit a
breakfast get-together.

Thus Mr Caldwell has come up with the idea of the Burns Brunch commen-cing at
12.30pm. Being an active Irvine Burnsian, Mr Caldwell will have been at the
town's church service for the Bard that morning. Then there is the procession
through the town out to the Irvine moor to lay a wreath at the Burns statue. The
rest of the day is spent, in true Irvine tradition, drinking whisky in the name
of the national poet.

In the week which includes the Bard's birthday, Mr Caldwell will attend no fewer
than six Burns suppers. But it is Mr Caldwell's devotion to his dear old mum
which wins him the Auld Lang Syne whisky.

The Irvine Burns Club, established in 1824, is a strictly men-only organisation.
Mrs Caldwell constantly complained about being excluded. Joe founded the
Eglinton Burns Club so that his mum could enjoy her haggis and neeps and
immortal memory on an equal footing with the men of Irvine.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1998 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              227 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                January 8, 1998

MOWLAM'S MAZE PEACE GAMBLE;
Ulster Secretary to risk all in meeting with terrorist killers

BYLINE: John Deans

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 852 words


MO MOWLAM is to risk her waning credibility with an unprecedented face-to-face
plea to Loyalist terrorist killers to save the Ulster peace process from
collapse.

The Northern Ireland Secretary is to enter the Maze Prison complex tomorrow and
urge some of the most brutal criminals in Britain to back the multiparty talks -
due to resume on Monday, with the ceasefire under the severest of strain.

Her desperate decision to kowtow before the Loyalist men of terror, including
notorious multiple murderer Michael Stone, was taken yesterday after Unionist
party leaders failed to rally the inmates of the jail to the already fragile
peace process.

But as Tony Blair threw his weight behind the extraordinary initiative, Dr
Mowlam herself admitted the chances of success were questionable, and Tory MPs
warned the move could backfire.

Gary McMichael, leader of the Ulster Democratic Party - the political wing of
the paramilitary UDA - emerged from talks with the Secretary of State in London
to admit that tomorrow's Maze meeting was a desperate last attempt to prevent
Northern Ireland slipping back into bloody violence.

Speaking hours after Army experts defused a massive car bomb in the town of
Banbridge in County Down, he declared: 'Her meeting with the Maze inmates is a
last-ditch hope to bring some stability to the situation.' Warning of the
consequences of failure, he added: 'The crisis still exists, it has not
diminished. And I have to make that very clear that if there is no talks process
then there is no peace process. And if there is no peace process there will be a
vacuum which history has shown will be filled by violence.'

Last night, prison service officials were still thrashing out the details of the
visit - who doctor Mowlam will actually meet, and what additional security
measures will be imposed.

However, it is certain that among the 126 Loyalist inmates of Europe's toughest
jail, she will sit down with a hardcore of the most vicious terrorists -
including men such as Michael Stone, who killed three people attending the 1988
funeral of the IRA gunmen assassinated by the IRA in Gibraltar.

Stone is now one of the four-man council which rules the two blocks set aside
for Ulster Defence Association and Ulster Freedom Fighter prisoners in the Maze.

Stone's comrades on the prison council, who are also likely to meet Mowlam, are
less well-known. Sam McCrory, Bobby Philpott and Titch Cunningham have all been
jailed for terrorist offences, but have until now largely escaped the spotlight.

If Dr Mowlam is invited to meet a larger group of prisoners, another man likely
to be there is 33-year-old Johnny 'Mad Dog' Adair, who as commander of the UFF
masterminded three years of terror in Northern Ireland.

Jailed at Belfast Crown Court two years ago after admitting being a UFF
commander, he is believed by police intelligence sources to be personally
responsible for the random killings of 12 Catholics in raids on bars and houses.

Last night Dr Mowlam anxiously rejected claims that her visit was an act of
desperation by a Cabinet minister who has seen the peace process virtually
collapse in the past two weeks, as Loyalists paramilitaries reacted to the Maze
murder of Billy 'King Rat' Wright just after Christmas.

'If these talks can push things forward, all well and good,' she said 'I am not
desperate, I am not negotiating, but I am determined, because I don't want to be
in a position in a month or two, when violence takes to the streets, to be left
feeling that I didn't do everything I could.' When challenged directly on the
chances of persuading the prisoners to throw their weight behind the multiparty
talks - and effectively guarantee the three year Loyalist ceasefire - Dr Mowlam
remained unsure.

Shrugging her shoulders, she said: 'I have no idea. I have no special powers to
convince them, but I do want to have a go. Because, if people are back at the
talks on Monday, we can restore momentum and take the peace process forward.'
The Minister signalled that the critical question of release for Loyalist
paramilitaries would be on the agenda of a final settlement.

But she added:'We can only get a settlement by talks, and we can only get talks
by parties like the UDP talking.

'People must understand that if they want to avoid going back to violence, if
they want to avoid the dark days Northern Ireland has gone through, it's only by
talking we are going to find a settlement.' But former Tory Northern Ireland
Minister Sir Brian Mawhinney remained sceptical.

'People will be very surprised indeed, and many will feel there is a whiff of
the last card being played here,' he warned. 'People will wonder what she can
achieve talking to convicted terrorists. I think she should be talking to the
political representatives of the paramilitaries, not the terrorists.' Ian
Paisley's Democratic Unionist party criticised the visit as 'madness'.

But mainstream Unionist Party chief David Trimble, whose own attempt to swing
the prisoners round came to nothing, welcomed the Minister's decision.


LOAD-DATE: January 9, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1998 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              228 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                            January 9, 1998, Friday

FOUR QUIZZED OVER EXPLOSIVES HAUL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 384 words


FOUR men were being questioned by police in Eire last night after a massive find
of explosives on a pier in Dublin Bay.

The one-and-a-half tonne haul was linked to a recently-formed group of
republican hard-liners pledged to resist the involvement of Sinn Fein in the
Ulster peace talks, according to detectives.

The 32 County Sovereignty Committee was set up just over a month ago by
dissident members of both Sinn Fein and the IRA.

Two of the four suspects held after the home-made explosives mix was uncovered -
in the disused Molly Malone fish and chip shop beside the quay at Howth, Co
Dublin - were thought to be closely associated with the breakaway group.

Police believe the material, consisting of more than 330 sacks of fertiliser and
chemicals, had been stored at Howth rather than shipped in to the small fishing
port.

But it was thought the explosives were ready to be transferred, possibly by
fishing boat, to potential targets in Britain or Northern Ireland - in a
probable bid to generate confusion over the IRA ceasefire that is rigorously
opposed by the rebel organisation.

The police move in Howth came after the surveillance of a number of individuals
attached to the rebel group and known to have been caught up in terrorist
activities ahead of the IRA ceasefire.

A security source said: "We have been keeping tabs on a number of people, and
today's developments are a consequence of that."

A sister of Bobby Sands, the leader of the 10 IRA men who died on hunger strike
in Northern Ireland's Maze prison in 1981, was prominent on the political front
in establishing the new republican set-up.

The organisation reckons that the current Belfast-based multi-party exchanges
are leading to an internal settlement in Ulster.

Bernadette Sands McKevitt, 39, the committee's vice-chairperson, reported: "We
are trying to attract nationalist-minded people from right across the board."

She said that like her brother Bobby she had a strong commitment to "Irish
national sovereignty. I do not believe it is on the agenda at the Stormont
talks".

The emergence of the 32 County Sovereignty Committee was swiftly dismissed by
Sinn Fein.

A spokesperson said: "They are just a small group. We are happy that our
organisation is stable and solid."

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1998 Century Newspapers Limited

                              229 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            January 9, 1998, Friday

Ulster Peace: Explosives seized in Dublin

BYLINE: Alan Murdoch and Louise Jury

SECTION: NEWS; Page  4

LENGTH: 280 words


A haul of one and a half tonnes of home-made explosives seized in Dublin may
have been intended for bomb attacks in Britain or Northern Ireland, Irish police
suggested yesterday.

Four people were arrested and gardai believe one of them is connected with a
recently-formed dissident republican group, the 32 County Sovereignty Committee,
headed by Bernadette Sands McKevitt, sister of the dead hunger striker Bobby
Sands, in opposition to the peace talks.

The swoop followed intelligence reports and a surveillance operation by Garda
special branch and anti-terrorist units and came the day after the Army defused
a 500lb car bomb in Banbridge, Co Down.

In the past, home-made fertiliser bombs have been the province of the breakaway
republican group, the Continuity Army Council.

The seizure came as Mo Mowlam, the Northern Ireland Secretary, prepared to meet
prisoners at the Maze prison today and as police swooped in connection with a
series of terrorist incidents.

In Dublin, Brendan McFarlane appeared at the Special Criminal Court charged with
the 1983 kidnapping of Don Tidey, the then-head of Quinnsworth, Ireland's
largest supermarket group. McFarlane, 47, from Belfast, a former leader of
hunger-striking IRA prisoners, was accused of falsely imprisonment and unlawful
possession of arms with intent to endanger life. Sinn Fein vice-president Pat
Doherty called the decision to charge him "deeply unhelpful at this very
difficult time".

In Belfast, a number of people were arrested in the loyalist Shankill Road area.
It was thought they were being questioned about the murder of Catholic Edmund
Treanor in a pub on New Year's Eve.


LOAD-DATE: January 09, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1998 Independent Print Ltd

                              230 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                January 11, 1998

New Belfast sectarian killing shakes peace process

BYLINE: VIKRAM DODD, MARY HOLLAND, HENRY MCDONALD AND PATRICK WINTOUR

SECTION: The Observer News Page; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 529 words


A CATHOLIC doorman was shot dead in Belfast early today in an attack that bore
the hallmark of Protestant terrorists and cast new doubts over the peace
process.

The killing came as Britain and Ireland were locked in conflict over the next
stage of the peace process, with the Irish government privately protesting that
a planned outline agreement drawn up by Tony Blair concedes too much to the
Unionist cause.

Two men in a red Sierra pulled up outside the Space nightclub near Belfast city
centre shortly after midnight and fired at the club's security staff. A
26-year-old doorman was hit in the chest and abdomen and died shortly afterwards
at the Mater hospital after emergency surgery.

Police recovered a burnt-out red Sierra later in mainly Protestant east Belfast.

The shooting followed assurances from loyalist inmates in the Maze prison that
they would renew their support for the peace process after the personal
intervention of Northern Ireland Secretary Mo Mowlam at the jail on Friday.

The peace process was already badly shaken by two other killings by loyalists in
revenge for the Irish National Liberation Army's murder of Loyalist Volunteer
Force chief Billy Wright at the Maze just after Christmas.

In an effort to speed progress in the all-party talks, the British Government is
intending to table its outline agreement as the talks restart in Stormont
tomorrow, but the Anglo-Irish impasse may make this impossible.

According to the reports, the Prime Minister wants to set up a Council of the
British Isles, with representatives from the new assemblies in Scotland and
Wales as well as British and Irish government Ministers, which would have more
powers than the cross-border bodies expected to be agreed by the all-party
talks.

The plan was also said to include a power-sharing assembly for the province. Mr
Blair, on his visit to Japan, would not be drawn on the reports, preferring to
pay tribute to Dr Mowlam for her willingness 'to take risks in the interests of
peace'.

Officials of the two governments were meeting in Belfast this weekend to try to
narrow their differences, continuing discussions to try to reach a common draft
of 'heads of agreement' to be presented to the talks.

But a spokesman for the Dublin government said there had been no agreement over
a new 'initiative' and the Anglo-Irish Agreement pledged the two governments to
work together on any settlement. Making the cross-border bodies subordinate to
the assembly in Belfast and the Council of the Isles would be unacceptable to
Dublin and nationalists in the North. One Irish politician who has been involved
in the peace process said: 'The plan seems designed to draw the Republic back
into the United Kingdom. That would almost certainly lead to Sinn Fein's
withdrawal from the talks, with all that implies.'

At the Belfast meeting, two separate documents, one British and one Irish, are
currently being discussed. If agreement cannot be reached, both will be given to
the talks chairman, Senator George Mitchell, to decide which should be presented
to the talks.

Observer peace talks, pages 17-19

Leader, page 23


LOAD-DATE: January 13, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1998 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              231 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                January 11, 1998

After the bloodshed: A song that never ends?

SECTION: The Observer News Page; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 527 words


A brief history of Ireland

1171: Native kings acknowledge Henry II of England as lord of Ireland.

1541: Henry VIII declares Ireland constitutional monarchy, rebuffing claim that
it is a papal fiefdom.

1558 onwards: Elizabeth anglicises Irish institutions. Private plantations of
soldier-farmers proceed. Anglican Church of Ireland becomes state church.

1595: Hugh O'Neill, earl of Tyrone, leads Ulster rising.

1609-10: Settler landlords bring English and Scottish tenants in Ulster.

1649-55: Cromwellian conquest and plantation.

1685: James II pursues pro-Catholic policies, replacing Protestant officials.

1688: William of Orange and his wife Mary invited to accept English throne.
James flees to France.

1690: William defeats James at the Battle of the Boyne.

1692 onwards: penal laws restrict rights of Catholics.

1791: Wolfe Tone says Catholics, Protestants and Dissenters must unite and break
free of England. Society of United Irishmen founded (suppressed 1794).

1795: Orange Order founded.

1800: Act of Union - but William Pitt unable to honour promise to remove last
anti-Catholic vetos.

1830: Daniel O'Connell, rejecting conditional Catholic emancipation, launches
campaign to repeal Act of Union.

1848-49: The Great Famine: deaths estimated at one million.

1886: Irish hierarchy endorses Gladstone's Home Rule Bill.

1889: Naming of Charles Stewart Parnell in O'Shea divorce case discredits home
rule leadership.

1893: Second Home Rule Bill.

1912: Asquith Home Rule Bill stirs Protestant resistance in Ulster and splits
British ruling elite.

1914: Ulster Volunteers illegally import arms. Home Rule Act enacted - and
suspended. British officers in Curragh mutiny.

1916: Easter Rising, proclaiming Irish Republic. British execute 15.

1920: Partition. Sporadic violence: Dublin's 'Bloody Sunday' and burning of
central Cork.

1922: Anglo-Irish Treaty (1921) narrowly approved by Dail. Civil war. Michael
Collins murdered. Irish Free State inaugurated.

1937: De Valera's Eire constitution.

1939: IRA bombing campaign in Britain. Eire declaration of neutrality.

1949: Ireland Act entrenches Northern Ireland.

1956-62: Border campaign by IRA.

1967: Northern Ireland Civil Rights Association founded.

1972: Direct rule imposed. In Derry's 'Bloody Sunday' 13 marchers killed by
British soldiers.

1973: Irish Republic and UK enter EEC. Northern Ireland Assembly created with
power-sharing executive.

1974: Unionists quit Assembly. Direct rule reimposed after general strike by
Ulster Workers' Council.

1975: NI Convention convened; internment suspended (abolished 1980).

1976: Convention collapses. British ambassador in Dublin killed.

1981: Death of Republican hunger-strikers.

1985: Hillsborough agreement fuels bitter Protestant backlash.

1987: Eleven killed before Enniskillen Remembrance Day service.

1990: Mary Robinson elected president of Ireland.

1994: IRA and Loyalist paramilitaries announce cease-fire.

1996: Canary Wharf bomb ends IRA ceasefire.

1997: Mo Mowlam appointed Secretary of State. IRA resumes ceasefire.


LOAD-DATE: January 13, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1998 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              232 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                     January 14, 1998, Wednesday Edition 1

Algeria's agony - As the slaughter in Algeria continues many are being forced to
flee the country.  PHIL HAZLEWOOD talked to one who has made his home in the
North-East.

SECTION: ISSUES, Pg. 11

LENGTH: 830 words


   Abdul-Aziz Bu Hraisha stowed away on a ship bound for North Shields. The
escalation of violence in his homeland of Algeria had left him terrified for his
safety.

When his brother and uncle were killed he decided to make his escape and hid in
the hold of a container ship with seven other would-be asylum seekers.

In January 1996, despite threats of deportation, he was granted full refugee
status - thanks largely to the work of the Newcastle-based charity, the North of
England Refugee Service - and is making a new life for himself in Gateshead.

But despite his escape he is still haunted by the atrocities being carried out
in his homeland and is terrified for the safety of his family.

"Millions of people have died, not just since 1992 but since independence from
France was declared in 1962. That's too many. We need someone to stop the
violence.

"They're killing kids as young as two months old, doctors, nurses, journalists
who report the killings - anyone they can lay their hands on."

And if the death toll is shocking then so too is the manner in which victims are
killed.

Reports say people have been killed with chainsaws, burned alive in their
houses, shot at point-blank range or have their throats cut by vigilante
raiders.

In October 1997, one of the most horrific attacks saw an entire family of 52
killed about 30 miles from the capital, Algiers.

Ironically, they had just returned home after fleeing to escape a previous
massacre by Islamic insurgents.

It is something that preys on Abdul-Aziz's mind constantly.

He left his son with his family and has not seen either since he arrived in
England - and often has trouble getting in touch.

He is sure that his family and friends live in fear because, as no-one has
claimed responsibility for the attacks, it is unclear who is behind the murders.

The military-backed government blames Moslem extremists - the Armed Islamic
Group [GIA] and the Islamic Salvation Army, the military wing of the FIS - who
want to establish a state based on Koranic law. The extremists blame each other.

"No-one knows who is killing who. You can't tell. A policeman shoots someone,
but then you find out that it's not a policeman but a terrorist in disguise. Or
that the army is behind it.

"It's not just the government and the Islamists. I am a Moslem as well yet these
people killed my brother and my uncle.

"Mohammed is killing Mohammed like in Iraq."

Since 1992, Algeria has been rocked by some of the worst atrocities and
in-fighting in recent history - with civilians, including woman and young
children, the main casualties.

The latest - and one of the bloodiest - attacks came this weekend when a gang
slaughtered as many as 100 people, most of them in a cinema, in a village near
the capital, Algiers.

Over 75,000 people have died in the five years since the army scrapped the
general election dominated by the hardline Moslem party, the Islamic Salvation
Front [FIS].

And the escalating violence has forced a growing number of Algerians to flee the
country to seek asylum elsewhere - including the North-East.

Rumours of army involvement have perhaps some basis as the perpetrators of the
massacres have been able to carry out their slaughter - without detection or
capture - in heavily militarised areas within sight of army barracks.

The killings may also be an attempt by the government to wipe out the Islamists
it has pledged to destroy politically.

Most of the deaths have been in areas where a large percentage of the population
had voted for the now-banned FIS.

Some of the massacres have allegedly been committed by groups acting on the
instructions and with the consent of some army and security forces units. They
then blame fundamentalists in an effort to discredit their position.

Whatever the reason for the bloodshed, Abdul-Aziz is angry that a lack of
international awareness has hindered any progress towards peace.

"I've never ever seen any news or documentaries outside Algeria about what's
going on.

"We need more media coverage and then immediate action before it's too late."

It may be the only way to put pressure on the Algerian government which has
refused foreign help insisting the situation is under control.

The latest rejection came last week after the US called for an inquiry into the
1,200 deaths in the country since the beginning of Ramadan, the Moslem holy week
in December.

This may soon become a reality with Foreign Secretary Robin Cook stating last
week that he will make discussion of the Algerian situation a priority during
Britain's premiership of the EU this year.

But it comes too late for Abdul-Aziz, who says he will never return to Algeria
to live.

"I will only go back if the situation improves - and only then to visit my son
and family on holiday for a few weeks.

''All I want to do now is find a job and get on with my life."

Abdul-Aziz Bu Hraisha is not his real name.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Escape: Refugee Abdul-Aziz Bu Hraisha has made a new life for himself
in the North-East.

                Copyright 1998 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              233 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                      January 20, 1998, Tuesday Edition 7

Chilling IRA attack

SECTION: BRITAIN TONIGHT, Pg. 8

LENGTH: 93 words


   The Provisional IRA hoped to cause "widespread destruction" when it launched
a "sustained" and "chilling" mortar bomb attack on Heathrow airport, a court
heard today.

But "mercifully" not one of its Semtex-packed missiles exploded as they rained
down on the world's busiest international airport.

At Woolwich Crown Court, Michael Gallagher, 55, of Earl's Court, London, denies
conspiring to cause explosions early in 1994 and "making a contribution towards
acts of terrorism" between February and May the same year.

The case cotninues.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 1998 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              234 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 20, 1998

C4/FIRST EDITION: An end in sight?;
Emily Moore looks at the new developments in the Northern Ireland peace process.
Is a lasting settlement now possible?

BYLINE: EMILY MOORE

SECTION: The Guardian Education Page; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 806 words


Last Tuesday, the governments of Britain and Ireland published a 'blueprint' for
a settlement in Northern Ireland. It is their 'best guess' at how to bring peace
to this troubled area.

The Northern Ireland Secretary, Mo Mowlam, called it a 'breakthrough'. David
Andrews, the Irish foreign minister, said: 'This has been a great day. We have
produced a road map to a new agreement.' What is a 'blueprint"? It is a plan, an
outline for an agreement. But most agree that this blueprint is more than that,
as any settlement would have to be very close to what it suggests.

What has led to the blueprint being published? For the last four months talks
have been held in Belfast to try to make progress towards a political agreement.
The talks had not got very far when the latest killings in Northern Ireland
revealed how important it was to get things moving. The leader of the
(Protestant) Loyalist Volunteer Force (LVF) was killed at the end of last year
in The Maze prison by a small Republican (Catholic) group and since then three
Catholics have been killed by the LVF. Both the Irish and British governments
are desperate to make progress before any more acts of terrorism take place.

Who wants what? The Unionists, or Loyalists (mostly the Protestant community of
Northern Ireland), want Northern Ireland to remain within the UK. The
Nationalists or Republicans are mainly Catholic. Some want Northern Ireland to
be part of the Republic of Ireland and be governed by Dublin, others want Dublin
to have as big a role as London.

What does the blueprint say: 1 Both the British and Irish Governments should
make changes to their constitution. Most countries or states have a constitution
- rules that set out the way a country has to be run. The blueprint says the
Irish government will only bring Northern Ireland into its country if the
majority in Northern Ireland want that to happen and the British government has
promised to remove the Act that created Northern Ireland.

2 A new Northern Ireland assembly will be set up. This would be a group of
elected politicians (with safeguards to make sure both Unionists and
Nationalists have a share of the power). The assembly will have at least six
departments; these are likely to include agriculture, economic development,
education, environment, health and tourism.

3 A 'Council of the Isles' will be set up to bring together representatives from
London, Dublin, Belfast, Scotland and Wales.

4 There will also be a North-South council to link the two parts of Ireland.

5 A Bill of Rights is suggested to protect the civil and political rights of
both Nationalists and Unionists. Both governments suggest more needs to be done
to promote equality. In the past Unionists discriminated against Nationalists
and some Nationalists say that still happens.

What is the response so far? The Unionists are pretty pleased - they like the
idea of a Council of the Isles - it was their idea in the first place. Unionists
like it because it ties them to Britain. They can say that the relationship with
Dublin is no stronger than with Edinburgh or Cardiff. The Social Democratic and
Labour Party (SDLP), the largest Nationalist party, welcome the blueprint as a
basis for talks. They like the North-South connection. Sinn Fein, the political
wing of the IRA, gain least. They desperately want a united Ireland, and are
worried that the British government has gone back on a previous agreement which
did not mention a Council of the Isles and talked more about equality.

Can any agreement suit everyone? It's unlikely, because some of the claims of
the Unionists and Nationalists are opposite - although many on both sides want a
settlement. Ian Paisley Junior (the son of the Rev Ian Paisley, leader of the
Democratic Unionist Party) said pleasing both sides would be like a 'peace train
with two engines pointing in opposite directions'.

But many feel positive about the new outline for an agreement. The hope is that
each side will decide to see the best in the plan and be prepared for a bit of
give and take. Both sides may find their real future as a smaller nation in
Europe with the old UK or old Republic of Ireland gradually fading in
importance.

FIRST EDITION is a current affairs series for schools on C4, presented by Jon
Snow and produced in association with Guardian Education. Transmitted every
Tuesday morning at 11.00am and repeated on Wednesday at 11.00am and Saturday at
7.45am, the programmes explain the stories behind the news in an accessible way.
Every week you can win pounds 100 for your school in the First Edition Quiz
which is on the Internet at http: /www.channel 4.com /schools Related articles:
Jan 28 1997 (pri); Sept 13 1994.

Website: http: /148.100.56.24/bis/nireland/ nireland.htm and http:
/www.nics.gov.uk


LOAD-DATE: January 21, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              235 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                     January 21, 1998, Wednesday Edition 1

Jail boss was fooled - Maze governor admits naivety over assurances from inmates
that no attack was planned

SECTION: BRITAIN TONIGHT, Pg. 10

LENGTH: 295 words


   The Governor of the Maze Prison, Martin Mogg, has admitted he was "naive" to
have believed terror gangs when they told him they were not preparing attacks on
one another.

Mr Mogg, a former governor of Durham Jail, told a BBC Northern Ireland TV
programme staff had reported concerns that INLA inmates were planning to gain
access to the roof of the H-block they shared with LVF prisoners to carry out an
attack.

Mr Mogg sought and accepted assurances from the inmates that no such plans were
being made - but days later LVF leader Billy Wright was shot dead by INLA
inmates who had climbed on to the H-block roof.

Mr Mogg told the programme he spoke to Wright and INLA leaders about his
officers' concerns, adding: "We got to the stage where, certainly as far as the
two groups were concerned, they were indicating to me that there was a sort of
neutrality developing between them and there wouldn't be any attack."

Asked if he was naive to believe the men's assurances, he admitted: "In
retrospect, yes I was."

Ulster Unionist Jeffrey Donaldson, MP for Lagan Valley, called for Mr Mogg's
resignation. He told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "It was interesting to
listen to some of his confessions about his naivety about the measures
implemented at the Maze prison, particularly the decision to put the Loyalist
LVF and Republican INLA prisoners in the same block.

"It's obvious this decision contributed significantly to the circumstances in
which the INLA prisoners were able to murder Billy Wright. The governor, being
responsible for such decisions, should resign. He should do so immediately
because public confidence in the prison service is at an all-time low and the
governor, if he has any integrity, should resign immediately."

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: INTERVIEW -Maze governor Martin Mogg said that, in retrospect, he had
been naive

                Copyright 1998 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              236 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                            January 26, 1998, Monday

JAW-JAW OR WAR-WAR?;
 MOWLAM FACING HUGE MORAL AND POLITICAL DILEMMA OVER WHO IS 'PRINCIPLED' ENOUGH
TO STAY AT TALKS

BYLINE: Mervyn Pauley

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6, 7

LENGTH: 1380 words


PARTIES at the battered multi-party talks, which switch to London today, enter a
grim moral maze as the cycle of terrorist killings continues.

It will be up to the two governments to find a way out of what many observers
see as a no-win situation following the UFF's admission of involvement in at
least three recent murders.

The three days of talks take place against a backdrop of 12 murders in less than
two months - the latest on Saturday night when loyalists shot Roman Catholic
taxi driver John McColgan.

Today's session, which Tony Blair is expected to attend, was planned to
concentrate on the contentious North-South strand but the deepening security
crisis could upset the schedule.

Secretary of State Mo Mowlam has condemned those behind the latest slaying and
the car bomb attack in Enniskillen. She agreed that "some very tough decisions"
had to be taken.

"Are we going to let these sectarian bigots, that are trying to destroy the
peace process, succeed?

"We can, both in the talks process on Monday and as a community, fight this. If
we do, we have a chance of getting what the vast majority of people want, which
is peace."

She said the issue of the UDP's continued presence in the talks was a moral
dilemma about which she had been thinking most of the weekend. She was caught
between preserving the integrity of the talks and keeping them going.

"If we want to try to stop this thing from escalating to the bad old days, we
have to make what progress we can to make sure this is a totally inclusive
process," she said.

"If we keep the talks going, it's our only possible route to saving other lives
being lost. That's the decision I've got to make, not an easy one."

Dr Mowlam said she was satisfied that the UDP - which speaks at the talks for
the UFF terror group - was doing its best to prevent the killings.

"All talking that helps stop it is a plus."

She was still optimistic that there could be agreement but people faced a stark
choice.

"This week, it is starker than most - either we can go back to the killings of
the dark old days or we can see this is our chance and we can go for it."

The Ulster Unionists and Sinn Fein have put the responsibility firmly on Dr
Mowlam for deciding whether the UDP can be allowed to stay at the table.

The UFF admitted to killings in a statement last week and claimed it had now
called off its campaign.

The breakaway LVF was believed yesterday to have been behind the taxi driver's
murder, while the Continuity IRA - which is opposed to the peace talks - was
thought to have planted the bomb in Enniskillen.

Dr Mowlam knows that, if the UDP is ejected, the existing talks edifice could
collapse. On the other hand, if she fails to act, it would make a mockery of the
Mitchell Principles on non-violence which all the participants had to sign.

"It's competing moralities," she said. "We have the morality of the integrity of
the talks, the three murders and the Mitchell Principles on the one side versus
trying to hold the talks together and making sure more lives are not lost."

She would make a decision, along with her Dublin colleagues, she said, but first
she wanted to listen to what the other parties in the talks had to say.

Ulster Unionist leader David Trimble said the UFF had clearly breached the
Mitchell Principles.

Only Dr Mowlam could decide who stayed at the talks. "It's her responsibility.
We're not going to let her shrink from it. It's up to her.

"The question is: do the Mitchell Principles mean anything any more?"

UUP negotiator Reg Empey said it was entirely in the Government's lap whether
the UDP was allowed to stay in the talks, adding that it should be borne in mind
that the IRA was also fingered by the Chief Constable over involvement in
terrorist acts.

SDLP leader John Hume said that fringe violence must not be allowed to derail
the talks, adding that the major paramilitary organisations, including the IRA,
were still engaged in a ceasefire.

The issue of whether the UDP should be expelled from the table was a matter for
the talks process, he argued. He assumed that all the parties would be asked
today to reaffirm their position, having signed up to Mitchell, and to "disavow
violence".

Senior SDLP negotiator Seamus Mallon underlined the political and moral dilemma
facing the participants, notably the two governments. "We are in a dirty
cesspool, no doubt about it," he declared.

He said parties at the talks with paramilitary links - including Sinn Fein -
must either disavow those groups and their violence or leave the talks table.

Former Eire premier John Bruton warned against any "cosy trade-offs" over the
Mitchell Principles.

"If the principles are not seen to be enforced now, all parties will later have
to be allowed to stay on at the talks, regardless of the violent activities of
their associates. That is a nightmare scenario."

Former Prime Minister John Major warned that the ejection of the UDP would
precipitate the collapse of the process.

Grand setting for delegates

LANCASTER House, the scene of today's crucial talks and once described as "the
grandest aristocratic town house of the 19th century", has been the opulent
setting for many key events which have changed the course of history.

It was here, in 1961, that the decision was taken to kick apartheid-ridden South
Africa out of the Commonwealth.

And it was in its chandeliered conference room that the historic signing took
place in December, 1979, which effectively ended the rebellion in Rhodesia and
led to the creation of the state of Zimbabwe.

Lancaster House is a brooding, stone building on the edge of The Mall.  It was
commissioned by the Duke of York, brother of George IV.

Brooding it may be but Ulster politicians who, for months, have had to endure
the claustrophic setting of Stormont's Castle Buildings, should find it a
welcome change - despite the high cost to the public purse of the "moveable
feast".

The house was completed at enormous expense by the Marquess of Stafford, later
Duke of Sutherland, and one of the richest men in Britain.

Until this century, it was known as Stafford House.

The change of name happened after 1912 when Sir William Lever, later to become
the first Viscount Leverhulme, bought the remainder of the lease, renamed the
building after his native county and presented the lease to the nation to
provide a new home for the London Museum and a centre for Government
hospitality.

Lancaster House is regarded as the finest example of the then fashionable Louis
XIV interiors in London.

Indeed, so lavish was the building that Queen Victoria, on visiting the second
Duchess of Sutherland from nearby Buckingham Palace, observed: "My dear, I have
come from my house to your palace."

The Great Staircase Hall is the most splendid of its kind and date in England.

To the left of the entrance vestibule is the Garibaldi Room, so called from a
medallion and plaque there to record Garibaldi's visit to the house in 1864.

Paperwork is delayed

AN updated London-Dublin paper on cross-border links may not be ready in time
for today's talks.

It had been hoped to have the document - setting out various options for north
-south bodies - in the hands of politicians before the weekend.

Disagreements between the two governments over wording are believed to have
upset the schedule. The paper was to have provided the focus for the three days
of discussions in London.

The NIO Office said yesterday it was still hoped to have it ready for this
morning.

An official said: "Often, these things go down to the wire."

A senior Ulster Unionist said last night that his party would not be prepared to
proceed if the paper was suddenly dropped on them.

"We have not been consulted about it or had sight of it," negotiator Reg Empey
said.

"We would have needed to get it over the weekend so we could study the contents.

"It's no good to us if it is suddenly dumped on our desks at Lancaster House at
10 am.

"Options 'on the hoof' is no way to proceed."

Unionists suspect that London and Dublin civil servants have had difficulty over
their approach to the proposed north-south ministerial council.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MORAL DILEMMA: for Mo

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1998 Century Newspapers Limited

                              237 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                            February 1, 1998, Sunday

POUNDS 2M FORTRESS BLAIR;
 INFRA-RED CAMERAS, ARMED POLICE AND SECURITY FENCES FOR PREMIER'S COUNTRY HOME
...AND HE'S ONLY THERE ONCE A MONTH;
 TONY BLAIR'S CONSTITUENCY HOME BECOMES TERRORIST-PROOF FORTRESS

BYLINE: Terry O'Hanlon

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 290 words


TWO MILLION pounds has been spent on Tony Blair's constituency home - to turn it
into a terrorist-proof fortress.

Myrobella, the six-bedroom old vicarage in the County Durham town of Trimdon
Colliery was, before last year's election, like any other country house in
Britain.

An old dirt-track ran past the front door. Thick bushes edged farmland to one
side while kids playing in the adjoining park on the other would regularly walk
into the Blairs' garden to get their ball back. An empty house stood next door.

In short, it was a security nightmare.

Less than eight months later, the pounds 120,000 "haven" has been transformed -
even though the Prime Minister only goes there once a month.

New roads - blocked by five-bar gates - surround the Victorian house.  The Home
Office has bought the property next door and turned it into a round-the -clock
surveillance centre. Electronic cameras and security lights - thought to include
night-sight lenses - monitor every movement.  New fences replace hedges and
shrubs that could have provided cover to a terrorist.

Panels over 7ft-high enclose the rear of the building, and fencing around a
large grass plot, monitored by infra-red security, presents a huge no- go area
constantly monitored from a police box.

Police helicopters hover over the village and armed officers with tracker- dogs
patrol the town, even when the Blairs are in London.

The cost of the massive security measures are shared between the Home Office, No
10, and Durham county council.

One local resident said: "The good thing is that it's probably the safest place
to live in Britain now.

"Even burglars shun the place. It'll probably do marvels for house prices,
although not yet."

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Armed police patrol the five-bar gate at the entrance to Blair's
retreat;; Fences replace hedges and shrubs that could have hidden terrorists;; A
new road has been built in place of the old dirt track that ran past the front
door;; SAFE HAVEN pounds 2million has been spent to protect the Prime Minister
and his family from terrorist attack at his constituency home.THEN Blair's home
was a security nightmare, and potential targetNOW Round-the-clock surveillance
operates from the house next door

                            Copyright 1998 MGN Ltd.

                              238 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                            February 2, 1998, Monday

CHARLES DEFIES TAMIL BOMBERS;
 HIGH SECURITY AS PRINCE FLIES INTO WAR ZONE FOR SRI LANKA'S INDEPENDENC E PARTY

BYLINE: By Rahul Sharma In Colombo

SECTION: Pg. 10

LENGTH: 425 words


The Prince of Wales will travel to Sri Lanka today despite bomb blasts and a
battle in which more than 300 Tamil Tiger rebels were killed.

"The visit is proceeding as planned," a Buckingham Palace spokesman said
yesterday. "He leaves tomorrow, and arrives on Tuesday."

"In this particular case, there has been close consultation with the Foreign
Office and Sri Lankan authorities.

"Obviously security will be a very high priority."

Prince Charles will be attending the independence celebrations in Colombo, the
capital, on Wednesday.

But the palace spokesman declined to comment on claims that Government officials
had insisted detectives accompanying the heir to the throne be allowed to carry
guns.

Military officials in Colombo yesterday said that hundreds of Tamil Tiger
guerrillas had been killed in their latest battle with government forces in
northern Sri Lanka.

Twenty government soldiers were also killed and 86 wounded, as troops
successfully repulsed the attack backed by artillery and air strikes.

Senior military officials said the rebels had breached the army's defences and
had managed to get close to artillery positions.

"We were expecting the attack and our counterattack plans were in place," a top
military official said.

Artillery and airforce jets were continuing to pound the retreating rebels.

In the run-up to the independence anniversary, anti-British feeling has gathered
steam, with Buddhist clergy and other groups accusing Britain of encouraging the
Tamil rebels.

Sinhalese groups have called for a royal apology over the killing of thousands
of Sinhalese during British rule, and said they would not allow Prince Charles
to attend the independence anniversary celebrations.

The celebrations were moved to Colombo last week after a bomb blast in the
central town of Kandy, where the festivities were to be held, damaged Sri
Lanka's holiest Buddhist shrine and killed 16 people.

Armed soldiers are patrolling the capital's streets and new checkpoints have
been set up amid tight security ahead of the celebrations.

The LTTE have been waging a 15-year campaign against the Sri Lankan Government,
claiming over 50,000 lives and displacing one million people.

In the past two years 182 people have been killed by LTTE suicide bombers, and
seven Britons were injured last year in an attack on a Colombo hotel.

Tensions increased last week after 26 Tamil Tigers were sentenced to be hanged
in India for their involvement in the 1991 assassination of Rajiv Gandhi.

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1998 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              239 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                           February 3, 1998, Tuesday

THE SEARCH FOR THE TRUTH

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 464 words


Every year since British paratroopers shot dead 14 people during a protest march
in Londonderry, the Bloody Sunday massacre has been a rallying point for
Republicans.

Now, with the Ulster peace process making faltering progress, Prime Minister
Tony Blair has announced a new inquiry and there is widespread expectation that
he will formally apologise on behalf of this country for the killings.

This shows a magnanimous attitude by the Prime Minister. The relatives of those
who were killed say they will not be able to lay their loved ones to rest in
peace until a new inquiry has reported "the truth" about Bloody Sunday.

The leaders of Sinn Fein insist the British commanding officers involved should
be prosecuted for their role in the killing.

But however much we may sympathise over an event which took place 26 years ago,
and however much we may understand the sorrow and indignation of the bereaved,
it is plain no-one will be allowed to forget or forgive until the Republicans
have wrested every last ounce of propaganda value from the event.

The perplexing question for those of us in mainland Britain, and no doubt for
the majority of the population of Northern Ireland, is why there is no sign of
any reciprocal generosity on the part of Sinn Fein and the IRA.

While Britain is made to abase itself over Bloody Sunday, the many terrible
crimes perpetrated in the name of a united Ireland apparently rate no mention.

In Birmingham in 1974, the city endured the worst terrorist outrage to afflict
mainland Britain, when 21 people were murdered and 162 more were injured after
IRA bombs were set off in two pubs.

Six men were convicted of the killings and, as we all know, freed after a long
campaign to prove their innocence. We still have no idea who really committed
this crime. We have had no apology to the people of Birmingham from Sinn Fein or
the IRA and scarcely any acknowledgement they were ever involved in the murders.

This may seem a fruitless demand, if only because the people of Birmingham have
reacted with greater stoicism and dignity than those in Londonderry, and there
is, therefore, no political weight behind calls for an inquiry into the pub
bombings.

But at some point, if peace is ever to come to Northern Ireland, there will have
to be an atonement for all the blood that has been shed. In South Africa, they
have made some attempt to reconcile all those affected by the brutality of
apartheid by establishing a Truth Commission.

Some such body should be set up in the UK to find the truth about the pub
bombings and other atrocities associated with the troubles in Ulster. Until all
wounds are healed - on both sides of the great divide - it is hard to imagine
how there will ever bereconciliation.

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1998 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              240 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               February 12, 1998

Circle of violence that is a threat to us all

BYLINE: TIM LLEWELLYN; FORMER BBC MIDDLE EAST CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: Pg.6

LENGTH: 1028 words


SINCE the state of Israel was created 50 years ago it has been in conflict with
its Arab neighbours.

No other regional conflict since World War Two has been so consistently
dangerous or so steadily in the headlines.

Britain, which ignominiously abandoned Palestine in 1948 despite the heroic
efforts of that great Bristol MP and foreign secretary Ernest Bevin, is now in a
critical position again - ready to be the lone backer of the United States in a
controversial military campaign against Iraq.

Israel is involved, not just as a possible but improbable Iraqi target, but
because a great part of Arab resentment against the West is to do with perceived
American and British persecution of Saddam, while Israel thumbs its nose at the
United Nations security council for the 31st year running.



Israel was required, but never complied with an order to withdraw from occupied
territories during the invasion of its neighbours in June, 1967.

When I joined the Western Daily Press as a 17-year-old apprentice reporter in
March 1958, I never imagined that I would be assigned much further east than
Chipping Sodbury. I passed out when I accompanied fellow Press reporter Tom
Stoppard to my first crash scene - a honeymoon couple in a motorcycle
combination - and he questioned a witness about the details.

But in its way road accidents, hospitals and mortuaries were good practice for
later horrors in Beirut where, through a series of incidents that shaped my
life, I ended up in 1974. Another series of flukes transmuted me within two
years into the BBC's Middle East correspondent.

When I set off for Beirut, Israel's 1967 victory, the Six-Day War, was fresh in
British memories.

The general feeling was admiration for Israel's strength in the face of Arab
menace. The oil price rise had not improved people's tempers with the Arab and
Iranian producers of the Gulf, who had inflicted on the British fuel panic,
petrol rationing, blackouts, miners' strikes, speed limits and, horror, early TV
closedowns.

The Palestinians, who were reasserting themselves after more than 25 years, were
associated with terrorism - hijacked aircraft, the Munich Olympics attack, raids
into Israel and hostage-taking. Arabs in those days were ranked alongside the
IRA and Scottish football supporters.

Since then, British attitudes have changed greatly. So have the reporting and
understanding of the Middle East.

I find it in the critical realism with which Israel is assessed and the sympathy
which has built up for the Arabs - well, some of them, most particularly the
Palestinians, whose treatment by their Israeli occupiers seems almost
sensationally bigoted and short-sighted.

Though British governments, especially Labour ones, tend to follow limply in the
train of whatever Washington decides in its increasingly uncritical approach to
Israel, the British people of all political persuasions seem, as far as I can
judge, to accept the inalienable right of a Palestinian Arab to run his own
life, on his own land, in a solid state.

It is not anti-Israeli sentiment driving this; more recognition that security
for the Jews and everyone else in that region (and us) will only come when there
is peace with justice. At present, that peace is far away.

In my Radio 4 programmes, many Palestinians and Israelis repeatedly make this
point - that Israel must be of the Middle East as well as in it.

Others, of course, make no such point. Fear and blind self-belief pervade much
Israeli thinking; resentment and humiliation colour that of the Palestinians.
Those who strive to meet in the centre are many but not enough.

Two great emigrations, or odysseys, herald the modern story of Israel: The Jews'
flight from European nationalism, persecution and anti-semitism - and their
return to their Promised Land, as they see it.

And the flight from that same land in 1948-9, of nearly 90 per cent of the
indigenous Palestinian Arab inhabitants, none of whom has been allowed to
return.

The story so far is one of Israeli success and survival and Arab failure and
loss. The Israelis have been committed, ruthless, organised, with a genius for
mustering support in the right places. The Arabs have been characterised by
muddle, disunity and lack of leadership.

The Israelis have shown a genius for capitalising on their tragic past. The
Arabs have largely failed to exploit their disasters and dispersals. The Jewish
diaspora works ceaselessly in support of Israel, especially in the United
States; the Arab diaspora is a feeble engine by comparison.

Those two great odysseys have not been completed. Israel is not the long- sought
sanctuary. Israelis do not feel safe there.



Nor have the Palestinians, refugees, displaced persons, emigres, those still in
Palestine, settled for the status quo. There are far too many of them - nearly
three million and growing fast - inside Israel's present de facto boundaries to
be subdued indefinitely.

I recently visited the Gaza Strip, well before the current Iraqi crisis reached
its present level of military tension.

In Gaza, there are even more posters and banners praising Saddam Hussein than
there are tributes to Yasser Arafat or local Islamic leaders - many more.

Israel this week warned Palestinians to be careful about this. Any attack on
Iraq will intensify the already bitter feelings towards the West, especially the
United States and Britain, among most Arabs.



Violent consequences in the region, even here in Europe, are probable if the
attacks go ahead.

The Arab sees abroad a powerful but friendless world shaping his dismal future
and in that context Saddam Hussein easily attains the status of hero, The One
Who Stands Up For Us, who dares to defy the West and its Israeli "client".

To a Palestinian refugee, it is all part of the same cycle of dispossession that
began in 1948.

The three-part series Your Land Is My Land, marking Israel's 50th anniversary,
is written and presented by Tim Llewellyn and starts on Radio 4 tomorrow at 8pm.
Tim Llewellyn grew up in Bristol and was educated at Monkton Combe School, Bath.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1998 Bristol United Press

                              241 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           February 15, 1998, Sunday

Anarchy in the UK?; The conditions that bred Red Brigade terrorism 30 years ago
exist here today, says Rupert Cornwell

BYLINE: Rupert Cornwell

SECTION: COMMENT; Page 6

LENGTH: 1546 words


IT IS hard to feel very sorry for even a drenched John Prescott.  Sure, no one
enjoys having a bucket of cold water poured over them, but Deputy Prime
Ministers of a certain age, girth and self-importance have no business attending
the celebratory romps of rock stars and expecting to be treated like royalty.
Glance at the man, too, and you might suspect he's launched the odd tomato or
rotten egg from a picket-line in his time.  A case, then, you might say, of the
eau juste. What caught my attention, however, was his assailant. Not his name,
Donbert Nobacon, though that is strange enough, nor his garish dress, but the
epithet attached to him. Mr Nobacon calls himself an "anarchist". If he is,
anarchism ain't what it used to be.

For once upon a time, it was a serious matter indeed. Not so much in Britain -
although Joseph Conrad based his tale of the attempted bombing of Greenwich
Observatory in The Secret Agent on a historical event - but in Europe, where in
the 19th century anarchism was a small but noble strand in the turmoil of the
age. This was not a continent caught up in the celebrity-driven modishness of
today's Britannia, where fatuous hyperbole is king, but one struggling against
autocracy. Anarchy was a creed of idealists and zealots seeking a better world,
who believed government as then constituted was positively harmful, not of pop
stars in pursuit of a headline.

The names of its heroes are half-forgotten now. There was the exiled Russian
Mikhail Bakunin who wrote that "the passion for destruction is a creative urge"
and whose vision was a collectivist utopia: Communism in that word's original
and soon-abandoned sense. But destruction also meant the destruction of people,
and among Bakunin's disciples was the Italian Enrico Malatesta who believed in
the "propaganda of the deed" - what we today call terrorism. Violent anarchism's
heyday came in the closing decades of the 19th century. In 1881 the "Will of the
People" revolutionary group murdered the reforming Tsar Alexander II. Elizabeth,
Empress of Austria followed in 1896, the Spanish prime minister a year later.
Finally, in 1900, the emigrant Bresci, sent by an Italian anarchist group in the
United States, shot dead King Umberto I.

The anarchist doctrine had other, more peaceful schools, but as the 20th century
progressed, it has faded as a coherent movement. Its core belief, that the
existing system was rotten, was subsumed into Socialism, while the infinitely
more evil beliefs of fascism and Communism would tear the continent apart.

In truth, however, anarchism has never gone away. Its non-coercive strand has
been echoed by non-political campaigners from Gandhi to the modern Greens. In
the US the ultra-libertarian strand predominates, in the militias of Montana,
even the Waco tragedy involving the Branch Davidians, a cult that believed
itself beyond the province of ordinary government.  In Italy, the violent
tradition continued with the terrorists of the Sixties, Seventies and Eighties,
disciples of Malatesta all. We used to theorise about the choreographed
interplay of the "left-wing" Red Brigades and the even shadowier terrorists of
the right. But the assassination of Aldo Moro in 1978 was straight from the
textbook of Malatesta: and no deed in modern Italian history has reaped a
greater harvest of propaganda.  Were the Red Brigades left wing? In a way. But
they were first and foremost anarchists.

In France, anarchism's garb is gentler, of street protest rather than
assassination, but no less enduring. "L'anarchie, c'est l'ordre" was the
watchword 150 years ago among Pierre Joseph Proudhon and his followers.  Fast
forward to the Sorbonne in 1968, and the slogan of the student protesters who
almost brought down De Gaulle: "Soyez realiste, demandez l'impossible!" As they
say in those parts, plus ca change. . . . But an argument can be made: that not
only has anarchism never disappeared, it could be poised for a second summer.

For anarchism, whatever its form, is above all a reaction against government,
and contrary to appearances that beast is growing. Certainly, by the visible
yardstick of public spending's share of GNP, the state - "Big Government" in US
parlance - is on the retreat. But in more subtle ways its reach, blurred by the
private corporations to which it now fashionably sub-contracts many services, is
longer than ever. Never has government possessed so much information about its
citizens; never, thanks to technology, has it been so easy to cross-tabulate
that information. Unto them, everything about us is known.

Here in Britain, Tsarist autocracy is not the problem. Whatever the objections
to Mr Blair's "presidential" aspirations, and for all the meek obedience of his
cohorts in the Commons, no one would accuse the Government which Mr Prescott
adorns of rank despotism. But you do not have to have anarchical leanings to
dislike its preachyness. From beef on the bone to single mothers on welfare, his
is a government which knows best and takes great pleasure in promulgating the
fact. New Labour's doctrine has been re-written: ownership of the means of
production has been replaced by the ownership of virtue.  We cannot help you,
but we have the untrammelled right to tell you what to do. Now in this isle
which has mostly eschewed violence as a means of political expression, protest
is unlikely to stretch much beyond ruining a Cabinet minister's suit. But
elsewhere?

Take, to start with, the curious similarities of today's political circumstances
with those which spawned Italian and German terrorism three decades ago.  In
Bonn, a "grand coalition" between Christian Democrats and Social Democrats left
the country without meaningful parliamentary opposition.  Ditto in Italy, where
the concept of "converging parallels" was coined for the unspoken entente
between Christian Democracy and the most moderate Communist party in Europe. So
the radicals pursued their ends by other means. Today we don't have grand
left-right alliances, for the simple reason that in practice they already exist.
In Germany, Italy and France, the left has grudgingly acknowledged "the triumph
of the market" and is shifting towards the centre. In Britain, where Blairism is
Thatcherism with a more human face (and there are those who would dispute that
distinction), it already has.

Everywhere, ideological distinctions are of nuance, not of principle.  Look
where he will, the old believer sees nothing but trouble: on one side, an
unforgiving market subject to no man's laws; on another, a government which can
eavesdrop on his phone calls and track his every footstep; and finally a
political system which offers no real outlet for his grievances.  No matter
whether you edge towards anarchism from the aggrieved left (the European
tradition) or right (the American way, via the myriad of militias, cults and
semi-sane individuals who see all government as a Satanic conspiracy), you're
not short of motives.

Nor is there any shortage of means. The paradox is that although the modern
state is hugely powerful, it is also uniquely vulnerable. Indeed, not since
Tsarist Russia perhaps has the anarchist, in theory, had such opportunity to
wreak disruption. Then that opportunity lay in the sheer concentration of power
in the hands of one man; kill the king and you would incapacitate the state. Now
it resides in the very reliance of government on the sophisticated systems from
which its enhanced power stems. The state that has grown mighty by the
information revolution may be brought to its knees by information guerrilla
warfare.

In this sense, Ted Kaczynski, that Faberge of the letter-bomb, whose minutely
crafted devices killed three people and wounded a score of others, is an
irrelevance, a mere dilettante of the species. For him, gratification was the
murder and maiming of a few professors and businessmen, but above all
publication in the New York Times and Washington Post of a 35,000- word
manifesto prophesying that modern industrial society would lead mankind to its
doom. However, fascinating criminal though he was, the challenge to the state
posed by Kaczynski the Unabomber was minimal.  So too was even that of the
anarcho-terrorist Timothy McVeigh, who built and planted the bomb that killed
168 people in Oklahoma City.

But not so the threat from the computer chip. That threat per se is nothing new.
We know all about viruses and the Millennium bug and it was 15 years ago that
Hollywood came up with Wargames, in which a teenage hacker had the Pentagon's
computers unleash ICBMs against Moscow. And the kid didn't even mean it.
Consider what a real-life computer Kaczynski, who did mean it, could conceivably
do with just a laptop, if he could pick his way into government databases.

Such could be the battleground of the next world war. It could also be where the
anarchist takes revenge on the system. The literal Greek meaning of anarchy is
"absence of government". Not for a century have its practitioners (who do not
include Donbert Nobacon) had even as tiny a chance of attaining that goal. As
for Mr Prescott, he should be thankful it happened in England, and the weapon of
choice was not the AK-47, but dear old H20.


LOAD-DATE: February 16, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1998 Independent Print Ltd

                              242 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               February 16, 1998

Invisible menace of anthrax weapons

BYLINE: Ian Bruce, Defence Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1090 words


As the threat of conflict looms, Ian Bruce, Defence Correspondent, highlights
the terrifying reality of biological warfare.

WHEN Muslim fundamentalists used military plastic explosive to bomb a US
barracks in Saudi Arabia last year, they killed 19 men. If they had employed
just one litre of anthrax, sprayed by aerosol from a light aircraft or slipped
into the base's water supply, the death toll would have been at least 1500.

The entire area would have been rendered uninhabitable for 30 to 40 years as the
spores infected the sand and soil. Thousands of civilians living downwind of the
initial release point in the coastal city of Dharan would have faced a lingering
death within three to five days of the attack.

According to the UK Foreign Office, Iraq is currently manufacturing enough
anthrax to fill two missile warheads every week. At least 24 other countries,
many of them ruled by unstable regimes, have the same capacity for producing the
biological equivalent of nuclear weapons.

Any society with an industrial base which includes pharmaceuticals already
possesses the basic deadly know-how. Even a simple brewery operates on yeast and
fermentation processes which are the building blocks for far more sinister
concoction.

Of all the devil's brews available, anthrax is the most feared. The US
Department of Defence describes it as "the No 1 threat". Its incubation period
is between one and five days and it will kill eight out of every 10 people
infected.

Only plague is more virulent, with a lethality of 90%. But plague has a limited
lifespan. Anthrax is, to all intents and purposes, forever. Gruinard Island, off
the west coast of Scotland, was used as an experimental testbed for it during
the Second World War. It was only declared "safe" again 50 years later and is
still not a recommended tourist attraction.

For a rogue regime or terrorist group, a biological attack has tremendous
advantages. It can be carried out undetected. The first indication of its
delivery might well be when large numbers of people fall ill and die. And for
days or weeks, the target area may be deemed to have suffered a natural
epidemic.

Even after the particular organism is identified, there is the problem of
proving responsibility. As those who investigated the Lockerbie bombing know,
there is a world of difference between pinpointing the terrorists who actually
carry out an atrocity and building a case that will stand up against them in
court and doing the same for the government who planned and paid for the attack.

Some biological toxins cause incapacitation or death within minutes or hours.
Most, however, have incubation periods of between 24 hours and six weeks. These
are less useful for battlefield use, but ideal for spreading panic among a
vulnerable civilian population. High infection and mortality rates would also
overwhelm medical facilities.

Post Cold War, Britain and the US have both launched crash programmes to tackle
the menace of such weapons. Detection of an attack and correct identification of
the agent is the main stumbling block so far.

A Pentagon study last year concluded that a surprise Scud missile attack on a
military unit with an anthrax-filled warhead would instantly reduce that unit's
effectiveness by up to 90% as troops were forced to operate in cumbersome and
debilitating protective gear - if, that is, the anthrax had not already infected
the soldiers and reduced them to walking dead men.

Fortunately, ballistic missiles are not the ideal method of delivering living
toxins. The heat generated by the missile's flight, high gravitational stresses
on the warhead, and the unstable nature of a liquid filling create problems in
guaranteeing that it will survive intact to detonate at the right height and
angle to spread over the target as an aerosol.

The best way would be to mount dispersal systems into a cruise missile or other
unmanned aircraft and release it over a designated area by night. Such weapons,
acting as remotely-piloted crop dusters, would achieve maximum impact. In 1995,
Iranian forces on exercise in the Gulf were seen using spray tanks mounted on
helicopters in mock attacks on their own naval units.

All modern warships are equipped with a "citadel", a central sector where air
pressure inside exceeds that of the open air to prevent chemical or biological
contamination. But large vessels such as the 90,000-ton US aircraft carriers are
particularly vulnerable. If their flight decks and exposed strike planes are
infected, air operations become next to impossible.

These ships are built to withstand hits from several conventionally-armed
missiles and stay afloat and in action. Damage control parties and duplication
of key systems make this a possibility under all but the most severe combat
conditions.

Given enough time, these same damage control teams would be able to hose down
and disinfect exposed surfaces. However, the ship would be effectively out of
commission while this was done. And the slightest mistake with biological agents
could decimate the crew.

On the plus side, if there is one, biological weapons are highly unpredictable.
Because they are composed of living organisms, they are heavily dependent on air
temperature, weather conditions, and terrain. Unlike chemical weapons, where a
droplet on exposed skin will be enough to kill, most biological toxins have to
be inhaled or ingested in food or water.

For a dictator like Saddam Hussein, their advantage is twofold. They are cheap
to manufacture, almost a by-product of legitimate pharmaceuticals, and they are
psychologically powerful as a threat of unseen, unclean death.

Even the military, schooled in operations in contaminated war zones, have a
creeping horror of fighting something which can barely be detected, and then
often too late for effective countermeasures.

The one factor which might be an effective brake on Saddam's deployment and use
of biological warfare is fear of the consequences. If an attack were to be
mounted against US or British forces currently in the Gulf, the response would
be devastating and there would be no hiding place for the Iraqi dictator. Public
revulsion would demand no less.

An even worse miscalculation would be a BW warhead on Tel Aviv. Israel is a
small country and deterrence is a vital component in its survival strategy among
largely hostile neighbours. Thousands of Israeli civilian casualties could bring
only one riposte, the nuclear devastation of Iraq.

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1998 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              243 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                               February 17, 1998

Embassy's ring of rock to foil the terrorists;
U.S. TIGHTENS SECURITY IN LONDON

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 327 words


A RING of rock designed to stop suicide bombings was placed around the American
embassy in London yesterday.

The 87 steel-reinforced bollards erected at the building in Grosvenor Square
were a stark reminder of the dangers of imminent war with Iraq.

U.S. officials insisted the security precautions had been 'long-planned' and
that their appearance at the time of the latest Gulf crisis was 'coincidental'.

Nevertheless, the pink stones anchored with heavy steel bars are intended to
prevent attacks by terrorists using lorries packed with explosives.

U.S. installations in the Middle East - in Beirut and Dhahran have twice been
blown up with heavy loss of life.

The 3ft high, 2ft square tank trap-style blocks, quarried in the South of France
and weighing a ton and a half each, will be fully in place by the end of the
week.

They are set 3ft apart.

Officials are worried over Sad-dam Hussein's terrorist arsenal, and whether Iraq
is capable of mounting an attack - either using conventional or chemical weapons
- in Britain. An embassy spokesman said: 'Congress ordered more security some
years ago, and the matter was considered more urgent after the bombing of the
Dhahran airbase in Saudi Arabia in 1996. (23 Americans were killed and more than
200 injured).

'But the blocks are going in now because we have only recently reached agreement
with the planners at Westminster Council.' The intelligence services, Scotland
Yard and the Home Office are working on plans to prevent an attack in Britain.

Intelligence reports have warned that terrorist groups in league with Saddam
might be planning to carry out operations in countries which back the U.S.led
plan to bomb Iraq.

Britain, as America's main ally, is seen as a possible target. Security forces
are taking seriously the danger of retaliatory attacks if Iraq is bombed.

One fear is that terrorists could smuggle a deadly biological agent into the UK.


LOAD-DATE: February 19, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: THE TANK TRAPS DESIGNED TO STOP SUICIDE BOMBERS

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1998 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              244 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               February 17, 1998

Saddam warned forces are ready

BYLINE: James Mckillop

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 423 words


A leading British military source yesterday warned Saddam Hussein that he was
being given one final chance to back down or take the consequences of an all
-out air assault from American and UK aircraft based in the Gulf.

"We are ready to go now," the senior officer declared. "Our plans are robust and
they shall succeed."

The warning came as United Nations Secretary General Kofi Annan was making a
last ditch effort with a possible visit to Baghdad.

It is a visit that is being fully supported by the British Government.

"No-one's going to take military action while the Secretary General is in
Baghdad," said Foreign Secretary Robin Cook.

However, as Mr Cook was speaking, workmen were completing construction of a ring
of concrete bollards around the American embassy in London's Grosvenor Square.
It was a stark indication of how seriously security forces are taking the threat
of a terrorist attack in central London should Baghdad be attacked.

Britain's military chiefs were last night declaring that they fully supported
the last ditch efforts to ensure Saddam conformed to UN resolutions so that his
weapons of mass destruction could be detected and destroyed.

They insisted the present build-up of forces in the Gulf was to ensure that the
UN Special Commission inspectors could resume their duties to dismantle Saddam's
capability in this field and go about their work without interference.

Nevertheless, they were making it clear that if diplomatic talks failed, then
the military option was now waiting with its finger on the trigger and ready to
go into immediate action.

The military sources would not discuss detailed targets, although many of them
are now obvious.

Quite clearly, the so-called palaces built by Saddam in recent years will be
early targets once communications and radar sites have been taken out.

The bases of his republican guard will also receive heavy hits, as will every
single installation in the country that could assist Saddam's forces to
retaliate.

Yesterday, British military sources were at pains to emphasise that it was not
their intention to alter the frontiers of Baghdad,but

to force Saddam to comply with the UN resolutions.

If that failed and he attempted to recreate his weapons of mass destruction,
then he could expect further action in the future, the military sources
declared.

Meanwhile, intelligence suggested the Iraqi dictator was becoming increasingly
concerned that disquiet in Iraq could lead to his eventual overthrow.

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1998 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              245 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                      February 17, 1998, Tuesday Edition 1

Iraqi terror attacks feared

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 257 words


   IRAQ could be preparing terrorist attacks on British and American targets,
security experts warned yesterday - amid reports that counter-terror measures in
Britain were being stepped up.

MI5, MI6, Scotland Yard and the secret Government listening centre GCHQ were
said to be actively preparing for the threat of terrorist action - including the
possible use of biological or chemical weapons.

Responsibility for co-ordinating counter measures and drawing up contingency
plans lies with the Home Office terrorism prevention unit.

A Home Office spokes-man said: "We have a wide range of counter terrorist plans,
including measures to counter nuclear, biological or chemical attack. These
plans are regularly tested and updated."

Professor Paul Wilkinson of the Centre for the Study of Terrorism and Political
Violence at St Andrew's University said the authorities were right to take the
threat seriously.

He said Saddam's agents had a track record of attacking political opponents
abroad, including a failed assassination attempt on former US President George
Bush in Kuwait in 1993.

Pre-emptive action by Allied security forces before the 1991 Gulf War had been
crucial in preventing terror attacks during that conflict.

Although the Iraqis could in theory try to use biological or chemical agents -
such as the virus anthrax or VX nerve gas - Prof Wilkinson said this was
unlikely.

The main result of using weapons of mass destruction would probably be a huge
military retaliation by Britain and America.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 1998 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              246 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           February 17, 1998, Tuesday

ADAMS BLOWS HIS TOP AT TALKS BAN;
 'I'M ABSOLUTELY P****D OFF' HE ROARS;
 GERRY ADAMS ANGRY AT THREAT TO SINN FEIN PLACE AT PEACE TALKS

BYLINE: Nigel Morris

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 520 words


FURIOUS Sinn Fein chief Gerry Adams last night blasted moves to ban him from the
Ulster peace talks.

His party faces being booted out today after police linked its IRA allies to the
murder of two Protestants.

But an angry Mr Adams vowed to fight any exclusion bid.

He said: "I am absolutely p***ed off.

"We tried to make this thing work and those who have no interest in making it
work seize on two men being killed to exploit it, and bring this process down."

Ulster Secretary Mo Mowlam called for the ban after police probing last week's
killings of Brendan Campbell and Robert Doogan said forensic evidence indicated
IRA involvement.

A ban could trigger the end of the IRA ceasefire and spark fresh terror attacks
in Northern Ireland and mainland Britain.

Warned

Sinn Fein vice president Pat Doherty dismissed police allegations over the
killings.

He claimed there was nothing to link three men charged with one of the murders
to the IRA because none has been charged with membership of the outlawed group.

The Ulster Democratic Party has been barred from negotiations because of its
links to the Ulster Freedom Fighters. But in this case, the Protestant
paramilitaries owned up to a series of Catholic murders.

A final decision on Sinn Fein will be announced by the British and Irish
Governments. But allowing them to stay would almost certainly prompt a Unionist
walkout.

Ms Mowlam had warned: "In peace talks no one wants to negotiate with a gun at
their heads.

"The Northern Ireland talks process is only open to those committed to the
principles of peace and democracy."

Irish Prime Minister Bertie Ahern said sticking to the Mitchell principles of
non-violence for taking part in the talks was "fundamental to the integrity of
the process".

Irish Foreign Minister David Andrews described the situation as "extremely
grave".

He added: "We're totally opposed to and utterly condemn all killings and are
anxious to hear the views of all parties on this issue.

"It is important that Sinn Fein be given every chance to set out its position in
relation to the two killings."

Unionist representatives claimed progress can be made without Sinn Fein.

UUP deputy Ken Maginnis said: "If you want to fight the war on drugs you do not
put it into the hands of the drug barons. Why then if you want to fight for
democracy would you put it into the hands of terrorists, regardless of what side
they are on?"

But Sinn Fein chief negotiator Martin McGuinness was outraged by Ms Mowlam's
move.

(he said the developments amounted to "a lynch mob of Ulster Unionists, led by a
British Government that should know better".

The expulsion of Sinn Fein from the talks would be "unfair, unjust and
undemocratic" and said the party would consider taking a case to the High Court
if it was ejected.

He added: "The IRA have made a very positive contribution to the peace
settlement on this island.

"The big difficulties we face here is that we are faced with an Ulster Unionist
party who are not prepared to negotiate and are employing double standards."

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WARNING: Mowlam yesterday;; FURY: Adams vents his anger on the
Government at Dublin talks yesterday

                            Copyright 1998 MGN Ltd.

                              247 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               February 17, 1998

Mission of peace;
 UN chief plans last ditch bid to talk sense into Saddam

BYLINE: Gavin Cordon ;Jo Dillon

LENGTH: 591 words


BRITAIN last night threw its weight behind a last-ditch effort to secure a
diplomatic solution to the Gulf crisis.

Foreign Secretary Robin Cook said the Government was ''very supportive'' of a
proposed peace mission to Baghdad by United Nations Secretary General Kofi
Annan.

But senior defence sources were emphasising that, if diplomacy failed, British
forces could unleash air strikes at Iraq at any time.

''We are ready to go now,'' one source said.

A decision on whether Mr Annan should fly to Iraq is expected some time today
following a meeting at the UN in New York of the permanent five Security Council
members.

Of the five, the United States has been the most sceptical of the value of a
visit, insisting Mr Annan should simply tell Saddam Hussein he must comply with
UN resolutions and allow the weapons inspectors to resume work.

But the Foreign Office said: ''If Annan can go to Baghdad backed by a clear
position on the part of the Security Council, and particularly its permanent
members, and if he is clear he is going to be taken seriously by the Iraqis, we
would strongly support the idea of a visit by Kofi Annan to Baghdad.''

Senior British defence sources said that while the ''end game'' in the event of
military intervention would be to secure the return of the UN weapons
inspectors, air strikes would be designed to hit Saddam's remaining chemical and
biological warfare programmes.

''Military action would significantly set back Saddam's weapons of mass
destruction programme,'' one senior source said.

''Saddam would be subject to further action if he attempted to recreate his
weapons of mass destruction.''

The sources refused to elaborate on possible targets although it was confirmed
that experiments had been carried out on the likely fall out if bombs were used
against chemical or germ warfare dumps.

According to the latest British intelligence analysis, Saddam has the capacity
to produce both chemical and biological warfare agents at various facilities
around the country.

Some, such as mustard gas, could be ready for use within days while others like
the anthrax virus - one teaspoonful has to toxicity to kill 100 million people -
would take longer.

The Iraqis are also believed to still possess up to ten Al Hussein ballistic
missiles which could be fitted with chemical or biological warheads.

Defence sources do not believe the Iraqis would retaliate with their weapons of
mass destruction in the event of air strikes - not least because it would be an
admission that they possessed them, something they have always denied.

The use of biological or chemical weapons in a terrorist attack is considered a
more likely option, although even that prospect is thought to be ''remote''.

Saddam has also rebuilt his air defences with surface-to-air missiles, while his
army numbers some 400,000 troops and 2,200 tanks - about half its strength at
the time of the 1991 Gulf War but still enough to invade Kuwait or Saudi Arabia.

The Defence Ministry has released a photograph of one of the presidential
palaces, at Mosul, to which Saddam is refusing access.

Most are extensive - one alone has a ground area of 25 square kilometres - with
numerous buildings, including hardened command and control bunkers and have
sophisticated communications facilities as well as auxiliary power supplies and
water purification equipment.

''These are not palaces like Buckingham Palace or Balmoral,'' one source said.

One is said to be the size of Paris.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1998 Bristol United Press

                              248 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               February 18, 1998

AIRTOURS GETS LIFT FROM STRONG POUND

BYLINE: Robert Lea

SECTION: Pg. 34

LENGTH: 206 words


BRITS are splashing out on the strength of the pound, with Britain's second
largest tour operator Airtours reporting strong winter holiday sales and
customers looking to spend more on their summer vacation.

Announcing first quarter figures today, Airtours chairman David Crossland said
holidaymakers were looking at "higher-priced holidays this year because of the
good value to be had."

Demand for cruises is high, and for all-inclusive holidays typically in the
Caribbean, added. In addition, Brits were taking more short breaks to places
such as Amsterdam and Paris but are also heading to Spain for their main
holiday, with the exchange rate making the location around 20% better value for
money.

In the quarter ended 31 December, Airtours made increased seasonal losses of
£17.3 million, blamed on the first time inclusion of new businesses, on sales up
22% in the period to £463 million.

Winter bookings from the UK are 8% up on last year and summer bookings 12%, but
the firm said margins would be hit by last year's terrorist attack in Luxor,
Egypt.

Airtours begins flying Poles to the sun next week, but Crossland would not
comment on what is thought to be an imminent move into the German market.


LOAD-DATE: February 19, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1998 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              249 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                          February 19, 1998, Thursday

STATEMENT THAT LIT A NUCLEAR TOUCHPAPER;
 ROBIN COOK'S WORDS DURING THE IRAQ DEBATE NEARLY SPARKED THEIR OWN WAR, SAYS
POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT CHRIS GRAY.

SECTION: Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1491 words


For a minute it looked like the apocalypse was here.

President Clinton was preparing the world for war against Iraq, leaving little
doubt that a massive attack was imminent.

He was followed by British Foreign Secretary Mr Robin Cook who appeared to
literally go nuclear.

His choice of words during a Commons debate on the crisis raised the possibility
of a nuclear attack on Iraq.

It was not denied by his officials and newspapers quickly jumped at the chance
to splash the prospect of nuclear war across front pages.

However within a couple of hours it became clear that all was not as it seemed.

Whitehall belatedly made it clear Mr Cook had not intended to hint at the
nuclear option.

In fact a nuclear strike was not an option.

There was a quick about-turn on behalf of the media and later editions of
newspapers contented themselves with reporting that the war of words between the
West and Iraq had escalated and the UN was mounting a last-ditch peace mission.

A Government that prides itself on controlling every aspect of a news story on
events as trivial as how a Minister appears in a photocall had lost its grip
entirely on a matter of worldwide importance involving thousands of lives. How
did it all happen ?

The debacle had its roots in the debate on the Iraqi crisis in the House of
Commons on Tuesday afternoon.

Before the debate there had been lurid fears that Britain could face a direct
attack sparked by the erection of defences around the American embassy. That
provoked theories that Iraqi agents were plotting some kind of offensive, which
could even involve letting loose biological weapons in an attack similar to the
terrorist release of gas on the Tokyo underground.

In comments taken to refer to those fears, Mr Cook told the Commons: "There has
been some recent speculation that Saddam might retaliate with chemical or
biological weapons.

"Our assessment is that the threat of such retaliation is low and it would be
difficult for him to square any such retaliation with his continual claim that
he does not possess any such weapons.

"As in 1991, he should be in no doubt that, if he were to do so, there would be
a proportionate response".

It was the phrase "a proportionate response" which set the hare running.

It was seen by reporters, after checking with Mr Cook's officials, as a signal
that Britain could be ready to use the nuclear option.

There was no immediate denial from the Foreign Office or Ministry of Defence and
the dramatic story made it to the front pages.

It made a certain degree of sense in that President Clinton had often been
reported as threatening to use nuclear weapons if Saddam used biological weapons
in the Gulf or an attack on an American city.

Given the close-knit alliance between Mr Blair and President Clinton it could be
argued that the Prime Minister would do the same thing.

However few MPs really believed Mr Blair would so readily contemplate unleashing
nuclear weapons and the theory had faded away by yesterday.

The episode holds a lesson for the Government in that such a misreading of the
situation could be disastrous if war does break out and Saddam gets the message
that the West is about to drop nuclear bombs on him.

So what are the options in reality?

The answer to that provides the reason why the nuclear option can so easily be
theorised about - the Government will not say what the options for military
action are.

It would be mad to do so because it would in effect be telling Saddam exactly
what Britain's capabilities are.

Shadow Foreign Secretary Mr Michael Howard in fact believes Mr Cook has been too
free in discussing the military options and targets. What is known is that the
targets are the so-called "presidential palaces" which UN inspectors want to
examine, believing they are in fact weapons-manufacturing plants.

Maps released by the Government yesterday show that these structures cover areas
the size of central Birmingham, suggesting they must be much more than simple
"palaces".

The Tories' muted criticism in Britain has been that the Government's objectives
are not entirely clear. Mr Howard has complained that they range from forcing
Saddam to allow UN inspectors to complete their tasks, to reducing Saddam's
ability to use weapons of mass destruction to weaken the ability of his regime
to survive.

If Britain's objectives seem unclear it is not surprising given that President
Clinton's national security team is divided over the aims of any bombardment.

Mr Clinton's stated intention is to damage forbidden weapons stocks with air
strikes.

However the real plan is thought to be to end Saddam's defiance by damaging his
internal position. This would be done by targeting the means by which he holds
power, such as his secret-police network.

The American military is said to be pushing for that option because they feel
damaging weapons stocks will be a futile act.

They argue that Saddam will simply be able to build up the stocks again, making
another strike necessary in six or 12 months.

To them that does not make good foreign policy or military strategy and greater
force is more attractive.

At the moment it is also attractive for politicians to talk tough about the
military options while pursuing the remaining diplomatic alternatives.

As Mr Cook put it in the Commons, "Saddam has a history of backing down under
pressure. The more clearly we demonstrate that we are ready to use force, the
better the chance we will have of securing the diplomatic solution that all
reasonable people would prefer".

It is a time-honoured and worthwhile strategy, but when Mr Cook's officials
failed to damp down the nuclear speculation, they took it one step too far.

The UN man heading for the despot's den

Kofi Annan, the man charged with personally persuading Saddam Hussein to back
down in the growing Iraq crisis, has a reputation as a cautious career diplomat
keen to avoid conflict.

The softly-spoken Ghanaian was a popular choice for UN secretary-general in 1996
following the turbulent leadership of the Egyptian Boutros Boutros-Ghali.

Despite bitter opposition from the French, Mr Annan was appointed after winning
the backing of his fellow Africans as well as Britain and the US. Since then Mr
Annan has struggled to restore the prestige of the UN, particularly in the US,
and has appointed a number of officials known to be favoured by the State
Department.

Nevertheless, the secretary-general has also shown himself willing to risk the
wrath of Washington and London among others. In September last year, he demanded
that the US finally pay its pounds 930million debts to the UN without conditions
following years of wrangling from the US over efficiency and its share of the
organisation's budget.

Just last week, Mr Annan warned of the need for "courage" and "wisdom" in the
handling of the Iraq crisis - comments seen as criticism of the more aggressive
stand against Saddam of President Clinton and our own Government.

As the first UN official to rise through the ranks to become secretary -general,
Mr Annan, who was mainly educated in the United States and has a Swedish wife,
is widely regarded as being politically astute enough for the job.

Before becoming secretary-general, the pinnacle of Mr Annan's 30-year UN career
had been to head its peacekeeping department. That role gave him direct
experience of dealing with the devastation left by Saddam Hussein's invasion of
Kuwait in 1990.

Yet, if there are any doubts about the secretary- general's abilities, they
centre on whether he is tough enough to deal with someone as ruthless as the
Iraqi dictator.

In the past, Mr Annan has been accused of failing to take a firm enough line
with President Kabila in a dispute over the exact composition of a UN human
-rights investigation in the former Zaire, now Congo.

However, the secretary-general is convinced his brand of "quiet diplomacy",
based on building consensus whenever possible, is the best way forward. That
approach was seen again over the last week when Mr Annan insisted on waiting
until he had the backingof all five permanent members of the Security Council
for his crucial mission to Iraq.

He lists as one of his greatest achievements his success following the Gulf War
in persuading Iraq to come to the negotiating table over an oior-food scheme to
allow Saddam's regime to raise foreign currency to buy humanitarian supplies.

Nevertheless, Mr Annan is experienced enough to know that he must not simply be
used by the Iraqi despot as a propaganda tool to boost Saddam's own image and
ego.

The secretary-general's aides have made it clear their boss is only travelling
to the Gulf in the belief that Saddam can be persuaded to abide by the original
UN resolutions requiring independent inspections of his weapons plants.

Simeon Tegel

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Ready to defend: Iraqi civilian volunteers joke with their guns under a
giant portrait of Saddam Hussein. They had just completed a session of weapons
training.

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1998 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              250 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                           February 20, 1998, Friday

LAWRENCE FAMILY ASKS FOR INQUIRY TO BE PUT BACK

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 631 words


The inquiry into the killing of black teenager Stephen Lawrence has been put
back for a second time at the request of his family's lawyers, it was announced
yesterday.

Sir William Macpherson the judge chairing the investigation, said that public
hearings would now start on March 16.

They had been due to open on February 3 but were put back a month to March 3,
also at the family's request.

Sir William said he had accepted the second application for a delay to give the
lawyers more time to study a damning Police Complaints Authority report into the
Metropolitan Police's handling of the original murder inquiry.

Gascoigne attacks critics

Paul Gascoigne yesterday hit out at critics who claimed he had snubbed his son's
second birthday.

The England and Glasgow Rangers star rang his friend Chris Evans' breakfast show
on Virgin Radio to say he had been a dutiful father on his son's special day.

Gascoigne, aged 30, told listeners he saw Regan "for a few hours, got him some
presents", adding "I had a quick play with him".

Gascoigne's legal adviser Mr Mel Stein said that the midfield ace had been
especially hurt by the reports, despite having spent years getting used to life
under intense media scrutiny.

'Ammonia' man fined

A pollution incident which caused South West Water to shut down its drinking
water intake from a Cornwall river yesterday cost a farmer pounds 1,450 in fines
and costs as a result of an Environment Agency prosecution.

Anthony Treloar, of Trenear, Helston, was fined pounds 1,200 with pounds 250
costs after pleading guilty before magistrates in Truro to a charge of causing
pollution in June.

The court heard that high levels of ammonia in the River Cober were traced to
the farm, where yard run-off had overflowed into a tributary from a blocked
waste system.

Election hope for Greens

Green party members are "on the brink of a breakthrough" as they seek national
representation for the first time at the 1999 European elections, a spokesman
said yesterday.

Mr Mike Woodin said the Greens' annual conference in Scarborough which opens
today is set against a backdrop of rising expectations for the future of their
politics in Britain.

The introduction of proportional representation for the 1999 European elections
gave the Party a credible opportunity of national representation for the first
time, he said.

"Candidate selection is well under way in all regions, and activity and a new
determination to succeed are on the rise."

Jury out on IRA bombing

An Old Bailey jury retired yesterday to consider its verdict in the trial of a
Northern Ireland labourer accused of playing a key role in the London Docklands
bombing.

Two people died in the blast at South Quay which ended an 18 month IRA
ceasefire.

James McCardle, aged 29, from Crossmaglen, Northern Ireland, denies conspiring
to cause an explosion likely to endanger life or cause serious injury to
property in the United Kingdom or Ireland between October 30 ,1995 and February
10, 1996.

McCardle also denies murdering the two who died - Mr Inam Bashir and Mr John
Jeffries on February 9, 1996.

ps PostScript

Musical maestro Lord Lloyd-Webber will be giving a sneak preview of his next
blockbuster as he celebrates his 50th birthday with a stage full of celebrities.

Songs from his forthcoming production Whistle Down The Wind will be played,
together with some of his most famous compositions at a celebration on April 7.

The event, featuring Boyzone, Kiri Te Kanawa and his former wife Sarah
Brightman, is being held at the Royal Albert Hall in London.

Also appearing with a 52-piece orchestra will be Seventies heart-throb Donny
Osmond, Michael Ball and the composer's brother Julian Lloyd Webber.

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1998 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              251 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           February 22, 1998, Sunday

Bomb blamed on rogue IRA group

BYLINE: Stephen Castle and David McKittrick

SECTION: TITLE; Page 1

LENGTH: 311 words


THE British and Irish governments moved swiftly yesterday to keep the door open
to Sinn Fein following the bomb blast which devastated part of a small town in
the province.

Both British and Irish sources privately blamed a splinter group of the IRA, the
Continuity Army Council, for the bomb in Moira, Co Down, which left 11 people
injured hours after Sinn Fein was suspended from the peace talks because of two
IRA killings.

Security forces also pointed to the likely involvement of the breakaway group in
the blast, though they had not ruled out the involvement of the IRA.

If the IRA is found to have been behind the planting of the 500lb bomb it would
quickly lead to the permanent expulsion of Sinn Fein from the peace process.

This would change the inclusive character of the talks, leaving the republican
party outside the process and thus, almost by definition, opposed to any new
political settlement which might emerge from them. This would clearly be a major
turning-point in the process, with the fear of a return to full-scale IRA
violence both in Northern Ireland and mainland Britain.

Significantly, Downing Street was careful not to condemn the decision by the
Irish premier, Bertie Ahern, to meet Gerry Adams this week while he is suspended
from the talks. Mr Blair has not ruled out seeing Mr Adams himself.

Meanwhile, Sinn Fein's chief negotiator, Martin McGuinness, said the party might
not rejoin talks, adding: "We may not go back. . . because the talks have lost
credibility in recent weeks."

Ken Maginnis, defence and home affairs spokesman for the Ulster Unionists,
argued that even if the Moira blast was blamed officially on a splinter group,
"the Continuity Army Council does not have the capacity to explode bombs without
active co-operation from the Provisionals".

Republican split, page 2


LOAD-DATE: February 23, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1998 Independent Print Ltd

                              252 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                      February 23, 1998, Monday Edition 7

Bomb destroys centre of town - Streets evacuated after warnings are phoned to
police

BYLINE: By IAN GRAHAM

SECTION: BRITAIN TONIGHT, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 598 words


   A car bomb exploded today in Portadown, Co Armagh, causing extensive damage
but there were no reports of injuries.

The bomb blasted the town centre, near the police station.

Warnings had been given and police were evacuating the area well before the bomb
exploded.

An RUC spokesman said they had no reports of anyone being injured.

The bomb caused widespread devastation in the narrow street, with more than a
dozen buildings badly damaged and many reduced to rubble.

Police said the device had been left in a grey BMW car parked in Edward Street
outside a draper's shop.

Inadequate

An RUC spokesman said the warnings given by the bombers had been totally
inadequate. "We had to work very quickly to clear a commercial centre with
literally hundreds of people, so this warning was quite inadequate," he said.

He confirmed two buildings had been completely demolished and others, including
the town hall and two banks, damaged.

There was no immediate admission of blame, but Ulster Unionist Party leader
David Trimble, the local MP, said he believed it was the IRA's response for not
getting its own way in the Ulster peace talks.

He said it underlined the silliness of those who thought Sinn Fein could be
readmitted to the talks in a fortnight's time.

"The question now is what is the Government going to do in terms of a security
response."

The Unionist leader said the Moira bomb on Friday had been in the constituency
of his party colleague Jeffrey Donaldson, and today's blast in his own
constituency.

He believed the IRA had decided some time ago that its objectives could not be
achieved through the political process because of the unionist presence.

"Because we have prevented them using the talks the way they wanted, they are
now venting their spleen on our constituencies and our towns."

Brid Rodgers, the SDLP talks team member from Portadown blamed republican
extremists.

"Very clearly, it is a deliberate and ruthless attempt to destroy the hopes of
the people of Northern Ireland at this very tense time by attacking a town where
the sectarian tensions are probably at their very highest."

As smoke billowed from the blast scene in Portadown, police and soldiers kept
people well back from the scene.

The street had been evacuated some 10 minutes before the explosion went off. One
pregnant woman sitting on the roadside spoke of her shock.

"We all got out in good time but it was very frightening. I'm trying to keep
calm because of the baby.

"We just saw this massive explosion in the building up there. It seemed like the
whole thing just went up."

Fire crews were at the scene within minutes tackling a blaze inside the building
where the blast happened near to a Wellworth's supermarket.

The force of the blast shattered windows as far as 300 yards away.

It took four firecrews to bring the blaze in one of the buildings under control,
police said.

Wicked

Ulster Secretary Mo Mowlam issued a strong condemnation of the bombing as
"senseless and wicked".

She said it was a "desperate bid by ruthless people to destabilise Northern
Ireland and undermine confidence in the peace process".

Irish police believe Ulster's Loyalist Volunteer Force terror group was behind a
bomb attack bid targeted today at one of their borderside headquarters at
Dromad, Co Louth.

The incident - which ended with a controlled blast of a car bomb - has prompted
a review of security at all stations operated by the Garda Siochana, the Irish
police force, particularly those close to the Northern Ireland frontier.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: we're targets - David Trimble says the IRA is hitting Unionist MPs'
areas of support

                Copyright 1998 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              253 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                      February 24, 1998, Tuesday Edition 1

Peace hopes hit by bomb

SECTION: BRITAIN TONIGHT, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 187 words


   The Northern Ireland peace process was under growing pressure today after an
IRA denial that it was behind the car bomb in the Unionist stronghold of
Portadown.

Yesterday's blast had leading hardline loyalists warning of a return to
full-scale conflict and Unionist politicians threatening to walk out of talks if
Sinn Fein was re-admitted.

Last night's IRA statement its ceasefire was intact led suspicion to fall on the
republican splinter group, Continuity IRA.

Revenge

Since last August, the renegade group has launched up to six major bomb attacks.

The Portadown attack prompted the hardline Loyalist Volunteer Force to hint at
revenge attacks.

Billy Hutchinson of the Progressive Unionist Party, linked to the Ulster
Volunteer Force, said: "Time is running out for the loyalist ceasefire."

Sinn Fein president Gerry Adams denied IRA involvement in the bomb.

He was meeting Irish premier Bertie Ahern today - but still does not know if he
will be granted a meeting with British Prime Minister Tony Blair.

He asked to see both leaders after his party was thrown out of peace talks.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 1998 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              254 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                      February 24, 1998, Tuesday Edition 7

Fears over peace talks

SECTION: BRITAIN TONIGHT, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 176 words


   Sinn Fein leader Gerry Adams today warned his party might not return on
schedule to the Northern Ireland peace talks.

In Dublin ahead of discussions today with Irish premier Bertie Ahern, Mr Adams
said he did not expect confirmation of a meeting he has requested with Prime
Minister Tony Blair before March 9.

This is the day Sinn Fein's suspension from the multi-party negotiating ends.

And he added: "We have made it clear that we will not go back before we have
spoken to both the Prime Minister and the Taoiseach [Mr Ahern].

Negotiations

"When we meet is a matter for the British Prime Minister. But we will be
meeting. We are still awaiting a response after saying we wanted to talk."

Sinn Fein was suspended from negotiations last week because of police
information linking the IRA to two Belfast murders.

The Sinn Fein chief refused to speculate about a car bombing in Portadown, Co
Armagh.

The IRA indicated in a statement last night that it was not behind the attack
and insisted their ceasefire remained intact.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 1998 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              255 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          February 25, 1998, Wednesday

Ulster talks crawl along

BYLINE: David McKittrick Ireland Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Page 4

LENGTH: 361 words


THE Northern Ireland peace process edged gingerly along yesterday with
reportedly useful political talks and signals from the government that it does
not hold the IRA to blame for recent bombings.

Tensions appeared to ease somewhat in the multi-party talks as parties discussed
the possible shape of new north-south institutions in a new political
arrangement.

But at the same time the RUC and army cranked up security in some areas in the
wake of the republican bombings which caused widespread damage in the Protestant
towns of Moira and Portadown.

Political development minister Paul Murphy said the Moira bomb appeared to have
been carried out by the breakaway Continuity army council rather than the
mainstream IRA, adding: "As far as we know the IRA ceasefire is intact." The
Portadown attack was still under investigation, he said.

Both Sinn Fein and the IRA, meanwhile, have been denying IRA involvement in
either attack. Sinn Fein is presently barred from the talks process because of
previous IRA violence, but remained politically active yesterday with a meeting
between party leaders and the Taoiseach, Bertie Ahern, in Dublin.

Mr Murphy said that yesterday and on Monday the political talks had been "very
positive, very structured, very hopeful and very encouraging. One of the talks
participants, David Ervine of the Progressive Unionist party, advanced the
theory that the IRA was split. He added: "It is a position which we perhaps
always knew was coming, but we don't know the size of the split so we have got
to wait and see." The PUP also reiterated its warning that the ceasefire
maintained by its parent paramilitary organisation, the Ulster Volunteer Force,
was in danger following the republican bombings.

r The Home Secretary is scrapping the power to issue exclusion orders against
alleged terrorists from Northern Ireland entering mainland Britain, writes Colin
Brown. Jack Straw said in a Commons written answer he was rejecting the advice
of JJ Rowe, who recommended the power of exclusion should be kept following his
annual review of the Prevention of Terrorism (Temporary Provisions) Act 1989.


LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1998 Independent Print Ltd

                              256 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                           February 27, 1998, Friday

BLAIR 'DETERMINED TO WIN' PEACE FOR MODERATE MAJORITY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 343 words


THE Prime Minister told yesterday how Northern Ireland "tears at my heart" - and
how every bomb blast made him redouble his determination to ensure the "moderate
majority" who wanted peace were victorious.

Interviewed for ITN, Mr Blair said: "I remain cautiously, perhaps even
stubbornly optimistic.

"Northern Ireland tears at my heart in the sense that you have these wonderful
people there, you've got tremendous possibilities, business and industry are
lining up to invest there - if only you could get a peace process on the way
where people understand you've got two different traditions and they've got to
live together, and live together in some harmony, and there has got to be a
relationship between Britain and Ireland that recognises our respective
histories.

"I cannot believe as we approach the 21st century that it is beyond our wit or
imagination to do it.

"We can't let the extremists block progress.

"If every time a bomb goes off the decent people say 'we're not bothering any
more', the extremists win.

"That's why, every time I see these acts of terrorism, I redouble my
determination to let the moderate majority win."

Mr Blair added that he believed the May deadline could be reached.

"It would be foolish to be ludicrously over-optimistic about anything to do with
the Northern Ireland process.

"But the fact that you've got extremists setting off bombs or murdering people
shouldn't (stop) the vast majority of people, the 99 per cent of the population
in Northern Ireland, who want peace, from getting it."

He insisted there were signs people at the talks table were negotiating.

"I agree that we would want even more being done but there is basic agreement
now that there has to be some form of devolved assembly in Northern Ireland,
some form of North-South structures and some form of co-operation between the
British and Irish governments.

"All we need do is get people with the imagination and determination to put the
flesh on the bones of that framework and get an agreement."

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TONY BLAIR

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1998 Century Newspapers Limited

                              257 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                             March 2, 1998, Monday

OUTCRY AS COUNCILLOR GIVES HIS BACKING TO 'TRUE IRA'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 336 words


FERMANAGH independent nationalist councillor Tony McPhilips has angered
unionists by describing the Continuity IRA as the "true IRA".

Mr McPhillips is the first elected politician to imply support for the breakaway
group and also said he believed that bombings would also take place in Britain.

The Erne East representative refused to condemn recent CAC bomb attacks,
including the destruction of Moira RUC station and explosions in Fermanagh such
as January's 300lb car bombing of Enniskillen's River Club but said he did
"regret" them.

His comments follow the discovery by gardai of a 250lb bomb in Redhills, Co
Cavan, which is now believed to have been destined for a Fermanagh border town
rather than Enniskillen.

He blamed the recent explosions on the British and Eire governments as well as
the participants in the Stormont talks process.

The talks critic, who walked out of a meeting in Enniskillen Town Hall with
Secretary of State Mo Mowlam last month, has called for an end to the current
negotiations and for the British Government to issue a declaration of withdrawal
from Ireland.

He also said he did not believe the current spate of bombings would end.

Mr McPhillips said: "It is quite clear they are the historical IRA and I would
share the belief they are the true IRA. Anyone's analysis of republican history
would show their claim to be the continuity to the men and women of 1916 is
undeniable.

"Clearly the fact they are engaged in military operations against the British
would lead anyone to regard them as the inheritors of the original IRA. I'm only
giving my analysis from a historical analysis but I would see no end to the
attacks.

The Rosslea councillor added that he had never and would never use the word
"condemn" and would not hide his views.

Enniskillen DUP councillor Joe Dodds said he believed the CAC was simply a "flag
of convenience" for the Provisional IRA but that people would be angry by such
comments as expressed by Mr McPhillips.

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1998 Century Newspapers Limited

                              258 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                             March 3, 1998, Tuesday

BOMBER SUSPECT TO BE EXTRADITED

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 138 words


A man wanted in connection with an IRA bombing campaign in Britain was ordered
to be extradited by a Dublin court yesterday.

Anthony Duncan, 28, of Kippure Park, Finglas, Dublin, is wanted on eight
extradition warrants alleging conspiracy to cause explosions in the UK between
August 13, 1993, and August 13, 1994.

The warrants relate to bicycle bombs at Brighton and Bognor Regis, bomb attacks
at shops in Oxford Street in London, and bomb attacks on railway lines and
stations at Sevenoaks, Stevenage and Basingstoke.

Judge Desmond Hogan at the Dublin District Court ordered that Duncan should be
handed over to the Metropolitan Police to appear at Bow Street Magistrates Court
in London.

Duncan has 15 days to lodge an appeal against the extradition order.  His
lawyers indicated that he would appeal.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1998 Century Newspapers Limited

                              259 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                             March 3, 1998, Tuesday

LATER THAN EXPECTED, TALKS CRUNCH IS NEAR

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1232 words


THE end is nigh? The final confrontation in the talks when the impossible
demands of the IRA meet the unyielding opposition of the unionist majority?

I know. I know. You are saying to yourselves that Bradford had been wittering on
for months about this final crunch that was bound to come. Yet, although in the
last two weeks it has become palpably imminent, my forecast has not yet been
realised. Why? Because I reckoned without Mo Mowlam's blind obduracy, her almost
psychopathic obsession with the delusion that she could do a deal with the IRA;
that "inclusive" negotiations with a fanatical terrorist minority could need in
some kind of patched-up accommodation.  One might almost imagine that she is in
love with Gerry Adams were the idea not even more preposterous than her chronic
delusion.

But there is another explanation for her attachment to a policy clearly long
past its shelf-life. It is a much more sinister and disreputable explanation yet
one which fits the hard facts. The objective of the British Government is not
primarily to produce a settlement which does justice to the legitimate
democratic wishes of the majority in Northern Ireland.

Its objective is, by hook or by crook, to put an end to the IRA bombing campaign
in Great Britain. To achieve that end it is prepared to continue its appeasement
of the IRA up to the point where that appeasement is indistinguishable from
capitulation.

For it is now a truism, a fact accepted by all, that, as was stated by two
judges of the Supreme Court in the Republic, in the case Lynch v. Cooney that
"Sinn Fein was an integral part of the IRA".

All that is holding government back from an even more publicly naked
implementation of their policy is the immovable resistance of the unionist
community, supported more and more as the days go by, by the responsible
elements in the serious British press, and by a significant number in the Tory
Party for whom the demeaning charade of democracy and simple justice, over which
Mo Mowlam is now presiding, is too much to stomach.

There is also the matter of the solemn commitment into which the Government
entered with the Downing Street Declaration of 1993, the commitment to the
principle of consent, consent by the majority in Northern Ireland, NOT by the
consent of the inhabitants of the whole island. That solemn undertaking
constitutes an impediment, to the government's further pursuance of the "peace
process". Government, in the fierce glare of fully informed British and world
opinion, is no longer in a position to emulate with impunity the wiles and
duplicity of a Lloyd George.

So Mo has been hoist with her own petard. Murder is now punished with a slap on
the wrist, six days in the sin-bin for Sinn Fein. Not to speak of the daily
accumulating mayhem of the bombs in Moira, Portadown and the GPO sorting office
in Belfast.

I make no apology for the forthright roughness of this indictment. The "peace
process", never genuine, is in tatters. We face a reversion to a form of
sectarian anarchy. A Sinn Fein ex-councillor, McAllister has stated that the
vast majority of those he talks to, have abandoned hope for a "peace process"
and feel that Sinn Fein should not return to the talks.

The IRA and the republican movement have had to face up to the reality that they
are not going to get what they want and are at a loss to deal with the
situation. Their last hope is that Dublin can persuade Tony Blair to try to
impose some provo-friendly solution. But as John Bruton, who cannot resist
honestly speaking his mind, said two weeks ago: "At each stage of the process,
where the republican movement met an unpalatable limit which contradicted its
unchanged fundamentalist ideology it reverted to what it knew best. The recent
outbreaks follow the republican realisation that all other parties would not
yield on Strand One being part of any agreement."

By Strand One Bruton is referring to the maintenance of partition. Up to
recently the SDLP position was far from clear until Seamus Mallon came out for
partition, on the sole grounds that cross-border bodies were not possible
without some kind of Stormont body. There may be some rapprochement between the
unionists and the SDLP on a power-sharing executive in the North, but there is
none on the cross -border bodies issue.

The SDLP, despite Sinn Fein, would buy a deal on such bodies if they had
"meaningful", that is, executive powers.

But David Trimble had made it clear that he is determined to resist such a
concept. Even if the SDLP, overcome with battle fatigue and anxious to escape
from the suffocating electoral embrace of Sinn Fein, were tempted to do a deal
with Trimble which gave them less than Sunningdale, Northern nationalists would
slap it down: they would refuse to exchange the warmly secure double bed of the
Anglo-Irish diktat and Articles Two and Three for the hurly-burly of a bruising
battle with Sinn Fein over an internal solution.

Very relevant to the Unionist attitude on cross-border bodies is the genuine
leaked letter which Ian Paisley got hold of.

The letter is from John Holmes, Tony Blair's principal private secretary to a
Ken Lindsay in Mo Mowlam's office. It gives a detailed account of Tony Blair's
assessment of the present Northern Ireland crisis. He was speaking at a
breakfast meeting with leading Irish-American Congressional leaders during his
recent visit to Washington. Holmes, a key player in the talks process, is
believed to have a strong relationship with the Ulster Unionists. Hence his
revelations appear all the more damaging.

According to Holmes, Blair stated that "the important thing about the
Propositions Paper was that the unionists had signed up to North-South
structures". The reference to such structures, without specifying the vital
question of whether or not those structures would have executive powers is in no
way damning - the Ulster Unionists have said all along that they were willing to
take part in all kinds of co-operative ventures that could demonstrate mutual
benefit, provided that such bodies were not independent of the Northern assembly
and did not have executive powers.

The further revelation by Holmes that "Trimble had come a great deal further
than many unionists wanted him to, for example accepting North South structures"
is simply a restatement of the above for it is common knowledge that many
unionists are opposed to cross-border collaboration of any kind.

But David Trimble is absolutely right to display a reasonable open-mindedness of
the question, an attitude which strengthens his position on Strand One and on a
Council of the British Isles. For, make no mistake, regardless of Tony Blair's
euphoria, the Ulster Unionist Party will not be giving one inch on this vital
matter of all -Ireland bodies with executive powers.  "Inclusive" talks can come
to nothing.

The grotesque idea exporting the participants to Wales, like the sick joke of
sending the Parades Commission on a junket to the USA, will solve nothing. All
it does is expose a desperate NIO at the end of its political tether.

How much more of this tragic farce must we endure before government screws up
its courage to the sticking point and grasps the nettle? The ordeal is not yet
over but there are faint signs that the inevitable is being contemplated, if not
yet confronted.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: LAYING DOWN WHAT LAW?: Secretary of State Mo Mowlam

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1998 Century Newspapers Limited

                              260 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             March 3, 1998, Tuesday

'IRA MAN' SENT TO UK;
 IRISH COURT ORDERS EXTRADITION OF MAN WANTED IN CONNECTION WITH AN IRA BOMBING
CAMPAIGN IN BRITAIN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 85 words


A MAN wanted in connection with an IRA bombing campaign in Britain was ordered
to be extradited by an Irish court yesterday.

Anthony Duncan, 28, from Dublin, is wanted on eight extradition warrants
alleging conspiracy to cause explosions in the UK between August 13, 1993 and
August 13, 1994.

The warrants relate to bicycle bombs at Brighton and Bognor Regis, bomb attacks
on shops in London's Oxford Street and bomb attacks on railway lines and
stations at Sevenoaks, Stevenage and Basingstoke.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1998 MGN Ltd.

                              261 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                       March 4, 1998, Wednesday Edition 1

Peace fears after village horror - Community in shock as pals shot down in
Ulster bar

BYLINE: By DERIC HENDERSON

SECTION: BRITAIN TONIGHT, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 513 words


   The gunmen who killed two friends in a village pub, are trying to bring
Ulster to its knees at a time when many believe a political settlement is within
reach, a church leader said today.

"They must not be allowed to succeed," said Church of Ireland Archbishop Robin
Eames.

Philip Allen, a Protestant, and Damien Trainor, a Catholic, pals since
childhood, died after masked killers burst into the bar where they were having a
quiet drink in the village of Poyntzpass, Co Armagh.

Loyalist

They were ordered to lie on the floor when one of the two masked killers
screamed: "Get down you bastards."

Two men injured in the shooting, one of them believed to be a brother of Mr
Allen, are recovering at Craigavon Area Hospital, Portadown.

With the political parties back at Stormont today for a fresh round of
negotiations on the province's future, all sides appealed for calm.

No organisation has admitted blame for the Railway Bar shooting, which plunged
the peace process into a new crisis, but the loyalist LVF is being blamed. The
attack followed the republican car bombings of Moira, Co Down and Portadown, Co
Armagh, two predominantly Unionist and Protestant towns.

Ministers in Belfast, Dublin and London are deeply worried that this attack
could signal the start of a new sectarian shooting spree

Archbishop Eames said both Northern Ireland communities were under attack at a
crucial stage of the peace process. He told BBC Radio Ulster: "The ordinary
people of Northern Ireland must try to remain calm and reach out to each other
in understanding. But we have to recognise what these people of violence wish to
achieve to bring this entire community to its knees."

RUC Chief Constable Ronnie Flanagan appealed for calm. He told Radio Four's
Today programme: "The people of Poyntzpass are a model and an example to us all.
When you see how the community works together here and when you contrast that
with the people who invaded this community to carry out bloody, cowardly murder,
they are quite frankly not fit to walk the same earth as the people whose lives
they have taken."

Agreement

Seamus Mallon, the MP for Newry and Armagh and a close friend of the bar owner
said: "It's not just an attack on a well respected local bar. It is an attack on
the entire peace process."

Deputy Irish Prime Minister Mary Harney called the incident an evil deed and
Sinn Fein president Gerry Adams appealed for an end to the killings.

Ulster Unionist leader David Trimble said the murders would not deter the
parties trying to seek agreement but he feared for what might happen in the
coming months.

Brian Canavan, whose mother Bernadette, owns of the bar, described how the
gunmen burst in: "They didn't ask what people's denominations were. They just
told them to get down on the ground and they started shooting.

"This was a mixed crowd. There was an equal number of Protestants and Catholics
in the bar and it is lucky there were not more killed.

"It is unbelievable that this community should be touched by a tragedy like
this."

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BAR OF DEATH - RUC officers outside the Railway Bar in Co. Armagh after
two men were shot to death there last night

                Copyright 1998 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              262 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                       March 4, 1998, Wednesday Edition 7

Peace fears after village horror - Three arrested after pals are shot down in
Ulster bar

BYLINE: By DERIC HENDERSON

SECTION: BRITAIN TONIGHT, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 501 words


   Three Loyalists were questioned today about a double murder in a pub which
has plunged the Northern Ireland peace process into a new crisis.

They were detained in the mid Ulster area just hours after gunmen opened fire on
customers they had ordered to lie on the floor of a bar in the village of
Poyntzpass, Co Armagh.

Life-long friends Philip Allen, a Protestant and Damien Trainor, a Catholic,
died in the shooting which left two other men injured, one with arm and leg
injuries.

Blamed

Mr Allen had been planning to marry and had asked his pal to be best man, his
mother revealed.

Ethel Allen said Philip had kept the proposal a secret from most people in the
village but had already told his friend Damien of his plans.

As churchmen and politicians on all sides urged restraint, security sources
blamed the Loyalist LVF, a breakaway group opposed to the Stormont negotiations,
for the killings.

At the same time the Republic's Premier, Bertie Ahern, warned more terrorist
acts may already be planned.

Ulster Secretary Mo Mowlam pledged the Government's determination to find an
agreement, but admitted people's confidence in the process had been shaken by
the murders.

She said: "We are not going to allow this to take the guts out of the talks
process. That what's important and this is the way we can stop it in the
future."

Prime Minister Tony Blair said: "My heart goes out to the families of these two
good friends murdered in this dreadful atrocity.

"These two men, through their friendship, showed that background, history and
religion need not stop the two communities from living in harmony."

Mr Trainor's heartbroken mother, Ann, broke down and wept at the death of her
son and one of his closest pals who were sitting drinking orange juice before
one of the gunmen took aim after screaming: "Get down you bastards."

In her home village, which had never seen the slightest hint of trouble during
all the years of Ulster bloodshed, a devastated Mrs Trainor said: "They grew up
together you know ..."

As prayers were said in the local Catholic church, the RUC said it had found a
white Ford Escort believed to have been used by the killers. Later three men -
understood to be from the Banbridge are of Co Down - were detained.

The Newry-Armagh MP Seamus Mallon, who is a close friend of bar owner Dessie
Canavan and knew both men, said: "They had been able to overcome the hatred and
sectarianism that surrounds them.

Ashamed

"This is a place where people live and work together and where the ugly face of
sectarianism has never been allowed to show."

Ulster Unionist leader David Trimble, whose Upper Bann constituency includes
part of Poyntzpass, said the murders were an attempt to block any agreement and
he feared what might happen in the months ahead as terrorists on both sides
tried to destabilise the peace process.

After visiting the victims' families with Mr Mallon, he said he was ashamed to
think the murderers were Protestant.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DEATH scene - RUC officers outside the Railway Bar in Co Armagh after
two men were gunned down there last night

                Copyright 1998 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              263 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                       March 5, 1998, Thursday Edition 1

Mardi Gra bomber suspected as teenager is injured - Stores on alert after
explosion

BYLINE: By LUCIE MORRIS

SECTION: BRITAIN TONIGHT, Pg. 10

LENGTH: 332 words


   Sainsbury renewed its appeal today for shoppers to be "extra vigilant" after
a teenager was injured in an explosion bearing the hallmarks of the so-called
Mardi Gra bomber.

Scotland Yard say yesterday's incident happened near the chain's supermarket in
Forest Hill, south-east London.

Last month the same store was at the centre of a similar attack when a motorist
was slightly injured after a small device, hidden in a plastic bag he found near
the supermarket, exploded in his car.

Police say yesterday's 17-year-old male victim suffered what appeared to be
shotgun pellet wounds to his leg following a small explosion.

A spokesman confirmed officers found remains of what appeared to be a shotgun
device about 50 yards from a Sainsbury store.

But he added: "We must keep an open mind at this early stage about whether this
incident may be linked to the Mardi Gra inquiry. The remains of the device are
being sent for forensic examination."

The injured youth, who is not being named, is being treated at a London
hospital.

The store chain today appealed for staff and customers to be extra vigilant for
suspect carrier bags.

If the Mardi Gra bomber is responsible for the attack, it would be his or her
33rd since the reign of terror began in 1994, first against Barclays Bank and
then, from 1996, Sainsbury.

It is believed the bomber has already struck three times this year.

The most recent attack was on February 12 near the Forest Hill store. The
motorist involved, who threw the bag out of his car in shock after it exploded,
suffered minor injuries.

His injuries were thought to be consistent with the exploding shotgun cartridges
and rifle bullets used by the bomber in previous attacks.

A week earlier a device exploded at a bus stop 300 yards from a Sainsbury store
in Ealing, west London. No one was hurt.

In January, another bomb in west Ealing was taken home by a pensioner.

Police said it had been powerful enough to maim or kill.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 1998 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              264 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                             March 6, 1998, Friday

BANNING LAWS TO BE CHANGED

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 410 words


MPs approved the Prevention of Terrorism Act for another year last night.

Exclusion orders banning suspected or convicted terrorists from Great Britain
will, however, be dropped in line with a Government announcement last October,
Home Secretary Jack Straw told the Commons.

The Government wanted to introduce a "judicial element" to the extension of
custody for suspected terrorists under the Act. Asking MPs to approve the Act
for another year, he said.

"Recent events in this country and across the world underline that fact that
there are those who remain determined to use violent means to achieve their
political ends.

"The latest atrocity occurred on Tuesday night this week, in Poyntzpass, when
Philip Allen and Damien Trainor - friends across the community divide - were
shot dead."

Mr Straw said that since the murder of loyalist Billy Wright in December, there
had been three "significant" bomb attacks at Enniskillen, Moira and Portadown,
40 "punishment" attacks and 14 paramilitary murders.

On exclusion orders, Mr Straw said that they were to be dropped despite a
recommendation in a review of the Act by John Rowe QC to keep them.

He said that the Government was opposed to the orders because they amounted to
"a form of internal exile fundamentally undermining the integrity of the United
Kingdom" and "because of their limited utility".

They had long been "withering on the vine" and his predecessor, Michael Howard,
had made no new exclusion orders in 1996 and 1997.

Shadow Home Secretary Sir Brian Mawhinney, said: "We support the renewal of this
Act and we are reinforced in that view by what happened at Poyntzpass."

He said the Conservatives supported the right of Mr Straw to withdraw exclusion
orders against the advice of the review, even if there was an argument for
keeping it.

l Tory former Northern Ireland Secretary Lord Mayhew has asked the Government to
rethink plans to abandon the power to intern terrorist suspects without trial.

He told peers that it would be "extremely rash" to suppose that a political
settlement would bring an end to "politically motivated violence" in Ulster.

"Terrorist crimes will surely be seen again.

"To retain the power to detain without trial is a legitimate weapon in the
legislative armoury of any democratic state that is confronted with what is
confronting us in this country and in that part of this country which is
Northern Ireland."

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1998 Century Newspapers Limited

                              265 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 March 6, 1998

No Headline Present

BYLINE: William Russell

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 234 words


Mr Cook launched a fresh attempt to end the Middle East peace process stalemate
last night with a strong warning to Israel that it has a part to play in ending
the deadlock.

His comments were coupled with a reassurance to the Arab nations that Britain
understands their concerns. He insisted that the relationship between Britain
and the Arab world was strong.

Mr Cook, speaking at a Foreign Office reception to mark the 50th anniversary of
the Anglo-Arab Association, promised legislation that would allow the Government
to prosecute people who conspired in the United Kingdom to commit terrorist acts
abroad.

"We will not hesitate to deny anyone asylum who is abusing their refugee status
to promote terrorism," he said.

He also announced that, as part of Britain's presidency of the European Union,
he will be organising a meeting to work out how Europe and others could help the
UN in swift and effective implementation of the expanded oil-for-food programme
for Iraq. It would be chaired by himself and International Development Secretary
Clare Short.

Mr Cook will continue the efforts to stimulate the peace process next week when
the European Foreign Ministers meet in Edinburgh. The subject is at the top of
their agenda.

After the meeting, which will end on Saturday, he leaves the following day on a
three-day tour of the six Middle East countries, starting in Egypt.

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1998 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              266 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                                 March 10, 1998

Four held on drug charges

SECTION: Pg.1

LENGTH: 351 words


FOUR men were remanded in custody at Aberdeen Sheriff Court yesterday on charges
of being concerned in the illegal supply of cocaine and cannabis.

It is understood the charges followed a raid in which drugs to a value of over
GBP 100,000 were discovered.

Exit sought

FORMER EastEnders star Danniella Westbrook is desperate to emigrate to Australia
without former boyfriend Robert Fernnandez, she told Hello! magazine.

The interview emerged the day magistrates ordered Fernnandez to do 80 hours'
community service and pay a GBP 100 fine for driving while disqualified.

He was arrested after a car accident in which she nearly lost an eye.

Short answer

CLARE Short, the outspoken Government minister, will assert at a special address
in Edinburgh tonight that alliances between countries can end world poverty.

The address by the Secretary of State for International Development comes before
the meeting of European Union foreign ministers to be hosted by Foreign
Secretary Robin Cook in Edinburgh later this week.

Ulster bomb

TERRORISTS launched a mortar bomb attack on Armagh RUC station early today.

Two, and possibly three missiles, were fired at the station on the city's Friary
Road but nobody was hurt, an RUC spokesman said.

It is not known how much damage was caused but a spokesman said a number of
missiles had been fired.

Stalker shock

ANTI-stalking laws highlighted by the case of Titanic star Kate Winslet have
brought 10 times the expected number of cases, a TV documentary will claim
today.

The Home Office predicted that the Protection From Harassment Act, which came
into force last summer, would result in about 200 arrests a year.

There have been 1,360 in the law's first eight months - by only half of
Britain's police forces.

Disarm call

THE Trident missile submarine force based on the Clyde is Britain's only
remaining nuclear deterrent.

Moray Scottish National Party MP Margaret Ewing said last nght: "The sooner
Trident is gone from Scotland, the safer we will be." She was commenting on a
reply from Defence Minister Dr John Reid to a question from her.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                   Copyright 1998 Aberdeen Press and Journal

                              267 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                       March 10, 1998, Tuesday Edition 1

Bombs rain on police station - RUC chief speaks of a sinister twist in Ulster
conflict

BYLINE: By MELISSA KITE

SECTION: BRITAIN TONIGHT, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 335 words


   Terrorists launched a mortar bomb attack on a police station in Northern
Ireland early today.

Police said it was a miracle large numbers of people were not killed or injured
in the attack, which hit Armagh Royal Ulster Constabulary station without
warning.

Up to three missiles, were fired from a launch pad in Friary Road at around
12.40am today, police said.

Hundreds of people were evacuated from their homes after a soldier spotted the
launch framework and raised the alarm just after midnight.

"We heard three bangs and the next thing the police came round and told us to
get out quick," said one woman.

The bombing was blamed on a republican faction.

RUC Assistant Chief Constable Tom Craig said it was a "sinister twist" in a
ruthless campaign.

If the bombing were blamed on the Continuity IRA it would be the first time the
republican splinter group had mounted such an attack. Mortar bombs were the
Provisional IRA's hallmark in the 80s and 90s.

Bloodshed

Mr Craig said: "That and the no-warning nature marks a particularly sinister
twist. I can only conclude that those responsible are hell-bent on plunging this
community into bloodshed and mayhem."

About 100 people, many elderly, were evacuated from homes nearby and had to
spend the night in emergency accommodation.

There are no reports of any injuries. The extent of the damage has not yet been
fully assessed.

Sinn Fein chief negotiator Martin McGuinness said: "I don't know who was
responsible. It's a mistake to speculate. We have to pursue our attempts to put
in place an effective negotiating process which will deal with all the issues at
the heart of the conflict.

"Sinn Fein is working night and day to try to bring that about."

Ulster Unionist MP Jeffrey Donaldson called on the RUC Chief Constable to give
his assessment of whether the IRA was involved.

He said: "The only organisation in the past which has had the capability to
carry out this sort of attack was the Provisional IRA."

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 1998 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              268 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                       March 10, 1998, Tuesday Edition 1

Terrorist suspect is free

SECTION: BRITAIN TONIGHT, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 218 words


   A Government minister has tried to calm Unionist fury over the freeing of
terrorist suspect Roisin McAliskey by denying the decision was made to appease
Sinn Fein.

Home Office minister Mike O'Brien dismissed suggestions that halting her
extradition to Germany was a politically-inspired move aimed at getting the
Republicans back to the multi-party peace talks.

He insisted the decision was on medical grounds. He said: "It would be wrong for
political considerations to interfere with a decision to order an extradition or
not."

Yesterday, Jack Straw halted 26-year-old Ms McAliskey's extradition to Germany
to face bombing charges, saying her medical condition would make it "unjust and
oppressive".

Ms McAliskey is wanted over the IRA bombing of a British army barracks in
Osnabruck in June 1996.

She was arrested later that year but released on bail last year to give birth
and because she developed psychological problems.

She is currently in the Maudsley psychiatric hospital in London with her
daughter, Loinnir, born last May.

The decision was welcomed by the Irish government and McAliskey's family and
friends, but condemned by Tory MPs and Unionist politicians.

Ulster Unionist MP Ken Maginnis said: "No one will be surprised if she now makes
a miraculous recovery."

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TRUE COLOURS - Roisin McAliskey, right, carrying a coffin at an IRA
funeral, with her mother, the former MP Bernadette Devlin

                Copyright 1998 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              269 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            March 10, 1998, Tuesday

Freedom for McAliskey and her baby

BYLINE: Andrew Buncombe and Ros Wynne Jones

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Page 1

LENGTH: 562 words


ROISIN McAliskey, who was wanted in Germany on suspicion of being a member of an
IRA bombing team which attacked a British army barracks, was freed last night.

In a dramatic decision the Home Secretary, Jack Straw, said he would not allow
Ms McAliskey to be extradited to Germany on the grounds that it would be "unjust
and oppressive".

The 26-year-old was on bail residing at the Maudsley Hospital's mother and baby
unit in south London. It is understood that an independent psychiatric report
suggested that her health had been seriously undermined by her detention and was
deteriorating while on remand.

"She is a free woman," a Home Office spokeswoman said last night. However, it
was not clear when she would be returning home to Northern Ireland.  Her mother,
the former MP for Mid Ulster, Bernadette McAliskey, will travel to Britain from
her home in Coalisland today to see her daughter, who will not leave the
hospital until she is well enough.

The decision not to extradite Ms McAliskey, who was wanted in Germany for
questioning over the June 1996 bombing attack on the British Army barracks in
Osnabruck, last night sent shock waves around Westminster and Dublin. Her
release comes at a critical time in the peace talks and is certain to be
condemned by Unionists.

However, it was welcomed by the Irish government, which said it was in the
"wider interest of peace" and "would give heart" to those working towards peace.
The Irish Foreign Minister, David Andrews, said in a statement: "I have long
been concerned about the compelling humanitarian dimension to this case both for
Roisin and her baby, Loinnir."

Mr Andrews said he had repeatedly raised the issue in his contacts with the
British government, including the meeting of the Anglo-Irish inter- governmental
conference four days ago when he had "a full discussion of its implications"
with the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland, Mo Mowlam.

"Today's decision not only serves to bring an end to the suffering and
uncertainty faced by Roisin McAliskey and her family but is also in the wider
interest of peace and reconciliation in these days," he said.

Last night Mrs McAliskey said: "I'm relieved and delighted. We can now
concentrate on getting her well again. Roisin is quite calm under the
circumstances, but I don't think she really realises what is going on."

Ms McAliskey had been held on extradition charges since being arrested in
Coalisland in November 1996. She was three months pregnant at the time, but
despite this bail was refused. Weak, ill and suffering from a series of
complications, she gave birth last summer to a baby girl weighing 5lb 13oz.

The Home Office statement issued last night said: " Mr Straw considers the
medical evidence in her case would make the extradition unjust or oppressive".
It added: "The Home Secretary has explained his decision to the German
government. It does not reflect in any way on the fairness of the German legal
system or on the quality of the extradition request."

However, Ms McAliskey's supporters have constantly dismissed the German
authorities' contention that the former politics student was involved in the
mortar attack.

The German government said last night that it could not comment on the decision
until it had been made aware of all the reasons behind the move.


LOAD-DATE: March 10, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1998 Independent Print Ltd

                              270 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Nottingham Evening Post

                                 March 10, 1998

World and national news

SECTION: World And National News, Pg.8

LENGTH: 1512 words


Hospice to bid for Diana cash

AN EAST Midlands charity today said it hoped to be included in the second round
of grants from the Diana, Princess of Wales Memorial Fund.

Fund trustees revealed today that eight charities would get an immediate GBP 1m
each. Another GBP 5m will be shared between 100 groups later in the year.

The Rainbows Hospice in Loughborough hopes to be among the next group of
beneficiaries. It is the only children's hospice in the region.

Co-founder Gail Moore said they intended to apply for cash to extend the unit
from six to eight beds - which would cost GBP 60,000 a year.

But she refused to be drawn into criticism of the way the money was being shared
out.

Mrs Moore said: "The trustees have had a difficult time choosing the eight main
charities. It's a positive thing they are trying to achieve through the trust.

Defended

"We will be making an application to the trust in the normal way."

Trustees have defended the way the shareout has been handled.

Christopher Spence, chairman of the grants committee, said it was impossible to
please everyone.

All six charities of which the princess was either patron or president at the
time of her death last August will get GBP 1m.

They are homeless charity Centrepoint, the English National Ballet, Great Ormond
Street Hospital for Children, the Leprosy Mission, the National AIDS Trust and
the Royal Marsden NHS Trust.

Another GBP 1m will go to groups working with people affected by landmines.

A grant of GBP 1m has also been awarded to The Osteopathic Centre for Children,
London, because the princess had planned to launch its Sweet Pea Appeal last
year.

Criticism of the handouts came from the Parkinson's Disease Society.

Chief executive Barry Brookin said: "We are surprised that GBP 8m has been
allocated to just eight causes, whereas GBP 5m will be shared among 100 more."

Ferry safety is slammed

Mediterranean ferries fail to reach basic safety equipment standards, said the
Consumers' Association today.

Of 26 ferries inspected by the association, only two were rated good and all
failed the safety equipment check.

The check involved the condition of lifeboats, life-rafts and the maintenance of
lifejackets and rope ladders.

There were also problems on Dover-Calais ferries, including unmarked muster
stations, problems finding child lifejackets and poor handrails.

The findings are reported in Holiday Which? magazine.

Of the 38 roll-on/roll-off ferries using British ports 19 were rated good and 19
satisfactory.

Ferries using British ports are covered by stricter safety standards than those
in the Mediterranean.

Stars urged to cover up

FILM fans have warned screen stars who shed their clothes too often: "Keep your
kit on".

Users of a movie magazine web site have listed the stars they do not want to see
naked.

Persistent offenders Helen Mirren, Greta Scacchi and Demi Moore head the list of
women who readers say should stay clothed.

Among the men, Harvey Keitel, Alan Bates and Marlon Brando top the list of those
who should keep themselves under wraps.

At the other extreme, stars that film fans would like to see naked include Kate
Winslet - who disrobed for both Jude and Titanic - Cameron Diaz and Michelle
Pfeiffer.

The male stars who should strip off include Leonardo DiCaprio, Ewan McGregor and
Pierce Brosnan.

Beef protest

MORE than 100 farmers today staged a demonstration outside a court where
Britain's first beef-on-the-bone ban prosecution was taking place. The farmers
from the Scottish Borders gathered outside Selkirk Sheriff Court where hotelier
Jim Sutherland, 44, was appearing accused of supplying beef on the bone. One
carried a cardboard coffin to symbolise the state of the beef industry.

GBP 120m trains

PASSENGERS are to get GBP 120m worth of new trains on a stretch of line where
1960s slam-door carriages still run, it was announced today. Sixteen new 100mph
trains are being ordered by Regional Railways North East to operate on its
Leeds-Bradford-Ilkley-Skipton route in Yorkshire.

Wine finding

WOMEN are still treated as second class citizens when it comes to wine,
according to a survey by Thresher Wine Shop which found that more than 70% are
never given the chance to taste a new bottle by waiters.Thresher expert Joanne
Locke said: "Women are knowledgeable on the subject. But the fact remains the
public perception is that they still know less than men."

Monster price

A RARE 1933 poster for the film King Kong failed to reach its estimated price at
auction - but still raised a monster GBP 28,750. The 81in poster, one of four
known copies showing the giant ape astride the Empire State Building, had been
expected to make up to GBP 50,000 at the Christie's sale.

Vaccine blow

SINGLE doses of the three vaccines combined in the measles, mumps and rubella
immunisation have dried up following a huge demand from parents for the doses to
be given separately to children, says pharmaceutical company Pasteur Merieux,
which produces the vaccines for the NHS.

Taped up

THE red tape that is strangling British businesses comes from Whitehall, not
Brussels, according to Tory MEP Bryan Cassidy (Dorset and East Devon). Last year
Eurocrats produced 2,653 new rules - but UK bureaucrats managed 3,114, he said.

GBP 2.5m from UK

BRITAIN has handed United Nations Human Rights Commissioner Mary Robinson GBP
2.5m to help with programmes for the poor and disadvantaged. The former Irish
president, who recently took over as High Commissioner for Human Rights, is
seeking to step up UN work in developing countries.

N-ship snub

A British ship carrying 30 tonnes of nuclear waste was refused permission to
enter a Japanese port today. The Pacific Swan was due to conclude a highly
controversial, two-month journey from France by docking in Rokkasho but
villagers and local politicians objected to their area becoming a "nuclear
dump." In a rare show of defiance, local governor Morio Kimura refused to allow
the ship to dock. He said he first wanted an assurance from Prime Minister
Ryutaro Hashimoto that progress was being made toward finding a permanent
storage site elsewhere.

Oil hits birds

THOUSANDS of birds have been caught in a seven-mile-long oil slick along
Denmark's North Sea coast. The oil, on a beach along the western island of
Fanoe, was first spotted last Friday. About 2,000 gulls and ducks were smeared
by the oil and biologists believe they have little chance of survival.
Authorities planned to start killing the worst hit birds.

Bomb kills 12

A BOMB exploded on a train entering a Pakistan station today killing ten people
and injuring more than 80. The explosion in Lahore, capital of the eastern
Punjab province, followed two other blasts yesterday that left 12 dead and more
than 50 wounded. The latest blast ripped through two carriages packed with
labourers.

I'm fine - Boris

BORIS Yeltsin, often plagued by rumours of poor health, said today that doctors
found no problems when they examined him last week. The 67-year-old Russian
President said in the Kremlin that he underwent medical checks by a group of
doctors five days ago. He added: "No deviations were found. They found no
change, even in the blood micro-elements."

Branson dip

RICHARD Branson, head of British conglomerate Virgin, braved a chilly winter day
and plunged into a public fountain in Place de la Concorde yesterday to promote
the Virgin Cola soft drink. In a wetsuit and flippers, Branson jumped into the
fountain then swam about while clinging onto a buoy shaped like a soda can in
the central Paris square.

Power return

AUCKLAND, deserted by most businesses and tourists after long-running power
failures, limped through yesterday without any major blackouts. It was the first
time since power feeding the commercial heart of New Zealand's biggest city
failed on February 20 that this had happened. The cause of the failure of the
four power cables is not known.

Mortar bombs fired at station

A POLICE station in Northern Ireland was attacked with mortar bombs today.

Officers said it was a miracle large numbers of people were not killed when
terrorists attacked the station in Armagh.

Two or three missiles were fired from a launch pad in a nearby road at 12.40am.

It is thought at least one device may have failed to explode and Army experts
were carrying out a minute search of the area.

The attack was blamed on a republican faction.

RUC Assistant Chief Constable Tom Craig said it was a sinister twist in a
ruthless campaign.

The attack was an extremely worrying development, he said.

If it was the work of the Continuity IRA it would be the first time the
republican splinter group had mounted such an attack. Mortar bombs were the
hallmark of the Provisional IRA in the 80s and 90s.

"I can only conclude that those responsible are hell-bent on plunging this
community into bloodshed and mayhem," said Mr Craig.

"These people are prepared to play fast and loose with the lives of Catholics,
Protestants, police officers - anyone and everyone who stands in their way."

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: LOUISE MUST WAIT: British au pair Louise Woodward, right, leaving
Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court in Boston with her mother Susan after the
appeal against her conviction in connection with the death of Matthew Eappen.
She now faces weeks of waiting to learn if she will finally return home to
Britain. Seven judges will decide the fate of the 20-year-old after yesterday's
tense 55-minute hearing in which both prosecution and defence mounted appeals.

                     Copyright 1998 Nottingham Evening Post

                              271 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                 March 10, 1998

Britain blocks extradition of IRA suspect McAliskey

SECTION: Pg.28

LENGTH: 273 words


Home Secretary Jack Straw has stopped the extradition of Roisin McAliskey to
Germany to face IRA bombing charges, saying her medical condition would make the
move "unjust and oppressive".

The decision was welcomed by the Irish government and McAliskey's family and
friends, but condemned by Tory MPs.

Ms McAliskey is wanted by the Germans over the IRA bombing of a British army
barracks in Osnabruck in June 1996.

She was arrested later that year but was released on bail last year to give
birth and because she developed psychological problems. She is currently in the
Maudsley psychiatric hospital in London with her daughter, Loinnir, born last
May.

Her mother, former nationalist MP Bernadette McAliskey, said: "I'm relieved and
delighted. We can now concentrate on getting her well again."

But the Shadow Home Secretary, Sir Brian Mawhinney, linked the decision to the
Government's "appeasement" of Sinn Fein in the Northern Ireland peace process.

"The fairest way to see justice is done is to let McAliskey answer questions
and, if necessary, face charges in Germany."

The Irish Government welcomed the move. Foreign Minister David Andrews said it
was "in the wider interests of peace" and would "give heart" to those working
for a settlement.

"I have long been concerned about the compelling humanitarian dimension to this
case for Roisin and her baby."

A spokesman for the Ministry of Justice in German declined to comment until
there was greater detail about the reasons for Mr Straw's decision.

But the Home Office insisted the move "does not reflect in any way on the
fairness of the German legal system."

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 1998 Western Morning News

                              272 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                      March 11, 1998, Wednesday Edition 4

Germans demand McAliskey be put on trial

SECTION: BRITAIN TONIGHT, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 240 words


   Germany wants Britain to take over the prosecution of terrorist suspect
Roisin McAliskey.

Federal prosecutors said she should face proceedings despite the Home
Secretary's decision to halt her extradition to face charges over an IRA bomb
attack on a British Army base at Osnabruck 21 months ago. Jack Straw defended
his decision to refuse the extradition request on the grounds of her mental
health. But the collapse of the investigation into Miss McAliskey's alleged role
in the 1996 IRA attack disappointed German prosecutors.

The German appeal came as her supporters pledged to fight on to find who is to
blame for her extradition ordeal. Miss McAliskey, 26, was arrested in 1996 but
released on bail last year to give birth and because of psychological problems.
She is in a psychiatric hospital with her daughter, Loinnir.

Yesterday her mother, ex-MP Bernadette McAliskey, visited them before attending
a news conference, where with comedian Jeremy Hardy, she called for someone to
be held to account.

Two men appeared in court today charged with murdering two friends gunned down
in a village bar in Co. Armagh. Ryan Robley, 28, and David Keys, 26, both of
Banbridge, Co. Down, who have denied killing Philip Allen, 34, and Damien
Trainor, 25, were remanded in custody.

Earlier Harold Porter, 26, from Belfast, was remanded in custody charged with
murdering Catholic taxi-driver Larry Brennan in January.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ANGER - ex-MP Bernadette McAliskey and Jeremy Hardy who want someone
held to account for her daughter Roisin's illness

                Copyright 1998 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              273 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 11, 1998

Germans demand McAliskey trial

BYLINE: IAN TRAYNOR IN BONN AND OWEN BOWCOTT

SECTION: The Guardian Home Page; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 617 words


GERMAN prosecutors yesterday demanded that Roisin McAliskey be tried in Britain
for an IRA mortar attack in Osnabruck as her supporters claimed she had
contracted brittle bone disease after 15 months in jail and may never fully
recover her health.

With the political row over her freedom intensifying, the Home Secretary, Jack
Straw, defended his decision to halt her extradition on the grounds of her
mental health.

"I studied the file on Roisin McAliskey with enormous care," Mr Straw said at
the Prison Governors' Association conference in Buxton, Derbyshire. "We arranged
for an independent senior forensic psychiatrist to interview her and to study
her medical reports.

"I took account of that and all the other evidence and I made the decision
principally on medical grounds."

The collapse of the 18 month investigation into Ms McAliskey's alleged role in
the 1996 IRA attack on a British army base in northern Germany disappointed
federal prosecutors in Karlsruhe.

"We are requesting that the British take over the prosecution," said Eva
Schuebel, spokeswoman for the Karlsruhe office.

The prosecutors' insistence that Ms McAliskey not be allowed to go free,
however, contrasted with the view of the government in Bonn, which appeared
happy to close the book on the IRA case.

Bernhard Boehm, of the justice ministry, signalled German acceptance of Mr
Straw's ruling and indicated that Bonn would not be pursuing the matter. "We
respect this decision. The case is now closed because the British decision is
final," he said.

Germany refuses to extradite its own nationals for trial abroad, insisting on
trying suspects at home. That stance infuriated the Irish Republic, which
refuses to extradite suspects to Germany on the grounds of lack of reciprocity.

Ms McAliskey is undergoing treatment at the Maudsley psychiatric hospital, south
London, with her daughter, Loinnir, who was born last May.

Yesterday her mother, Bernadette McAliskey, the former Nationalist MP for Mid
-Ulster, said: "Roisin is ill and she is ill as a consequence of being arrested
and detained in Castlereagh detention centre (in Belfast) and being moved to
Holloway and to Belmarsh and back to Holloway.

"My understanding from the Home Office psychiatric report is that my daughter is
not expected ever to make a 100 per cent recovery. Roisin's reality is that she
may walk with a limp for the rest of her life."

Her supporters say she is being examined for osteoporosis (brittle bone
disease). Deprived of daylight and having given birth, her body is short of
calcium. In the past the Prison Service has insisted she be given room to
exercise on an outside roof.

But her most severe problems, her mother said, were caused by the post
-traumatic stress after her arrest and interview at Castlereagh.

As an eight-year-old, Roisin saw her mother wounded in a loyalist gun attack on
their home near Coalisland, County Tyrone. "A police officer who had been at the
scene of the shooting was brought in during the course of questioning," Mrs
McAliskey said.

"He detailed events to Roisin in the course of which she remembered things she
had not previously been aware of. That's what has made her ill." The family is
contemplating legal action for compensation.

Ms McAliskey is expected to remain in the hospital for a time. Under the terms
of her bail she had been able to visit her partner, Sean McCotter, who has moved
to south London to be near her.

She is said to have become fixated on her young daughter.

One of her supporters who told her that she was now free to leave hospital, said
she appeared bewildered, and replied: "But all my clothes are here."


LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              274 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           March 11, 1998, Wednesday

ROISIN MAY SUE OVER HER PRISON ORDEAL;
 'SOMEONE IS TO BLAME' SAYS MUM;
 ROISIN MCALISKEY'S MOTHER CLAIMS HER DAUGHTER MAY SEEK COMPENSATION FOR HER 16
MONTH EXTRADITION FIGHT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 480 words


ROISIN McALISKEY'S mother said last night that her daughter may seek
compensation for her 16-month ordeal fighting extradition to Germany.

After visiting Roisin, who is receiving psychiatric tratment at London's
Maudsley Hospital, Bernadette McAliskey said her daughter was left with physical
and psychological scars.

She said: "I understand from the Home Office psychiatric report that she is not
expected to make a 100 per cent recovery.

"And she may walk with a limp for the rest of her life.

"Roisin is ill as a consequence of being arrested and detained in Castlereagh
and being moved to Holloway, then Belmarsh, then back to Holloway. Someone is
accountable for all of that, for my daughter's state of health.

"Someone is accountable for the fact that the European extradition treaty is a
mess and open to abuse."

She added grim-faced: "These matters are not resolved by ending proceedings
against Roisin.

"Someone is to blame."

The former nationalist MP, who was partnered at a press conference by comedian
Jeremy Hardy, hinted that she and her daughter may seek compensation after
considering their legal position.

Roisin, 26, is wanted by German police investigating the IRA bombing of a
British Army barracks in Osnabruck in June 1996.

She was arrested later that year but was released on bail last year after giving
birth to daughter Loinnir and developing mental problems.

Yesterday Britain's Home Secretary Jack Straw stood by his claims that he had
ordered the extradition to be quashed bnecause such a move would be "unjust and
oppressive".

He strenuously denied allegations that he acted for political reasons.

"I applied myself as I am required to do by law to the facts of the case and the
evidence before me and took no other considerations into account," he said.

He said he was required by law not to allow a prisoner to be extradited if he
thought it was "unjust or oppressive" to do so.

"I studied the file on Roisin McAliskey with enormous care. We arranged for an
independent senior forensic psychiatrist to interview her and to study all her
medical reports.

"I took account of that and all the other evidence and I made my decision
principally on medical grounds.""

He added that he had explained his decision to the German Ministry of Justice.

"It's unusual but not exceptional for such circumstances to arise and all our
partner Ministries of Justice understand that," he said.

Mr Straw has come under attack by Loyalists who believe the decision was a
politically-inspired sop to get the republicans back to the multi- party peace
talks.

Roisin's supporters accuse the Home Office of "sidestepping" the real issue by
relying solely on medical evidence to stop her extradition to Germany on bombing
charges, and not attacking the German authorities for their lack of evidence.

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: IN HOSPITAL: Roisin McAliskey

                            Copyright 1998 MGN Ltd.

                              275 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                            March 12, 1998, Thursday

MCALISKEY DECISION 'ON MEDICAL GROUNDS'

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 272 words


MO Mowlam was drawn into the Roisin McAliskey affair yesterday.

The Ulster Secretary insisted in the Commons that the hotly disputed decision
not to extradite the IRA bombing suspect to Germany was taken on medical - and
not political - grounds.

Tory spokesman Malcolm Moss had asked whether she agreed with Dublin that Ms
McAliskey's mental state had been worsened by RUC questioning or whether, like
the Conservatives, she believed the allegations were without foundation.

Dr Mowlam replied that although the Eire government had made known its views
"very strongly" on the issue, the Home Office had received no "specific
submissions" on the claims.

Later, the Prime Minister told the House there had been no request from Germany
for Ms McAliskey to be tried in Britain on bombing charges.

But he indicated that Home Secretary Jack Straw would consider any request "in
the normal way".

He said Mr Straw's decision to refuse an extradition request had been taken
"alone, in accordance with the powers he has and on the basis of the medical
evidence".

Mr Moss had asked Dr Mowlam if, in view of the allegations against the RUC, she
intended to instigate an inquiry.

If she believed, as the Tories did, that the allegations were completely without
foundation, why had she not issued a statement unequivocally repudiating them,
Mr Moss wanted to know.

Dr Mowlam said: "The Home Secretary made clear as he made his announcement last
night, it (the decision not to extradite) was taken on medical grounds as an
independent decision. It was not taken in relation to the lobbying he had
received."

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DISPUTE: Roisin McAliskey

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1998 Century Newspapers Limited

                              276 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 March 12, 1998

Deadly harvest of cheap food

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 531 words


ONCE we were advised to wash fruit to get rid of the noxious cocktail of
chemicals with which it was doused.

Then we were warned to peel it. Now we learn that pesticides and nitrate
residues which can cause cancer are to be found deep inside fruit.

Sheep, cattle and poultry are regularly pumped full of antibiotics to help them
survive the cramped and unhygienic conditions in which they are raised.

The result is that bacteria such as Salmonella and E-coli which affect humans
are mutating and becoming resistant to antibiotics. Hormones which can cause
cancers and changes to secondary sexual characteristics in humans are used
widely, but illegally, to speed up animal growth.

We suspect that future generations will look back in fury at the madness which
gripped Britain's post-war farming policies. But the real villain of the piece
is surely the Common Agricultural Policy with its ludicrously high support
prices.

They bribe farmers to overproduce poor quality food, relying heavily on
pesticides and chemicals.

In the end, consumers will be faced with the choice of whether they want to pay
more for food that is more safely produced.

Question of justice

BRITAIN has struggled for many years to persuade members of the European Union
that those accused of IRA atrocities should be extradited.

Now Home Secretary Jack Straw has made a mockery of the policy by refusing
'principally on medical grounds' to send Roisin McAliskey back to Germany to
stand trial for her alleged part in the IRA attack on the British barracks at
Osnabruck.

Mr Straw's refusal is widely seen as yet another sop to Sinn Fein/IRA. In order
to appease the gunmen and the bombers who stand behind Gerry Adams he has
signalled, however wrongly, that this government does not set a high price on
the safety of British servicemen. He has also snubbed the judicial system of a
powerful European nation.

Now the German authorities are asking that Miss McAliskey should stand trial in
Britain. The Government must ensure that Miss McAliskey does so. Any other
decision would be a betrayal of justice.

Priority treatment

EVERY day of life is a bonus for 24-year-old Leigh Anderson. She is dying of
leukaemia, and unless she receives a bone marrow transplant she could be dead
within weeks. There are currently around 6,000 people in the UK awaiting similar
lifesaving operations.

It is not for lack of public sympathy or support that people like Leigh might
die prematurely. What is disturbing, however, is that volunteer donors had to
register their names with a charity, not a public health service agency
dedicated to a co-ordinated, properly funded, bone marrow donation programme.

The Anthony Nolan Trust, is a relatively small and overstretched organisation.

The Government, while agreeing to review the position, suggests that simply
throwing money at the problem is unlikely to solve it. That is undoubtedly
correct.

What is required is for the NHS to assume greater responsibility, instead of
relying so heavily on the good offices of a hard-pressed charity. For people
like Leigh Anderson it could literally be a matter of life or death.


LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1998 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              277 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                       March 12, 1998, Thursday Edition 1

'No German request' for trial of McAliskey in UK

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS, Pg. 14

LENGTH: 283 words


   No request for IRA terrorist suspect Roisin McAliskey to be tried in Britain
has yet been received from Germany, the Government said yesterday.

Federal prosecutors in Karlsruhe issued a statement on Tuesday saying they were
asking Britain to take over the case against Ms McAliskey, who was facing
charges in connection with an IRA bomb attack on a British army base.

But the Prime Minister's official spokesman said yesterday that they had yet to
receive a formal request from the German government for the case to be dealt
with by the British courts.

"They are perfectly entitled to make such a request if they want to," he said.
"If they were to do that, we would consider it."

On Monday, Home Secretary Jack Straw decided, on medical grounds, to stop
extradition proceedings against Ms McAliskey, who was accused in relation to the
attack

on the Osnabruck base 21 months ago.

The move infuriated Unionists who claimed the decision was politically motivated
to keep Sinn Fein at the Ulster peace talks - a charge strongly denied by Mr
Straw.

A Home Office spokesman said any request by the Germans for the trial to be held
in Britain would have to be made at a government-to-government level.

However a spokesman at the German Embassy in London said that when extradition
proceedings were dropped in such circumstances it was normal to consider whether
a trial could be held in the country where the accused was living.

Ms McAliskey, 26, was arrested in 1996 but was released on bail last year to
give birth and because she developed psychological problems.

She is in the Maudsley psychiatric hospital in London with her daughter,
Loinnir, born last May.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 1998 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              278 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 16, 1998

Women: The hardest labour of all;
For 16 months, Roisin McAliskey (left) has been held in custody. Last week, she
was freed. Childbirth expert Sheila Kitzinger visited her and her baby daughter
in prison. Here, she describes the hell McAliskey has been through

BYLINE: SHEILA KITZINGER

SECTION: The Guardian Features Page; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1144 words


I got to know Roisin McAliskey in March 1997 after she'd been in prison for four
months on suspicion of being involved with a car bomb that exploded on a British
army base in Germany. Roisin was pregnant; she'd had 75 strip searches since
November. Her solicitor, Gareth Peirce, rang to ask my advice on expert
witnesses who could examine her as a Category A prisoner expecting a baby. I was
able to get Lesley Page, Queen Charlotte's Professor of Midwifery, Wendy Savage,
senior lecturer in obstetrics and gynaecology at the Royal London Hospital, and
John Davis, emeritus professor of paediatrics at Cambridge University.

It was important for me to reach out to Roisin. Over the years, I've tried to
help women in childbirth who, on the whole, have been educated, fairly confident
and articulate. Now I have become committed to the needs of women who are
discriminated against, vulnerable and abused, and who, as yet, have no voice:
women refugees and asylum-seekers, and pregnant women in prisons.

The case against Roisin was thin. During the period when she was alleged to have
been planning the attack, the 26-year-old politics graduate was at home in
Coalisland, County Tyrone, and at work in Dungannon. She was employed by the
government-funded Irish World organisation, which provides training places for
the disabled, the long-term unemployed and ex-offenders from both communities.
So I didn't feel I was communicating with a likely terrorist. But that's beside
the point. Here was a woman passing through a great transition in her life and
bringing a baby into the world.

Professor Page told me she hadn't been prepared for the 'shock of going through
the clanking doors' at Holloway and the sense of imprisonment she felt
personally. 'I was horrified at the conditions under which a pregnant woman was
being kept. She was let out of her small cell for one hour out of 24 - if she
was lucky. I was ashamed that, in Britain today, anyone should be imprisoned
under such conditions and such circumstances - without having been tried.' The
light was kept on in Roisin's cell day and night. Reading material was taken
away at 8pm and not returned until the morning. She had panic attacks,
especially at night, and woke with severe pains in her legs, frightened that
something terrible was happening to her and her baby. She found it difficult to
relate to and bond with the baby inside her because she knew there was a risk
that her child might be taken away from her at birth. She and her unborn baby
were both being punished.

Professor Davis says: 'If you asked 'What is the ideal place for a baby to be
born into?' this is the exact opposite. No human being should come into the
world in these circumstances.' No full-length mirrors are allowed in prison, so
Roisin never saw herself pregnant until she caught sight of herself in a mirror
during a hospital visit. She fainted. Visitors could talk to her only through a
glass panel, so her partner, Sean, only ever saw her head and shoulders. 'He
never saw me pregnant,' Roisin says; he still grieves that he did not have a
chance to feel the baby move.

Roisin gave birth at Whittington Hospital in May last year. The powers that be
planned to send her back to Holloway with her new-born baby. She was terrified
because she'd been warned by other prisoners that they would attack her and the
baby. She was under intolerable stress and, on psychiatric advice, went instead
to the Maudsley Hospital mother and baby unit, where she has been since May.

She and Loinnir - the baby's name means 'ray of light through the darkness' -
are utterly in love with each other. If ever a mother and baby are bonded, these
two are. Loinnir is breastfed and sleeps with Roisin in her bed. They are
inseparable.

But now Loinnir is 10 months old and she and Roisin need to move on, find other
relationships and explore a wider world. It is going to be difficult to do this.
Roisin is frightened. She says: 'I've never even crossed a major road with
Loinnir.' The supporters who agitated for her release seem to have melted away
and she realises that there are challenges she must now face alone. Whatever the
politics involved, she is emotionally vulnerable and distressed. She is told she
is 'free', but is left as disempowered and mauled as after a rape.

Roisin was one of up to 40 pregnant women in Holloway, with smaller numbers in
other prisons. There was the 17-year-old convicted of being look-out for a
friend who stole shirts from Marks & Spencer in Cheltenham. The judge announced
that she was to be kept in prison for two weeks after the birth and the baby was
to be taken away from her during that time, 'to punish her'. Before that, there
was the woman prisoner who gave birth in chains in a Manchester hospital because
she had walked out of an unlocked door at the antenatal clinic and gone home.
'To see the children,' she told me.

There was protest by women in the childbirth movement and we succeeded in
getting women out of chains during labour and while they held their new-born
babies in hospital. They are still chained going to and from hospital, and
prison officers, often male, are still present during labour, in case they try
to escape.

Much more is needed than simply removing shackles. According to the Home Office,
more than half of women prisoners who are mothers have become pregnant in their
teens. Nearly 30 per cent are single mothers, compared with 8 per cent in the
general population. Most women in prison are there not because they are violent
but because of fraud, petty theft and other minor offences. Their lives are in a
mess. They cannot cope. Most are not convicted and do not receive a prison
sentence.

Pregnant women in prison, like other women, benefit from emotional support and
friendship. In Holloway, they are at last able to have continuity of care from
community midwives who come into the prison to antenatal clinics. An informal
doula (birth sister) scheme has also been started. The doulas offer friendship
and information during pregnancy, support the woman during childbirth and are on
hand afterwards to help with feeding, talk about her relationship with the baby
and her partner, and so on. They give the social support that is often totally
lacking in women prisoners' lives.

But should these pregnant women be in prison at all? There could be another way:
Channi Kumar, professor of perinatal psychiatry at the Maudsley, who has been
caring for Roisin McAliskey, would like to set up a special medium secure unit
for pregnant prisoners who could benefit from psychotherapy. 'We need something
to meet their psychological and emotional needs in a way that is better than
anything that can be provided in a prison setting,' he says. 'And we need this
not only for the mothers' sake, but for the babies' sake, too.'


LOAD-DATE: March 16, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              279 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                                 March 18, 1998

West jobless rate plunges

SECTION: Pg.4

LENGTH: 325 words


NATIONAL: Unemployment continued to fall today when new figures showed the
jobless total plunging to an 18-year low.

The South West enjoyed one of the biggest drops, with 1,800 fewer people out of
work. There are 85,000 jobless in the region, 3.6 per cent of the workforce.

The national unemployment rate is now 4.9 per cent - 1.3 per cent lower than a
year ago.

Average earnings also showed an improvement, with the annual increase in the
year to January steady at 4.5 per cent.

The number of people claiming benefit in February dropped across Britain by
13,700 to 1,383,800 - the 24th straight monthly fall and the lowest level since
summer 1980.

Terror bomb

ULSTER: The Loyalist Volunteer Force terror group today claimed responsibility
for planting a bomb in a Northern Ireland club during a St Patrick's Night
party.

A man leaped a fence to plant the device as 200 people - Protestants and
Catholics - watched youngsters performing Irish dances.

Children and parents broke down in tears as they fled St Comgall's Recreation
Club in Larne, County Antrim. Experts were called to blow up the device.

MPs' cricket rap

WESTMINSTER: Cricket chiefs were condemned by MPs today for their treatment of
women.

A Commons early day motion said the England and Wales Cricket Board should be
denied public and Lottery money until it pledges to implement proper equal
opportunities policies. The move follows the industrial tribunal victory by
Lord's receptionist Theresa Harrild.

Straw's pledges

LONDON: The family of murdered black teenager Stephen Lawrence will take part in
the public inquiry into his death after being given "assurances" by Home
Secretary Jack Straw, a spokesman for the family said.

Leftovers shared

BIRMINGHAM: More than 80 tonnes of food left from Britain's biggest food and
drink show at the National Exhibition Centre was being distributed today to
charities across the country.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1998 Bristol United Press

                              280 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                             March 20, 1998, Friday

PALACE DATE FOR TESSA

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 193 words


TESSA Sanderson, Britain's queen of the javelin, was going to Buckingham Palace
today to receive her OBE for services to both athletics and charity.

The honour for Tessa, from Wolverhampton, comes seven months after she confirmed
her retirement from athletics at the age of 41.

She has attended a record-equalling six Olympics, the first as a nine-stone 21
-year-old who looked almost out of place among the throwers.

She had taken up the javelin at the age of 14 in a bet with a schoolfriend for a
bag of chips.

Her OBE joins gold medals from the 1984 Los Angeles Olympics and from three
Commonwealth Games.

An Army bomb disposal expert who risked his life by removing his protective
clothing to reach two IRA bombs hidden beneath the M6 at Walsall was receiving
the George Medal for gallantry.

Warrant Officer Aminul Islam, 38, of the Royal Logistics Corps, had to get close
to the bombs where remote controlled equipment could not be used.

The George Medal is awarded for conspicuous gallantry.

Also receiving the OBE from the Prince of Wales was Jack Rowell, who resigned as
England Rugby Union coach in August last year.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TESSA SANDERSON

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1998 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              281 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                            March 21, 1998, Saturday

GOING FOR GOLD

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 245 words


Britain's most successful javelin thrower Tessa Sanderson shows off another gold
medal to add to her collection. She had just collected an OBE at Buckingham
Palace.

The honour for the Wolverhampton star's contribution to athletics and charity
came seven months after she confirmed her retirement from the sport at the age
of 41.

She has attended a record-equalling six Olympics and won the gold in 1984 at Los
Angeles.

She was given an MBE by the Queen after her Olympic triumph and yesterday was
presented with the OBE by the Prince of Wales.

"It was really nice since it was by Prince Charles and this is gold so I hope
it's appropriate," she said.

And an Army bomb disposal expert, who risked his life by removing his protective
clothing to reach two IRA bombs hidden beneath the M6, received the George Medal
at the ceremony.

Warrant Officer Aminul Islam, aged 39, of the Royal Logistic Corps, had to get
close to the bombs because they had been concealed on scaffolding where remote
-controlled equipment could not be used. The devices were placed high up and the
first was found to be fully primed and containing high explosive.

Warrant Officer Islam, who joined the Army in 1975, was given the award for
conspicuous gallantry. But he admitted he was more concerned about looking a
fool in front of his colleagues, saying: "As I started to climb up the
scaffolding, I thought: 'If I fall off now I'm going to look pretty stupid'."

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1998 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              282 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            March 21, 1998, Saturday

OBE HONOUR FOR OUR TESSA

BYLINE: By Staff Reporter

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 187 words


MIDLAND athlete Tessa Sanderson - Britain's most successful javelin thrower -
collected another medal for her collection when she received her OBE at
Buckingham Palace.

The honour for the Wolverhampton star's contribution to athletics and charity
came seven months after she confirmed her retirement from the sport at 41.

She has attended a record-equalling six Olympics and won the gold in 1984 at Los
Angeles.

She was given an MBE by the Queen after her Olympic triumph and yesterday was
presented with the OBE by the Prince of Wales.

"It was really nice since it was by Prince Charles and this is gold so I hope
it's appropriate," she said.

And an Army bomb disposal expert, who risked his life by removing his protective
clothing to reach two IRA bombs hidden beneath the M6, received the George Medal
at the ceremony.

Warrant Officer Aminul Islam, aged 39, of the Royal Logistic Corps, had to get
close to the bombs because they had been concealed on scaffolding where remote
-controlled equipment could not be used. The devices were found to be fully
primed and containinghigh explosive.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1998 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              283 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                             March 22, 1998, Sunday

ADAMS REJOINS PEACE TALKS;
 ADAMS REJOINS PEACE TALKS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 309 words


LEADERS of Sinn Fein, including Gerry Adams, will be back at the Ulster peace
talks tomorrow.

The party, long seen as the IRA's political arm, was thrown out after two
murders in Northern Ireland last month.

But even after the ban was over, Sinn Fein still refused to take its seat at the
table. It accused Britain and Ireland of acting unfairly, because it denied
having links with violence.

Now the decision, which ends weeks of uncertainty, will be welcomed by both
governments who want to wrap up a peace deal by April 9.

Ulster Unionists yesterday insisted there would be no face-to-face talks between
Sinn Fein president Adams and Official Unionist leader David Trimble.

"It would be a mockery," said the party's security spokesman Ken Maginnis.

"Their political philosophy is so pitted with evil that they can have no place
in any ultimate agreement. What Sinn Fein-IRA need is a fundamental rethink and
they are incapable of that."

The talks were yesterday described as "the chance of a lifetime" for peace by Mo
Mowlam. The Northern Ireland Secretary was in Warrington to mark the fifth
anniversary of the IRA bombing which killed Tim Parry, 12, and three-year-old
Johnathan Ball when two blasts ripped through the central shopping area.

Ms Mowlam said: "It is impossible to speak here without being conscious of the
terrible price that violence has wrought on both sides of the Irish Sea.

"The deaths of Tim and Johnathan left us stunned. People said it can't go on,
but it has and more lives have been lost and more families bereaved.  This
really is the chance of a lifetime, not just for politicians around a table, but
for all of us. This time we are going for a result."

The dead boys' mothers released five doves to mark the occasion. More doves were
released in Belfast, Dublin and Londonderry.

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1998 MGN Ltd.

                              284 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                        March 23, 1998, Monday Edition 1

Loyalists call for Sinn Fein ban

SECTION: BRITAIN TONIGHT, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 180 words


   Ulster Unionists are preparing a new bid to have Sinn Fein thrown out of the
Northern Ireland peace talks again today.

Sinn Fein was to rejoin the talks after a two week expulsion because of the
IRA's involvement in two murders.

The Unionists' bid to have Sinn Fein ejected from the talks follows IRA
involvement in the murder of Catholic Kevin Conway on February 18 and the
bombing of Armagh RUC station on March 10.

"Our understanding is the RUC believe there were elements of the Provisional IRA
involved in the murder of Kevin Conway and in the bomb attack on Armagh police
station," said Ulster Unionist talks delegate Jeffrey Donaldson MP.

"We are compiling a dossier of evidence and we will be pressing the Government
this week to provide us with the Chief Constable's assessment of these
incidents."

Loyalist Volunteer Force prisoners in the Maze Prison were on hunger strike
today in protest at a security clampdown.

Two men and a woman are being questioned by police about a huge bomb found in
the Irish Republic border town of Dundalk.

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 1998 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              285 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                                 March 24, 1998

Iraqi anthrax threat puts Britain on alert
 Saddam warns: 'I'll flood UK'

SECTION: Pg.1

LENGTH: 649 words


ALL Britain's air and sea ports have been put on alert to the threat of deadly
anthrax being smuggled into the country by Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein, it was
confirmed last night.

The warning - approved by Prime Minister Tony Blair - follows a threat by Saddam
to flood Britain with the toxin disguised inside bottles of spirits, cosmetics,
cigarette lighters and perfume sprays.

The US and Britain's other Nato partners have received the same threat from
Saddam that anthrax attacks would be carried out if there was any military
action against Iraq.

Yet Britain's ports warning was issued on March 18 - after UN Secretary General
Kofi Annan visited Baghdad and brokered a peace deal with Saddam.

Last night, Downing Street stressed there was no evidence that the plot had been
implemented, simply that a threat had been made.

"Obviously that has to be taken seriously, but we do not believe there is cause
for alarm," said a spokeswoman.

Former UN weapons inspector Colonel Terry Taylor said it would be for terrorists
to deliver anthrax in a form that would be dangerous.

The threat came to light after a newspaper got hold of a copy of the all-ports
warning.

The document calls for extra vigilance by Customs, Special branch and MoD
officers and warns: "Iraq may launch a chemical and biological attack using
material disguised as harmless fluids."

However, the time frame for the smuggling operation is not clear and could be in
the past, present or future.Ranald McDonald, press officer for Customs and
Excise, said: "I can confirm that Customs have been alerted to the threat of
anthrax being brought into this country."

He admitted: "I don't know how we would detect anthrax. At this point all I can
say is we are aware of the threat.

"I am not aware of any specifics, it is just a general warning. So it has not
mentioned ports or airports."

A Downing Street spokeswoman said: "We can confirm an all-ports warning has been
circulated. The document on which the (newspaper) report is based is authentic."

Home Office Minister Mike O'Brien said intelligence about a possible terrorist
chemical threat was a regular event and appealed for calm, underlining that the
authorities were ready to deal with it.

"I don't think we want to get people particularly scared on this occasion.

"There are steps being taken, we are very good at dealing with these things and
those steps will be taken in co-operation with other countries. I don't think it
is a specific threat to Britain."

Weapons expert Colonel Taylor also played down the threat.

"If it was really being sent like this, in bottles, it's quite difficult to keep
alive and to get it out in a form that might actually kill somebody," he said.

"It's quite a difficult thing to do unless they put some kind of chemical like a
nerve agent with it."

He also cast doubt on whether Saddam would really carry out such a threat.

"I find it difficult to believe from a political point of view that Iraq would
do this.

"It would seriously undermine everything that Iraq is trying to achieve in terms
of getting sanctions lifted."

He also stressed how unlikely it would be that many people would be affected
even if anthrax was sent over in bottles.

"It would only affect the person opening the bottle and possibly people nearby.
It's not something that would kill hundreds of thousands of people."

The danger would be if anthrax was being sent to terrorists in this country for
them to then use in an attack.

He said the best known case where terrorists had used anthrax was the Tokyo
subway attack when 12 people had died and about 1,000 had been injured.

Chemical warfare expert Dr Alistair Hay said: "You would need some device for
spreading them (the spores) around in the air.

"Just having a bottle and releasing the contents wouldn't be terribly effective
but it would certainly kill a number of people."

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                   Copyright 1998 Aberdeen Press and Journal

                              286 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            March 24, 1998, Tuesday

All-ports alert over Saddam 'plot' to smuggle anthrax into Britain

BYLINE: Anthony Bevins and Fran Abrams

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Page 1

LENGTH: 550 words


An all-ports terrorist alert has been issued after warnings of a plot by
President Saddam Hussein of Iraq to smuggle anthrax into the UK for possible
attacks, the Prime Minister's office confirmed last night.  The anthrax could be
disguised as duty-free liquor or perfume.

The threat of a "backdoor" terrorist attack by President Saddam in retaliation
for any strikes the US or Britain might yet mount against the Iraqi regime has
been discussed by intelligence and defence services since the time of the 1991
Gulf war - and before. Last night the Prime Minister's office said all ports and
airports had been formally warned the Iraqis might try to smuggle chemical or
biological warfare material - disguised as harmless liquid - into the country,
perhaps as duty-free.

After details of the warning were carried in a newspaper, No 10 said: "We can
confirm that an all-ports warning has been circulated and the document on which
The Sun report is based is authentic. However, there is no evidence that this
plot has been implemented; simply that a threat may have been made. Obviously,
that has to be taken seriously. But we do not believe there is cause for alarm."

Last week the Home Office warned all police and customs authorities: "Iraq may
launch chemical or biological attack using material disguised as harmless
fluids. Could officers therefore be alert for any items which might contain
harmful substances. Particular attention should be given to containers of any
size holding liquids with specific characteristics."

The Iraqis are believed to be holding - and hiding - a number of deadly chemical
and biological materials, including VX nerve agents, anthrax, plague, botulinum
toxin and aflatoxin, all of which are highly lethal in the most minute doses.

The US Office of Technology Assessment has estimated that a small plane flying
over Washington with 22lb of anthrax spores could release an invisible mist that
could kill as many as 3 million people.

Mike O'Brien, a Home Office Minister, told ITN's News at Ten last night that
there had been previous warnings of a threat. "We step up intelligence when they
occur. I don't want to get people particularly scared on this occasion. There
are steps we have taken. We are very good at dealing with these things."

Mr O'Brien later added that Britain was not the only target. It is understood
that the initial warning was given, possibly to US intelligence sources, by an
Iraqi contact, but there was no indication that an attack would be made solely
against Britain, and there was no specific detail about the means of delivery,
though there was a suggestion that traces of the biological or chemical attack
material might be passed off as duty-free.

In such circumstances, it is difficult, if not impossible, to be able to track
down - and prevent - importation. The threat could have stimulated work
reportedly done at Porton Down germ-warfare defence laboratories, where vaccines
are being developed, some of which could be administered orally.

Paul Taylor, Director of Biological and Chemical Defence, said last month: "You
might be right to say that they could be used by civilians but we cannot decide
that . . . it is up to ministers to decide whether to use them for civilians."


LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1998 Independent Print Ltd

                              287 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                      March 25, 1998, Wednesday Edition 1

IRA blamed for bombing

SECTION: BRITAIN IN BRIEF, Pg. 10

LENGTH: 78 words


   Dissident republicans were blamed today for a mortar bomb attack on a
security force base in Northern Ireland.

Up to four mortars were fired at the RUC and Army base in the centre of
Forkhill, south Armagh, last night.

One exploded in the compound, another was found unexploded nearby and two more
were unaccounted for.

Ulster Unionists said it was inconceivable that the attack could have been
mounted without the help of the Provisional IRA.

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 1998 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              288 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           March 25, 1998, Wednesday

Ministers in 'Doomsday' exercise after anthrax alert

BYLINE: Jason Bennetto Colin Brown and David Usborne

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Page 1

LENGTH: 662 words


MINISTERS donned gas masks and nylon suits for a full-scale "Doomsday" exercise
in Downing Street to test out the Government's defences against biological and
chemical weapons attacks, it emerged yesterday.

There were unsubstantiated reports that the Queen and the Prime Minister may
have been involved in the exercise in a Downing Street bunker.

The disclosure by Whitehall officials underlined the seriousness with which the
Government is reacting to risks of a terrorist attack from the Iraqi leader,
Saddam Hussein, following the all-ports alert about a possible attempt to
smuggle anthrax into Britain by using duty free spirits, or scent.

Jack Straw, the Home Secretary, also disclosed that a warning that President
Saddam could be planning to flood the West with anthrax hidden in bottles
disguised as duty-free goods was received 13 days before the Government alerted
the ports.

In a further development, an Iraqi scientist who may have tipped off Western
intelligence agencies about the anthrax threat and who was planning to defect is
reported to have been arrested and thrown into prison.

MI5 alerted Customs and Excise officers and Special Branch police at British
ports on a number of occasions this year following intelligence suggesting Iraq
may be planning biological or chemical attacks.

While the most recent report told ports to be on the look-out for anthrax,
information about other named substances has been released.

Iraq is known to have reserves of Agent VX, a highly toxic nerve agent used
against the Kurds, mustard gas, which cause terrible skin damage, and sarin, the
nerve agent used in Nazi gas chambers, aflatoxin, which destroys the immune
system, and botulinum toxin.

A security source said the anthrax alert was "one of a number of warnings about
the possible threat from Iraqi biological and chemical weapons" that had been
issued to the authorities guarding ports and airports, including the Channel
tunnel and Eurostar.

The source stressed that there was no intelligence to suggest that Britain was
to be specifically targeted. The anthrax alert said the threat was against "the
enemies of Iraq".

Meanwhile, an official with Unscom, the United Nations body charged with rooting
out Iraq's clandestine weapons programmes, confirmed yesterday that it was
informed of the arrest of Nassir al-Hindawi by the Iraqi government earlier this
month.

According to Baghdad, Mr Hindawi was found to be preparing his own flight from
Iraq and had important documents about the biological weapons programme, which
he intended handing over to Western investigators.

Mr Hindawi is considered to have been one of the key pioneers of Iraq's
biological campaign. Anthrax would have been one of the agents Mr Hindawi would
have been trying to put into production for Baghdad.

Ewen Buchanan, the Unscom spokesman, confirmed that Mr Hindawi has been
interviewed repeatedly by Unscom investigators, though not recently.

Underplaying the importance of Mr Hindawi, Mr Buchanan said he "was not involved
in the production phase" and added that Unscom has interviewed "hundreds of
other people", besides Mr Hindawi.

Other experts, however, suggested that had he successfully defected, Mr Hindawi
could have been crucial to Unscom's efforts to reveal the truth about Iraq's
biological ambitions.

Confirmation yesterday by Mr Straw to the Commons that a number of "all- ports"
alerts had been made since the tension in the Gulf, fuelled suspicions among
Labour MPs opposed to war against Iraq that the latest reports are part of a
conspiracy to wreck the peace deal brokered with Iraq by the UN
Secretary-General, Kofi Annan.

"I am extremely suspicious that this is an attempt to destabilise the agreement
over the ceasefire when it seems to be working rather well.

"It seems to be the action of somebody who wants to fight," said Tam Dalyell,
the veteran Labour campaigner.


LOAD-DATE: March 25, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1998 Independent Print Ltd

                              289 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                           March 25, 1998, Wednesday

Straw plays down threat of anthrax attack on UK

BYLINE: Nicholas Watt and Michael Evans

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 399 words


JACK STRAW told the Commons yesterday that the Government had received
intelligence on March 5 about "possible anthrax smuggling" by Iraqi agents, but
he played down the potential threat to Britain.

In an emergency Commons statement, the Home Secretary said: "Our information is
that there is no specific threat to the UK. There is no evidence to indicate
that any attempt has actually been made to smuggle anthrax into this country.
There is also no evidence that such an attempt at smuggling might be in
prospect."

His comments came after Downing Street had confirmed that a warning had been
issued to ports about the possibility of Iraqi agents attempting to smuggle
anthrax in bottles disguised as duty-free goods into Western countries.

An "all-ports warning" was sent to every Customs and Excise post on March 18,
warning officers to be extra vigilant.

The Home Secretary described the warning as a "prudent, precautionary measure".
The warning was delayed for 13 days because the initial intelligence report had
to be assessed "in context" with other information available at the time. Mr
Straw added that a similar warning had been sent out "some time ago".

Whitehall sources said the anthrax warning came in the form of "material" which
was immediately circulated by intelligence services in the United States,
Britain and other key European capitals which had supported Washington and
London in the recent crisis with Iraq.

Although the discovery of a possible anthrax terrorist attack was made after the
confrontation had been resolved between President Saddam Hussein and the United
Nations over arms inspections, security sources indicated that the timing was
not crucial.

The general intelligence assessment of the threat posed by Iraq since the deal
was signed with Kofi Annan, UN Secretary-General, had not changed, even though
the threat of conflict had receded.

The discovery of material outlining the option of using anthrax in a terrorist
attack, the sources said, underlined the continuing threat posed by the Saddam
regime but did not indicate that the Iraqi leader was about to launch a
biological terror operation against Britain or any other country.

The intelligence was not uncovered by MI5 which has responsibility for
countering Middle Eastern terrorism. The original source appears to have
emanated from someone in Baghdad.


LOAD-DATE: March 26, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1998 Times Newspapers Limited

                              290 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                       March 28, 1998, Saturday Edition 1

RUC MAN SHOT

BYLINE: By Deric Henderson

SECTION: BRITAIN TONIGHT, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 270 words


   A former policeman was shot dead in front of his wife outside a supermarket
in the centre of Armagh City.

Cyril Stewart, 52, who left the RUC a year ago, was ambushed by two masked
gunmen last night.

Although no organisation has yet admitted responsibility, a friend of the dead
man blamed republicans.

Ulster Unionist councillor Jim Speers said: "He was a gentlemen."

Mr Stewart retired from the RUC as a full time reserve constable in March last
year.

He was with his wife leaving the Safeway supermarket in Armagh when the two men
approached the couple and opened fire. Mr Stewart died almost immediately.

Last week terrorists carried out a failed mortar bomb attack on a police station
in the city and Chief Constable Ronnie Flanagan later said he believed dissident
republicans unconnected with the IRA were to blame.

Members of the Continuity IRA and former Provisionals who left the organisation
at the end of last year to form their own group are believed to be behind a
series of other attacks as well, including the car bombings of the predominantly
Protestant towns of Moira, County Down and Portadown, County Armagh.

They are all opposed to the peace strategy of Sinn Fein leader Gerry Adams.

Newry and Armagh MP Seamus Mallon said Mr Stewart had been the victim of an
appalling act of savagery.

Those who carried out the murder were determined to make sure there would be no
peace settlement in Northern Ireland.

He added: "They cannot be allowed to succeed. The vast majority of people here
must recognise the threat to peace and the will for an agreed settlement."

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DEATH SCENE - former RUC officer Cyril Stewart, 52, was killed after
leaving Safeway in Armagh City

                Copyright 1998 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              291 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 28, 1998

Leading article: Fearless in Gaza;
Blair should be frank

SECTION: The Guardian Features Page; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 712 words


THERE WAS ROOM at the inn in Gaza this week for the UN Secretary-General, Kofi
Annan. And next month Tony Blair will also spend a night enjoying Yasser
Arafat's hospitality after visiting Israel. Bedding down in Palestinian
territory should not be an issue: a visit is the same whether by night or day.
But no national leader has done it before, and it symbolises an effort to
maintain a balanced attitude towards Israel and the Palestinians which the
administration of Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu finds so hard to accept. It
took two sides to reach the Oslo Agreement five years ago, and by and large the
outside world recognised to an equal degree the efforts made by the Israelis and
by the Palestinians. What has hardened since then is not the attitude of the
international community but the position of the Israeli government. This is as
obvious as it is sad, and it is as much so for most friends of Israel as for
those who are more sympathetic to the Palestinian cause. Both communities have
suffered visibly as a consequence: the Palestinians have suffered from economic
isolation and a poverty which has worsened rather than - as it was hoped -
alleviated. The Israelis have suffered from terrorist attack and the fears which
it arouses. But Israelis and Palestinians alike have been wounded more deeply as
optimism shifts to pessimism, and as a fragile goodwill is poisoned at its
source.

This is the context in which Mr Annan felt obliged on Wednesday to deliver what
he called "the most difficult message" of his visit. He may feel more empowered
to speak out now having demonstrated his skills as a negotiator in another
Middle East crisis.  And part of his message was an acknowledgement - which no
previous Secretary-General could have made - that Israel has been the target
historically of one-sided condemnation in the UN. But the core of Mr Annan's
remarks was this: the great mass of world opinion, including many countries
sympathetic to Israel, genuinely believes that Israel is responsible, directly
or indirectly, "for provocative acts that undermine goodwill and spark
hostilities". It believes that Israel has disobeyed the Security Council and
dodged the Oslo agreements - and that in doing so it does a great disservice to
its own cause.

Is it wise or helpful to speak bluntly in this way - however true the message
may be? The question was posed in a slightly different form by Robin Cook's
visit - which has so angered Britain's Jewish community that it has cancelled
its forthcoming dinner engagement with the Foreign Secretary. It will be raised
again as Mr Blair and his advisers weigh up the merits of frank speaking. One
strong argument in favour of doing so is simply that it gives at least a wisp of
encouragement to the Palestinians. This is not a matter of sentiment: if their
community loses hope altogether, then a sigificant section of it - within the
boundaries of Israel and perhaps outside too - will turn or return to violence.
Responsible members of Mr Arafat's team are privately amazed, and relieved, that
it has not happened yet. As for Mr Netanyahu, private appeals to him and soft
persuasion from the one country with indisputable leverage - the US - have
failed to avert what Mr Annan on Wednesday called a "crisis of confidence".
Those interlocutors with less direct power (but who are listened to closely in
Washington) may play a more useful role by speaking out loud.

Mr Netanyahu is apparently now seeking to pre-empt the much-talked of US
proposal for the next stage of Israeli withdrawal - 13.1 per cent of West Bank
territory - by his own counter-proposal. Both plans will deliver far less than
was promised and fail to provide for a further stage of withdrawal. But the
issue is overshadowed by a more fundamental question: does the "roadmap" set out
in the Oslo agreement still mean anything? If the answer is no, then that is
very bad news for both sides. There will be little to celebrate next month on
the 50th anniversary of Israeli independence if there is no way forward in
sight. Mr Annan has delivered the advice that should be expected of a critical
friend: Mr Blair is signalling his intention to do the same. In a crisis, there
is an extra value in speaking frankly.


LOAD-DATE: March 30, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              292 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                             March 29, 1998, Sunday

REBEL IRA MEN PLAN BOMB BLITZ ON BRITAIN;
 CONTINUITY IRA PLANS BOMB ATTACKS IN ENG LAND

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 263 words


THE BREAKAWAY Continuity IRA is planning a series of bomb attacks in England, it
was claimed last night.

Belfast sources claim the rebel fraction has been given access to explosives
dumps set up by Provo "sleepers" on the mainland in case of a return to the
terror campaign.

One of their leaders is a former IRA commander from South Armagh said to have
links with undercover Provos in England who have access to guns and bombs stored
in safe areas.

The launch of attacks could lead to demands that Continuity IRA war lords should
be put on a Provo death list.

Reliable sources claim that since Sinn Fein has returned to the Inter- Party
talks, the activities of the Continuity IRA and rival breakaway group the INLA
could sabotage the political moves being spearheaded by Gerry Adams.

Security chiefs believe the hardliners have less then 30 activists available to
take part in attacks- and that only a handful of are explosive experts.

But a Republican source said last night: "If the Continuity IRA starts a wave of
bombings in England using Provo materials, the backlash could be disastrous."

Last weekend, 1300lb of homemade explosives were discovered by Gardai in Dundalk
close to the border.

The Irish police believe they foiled a major attack plan for another Ulster
atrocity.

Two men have since appeared in court in connection with the find.

The Provisionals are desperately trying to play down the possibility that more
of their hardliners will be recruited by the Continuity IRA as the talks process
drags on without agreement.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1998 MGN Ltd.

                              293 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                             March 30, 1998, Monday

NATIONALISTS JEOPARDISING HOPE OF TALKS DEAL SAYS TAYLOR

BYLINE: Mervyn Pauley

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1, 11

LENGTH: 595 words


DUBLIN and the SDLP "have begun to throw away" the opportunity for an historic
political deal, senior Ulster Unionist negotiator John Taylor warned last night.

He claimed nationalist backtracking on key issues, including Eire's territorial
claim to Northern Ireland, was due to pressure being exerted by increasing
republican bombing and killings.

The UUP deputy leader, speaking on the eve of a last-lap round of intensive
late-night sessions of the Stormont talks, said of the violence: "It has
intimidated the representatives of the pan-nationalist front at the talks.

"The result is that the gap between nationalism and unionism is now greater than
it has been at any time in the past year. Republican extremists have managed to
make it more difficult for Eire and the SDLP to reach agreement with unionists.

"At best I now give the talks a 5 per cent chance of success - very different
from Downing Street's assessment of the chances of success."

Mr Taylor said all was not yet lost. Agreement could still be possible - if
nationalists had the courage to reject the intimidation of the Continuity IRA,
the 32-county Sovereignty group, the INLA and Provisional IRA dissidents.

The bleak unionist assessment - and Mr Taylor's outspoken attack on nationalist
negotiating positions - coincides with reports that Prime Minister Tony Blair is
to step up his involvement in the search for a peace settlement as the talks
process moves to wards the April 9 deadline.

Mr Blair had a 20-minute telephone discussion with his Dublin counterpart,
Bertie Ahern, on Saturday, in the wake of the INLA murder of retired Armagh
policeman Cyril Stewart.

Both men reviewed progress in the negotiations and reaffirmed their resolve to
see an Ulster deal hammered out in time for May referenda.

Mr Taylor said Sinn Fein's hardline position on critical issues - among them the
consent principle, decommissioning and articles 2 and 3 - had made all -party
agreement impossible. The party had excluded itself.

He looked at the negotiating stances of Dublin and the SDLP and insisted that in
both cases there was "alarming evidence in the past few weeks that the terrorist
activity of republican splinter groups and the Provisional IRA have had a
negative influence ".

He said in a statement: "The Dublin government, which in late 1997 had developed
a good rapport with the Ulster Unionists and had given the impression that
changes to articles 2 and 3 were necessary, has now begun to backtrack.

"Under criticism by the IRA, and under the influence of one particular
republican civil servant, the Eire government is now amending its proposals for
articles 2 and 3 by wrapping them with 'green cotton wool' to such an extent
that the changes would be no longer acceptable to unionists."

Mr Taylor said he hoped he was wrong but the alleged backtracking could create a
situation where the basic foundation for any agreement no longer existed.

He claimed the SDLP was increasingly looking over its shoulder to Sinn Fein.

"In recent weeks the SDLP has hardened its position on the desirability of an
Assembly for Northern Ireland - John Hume seems to be hesitating - and the SDLP
definitely is now demanding structures for the Assembly which could make it go
into 'grid lock' and collapse."

The Strangford MP added: "It is important that outside observers in Britain,
Europe and the USA recognise the reality of the situation and are not misled by
idle optimism.

"Those who presently create false hopes will have much to answer for."

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1998 Century Newspapers Limited

                              294 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                            March 31, 1998, Tuesday

CHILD BOMB VICTIMS A SPUR FOR TOGETHERNESS;
 WARRINGTON PROJECT OPENS ULSTER OFFICE TO AID CROSS-COMMUNITY SCHEMES

BYLINE: Richard Sherriff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 353 words


FIVE years after the names of youngsters Tim Parry and Jonathan Ball were added
to list of victims of Ulster's troubles, children from their home town of
Warrington sang at the launch of a peace initiative at Belfast City Hall
yesterday.

The boys died in an IRA bomb blast that ripped through the north of England
town's busy centre.

Since then, the Warrington Project has been bringing people together in the
Province and Great Britain.

Now, it is opening an office in Northern Ireland to increase its cross-
community work and to try to forge stronger links between Great Britain and
Ireland, north and south.

The emphasis is on practical work as one of the organisers John Crossan,
headmaster of Mount Gilbert Community College in Belfast, said.

"The city fathers in Warrington wanted a lasting tribute.

"As the children were two lively young boys, they wanted a project that would
involve children and further mutual understanding.

"What the Warrington Project will do will be to enhance existing good practice,
that is giving people an added dimension and a new outlook as to what can be
done."

Welcoming the Warrington group to Belfast, Lord Mayor Alban Maginness, said the
work was vital.

"It's another step in the right direction and I think that the more programmes
we have like this better.

"The next two weeks here are crucial and the setting up of this Warrington
Project office in Belfast highlights the need for all our political parties to
come together and to work out an accommodation which will be for the good of
all."

At the same time as the Belfast gathering was taking place, Tim Parry's father,
Colin, announced a pounds 1 million appeal to build a peace centre in
Warrington.

"We want a residential centre where young people from Northern Ireland or,
indeed, anywhere there is conflict, can come and learn to break down the
stereotypes that stand in the way of understanding.

"While the politicians chip away at a framework for peace, we are working at a
community level and it is the communities that will make or break the peace
process."

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PEACEFUL SOUND: Margaret Gibney, Mount Gilbert Community College,;
Belfast, Clare Doherty, St Gregory's, Warrington, and Kevin McKenna, St;
Gabriel's, Belfast, with other young singers from Warrington at Belfast; City
Hall yesterday

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1998 Century Newspapers Limited

                              295 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Leicester Mercury

                                 April 1, 1998

NEWSDIGEST

SECTION: Pg.7

LENGTH: 459 words


Father in GBP 1m

peace fund bid

BELFAST: The father of one of the two children killed in the Warrington bomb is
to take a GBP 1 million peace fund appeal to Northern Ireland today.

Colin Parry is visiting Belfast in a bid to raise money for an International
Peace Centre dedicated to his son Tim (12) and to Johnathan Ball, aged three,
both killed when an IRA bomb ripped through a busy shopping area five years ago.

The appeal aims to raise GBP 1 million in three months to build a residential
centre for young people from both sides of the Irish sea.

Ulster Secretary Mo Mowlam has given her backing to the project which would be
based in Warrington.

Dounreay row

DOUNREAY: A decision to clean up Britain's most dangerous nuclear dump at a cost
of up to GBP 355 million was hailed as a victory by environmental groups.

The Government approved a 25-year operation to retrieve and store more than
1,000 tonnes of nuclear waste from a 220ft underground shaft at the Dounreay
nuclear complex on the north coast of Scotland.

A similar quantity of waste will be removed from a "wet silo" storage facility
on the site. The material will be treated and packed into special shielded drums
for disposal at a later date.

The total cost of the mammoth engineering task is expected to be between GBP 215
million and GBP 355 million, to be paid for by the Government.

Drug banned

NATIONAL: Unauthorised possession of the so-called date-rape drug Rohypnol will
be a criminal offence from May 1.

The drug became the centre of concerns after attacks on women whose drinks were
spiked with the drug, which is colourless and tasteless when dissolved.

The Home Office said anyone breaking the new law would face a maximum of two
years imprisonment, an unlimited fine, or both. Possession of the drug without a
prescription would constitute an offence.

Jobs boost

CHESTER: Computer Sciences Corporation, one of Europe's leading technology
companies, said it is to create 1,000 new technology jobs in the UK.

Most will be at the company's Chester and Liverpool centres, specialising in
solving the infamous computer millennium bug.

The company is looking for a range of new staff from experienced programmers to
fresh graduates looking to break into the computer business.

Wild West sale

LONDON: A Hollywood film director's collection of celebrity autographs made GBP
464,000 at Sotheby's.

George Cosmatos, responsible for box office hits such as Rambo First Blood Part
II, The Cassandra Crossing and Tombstone, spent 20 years putting the collection
together during film shoots in exotic locales.

It included a "People's Manifesto" signed by Emiliano Zapata, the Mexican
revolutionary, which was bought by the Mexican government for GBP 12,680.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                        Copyright 1998 Leicester Mercury

                              296 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                       April 2, 1998, Thursday Edition 1

Car bomb threat averted at port - Five are questioned by anti-terrorist
detectives in Ireland

BYLINE: By CHRIS PARKIN

SECTION: BRITAIN TONIGHT, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 338 words


   Irish police intercepted a potential car bomb thought to be headed for a
target in Britain today.

The BMW saloon was stopped as it queued for a ferry in the port of Dun
Laoghaire, near Dublin.

Five people in the car - two of them women - were held for questioning by
detectives said to be involved in on-going anti-terrorist operations.

The early morning ferry, bound for Holyhead, Anglesey, later left Dun Laoghaire
on schedule.

Police said "explosive devices" found in the car were being examined by
explosives experts.

It was understood a second BMW at the scene was also being examined.

Police sealed off an area near the ferry terminal. Two of the five people being
quizzed about the suspected car bomb were understood to the English, and all
were in their 30s, police sources reported.

Immediate speculation linked the apparent bomb bid to the Continuity IRA
breakaway terrorist group.

It was also noted in Irish security circles that today's police swoop coincided
with intensifying precautions surrounding this weekend's Grand National.

The celebrated steeplechase - part of the race meeting beginning today at
Aintree, Liverpool - had to be postponed last year after an elaborate bomb
scare, sparked by the IRA, who were not at that time on a ceasefire.

Meanwhile, detectives hunting the so-called Mardi Gra bomber were today
continuing to question a man arrested on alleged firearms offences following a
police chase.

Scotland Yard said the man, arrested last night near a Sainsbury supermarket in
South Ruislip, west London, was still in custody and would be questioned later.

He made off in a car after officers noticed him acting suspiciously near the
store. Police found what was believed to be a firearm when they stopped the car
a short time later.

The area was sealed off when officers found a suspect package outside the
supermarket. A controlled explosion was carried out but the package turned out
to be an empty box.

No details have been released about the man.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 1998 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              297 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                       April 2, 1998, Thursday Edition 2

Car bomb threat averted at port - Five are questioned by anti-terrorist
detectives in Ireland

BYLINE: By CHRIS PARKIN

SECTION: BRITAIN TONIGHT, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 266 words


   Irish police intercepted a potential car bomb thought to be headed for a
target in Britain today.

The BMW saloon was stopped as it queued for a ferry in the port of Dun
Laoghaire, near Dublin.

Five people in the car - two of them women - were held for questioning by
detectives said to be involved in on-going anti-terrorist operations.

The early morning ferry left for Holyhead on schedule.

Police said experts were examining "explosive devices" found in the car. It was
understood a second BMW at the scene was also being examined.

Two of those being quizzed about the suspected car bomb were understood to the
English, and all were in their 30s, police sources reported.

Immediate speculation linked the apparent bomb bid to the Continuity IRA
breakaway terrorist group.

It was also noted in Irish security circles that today's police swoop coincided
with intensifying precautions surrounding this weekend's Grand National -
postponed last year by an elaborate IRA bomb scare.

Meanwhile, detectives hunting the so-called Mardi Gra bomber were today
continuing to question a man arrested on alleged firearms offences following a
police chase.

Scotland Yard said he made off in a car after officers noticed him acting
suspiciously near a Sainsbury supermarket in South Ruislip, west London. Police
found what was believed to be a firearm when they stopped the car a short time
later.

The area was sealed off when officers found a suspect package outside the
supermarket. A controlled explosion was carried out but the package turned out
to be an empty box.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 1998 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              298 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Leicester Mercury

                                 April 2, 1998

Five quizzed over suspect car bomb

BYLINE: By Pa News Staff

SECTION: Pg.7

LENGTH: 366 words


IRISH police today intercepted a potential car bomb thought to be bound for a
target in Britain.

A vehicle was held as it was waiting in a queue for a ferry in the port of Dun
Laoghaire, near Dublin.

Police detained for questioning two men and three women who were in the car.

Police then sealed off an area near the Dun Laoghaire ferry terminal, set on the
fringe of Dublin Bay, seven miles south of the Irish capital following their
breakfast-time move.

Two of the five people being quizzed about the suspected car bomb were
understood to the English, and all were in their 30s, police sources reported.

They had been queuing to take a fast, 99-minute catamaran Stena Line ferry from
the Irish port to Anglesey.

The car involved was an Irish-registered BMW saloon.  It contained what were
described as "explosive devices."

It was understood that a second BMW vehicle at the scene was also being examined
as part of the operation.

Immediate speculation linked the apparent bomb bid to the Continuity IRA
breakaway terrorist group.

It was also noted in Irish security circles that today's police swoop coincided
with intensifying precautions surrounding this weekend's Grand National.

The celebrated steeplechase - part of the race meeting beginning today at
Aintree, Liverpool - had to be abandoned last year following an elaborate bomb
scare, sparked by the IRA, who were not at that time on a ceasefire.

The race, seen as one of the top events on the sporting calendar, was eventually
run some days later at Aintree.

The Continuity IRA, thought to involve dissident members of the Irish Republican
movement opposed to the current terrorist ceasefire and the Northern Ireland
peace process, has been responsible for a number of actions and attempted
attacks in Northern Ireland.

If confirmed, though, today's move would mark the organisation's first bid to
strike at a target in Britain.

This morning's police operation was thought to have followed a period of
surveillance centring on the activities of known hard-line republican
sympathisers.

Irish Army bomb experts were called in to examine the suspect explosives found
in the car at the Dun Laoghaire ferry port.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                        Copyright 1998 Leicester Mercury

                              299 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                                 April 3, 1998

Driver quizzed after bomb find;
 SUSPECTS: one held, four released without charge

SECTION: Pg.6

LENGTH: 465 words


IRISH police will today question a man arrested after the discovery of a massive
car bomb at a ferry-port near Dublin en route for Britain.

Almost 1,000lbs of explosives, linked to a timer, were in one of two BMW cars
stopped as they queued for a ferry in the port of Dun Laoghaire, near Dublin.
Five people were arrested, four of whom were later released by Irish police.

The Ulster talks process was already in a parlous situation after the emergence
of potentially critical differences between the British and Irish governments.

There was speculation that the bomb was meant to throw the peace process into
further turmoil by exploding at the weekend's Aintree Grand National just days
before Tony Blair and Irish leader Bertie Ahern's April 9 deadline for an
agreement at Stormont.

But Mr Ahern speculated that the target could have been the summit meeting
between leaders of Asian and European leaders, which opens in London today.

"It is tremendous it has been thwarted,'' he said.

Yesterday's car bomb seizure was followed by the arrest of five people
travelling in two cars. One of them was a man driving a red BMW containing the
home-made bomb.

Two men and two women in a white BMW were also arrested but last night Irish
police said those four had been released without charge.

The fifth person being quizzed by detectives, a man from the Irish Republic's Co
Kildare, is still in custody under the terms of anti-terrorist legislation.

The cars had been queuing to take a fast, 99-minute catamaran Stena Line ferry
from the Irish port to Anglesey.

Immediate speculation linked the apparent bomb bid to the Continuity IRA
breakaway terrorist group.

Security authorities would not comment on the likelihood of the Grand National
being the target, but the celebrated steeplechase - part of the race meeting
which began yesterday at Aintree, Liverpool - had to be abandoned last year
following an elaborate bomb scare, sparked by the IRA.

If the car bomb was confirmed as theirs, it would mark the Continuity IRA's
first attempt to strike at a target on the British mainland.

Prime Minister Tony Blair and his Irish counterpart Bertie Ahern made "some
progress'' in late-night talks on the thorny issue of North-South bodies to link
Ulster with the Republic, Irish sources said this morning.

The two leaders spoke for about 40 minutes at Downing Street on Thursday evening
in a bid to bridge the gap which has built up between their governments on the
key question of how much power the bodies should have.

Meanwhile, Northern Ireland Secretary Mo Mowlam last night ruled out fundamental
change to the regime at the Maze Prison, in the wake of the shooting of Loyalist
terrorist Billy Wright and the escape of an IRA prisoner.

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1998 Bristol United Press

                              300 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                             April 3, 1998, Friday

HUGE CAR BOMB INTERCEPTED IN QUEUE FOR FERRY;
 MASSIVE HAUL OF HOME-MADE EXPLOSIVES FOILED FROM BLASTING HEART OUT OF THE
CAPITAL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 533 words


A HUGE 1,000lb bomb stopped by gardai in the queue to board a ferry to Great
Britain was destined for central London, the News Letter has learned.

While the focus of attention was on the Grand National at Liverpool's Aintree
track, the terrorists were planning to blast the heart out of the capital in a
bid to increase pressure on the Government. Garda foiled the bid when it
uncovered the massive bomb at a ferryport near Dublin.

The huge home-made explosive mix bomb was found in a BMW car queuing for a Stena
Line ferry at Dun Laoghaire, bound for the Welsh port of Holyhead, Anglesey.

Holyhead is a two-and-a-half-hour drive from Aintree, where blanket security has
been imposed to block a repeat of the chaos that forced the postponement of last
year's race - one of the main events in Britain's sporting calendar.

The car bomb seizure was followed by the arrest of five people travelling in two
cars.

One of them was a man driving a red BMW containing the bomb. Two men and two
women in a white BMW were also arrested but were last night released.

Army experts called into to deal with the bomb confirmed it as one of the
biggest intercepted by anti-terrorist police in Eire.

Superintendent Pat Culhane said: "It would have caused massive damage and
probably loss of life if it had gone off."

The bomb was in the back of the car, and linked to a timer device on the front
passenger seat.

It was described as a sophisticated device, complete with booster tubes to
maximise ignition, and similar to bombs uncovered by Gardai near the border in
recent months.

It was also understood to be similar in construction to bombs used by the IRA in
Canary Wharf, London - to end the first of their ceasefires - and in Manchester.

Supt Culhane would not be specific in pin-pointing responsibility for the
bombing bid, but said republican dissidents were suspected.

It was believed, though, that either the Continuity IRA breakaway faction or
another group opposed to the IRA ceasefire and the Northern Ireland peace
process generally was behind the thwarted attack.

Both organisations incorporate one-time IRA personnel now determined to force a
full restoration of Northern Ireland-linked hostilities.

In the Dublin parliament, deputy Prime Minister Mary Harney said that through
their swoop the Gardai had "intercepted the weapons of death and destruction".

Because of yesterday's incident, later ferry sailings from Dun Laoghaire to
Holyhead were delayed, holding up the Aintree schedules of scores of Irish
racegoers.

Eire foreign minister David Andrews, in whose Dun Laoghaire constituency the
bomb was found, condemned what he called "an appallingly dangerous act".

Paul Murphy, the Northern Ireland political development minister, said those
behind the latest bomb attempt would not be allowed to succeed in wrecking the
peace talks, which are at a crucial stage.

At Stormont, where the parties are locked in negotiations, Mr Murphy said:
"There have been many bombings and murders since Christmas but they have only
strengthened the determination here."

Both ministers paid tribute to the Gardai for foiling the bomb attempt.

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BOUND FOR BRITAIN: the scene at Dun Laoghaire port yesterday after;
Gardai stopped a massive car bomb from heading to London via Holyhead

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1998 Century Newspapers Limited

                              301 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                                 April 3, 1998

Car bomb: police question man

SECTION: Supplement: Daily News, Pg.24

LENGTH: 288 words


IRISH police will today question a man arrested after the discovery of a massive
car bomb at a ferry port near Dublin, en route for Britain.

Almost 1,000lbs of explosives, linked to a timer, were in one of two BMW cars
stopped as they queued for a ferry in the port of Dun Laoghaire, near Dublin.
Five people were arrested, four of whom were later released by Irish police.

The Ulster talks process was already in a parlous situation after the emergence
of potentially critical differences between the British and Irish governments.

There was speculation that the bomb was meant to throw the peace process into
further turmoil by exploding at the weekend's Aintree Grand National just days
before Tony Blair and Irish leader Bertie Ahern's April 9 deadline for an
agreement at Stormont.

But Mr Ahern speculated that the target could have been the summit meeting
between leaders of Asian and European leaders, which opens in London today.

"Whether the bomb was going to Aintree, or more likely the Asem Conference, I
will be attending, it is tremendous it has been thwarted," he said.

In a further development, a Government inquiry into the Maze Prison murder of
LVF leader Billy Wright, published yesterday, was unable to find out how guns
used in the shooting were smuggled into the jail.

The inquiry by Martin Narey, Director of Prison Regimes for England and Wales,
which investigated the killing and the earlier escape of IRA man Liam Averill,
made 59 recommendations on improving security to make sure similar incidents do
not happen again.

Yesterday's car bomb seizure was followed by the arrest of five people
travelling in two cars.

One of them was a man driving a red BMW containing the home-made bomb.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                         Copyright 1998 Evening Herald

                              302 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                        April 3, 1998, Friday Edition 1

Police quiz driver of huge car bomb - Aintree on alert after 1,000lb device
found in search at Irish ferry port

BYLINE: By PHIL MURPHY

SECTION: BRITAIN TONIGHT, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 531 words


   Irish police are questioning a man after the discovery of a massive bomb in a
car en route for Britain at a ferry terminal near Dublin.

Almost 1,000lb. of explosives linked to a timer were in one of two BMW cars
stopped as they queued for the ferry at Dun Laoghaire and could have been
intended for an attack on the Grand National this weekend.

Five people were arrested, four of whom were later released by Irish police.

Immediate speculation linked the

bomb to the Continuity IRA breakaway terrorist group and there was also
speculation that it was meant to throw the peace process into further turmoil by
exploding at Aintree days before Tony Blair and Irish leader Bertie Ahern's
April 9 deadline for an agreement at Stormont.

Attacks

But Mr Ahern speculated that the target could have been the summit meeting
between Asian and European leaders which opened in London today. "Whether the
bomb was going to Aintree, or more likely the Asem Conference I will be
attending, it is tremendous it has been thwarted," he said.

In a further development, a Government inquiry into the Maze Prison murder of
LVF leader Billy Wright published yesterday, was unable to find out how guns
were smuggled into the jail but 59 recommendations on improving security were
made.

Yesterday's car bomb seizure was followed by the arrest of five people, one the
driver of the red BMW containing the bomb. But police said last night four had
been released.

The fifth person being quizzed, a man from Co Kildare, is still in custody under
the terms of anti-terrorist legislation. The cars had been queuing to take a
fast, 99-minute catamaran Stena Line ferry to Anglesey.

The Continuity IRA, thought to involve dissident members of the Irish Republican
movement opposed to the peace process, has been responsible for a number of
actions and attempted attacks in Northern Ireland. If the car bomb was confirmed
as theirs, it would mark the Continuity IRA's first attempt to strike at a
target on the British mainland.

Meanwhile, the Ulster talks could find agreement by next Thursday's deadline,
Northern Ireland Secretary Mo Mowlam and Sinn Fein leader Gerry Adams said
today.

But Mr Adams said the onus was now on Prime Minister Tony Blair to "convert an
opportunity for peace into reality".

Mr Adams also called for an end to violence from all sides,.

Irish sources said Mr Blair and Mr Bertie Ahern had made "some progress" in
late-night talks about the nature of north-south bodies to link Ulster with the
Republic.

The y spoke for about 40 minutes at Downing Street last night in a bid to bridge
the gap which has grown between their governments on the key question of how
much power the bodies should have.

They hope to have further talks in the margins of today's ASEM II meeting
between European and Asian leaders.

Officials of both governments continue work on drafting proposals to be
presented to parties in the Stormont peace talks in time for the April 9
deadline for agreement.

Ms Mowlam thought agreement was possible by then "despite some of the
headlines". Most people were working through the weekend to ensure the deadline
could be met.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BOMB IS REMOVED - Irish army explosive experts remove the home-made
explosive device from one of the BMW cars

                Copyright 1998 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              303 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 3, 1998

Car bomb plot foiled

BYLINE: JOHN MULLIN IRELAND CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: The Guardian Home Page; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 720 words


IRISH police yesterday intercepted a huge car bomb bound for the British
mainland as hardline republican terrorists stepped up their attempts to derail
the peace process as it reaches a climax.

The 980lb device was capable of devastating a city centre.

It was the Gardai's sixth interception of a car bomb in two months, and it was
said to be similar to the "sophisticated" IRA devices that devastated Canary
Wharf and Manchester two years ago. The make-up of the bomb indicates high
-level defections from the IRA.

The other devices intercepted this year were discovered close to the Northern
Ireland border. Car bombs believed to have been put together in the Republic
devastated the Mid-Ulster towns of Moira and Portadown two months ago.

Detectives were refusing to say who was responsible for the device, discovered
in a red BMW car queuing at Dun Laoghaire, south of Dublin, for the ferry to the
Welsh port of Holyhead, Anglesey. Suspicion is falling on an as yet unnamed IRA
breakaway group, linked to the IRA's former quartermaster general.

There was speculation that the intended target was Aintree, where the Grand
National race meeting takes place tomorrow. The IRA disrupted the race meeting
last year, when it had still to restore its ceasefire, with an elaborate bomb
hoax.

The development came as the multi-party negotiations in Northern Ireland
appeared stymied, with Bertie Ahern, the Irish prime minister, digging his heels
in over cross-border institutions. He wants north-south bodies to have
wide-ranging powers.

Irish sources this morning said Mr Ahern and Tony Blair made "some progress" in
talks on the issue last night.  The two leaders spoke for about 40 minutes at
Downing Street.

Mr Ahern said earlier: "The Irish government will not be moving any further.
What we need is for the other parties to make those moves. I hope Mr Blair can
use his influence on those other parties."

Mr Ahern said he believed the Asia-Europe meeting (Asem), convening in London
last night and opening today just 300 yards from the Houses of Parliament with
the leaders of 25 nations in attendance, could have been the intended target of
a bomb.

Police in Dun Laoghaire arrested five people, three with addresses in Britain,
in two BMW cars which arrived for the early morning Stena line sailing. The
home-made explosives device in the first car, Irish-registered, was fitted with
a detonator, ready for use. One man, from Co Kildare, is expected to be charged.

Superintendent Pat Culhane said: "It would have caused massive damage and
probably loss of life if it had gone off." He said there had been no tip-off.

But the Gardai's record this year in intercepting devices indicates an excellent
intelligence flow, and security sources suggested yesterday that those held had
been under surveillance for a week.

The first car had arrived at the ferry port at 2.30am, and taken up its position
at the head of a lane. The second BMW, with English plates, later took up its
position behind it.

The two men and two women in it were later released, with police satisfied they
had nothing to do with the incident.

Members of the emergency response unit, with machine-guns, moved in at 6am, 40
minutes before the ferry was due to sail. They dragged the driver from the red
BMW.

Mary Harney, deputy prime minister, praised the Irish police. "This could have
had catastrophic effects on human life, on property and on the Northern Ireland
peace process," she said.

Although the new breakaway group is suspected because Dun Laoghaire is close to
its stronghold in Co Louth, another possibility is that the Continuity IRA was
responsible. It also has dissident IRA members, and has been responsible for a
number of attacks in Northern Ireland.

At Stormont, the parties will today receive talks chairman George Mitchell's
best guess at a settlement. Mr Mitchell, who has set next Thursday as the
deadline for a settlement, hopes his "synthesis" will help to concentrate minds
and free parties to compromise on their negotiated positions.

David Andrews, the Irish foreign minister, thought the differences between
Dublin and Westminster could be resolved, but David Trimble, leader of the
Ulster Unionists, is suggesting the deadline is too ambitious.


LOAD-DATE: April 6, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              304 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 April 3, 1998

No Headline Present

BYLINE: Ian Bruce, Defence Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 365 words


qA BOMB disposal expert checks bags taken from two BMW cars detained at Dun
Laoghaire ferry port, near Dublin yesterday, after Irish police foiled an
attempt to deliver a 1000lb bomb to mainland Britain, writes Ian Bruce, Defence
Correspondent.

The last-ditch attempt to sabotage the Ulster peace talks as they enter their
crucial final phase is thought to have been made by the renegade IRA Continuity
Army Council.

Security services throughout the UK and in Northern Ireland are now on alert for
a renewed terrorist bombing campaign on the mainland and scrutiny of all traffic
entering the country by sea has been stepped up.

The bomb, described as a sophisticated device fitted with booster tubes to
maximise its destructive power, was packed into a white BMW queuing for the
ferry to Holyhead in Angelsey.

Five people, three with British addresses, were arrested and detained after an
Irish Special Branch surveillance operation. Two of the group were women. A man
from County Kildare was alone in the bomb-carrying vehicle and the others were
in a red BMW following behind.

The Irish army bomb disposal team was called in to disarm the device, composed
of a home-made mix of commercial fertiliser, sugar and other readily-available
ingredients.

The device was similar to those used by the IRA to devastate Canary Wharf in
London and Manchester's commercial centre in 1996.

Although neither Irish nor British sources would confirm the identity of the
bombers last night, they are believed to belong to the Continuity Army Council.
This breakaway group of hardliners opposed to any negotiated peace with Britain
contains some of the most dangerous men and women in Ireland.

Intelligence sources say that up to 600 AK47 assault rifles, 40 machine-guns,
perhaps 300 rocket-propelled grenades and two tonnes of Semtex plastic explosive
supplied by Libya in the 1980s remain unaccounted for in the IRA's arsenal.

Professor Paul Wilkinson, head of St Andrews University's centre for the study
of terrorism and political violence, warned last night that the terrorists would
probably "move very quickly to remedy the interception of their activities".

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1998 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              305 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                        April 3, 1998, Friday Edition 4

Car bomb terrorists thwarted by police - Man arrested amid progress on peace
talks

BYLINE: By Phil Murphy

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS, Pg. 16

LENGTH: 530 words


   Terrorists seeking to destabilise the Northern Ireland peace talks were
halted in their tracks yesterday by the discovery of a massive car bomb destined
for the British mainland.

Almost 1,000lb of explosives, linked to a timer, were in one of two BMW cars
stopped as they queued for a ferry in the port of Dun Laoghaire, near Dublin.
Five people were arrested, four of whom were later released by Irish police.

Meanwhile, Prime Minister Tony Blair and his Irish counterpart Bertie Ahern made
"some progress" in late-night talks on the thorny issue of North-South bodies to
link Ulster with the Republic, Irish sources said early today.

The two leaders spoke for about 40 minutes at Downing Street in a bid to bridge
the gap which has built up between their governments on the key question of how
much power the bodies should have.

Mr Ahern suggested earlier this week that the peace process could break down if
Britain insisted on downgrading the bodies to mere "ad hoc chat shows", which he
said would be unacceptable to the Republic.

Mr Blair told colleagues at a Cabinet meeting that he was still "cautiously,
stubbornly optimistic" about the prospects for a breakthrough in the peace
talks.

Meanwhile, there was speculation that the Dun Laoghaire bomb was meant to throw
the peace process into further turmoil by exploding at the weekend's Grand
National at Aintree, just days before the April 9 deadline for an agreement at
Stormont.

But Mr Ahern speculated that the target could have been a Europe-Asia [ASEM]
conference opening in London today.

"Whether the bomb was going to Aintree, or more likely the ASEM conference I
will be attending, it is tremendous it has been thwarted," he said.

In a further development yesterday, a Government inquiry into the Maze Prison
murder of LVF leader Billy Wright said it was unable to find out how guns used
in the shooting were smuggled into the jail.

The inquiry by Martin Narey, director of prison regimes for England and Wales,
which also investigated the earlier escape of IRA man Liam Averill, has made 59
recommendations on improving security.

Yesterday's car bomb seizure was followed by the arrest of five people
travelling in two cars. One was a man driving a red BMW containing the bomb,
made of a home-made explosives mixture.

Two men and two women in a white BMW were also arrested but last night Irish
police said those four had been released.

A spokesman said: "We are satisfied they had nothing to do with this."

The fifth person, a man from County Kildare, was still in custody.

The cars had been queuing to take a fast, 99-minute catamaran Stena Line ferry
to Anglesey.

Immediate speculation linked

the bomb seizure to the Continuity IRA breakaway terrorist group, which is
opposed to the ceasefire and peace process.

Security authorities would not comment on the likelihood of the Grand National
being the target, but the celebrated steeplechase had to be abandoned last year
following an elaborate bomb scare, sparked by the IRA.

The Continuity IRA has been responsible for a number of actions and attempted
attacks in Northern Ireland.

Comment: Page 10

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Seizure: Army bomb disposal men, in the background, pack up the
contents of the two cars stopped at Dun Laoghaire.

                Copyright 1998 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              306 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             April 3, 1998, Friday

CAUGHT UP IN A BOMB NIGHTMARE;
 12-HOUR ORDEAL OF INNOCENT FRIENDS IN AINTREE TERROR PLOT;
 INNOCENT COUPLES HELD AS CIRA GRAND NATIONAL BOMB PLOT IS FOILED

BYLINE: Karl Brophy And Neil Leslie

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8, 9

LENGTH: 1100 words


TWO innocent couples were caught up in a spectacular Garda anti-terrorist
operation yesterday.

They spent more than 12 hours in police custody as suspected terrorists in
Dublin - simply because they were driving the wrong type of car.

The couples - Paul Brookes, Michelle Clarke and Paula Woods from Cambridge in
England and Kenneth Downey from Co Carlow - were released last night.

They had been arrested when armed detectives swooped on two BMW cars waiting to
board the morning ferry at Dun Laoghaire, seven miles south of Dublin.

One car carried 1,000lbs of explosives which security services believe was
destined for the Grand National. The driver of this car was also arrested.

But the other car contained the innocents.

Last night security sources said the 40-year-old suspected terrorist was from
from Athy, Co Kildare. His red BMW had been stolen two weeks earlier in Rathgar,
Co Dublin, and was fitted with false number plates.  Sources say he will face
terrorist charges today.

Garda sources say detectives believed they had seen hand signals being exchanged
between the two cars and had believed they were part of the same Continuity IRA
gang.

But the embarrassed Gardai later conceded that the two cars were only
transmitting polite directions to each other as they moved into lane approaching
the ferry.

The four innocent travellers were held for more than 12 hours at Dun Laoghaire
Garda Station as detectives made frantic phone calls to their British
counterparts in Cambridge to check the records of their English suspects.

When word came back that the three English travellers were not classified by
English police as dangerous, they were released late yesterday evening.

The cache of homemade explosives was loaded into the terror suspect's car in
black plastic bags and wired to a timing device on the front seat.

The device, which also included a detonator and booster tubes, would have caused
a massive explosion.

The bomb, ready to be primed, would have caused carnage if it had reached its
destination.

Last year the Grand National was aborted amid chaotic scenes when the IRA
planted a bomb at the Liverpool track.

A Garda source said last night: "It is too early to say what the target was but
obviously we are aware that the Grand National is on this weekend as is the game
in Twickenham, so we were being extra vigilant."

And the man heading the investigation, Chief Superintendent Pat Culhane,
revealed what could have happened if the car had made it on board the Stena HSS
Explorer and reached Britain.

"It would have caused massive damage and possibly loss of life," he confirmed.

"It was ready to go except it was not connected. It is early to speculate on who
is responsible."

Last night security sources were pointing the finger at a republican
paramilitary splinter group determined to derail the peace process.

The drama began yesterday just after 6am when heavily armed detectives from the
Emergency Response Unit swooped on two cars as they waited to board the 6.40am
ferry sailing to Holyhead.

The first, a white BMW with the four innocent passengers, was parked in the car
lane of the ferry terminal, waiting its turn to board the Stena Explorer. The
red BMW which contained the explosives is believed to have been tailed by
members of the Emergency Response Unit through early morning city traffic until
it arrived at Dun Laoghaire.

"The intelligence was obviously spot-on," port spokesman Eamon Hewitt said. "The
first we knew about it was shortly after six o'clock when the Gardai swooped on
this car.

"I think it is safe to say that the gardai knew about this well in advance. We
always work very closely with them and we are continuously reviewing our
security."

Stunned onlookers watched as the terror suspect and four innocents were bundled
away by armed detectives who swarmed around the two cars.

Chief Supt Culhane revealed that the Gardai had been warned to be on the lookout
for four-wheel drive vehicles and BMWs following previous car bomb attacks in
Northern Ireland

"Shortly before 6 o'clock this morning, two BMWs arrived in the carpark here to
board the Stena for Holyhead," he said.

"My people searched the cars and in the red BMW car they discovered a bomb. It
is too early to speculate on who is responsible but we are satisfied that it is
some element of some republican paramilitary group."

The army bomb disposal unit arrived a short time later and confirmed that the
device was primed for detonation.

Almost a dozen bags of explosives were then removed for forensic examination.

Just after 11.30am the two BMWs were towed from the scene as hopeful travellers
waited for security clearance to board the next Stena sailing.

Stena bosses confirmed that the Explorer sailed on time at 6.40am with 295
passengers, 51 cars and some freight on board, but later sailings were delayed
as gardai cleared the scene.

"The 8.55am was delayed until 10.30am," a port spokesman said. "We were able to
move the foot passengers into the terminal building but the cars had to wait
until Gardai gave us the all clear to open the car lanes.

"That disrupted later sailings too as the vessel was running around an hour and
a half late. We regret any inconvenience but obviously that is better than a car
loaded with explosives boarding one of our ferries.

"I don't think that was ever going to happen though. The Gardai had this under
control from some time ago I would suggest."

And delayed passengers were similarly relieved: "This is much better than it
getting on the boat," said one.

"I am going to the three-day race meeting in Aintree but I will now miss the
first day. It can't be helped. The gardai are just doing their job."

And English tourists heading home after holidaying in Ireland had a similar
reaction.

"I'm prepared to suffer some personal inconvenience if it means saving lives at
the other side," one man said. "It is a small price to pay for preventing this
thing going off. The police did a good job."

That was also the political reaction. Tanaiste Mary Harney told the Dail: "The
Gardai deserve great praise for what they did.

"This bomb could have had a catastrophic effect on lives, property and the peace
process."

Democratic Left leader Proinsias de Rossa said the bomb plot was a reminder of
how the men of violence were only too willing to fill the vacuum that would
result if peace talks broke down, while Northern Secretary Mo Mowlam praised the
role of the Gardai in foiling the bomb bid.

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: EXPLOSIVES: Army bomb disposal experts (above) inspect the contents of
two BMW cars that were stopped by gardai at Dun Laoghaire port

                            Copyright 1998 MGN Ltd.

                              307 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             April 3, 1998, Friday

ANTHRAX SALE QUIZ;
 BRITISH ANTHRAX VIRUS IRAQ SUPPLY CLAIM PROBE

BYLINE: Kevin Maguire

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 142 words


MINISTERS are to investigate claims Britain supplied the deadly anthrax virus
that Saddam Hussein threatened to release here.

Lib Dem defence spokesman Menzies Campbell revealed evidence that the Porton
Down germ warfare plant sold it to a US firm. It was then exported to Iraq.

Foreign Office Minister Tony Lloyd thanked the MP and promised to investigate
the reported deals between 1985 and 1989.

Tyrant Saddam hatched a plot to smuggle anthrax into Britain disguised as duty
free goods to be released in terrorist attacks.

Mr Campbell claimed Britain also taught the top brains behind Saddam's chemical
and germ weapons.

He said: "British support was not confined to training and the supply of
ancillary materials.

"There is an irresistible inference that some of the anthrax that Iraq obtained
originated in Britain."

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1998 MGN Ltd.

                              308 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                                 April 3, 1998

Man is quizzed over car bomb

SECTION: Crime: Bombs

LENGTH: 282 words


Irish police will today question a man arrested after the discovery of a massive
car bomb at a ferry-port near Dublin en route for Britain.

Almost 1,000lbs of explosives, linked to a timer, were in one of two BMW cars
stopped in a ferry queue in the port of Dun Laoghaire, near Dublin.

Five people were arrested, four of whom were later released.

There was speculation that the bomb was meant to throw the peace process into
further turmoil by exploding at the weekend's Aintree Grand National just days
before Prime Minister Tony Blair and Irish leader Bertie Ahern's Thursday, April
9, deadline for an agreement at Stormont.

The Ulster talks could find agreement by next week, Northern Ireland Secretary
Mo Mowlam and Sinn Fein leader Gerry Adams said.

But Mr Adams said the onus was now on Mr Blair to "convert an opportunity for
peace into reality".

Sources said Mr Blair and Mr Ahern had made "some progress" in talks last night
about the nature of north-south bodies to link Ulster with the Republic.But the
Ulster Unionists warned that if Mr Ahern did not soften his position there would
be no settlemen.

"We will not be bullied, brow beaten or pushed around," the UUP's senior
negotiator Reg Empey said.

The Tribunal of Inquiry set up by the Government to take a fresh look at the
tragic events of Bloody Sunday 26 years ago is opening in Londonderry today.

A Government inquiry into the Maze Prison murder of LVF leader Billy Wright,
published yesterday, was unable to find out how guns used in the shooting were
smuggled into the jail.

The inquiry by Martin Narey, Director of Prison Regimes for England and Wales,
made 59 recommendations on improving security.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: A policeman stands guard after the car bomb discovery at the port of
Dun Laoghaire, near Dublin.

                          Copyright 1998 The Sentinel

                              309 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                 April 3, 1998

1,000lb bomb found in car on way to Britain
 Grand National or international conference possible targets of Irish terrorists

BYLINE: Chris Parkin

SECTION: Pg.20/21

LENGTH: 575 words


Terrorists seeking to destabilise the Northern Ireland peace talks were halted
in their tracks yesterday by the discovery of a massive car bomb destined for
the British mainland.

Almost 1,000lb of explosives, linked to a timer, were in one of two BMW cars
stopped as they queued for a ferry in the port of Dun Laoghaire, near Dublin.
Five people were arrested, four of whom were later released by Irish police.

The Ulster talks process was already in a parlous situation after the emergence
of potentially critical differences between the British and Irish governments.

There was speculation that the bomb was meant to throw the peace process into
further turmoil by exploding at the weekend's Aintree Grand National just days
before Tony Blair and Irish leader Bertie Ahern's April 9 deadline for an
agreement at Stormont.

But Mr Ahern speculated that the target could have been a Europe-Asia conference
opening in London today.

"Whether the bomb was going to Aintree, or more likely the Asen Conference, I
will be attending, it is tremendous it has been thwarted," he said.

The car bomb seizure was followed by the arrest of five people travelling in two
cars. One of them was a man driving a red BMW containing the bomb, which
contained a mixture of homemade explosives.

Two men and two women in a white BMW were also arrested but Irish police said
those four were released last night.

A spokesman said: "We are satisfied they had nothing to do with this."

The fifth person being quizzed by detectives, a man from Co Kildare in the Irish
Republic's, was still in custody last night under the terms of anti-terrorist
legislation.

The cars had been queuing to take a fast, 99-minute catamaran Stena Line ferry
from the Irish port to Anglesey.

Immediate speculation linked the apparent bomb plot to the Continuity IRA
breakaway terrorist group.

Security authorities would not comment on the likelihood of the Grand National
being the target, but the celebrated steeplechase - part of the race meeting
which began at Aintree, Liverpool yesterday - had to be abandoned last year
following an elaborate bomb scare, sparked by the IRA.

The Continuity IRA, thought to involve dissident members of the Irish Republican
movement opposed to the current terrorist ceasefire and the Northern Ireland
peace process, has been responsible for a number of actions and attempted
attacks in Northern Ireland.

If confirmed, the bomb plot would mark the Continuity IRA's first attempt to
strike at a target on the British mainland.

Irish Justice Minister John O'Donoghue told the Irish Parliament: "The bomb was
not primed, but there were other component factors which certainly would have
led to the situation being unsafe."

- Northern Ireland Secretary Mo Mowlam last night ruled out fundamental change
to the regime at the Maze Prison, in the wake of the shooting of Loyalist
terrorist Billy Wright and the escape of an IRA prisoner.

Ms Mowlam welcomed a report by the director of regimes for the Prison Service in
England and Wales, Martin Narey, which identified almost 60 separate
recommendations to improve security at the jail.

But she said that trying to turn the clock back to the sort of regime that
existed in the 1980s would impose an unacceptable price both within the jail and
outside.

Her comments drew a furious response from the Ulster Unionist security spokesman
Ken Maginnis who denounced them as a "terrorists' charter".

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 1998 Western Morning News

                              310 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                 April 3, 1998

Blast plot foiled;
 Was the National a target for terror?

BYLINE: Phil Murphy; Chris Parkin ;Melissa Kite

SECTION: Pg.8

LENGTH: 482 words


TERRORISTS apparently hoping to destabilise the Northern Ireland peace process
were halted in their tracks yesterday by the discovery of a massive car bomb
destined for the British mainland.

Almost 1,000lbs of explosives, linked to a timer, were found in one of two BMW
cars stopped as they queued for a ferry in the port of Dun Laoghaire, near
Dublin. Five people were arrested, four of whom were later released by Irish
police.

The Ulster talks process was already in a parlous situation after the emergence
of potentially critical differences between the British and Irish governments.

There was speculation that the bomb was meant to throw the peace process into
further turmoil by exploding at the weekend's Aintree Grand National, just days
before Tony Blair and Irish leader Bertie Ahern's April 9 deadline for an
agreement at Stormont.

But Mr Ahern speculated that the target could have been a Europe-Asia conference
opening in London today.

Inquiry

''Whether the bomb was going to Aintree, or more likely the Asen Conference I
will be attending, it is tremendous it has been thwarted,'' he said.

Yesterday's car bomb seizure was followed by the arrest of five people
travelling in two cars. One of them was a man driving a red BMW containing the
bomb, which contained home-made explosives.

Two men and two women in a white BMW were also arrested but later released. An
Irish police spokesman said last night: ''We are satisfied they had nothing to
do with this.''

The cars had been queuing to take a fast, 99-minute Stena Line catamaran ferry
from the Irish port to Anglesey.

Immediate speculation linked the apparent bomb plot to the Continuity IRA
breakaway terrorist group.

Security authorities would not comment on the likelihood of the Grand National
being the target, but the celebrated steeplechase had to be abandoned last year
following an elaborate bomb scare sparked by the IRA.

The Continuity IRA, thought to involve dissident members of the Irish Republican
movement opposed to the current terrorist ceasefire and the Northern Ireland
peace process, has been responsible for a number of attacks and attempted
attacks in Northern Ireland.

If its involvement was confirmed, the operation thwarted yesterday would mark
the Continuity IRA's first attempt to strike at a target on the British
mainland.

On Wednesday night, Britain's Prime Minister Blair and Mr Ahern emerged from
three hours of talks to admit in a joint statement that ''more work needed to be
done'' in the search for a formula to present to the parties at the talks.

Nevertheless Irish Foreign Minister David Andrews said he believed the
differences between the two governments could be resolved.

And Northern Ireland Secretary Mo Mowlam claimed in Belfast yesterday: ''I
believe we are still on course for a successful outcome next Thursday.''

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1998 Bristol United Press

                              311 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                 April 3, 1998

Was the IRA out to bomb the Grand National?

BYLINE: CHAPMAN PINCHER; INTELLIGENCE EXPERT

SECTION: Pg.6

LENGTH: 875 words


ONE of the golden rules taught to all trainee intelligence officers is - always
treat any apparent coincidence with the gravest suspicion.

There can, therefore, be no doubt that senior officers of MI6 and M15 are
intensely busy investigating the possibility that the 1,000 pound car bomb
intercepted at the Irish ferry port of Dun Laoghaire, yesterday was destined for
Aintree racecourse in Liverpool.

The circumstances would certainly suggest that the bid to get the car bomb into
Britain in time for the Grand National steeplchase on Saturday was an act of
some desperation by the Irish terrorist organisation which planned it.

Because of the sensational disruption and publicity generated when the IRA
succeeded in causing the abandonment of the Grand National with only a hoax bomb
warning last year, the planners must have realised that counter- intelligence
and security measures would be at a high level for fear of a repetition with a
real bomb.

Yet, they risked the dispatch of what seems like a full terrorist active service
unit through the heightened security screen which was bound to be operating at
the port.

The result was that two BMWs, one with the bomb aboard, the other with four
passengers, were intercepted by the Irish police.

They were queueing for the fast catamaran ferry which would have taken them
across the Irish Sea to Holyhead on Anglesey in North Wales, where they faced
the risk of further screening but from which the route to Liverpool is short.

The fact that the car bomb was already fitted with a timing device indicates
that it was intended for fairly quick use.

It is, of course, possible that because of the extremely high security already
focused on Aintree, the planners intended simply to exploit that fact as a means
of attacking some other target in the belief that security and police attention
might be relaxed elsewhere, especially, perhaps, in London.

In that case, the target could have been a major motorway junction or bridge, an
office block or even the Millennium Dome.

Apart from causing disruption and death on mainland Britain, the Irish
terrorists' purpose is always to secure maximum publicity for their cause,
especially in the United States where they still have huge support and financial
assistance from Americans of Irish origin.

There can be little doubt that the terrorists responsible for constructing and
dispatching the car bomb belong to some break-away group of the IRA, which is
determined to rupture the peace talks because it will be satisfied with nothing
but the complete union of Ulster with Ireland.

The decision to take such a risk may well be linked with the imminence of the
signing of an agreement about the future of Ulster, scheduled for Thursday.

The abandonment of the talks, or at least a delay, might well have been achieved
by a major explosion on the British mainland, for some Ulster politicians
believe that, while the Sinn Fein/IRA leaders can disclaim all responsibility
for breaking the ceasefire, they know what the breakaway groups are doing and
may be party to it.

Yesterday's security success by the Irish police is likely to have been the
result of a joint effort with the British Intelligence forces - M16 and GCHQ -
which have far greater resources.

What is certain is that the IRA outfit responsible will be making a frantic
search for a possible informer inside its organisation, whether he, or she,
exists or not.

The discovery of the bomb may have been simply due to a routine search but, in
my experience, is more likely to have been the result of a tip- off, later
involving patient and expert surveillance.

A life-long study of the world of espionage has taught me that nearly all
intelligence coups, such as the unmasking of a spy, are due to a tip- off -
usually from a defector - and hardly ever from patient detective work.

The British penetration of the IRA has been so deep that I have always been
mystified by the failure to destroy it.

Over the years, several commanders of the British Forces in Ulster have assured
me that they knew the identities and addresses of every major figure in the IRA
and could have mopped them all up in one operation.

They never did so because the government of the day would not permit it. They
were never told why and assumed that their hands were tied for political
reasons, probably involving Anglo-American relations.

Several prime ministers have also assured me that they would dearly have liked
to be rid of the millstone of Ulster and all its problems but it was as
difficult to give Belfast to Ireland as to give away Liverpool, where there
happen to be a lot of people of Irish stock.

The sadness is that, whatever may be happening with the peace process, outrages
will continue because the terrorists will never be content without the total
reunion of what they believe to be their country.

In spite of yesterday's success, the police and security authorities cannot be
sure that there is not another car bomb already sitting in some lock-up garage
somewhere in Britain.

Failing that, the terrorists can always fall back on the hoax call which, in
view of the terrible bombings of the past, has to be heeded.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1998 Bristol United Press

                              312 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Grimsby Evening Telegraph

                                 April 4, 1998

Country in a flutter!

SECTION: Sport: horse racing, Pg.7

LENGTH: 577 words


PUNTERS across Britain were set for the biggest flutter in history today as they
prepared to gamble up to GBP 150-million on the Grand National and the National
Lottery rollover jackpot.

Racing fans were flocking to the highlight of the steeplechase calendar at
Aintree with organisers of the Grand National and bookmakers forecasting a
record breaking year.

Attendances for the first two days of the meeting in Liverpool suggest fears
that last year's IRA bomb hoax would keep the crowds away have proved unfounded.

Bookmakers were predicting bumper betting with the nation's once-a-year gamblers
turning out in force with stake money topping GBP 80-million.

And Camelot chiefs were predicting ticket sales of up to GBP 74-million for an
anticipated GBP 14-million Lottery rollover jackpot after nobody matched
Wednesday's six winning numbers.

The Princess Royal was set to add some extra spice to the 151st running of the
world's greatest steeplechase by having a new Aintree stand named in her honour.

The Princess, a guest of honour at today's event, was unveiling a plaque to
commemorate the Princess Royal stand.

As a curtain-raiser to today's big race, yesterday's Aintree meeting saw a crowd
of 30,523 - an increase of more than 3,000 on last year. And there was also a
small increase of 200 on Thursday's attendance.

With security stepped up in the wake of last year's bomb alert, officials at the
course say racegoers have participated willingly in security checks which
include airport style metal detectors and x-ray machines to examine bags.

"Not only have people been bearing with us, they seem to have been happy to
participate," said marketing manager Joe McNally.

Police were again urging people to arrive early for the main event of the three
day meeting - where crowds upwards of 60,000 were expected to attend.

Yesterday the delays at the gates due to the security measures saw some
racegoers queuing for more than an hour to get in. And with almost three times
as many expected to attend today, officials said it was very important that
people followed that advice.

More gates will be open at the course today and that the number of security
check points would also be increased.

The whole course, including the famous National jumps, was subject to a full
search overnight and 500 police officers will be present at Aintree today.

The biggest bet for today's big race at 3.45pm is likely to be the GBP 10,000
each way wager on Gimme Five, placed at a west London William Hill office.

"If Gimme Five obliges the punter will collect GBP 825,000," said Mr Hood.

"It is one of the biggest National bets of all time."

The race is also likely to attract the attention of animal rights campaigners -
especially after the death of popular grey One Man, who was put down after
breaking a leg yesterday.

Michelle Bryan from the League Against Cruel Sports said: "We should never have
to ask a horse to give up its life in the name of sport."

She added that modifications made to the National fences in recent years were
insufficient and that "more improvements" were necessary to ensure the safety of
the horses.

As well as the big event of the day there will also be a parade of ex-Grand
National prior to the Grand National winners led by the Merseyside Police
mounted section.

The parade will include the winner of last year's rearranged race, Lord Gyllene
and Party Politics who won in General Election year 1992.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1998 Grimsby Evening Telegraph

                              313 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                             April 6, 1998, Monday

Chimes At Midnight

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 569 words


Deadlines can distort perspectives as well as concentrating minds. The British
and Irish Governments have imposed upon themselves, and on Northern Ireland's
politicians, the tightest of timetables for talks on the Province's future.
There are good reasons why a time limit has been set. To allow open-ended
discussion would be to postpone agreement forever, and this summer's marching
season could have forced new allies back into old trenches. But in the rush to
secure agreement before midnight chimes on Thursday there is a danger that
expectations will have been aroused which no reasonable settlement can satisfy.

Although the Stormont negotiations have been termed "peace talks" it is
dangerously naive to assume that an agreement will end terrorism in Ireland. The
car bomb intercepted at Dun Laoghaire last week is chilling evidence of the
potential for devastation in the hands of men opposed to the current talks. The
RUC Chief Constable Ronnie Flanagan gives warning in tonight's Panorama of the
threat to peace from republican militarists. Even if an agreement acceptable to
the current Sinn Fein leadership is reached this week, it will leave a
significant section of the republican movement gravely disappointed.
Cross-border bodies, however powerful, will not satisfy those republicans who
are pledged not to rest until the border itself goes. Their numbers are not
restricted to the existing splinter group known as the Continuity IRA. Last
week's car bomb was the work of disaffected republicans in Ireland who have made
no secret of their profound differences with the Sinn Fein leadership.

If Mr Adams were to settle for anything less than a route which leads clearly to
British withdrawal, he would almost certainly face a split in his movement, with
a rival leadership emerging which claims to speak for the true republican
tradition. The ghost of Michael Collins haunts his dreams.

If an agreement is reached between the other parties from which Mr Adams
dissents, he might forestall an immediate split but his position would be far
from secure. Even if he convinced his party to restrict their opposition to
"angry voices and marching feet", he would have to face down those who argued
that only bombs in Britain would command London's attention. The war party
within Sinn Fein would argue that talks may have delivered a little but that
only by deploying physical force could republicans maximise their influence.

Regrettably, the more successful and popular outside the republican ghettoes a
deal may prove, the greater the pressure for a return to war. It is an article
of Sinn Fein faith that Ulster is ungovernable within the United Kingdom.
Republican strategists are likely to conclude that any new body which keeps
Ulster in the Union, and better governed in the eyes of its citizens and the
world, will have to be destabilised before it has a chance to establish itself.

Democrats should be all the more determined to reach an agreement. By
establishing an assembly in Ulster, and cross-border bodies, to which moderate
unionists and nationalists can give their assent the republicans can be
confounded, their capacity to win a sympathetic hearing from the gullible abroad
removed. One of the tasks which will then require real cross-border co-operation
is the security response to an IRA which will not go away, whatever new hope is
found this Easter.


LOAD-DATE: April 6, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1998 Times Newspapers Limited

                              314 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 April 11, 1998

Factions will ensure the tests are yet to come

BYLINE: Greg Harkin

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 711 words


A funeral which took place in Derry yesterday was a stark reminder of the past
and the troubles that lie ahead for the new peace process.

Loyalist Trevor Deeney was no stranger to violence. He had served a prison
sentence and his brother Jeffrey is serving life for the October 1993 'trick or
treat' murders of five Catholics and two Protestants in Greysteel.

Jeffrey Deeney was allowed out of jail yesterday for the funeral of his brother,
shot by the INLA.

And last night he was back behind bars in the Maze with 30 other members of the
notorious Loyalist Volunteer Force, the gang who murdered Catholic and
Protestant friends in Poyntzpass.

Security chiefs are in no doubt that within the bounds of any settlement,
violence will continue.

In the past 14 months, 37 people have been murdered by paramilitaries and towns
like Moira and Portadown have been devastated.

The mainstream paramilitary organisations, the IRA, the UVF and the UDA, have
all broken their ceasefires at various times during the talks process.

In recent times splinter and fringe groups have emerged as a growing threat to
peace.

The LVF has been the most bloodthirsty of the groups opposed to the peace
process, gunning down eight people since their leader was shot dead in the Maze
by the INLA last December.

Before Billy Wright's death the gang was also responsible for some of the most
horrific crimes in recent years, like the shooting of an 18-year-old Catholic
girl, Bernadette Martin, as she lay in bed in the home of her Protestant
boyfriend in Aghalee, Co Antrim.

Or the horrific summertime slaying of 16-year-old James Morgan who was abducted,
tortured, dismembered and finally bludgeoned to death by an LVF gang in Clough,
Co Down.

The LVF leadership has given full backing to Ian Paisley's political views, its
members are almost evangelical in their beliefs and there is no political
settlement on the horizon to satisfy them.

They are now expected to launch a series of revenge attacks following the murder
of Trevor Deeney and the organisation has always warned it would carry its
campaign to the Republic. Some within the leadership have even threatened to
strike in Britain.

While the PIRA has extended its ceasefire for another four months, there are
serious divisions within the republican family.

The INLA has shown this week what it is capable of, but the Continuity IRA,
while small, has been the most prominent dissident group in recent times,
triggering a number of bombs.

Their campaign would have been more destructive but for the excellent work of
Irish police who have intercepted six massive bombs in recent weeks amid claims
of help from the Provos.

Led by a Belfast republican who was once a senior Provisional, the Continuity
IRA has established itself as a focus for dissenting PIRA members.

Another group of Provisionals who are deeply opposed to yesterday's peace deal
formed the 32-County Sovereignty Committee last November. Two of their members
are in custody in the Republic charged with bomb offences.

Sinn Fein leaders Gerry Adams and Martin McGuinness face an uphill struggle to
keep their supporters on board, but there is a feeling within republican circles
that they can win the arguments.

The acid test will come tomorrow at traditional Easter Rising commemorations
across Ireland. The numbers who turn up for republican gatherings and their mood
will be a measure of how this process has worked for them.

The future days and weeks will see terrorist attacks. No-one should be in any
doubt about that.

But the main groups remain on board and Adams and McGuinness should carry their
people with them at the Ard Fheis in Dublin next Saturday.

The test will come in the next few months, not least when the annual Drumree
march is due to wind its way down the nationalist Garvaghy Road in Portadown.

There are several scenarios for this parade on July 5.

The LVF are very strong in Portadown and they will be determined to use the
church service and march for a show of strength.

If republicans have any sense, they will use their influence to allow some sort
of march to go ahead in order to save the peace and avoid the violence and
mayhem of the past few years.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1998 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              315 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Leicester Mercury

                                 April 11, 1998

County greets peace deal as new beginning

BYLINE: By Julie Henry

SECTION: Pg.3

LENGTH: 399 words


THE Northern Ireland peace agreement has been hailed as a new beginning for the
province by people in Leicestershire.

The announcement that all parties in the two-year process had finally reached a
deal last night was greeted with applause in the county.

And the will of the people of the province was credited as the compelling force
which forced politicians to the negotiating table, and kept them there.

James O'Dwyer, the founder of Leicester Irish Society, said all responsible
people would want to applaud the historic occasion that had seen sworn enemies
struggle to reach a compromise.

"I see this as the beginning of a peaceful situation in Northern Ireland. The
agreements that have been reached have to be put in place and given time to work
through. The next five years will be extremely interesting."

Mr O'Dwyer, who is still a member of the society, a social organisation, said
the deal reached yesterday was different from those that had gone before.

"It is the first time that all the different parties have sat down and reached
agreement," he said.

Like other parts of Britain, Leicester has felt the bloody hand of terrorism.

A huge explosion ripped through the city centre in 1990, when an IRA bomb fell
from an Army van in Rutland Street. The vehicle was being driven from the
military recruitment office in Yeoman Street.

No one was killed but a number of people were injured and nearby cars and
buildings were damaged.

Mr O'Dwyer, who lives in Sileby, said any acts of violence that followed the
agreement should not be taken as a sign of what the vast majority of people in
Northern Ireland wanted.

"You cannot account for the loose cannons but things should be more difficult
for them. There is a keenness for things to work," he said.

A referendum will now be held in Northern Ireland in a bid to ratify what has
been agreed by politicians.

Monsignor Peter O'Dowd, a senior Catholic priest in Leicester, said he was
absolutely delighted that an agreement had been reached.

"It seems to have been the will of the people pushing the politicians and
compelling them to come to a decision. Now the agreement will, please God, be
reinforced by the referendum."

The monsignor said it would be hard to overcome the cycle of violence that has
been a part of the province for so long but the deal represented the best chance
for peace in a long time.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                        Copyright 1998 Leicester Mercury

                              316 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                 April 11, 1998

Deal brings hope to families of the victims of violence

BYLINE: Amanda Crack

SECTION: Pg.4/ 5

LENGTH: 481 words


TO one young boy whose plea for peace came to symbolise the hopes of ordinary
people of Northern Ireland, the deal could mean a chance to at last play freely
with his friends.

David Sterrett, aged 13, met U.S. President Bill Clinton on his visit to Ulster
in 1995, after writing a letter about peace.

The youngster, who lives in Belfast, said: ''The peace deal is great. I hope
there will not be more violence or killings. We will be able to go out and play
without worrying if anything is going to happen.''

His mother, Georgina, said: ''This is important for all the children. It's been
very difficult as they have grown up and hopefully we have come to the end of
it.''

Rita Restorick and Colin Parry, whose sons were both killed as a result of the
troubles, both welcomed the agreement.

Mrs Restorick, whose son Stephen, 23, was the last British soldier murdered in
Northern Ireland, campaigned for peace after he was murdered by a sniper last
year as he patrolled a checkpoint.

Just hours before agreement was reached, his mother had sent a heartfelt message
to all the parties involved in a last ditch attempt to persuade them to end the
troubles.

Mrs Restorick, 50, of Peterborough, said the deal provided the ''chance of a
lifetime'' for the people of Northern Ireland.

''The people over there want peace,'' she added.

An emotional Colin Parry, whose son Tim was killed in an IRA bomb in Warrington
in 1993, said he had watched in tears as news of a settlement came through.

''I have spoken personally to (Ulster Secretary) Mo Mowlem a couple of times in
the last couple of days," he said. ''She has injected such enthusiasm and
urgency into the programme and has produced a first rate blue print for Northern
Ireland.''

Mr Parry went on: ''I think Tony Blair, Bertie Ahern and all the others have got
what they thoroughly deserve which is a first rate blueprint for Ireland.

''It rekindles my faith in human nature that good can overcome evil. From the
day that Tim died that has always been my message."

Tory former Prime Minister Sir Edward Heath, whose own attempts to find a peace
accord failed, said in a statement : ''It is now for the people of Northern
Ireland and of the Republic of Ireland to rise to the vision and courage which
their leaders have demonstrated and move the two parts of the island of Ireland
away from the nightmares of the past towards the opportunities which this
agreement offers for the future.''

Liberal Democrat leader Paddy Ashdown said the deal represented a major
breakthrough but also stressed that work remained to be done.

His statement said: ''This marks a new moment of hope for Ireland and for
Britain. It represents a personal triumph for the two Prime Ministers and their
predecessors, whose will, determination and courage has achieved a solid
foundation for durable peace."

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1998 Bristol United Press

                              317 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 April 13, 1998

Adams thanks IRA in bid to sell the deal

BYLINE: Alison Hardie;

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1165 words


Belfast,

SINN Fein leader Gerry Adams played a political game of risk yesterday when he
saluted the role of the IRA.

In a determined bid to secure the agreement of the Provisionals to the peace
deal, he spoke of their "courage, tenacity and commitment" over the years. He
declared: "I pay tribute not just to their role when they make war, but also to
their role when they provide the opportunity for making peace."

Meanwhile, Prime Minister Tony Blair warned that paramilitary groups opposed to
the deal could return to terrorist violence to try to wreck the deal, and peace
talks chairman Senator George Mitchell said there was still a long way to go to
translate the historic deal into lasting peace.

At a rally in the republican heartland of County Tyrone, Mr Adams departed from
a prepared speech to send a message to the Provisionals that it was now time to
build bridges with the unionist community in Northern Ireland.

Mr Adams was given a thunderous reception at the rally in Carrickmore
commemorating the 1916 Easter Rising in Dublin, where he also told people the
central aim of his party remained a free and independent Ireland.

Thousands heard him say: "Let me commend the Tyrone Brigade of the Irish
Republican Army for their courage and tenacity and commitment down through the
years.

"Some might think that at this very difficult and dangerous juncture in our
history that that's me trying to pay homage to the hard men or women. It isn't."

Later, underlining his determination to deliver IRA agreement to the terms of
the Stormont deal, Mr Adams went on: "We want to make peace with the unionists
despite the difficulties between us and them.

"We want to live together with them on the basis of equality. More and more
people are realising there is a need for change.

"So when I pay tribute to the IRA soldiers, to the men and women, I pay tribute
not just to their role when they make war, but also to their role when they
provide the opportunity for making peace."

In a further statement designed to be interpreted as conciliatory, Mr Adams
called on the British Army and the RUC to be included in this process.

Mr Adams's comments followed a statement from the Irish Taoiseach Bertie Ahern
who said he was looking forward to the decomissioning of terrorist arms
beginning "later in the summer".

In an interview with an Irish radio station, Mr Ahern said he also envisaged
welcoming Ulster Unionist leader David Trimble to Dublin as the leader of a new
Northern Ireland executive administration as a result of the agreement.

He went on to urge Sinn Fein to back the agreement, saying: "Sinn Fein would
surely want to be in there politically working to change things in this new
mechanism.

"I am confident they will do that and I think they will make a huge impact on
these issues in the time ahead."

Before a Sinn Fein march and rally in Londonderry, the party's chief negotiator,
Martin McGuinness, said it was too soon to say if the Stormont agreement would
encourage the IRA to maintain its ceasefire.

But he added: "The IRA are very intelligent people and of all the groups
involved in trying to make the peace process work, the IRA, in my opinion, have
made the greatest contribution . . . They will read this document with as much
interest as everyone else and they will make up their own minds."

Mr McGuinness told a crowd of about 1000 at the rally that every effort must be
made to get the agreement of Northern Protestants and unionists in the
constitutional, financial and political arrangements needed to replace
partition.

"Clearly there is a huge gap of distrust between nationalists and unionists,
which must be bridged on the basis of equality.

"Unionists work on the basis that if you give nationalists equality, the union
is finished. I believe they are right. No process which excludes any section of
society can hope to be successful. That is why the equality agenda has been one
of our priority objectives in this process."

Meanwhile, Mr Blair told the people of Northern Ireland last night that the
world was watching them and willing them not to squander their "historic
opportunity" for peace.

The Prime Minister interrupted his family holiday in Spain to call on all
communities to ignore the voices speaking out against the agreement reached on
Friday after marathon multi-party negotiations.

His plea was underlined by church leaders who urged everybody in Northern
Ireland to study the peace settlement.

Dr Robin Eames, the Church of Ireland Archbishop of Armagh,

agreement reached on Friday after marathon multi-party negotiations.

His plea was underlined by church leaders who urged everybody in Northern
Ireland to study the peace settlement.

Dr Robin Eames, the Church of Ireland Archbishop of Armagh,

said: "It is a matter of individual conscience, but I have to say there is a
great feeling of hope.

"But above all, people must realise there is no way we can allow Northern
Ireland to go back into the darkness."

The Roman Catholic Primate of Ireland, Archbishop Sean Brady, said: "It is my
hope it will lead the way to a future where people will learn to trust and
respect each other, depite their differences."

It also emerged last night that Mr Blair was planning to enlist former Premier
John Major's support in the run up to the referendum in May on the Stormont
deal.

"John Major was one of the main architects of this whole process and we owe a
great debt of gratitude to him because I think he showed considerable courage
and vision in starting this whole process," said Mr Blair outside his holiday
villa in Cordoba.

Mr Major said that if Sinn Fein representatives were to take their seats in a
new Northern Ireland executive assembly, the process of decommissioning IRA
weapons must be under way.

"Clearly you cannot go into a democratic assembly with Armalites under the
table," said Mr Major. "You simply can't do that, so there is going to have to
be progress on decommissioning.

"Sinn Fein, I have no doubt, will have difficulty with their own supporters over
this and it is one of the difficulties they will have to wrestle with in the
next few weeks."

At a rally in the staunchly republican town of Crossmaglen, County Armagh, a
masked man - described to a 500-strong crowd as a Republican Army volunteer -
appeared at an IRA grave to vow a continuation of the struggle for a united
Ireland.

The speech is an annual tradition in Crossmaglen, but this year Sinn Fein
councillors - clearly aware of the controversial image it created - banned all
photography and filming of the event.

Later Sinn Fein councillor Jack Crow told the rally: "There has been much talk
of endgames and final settlements, be sure that for us the only final settlement
between Britain and Ireland and among the people who share this island can only
be on the basis of national self-determination for the Irish people."

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Schoolchildren push forward to shake the hand of Sinn Fein leader Gerry
Adams after his speech. Picture: BARRY BATCHELOR/PA.  ;The agreement document,
copies of which are to be sent to every household in Northern Ireland.;PAGE 2
Blair's plea PAGE 13 To the bold and brave

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1998 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              318 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 April 15, 1998

IRA men are freed in 'goodwill' peace move

BYLINE: Andrew Sparrow

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 629 words


NINE IRA prisoners were set free by the Irish government last night in what was
described as a 'goodwill gesture' to Gerry Adams.

The men, including a terrorist supposed to stay in jail until 2005, are the
first people in Ireland to benefit directly from the peace deal clinched on Good
Friday.

The Irish hope the release of the men from the top-security Portlaoise jail
outside Dublin will persuade Sinn Fein members to back the agreement.

But the decision to let them out so soon - before the IRA has shown any
willingness to surrender any weapons - is bound to harden Unionist opposition to
the settlement. Many Unionists are starting to feel that the Good Friday
agreement has been a mistake and, even though he negotiated it, Ulster Unionist
leader David Trimble is coming under pressure to reject it.

The release of the nine is the first step in a programme that will see 440
criminals - including bombers and gunmen responsible for Britain's most gruesome
acts of terrorism - enjoying freedom within two years.

Those freed include Tony Heaney, 43, from Londonderry, who was serving 15 years
for arms possession after being caught with a mortar. He was not due to be
released until 2005.

Dublin sources described the decision as a 'goodwill gesture' to coincide with a
meeting of Sinn Fein's ruling executive to consider the peace deal.

More than 40 IRA prisoners are still in Portlaoise, either serving sentences, or
on remand awaiting trial.

They too are now looking forward to early release. The Irish government
announced the decision to release the men on the eve of a meeting of the
leadership of the Orange Order.

With at least 30,000 members, the Order serves as the backbone of the Unionist
movement and its leaders will be horrified to see IRA criminals getting out of
jail early. Most members are thought to be opposed to Mr Trimble's deal.

There will be another difficult meeting on Saturday, when up to 700 delegates of
the Ulster Unionist Council gather to consider whether they will follow the
party's executive and support the agreement.

Dublin's concession to the IRA will be exploited by Rev Ian Paisley's Democratic
Unionist Party, which today launches a campaign for a No vote in the May 22 poll
on the deal.

DUP spokesman Nigel Dodds said: 'This is clearly an indication that the IRA will
continue to be appeased and we are going to see more and more convicted
murderers and IRA terrorists being released under this agreement if it passes.'
One of the freed IRA men was Noel Magee, 37, of Ballyshannon, Donegal, who shot
an Ulster Defence Regiment soldier in an ambush in 1992.

He was jailed for 11 years for the attempted murder in 1995 and was not due for
release until 2004.

Among the others were Patrick Kavanagh, Paul Murray, Patrick McCartney, Bernard
O'Hagan and Hugh Wilkinson, all from Londonderry, who were jailed for six years
last July for possession of two Kalashnikovs and ammunition when they were
caught at an IRA training camp in Donegal. They were due to be released at the
end of April, 2001.

O'Hagan, speaking for the terrorists, said last night that while the releases
were a positive step, hundreds of other 'political prisoners' remained in jail.

Their release was welcomed by former Irish premier John Bruton, who said the
move 'should be seen as part of a critical process of building last Friday's
agreement into a lasting peace settlement'.

The terrorists walked free after a day in which U.S. President Bill Clinton was
warned by Unionists not to come to Ulster before the May poll.

Ulster Unionist Reg Empey said: 'The people of Northern Ireland will want to
make up their own minds on a very important question without outsiders getting
involved.'


LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: GESTURE POLITICS: IRA MAN BERNARD O'HAGAN, FOURTH FROM LEFT, FLANKED BY
OTHER TERRORISTS FREED LAST NIGHT

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1998 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              319 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                            April 16, 1998, Thursday

CONSPIRACY THEORIES DEMEAN GREAT EFFORTS;
 YOUR VIEWS ON THE DEAL . . .

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 330 words


One of the assertions continually used by Robert McCartney and his DUP allies in
their campaign against the talks and now the Agreement is that the primary
purpose of the process is to keep bombs out of London.

They allege that our government has come to a cynical understanding with the
republican movement that in return for specified concession there will be no
more Canary Wharf's.

I find this allegation not only unsupported by the facts but deeply unfair to
successive British governments and indeed to the good people of England,
Scotland and Wales. The politicians, the people and the soldiers of the rest of
the United Kingdom have spent their time, their money and their blood in
supporting us.

Colossal and increasingly sophisticated efforts have been deployed on security.
Vast sums have been spent in compensation for terrorist violence and
destruction. Young lives have been given. Our city centres, our infrastructure,
our leisure complexes, our tourist and sporting facilities have all been treated
far more favourably than any other region of the United Kingdom without serious
complaint from the vast majority of its taxpayers.

The previous Prime Minister, who had troubles enough of his own, put a huge and
selfless effort into finding a solution to our seemingly intractable problems
and the present PM has made the peace and stability of our future his number one
priority.

Of course we have suffered, and suffered horribly, but the governments and the
people of Great Britain have stood by us through it all. We could not have
survived without them and to allege that they are only interested in their own
safety is a spiteful calumny.

The new agreement deserves, at least, our careful consideration. What it does
not deserve are the nasty, ungenerous little conspiracy theories now being
peddled by politicians who wish to spread alarm so as to secure a certain result
in the referendum.

n Robin Glendinning, Comber, Co Down.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BOB MCCARTNEY: keeping bombs out of London

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1998 Century Newspapers Limited

                              320 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                             April 24, 1998, Friday

GUNMEN SURRENDERED WHEN SAS BROUGHT IN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 223 words


THE Balcombe Street gang were four highly-trained IRA men who held a middle
-aged couple hostage in their central London home when they were cornered by
police.

They only gave themselves up after a six-day stand-off when the SAS were called
in - with instructions to shoot to kill if they tried to escape.

The dramatic siege in December 1975 saw policemen in bullet-proof vests and
wielding guns on Britain's streets for the first time in such a public manner.

The horror of the incident - along with the bravery of Mr and Mrs John Matthews
surrounded by terrorists in their flat in Balcombe Street, Marylebone - was
brought home to people in newspaper pictures and on television.

The four terrorists, Martin O'Connell, 24, Harry Duggan, 24, Hugh Doherty, 26,
and Edward Butler, 28, were jailed for life at the Old Bailey in February 1977.

They received multiple life sentences for the siege and a wave of bombings and
shootings, including that of Ross McWhirter, publisher of the Guinness Book of
Records.

The court was told that the incident started after police chased the four IRA
gunmen through central London.

The terrorists fired into Scott's restaurant, Mayfair, and at a police van
before forcing their way into the Matthews' flat.

Several police officers were later decorated for their courage.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1998 Century Newspapers Limited

                              321 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            April 25, 1998, Saturday

SNP ANGER AS DEADLY NUKE CARGO ARRIVES AT DOUNREAY;
 POLICE ESCORT ATOMIC WASTE TO DOUNREAY

BYLINE: James Fletcher

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 410 words


THIS IS the deadly cargo of radioactive waste that will fester in Scotland's
atomic waste bin at Dounreay.

Armed cops escorted the controversial delivery on the final leg of its
potentially devastating journey from Georgia.

For five hours they travelled north with a helicopter hovering above to stave
off possible terrorist attacks.

And as the uranium and irradiated spent reactor fuel wound its way towards
Dounreay from RAF Kinloss, the row over its presence in Britain raged on.

SNP chiefs yesterday accused Prime Minister Tony Blair of "betraying" Scotland's
people.

And they claimed the Government had tried to fool the British public by claiming
the material can be used in the fight against cancer.

SNP environment spokesman Roseanna Cunningham described the claims as a "medical
smoke screen".

She said: "Here is an example that New Labour means New Secrecy - the same
secrecy that bedevilled the previous Government.

"It's clear that this was a deliberate attempt at misinformation. It's just
about technically possible to use this material to make medical isotopes but
it's highly unlikely that anyone would chose to do so.

"There is no shortage of isotopes, this explanation is merely a smoke screen.

"We are told it is a derisory amount, tiny compared to what is already stored at
Dounreay. If it is so small why did Russia, America and France refuse to take
it?

"Russia back-tracked because they want to be paid to take it off their hands.
France doesn't accept foreign nuclear waste.

"It may be that Clinton was just trying it on with Blair, to see what would
happen. Now he has his answer."

Responsibility for disposing of nuclear waste should be taken by the country of
its origin, added the MP.

But Labour dismissed the claims and Scottish Industry Minister Brian Wilson
challenged the Nats to withdraw their comments. He said: "The simple statement
of fact is that the material will lead to the production of about 1,000 targets
which in turn will provide some five million treatment doses for the benefit of
cancer sufferers.

"The second crucial fact is that there is a shortage of these materials.  It
seems to me that the treatment of cancer is considerably more important than
party political point-scoring."

Environmentalists Greenpeace yesterday unveiled plans to launch a legal
challenge to the decision, arguing that Dounreay doesn't have the capacity to
deal with the waste.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: RING OF STEEL: Armed police escort the waste to its Scots dumping
ground

                            Copyright 1998 MGN Ltd.

                              322 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                 April 26, 1998

Nuclear police chief quits over security

BYLINE: BY MARK GOULD

SECTION: The Observer News Page; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 367 words


THE police chief responsible for protecting Britain's nuclear power stations and
research sites against terrorist attack has quit after repeatedly warning that
cost-cutting is compromising security.

The resignation of Tony Pointer, 55, Chief Constable of the UK Atomic Energy
Authority Constabulary, was revealed last night while the Government was still
attempting to weather the public fallout over the Georgia-Dounreay decision.
Tony Blair sought to justify the decision by saying it would prevent the nuclear
material falling into the hands of terrorists.

Pointer's decision to quit followed a report by the Special Boat Service which
illustrated security flaws by staging mock raids on sites including Sellafield
in Cumbria and Dounreay. Last month it emerged that staff at Sellafield had made
formal complaints after masked 'terrorists' forced them to lie on the floor at
gunpoint.

Last night a spokesman for the Department of Trade and Industry confirmed that
Pointer had resigned after a 'clash' with a senior employee of the Atomic Energy
Authority over security staff levels at Dounreay. He leaves his post on Friday.

The spokesman said security has been upgraded at all UK nuclear installations as
a result of a review ordered before Pointer handed in his notice. 'The key point
is that Mr Pointer expressed his satisfaction with the new security plans. He is
happy with security now, but he is not coming back. He said he would work three
months' notice, and that is what he has done.'

A UKAEA spokesman said security staffing levels at sites including Dounreay had
been increased as part of the review. Until a successor is appointed the
Assistant Chief Constable, Bill Pryke will take charge.

* Reprocessing the nuclear waste from Georgia at Dounreay will cost British
taxpayers millions of pounds. Despite ministerial assurances that the shipment
is a 'one-off', The Observer has learnt that Dounreay - barred from importing
and reprocessing nuclear waste after leaks and safety scares at its main
reprocessor - is secretly planning to exploit the consignment and reopen an
ageing reprocessing unit that can dispose of tonnes more radioactive material.


LOAD-DATE: May 1, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1998 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              323 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                             April 26, 1998, Sunday

ARMY 'TO PULL OUT OF ULSTER IN OCTOBER';
 GOVERNMENT SET TO START WITHDRAWING ARMY FROM NORTHERN IRELAND

BYLINE: James Harper

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 416 words


THE Government intends to start withdrawing the Army from Northern Ireland and
dismantling its bases as early as October, it was claimed last night.

The Rev Ian Paisley's Democratic Unionist Party said the move would be dependent
on a "Yes" vote in next month's Ulster referendum on the Stormont peace
agreement.

Mr Paisley's son Ian Jnr said a leaked security forces document obtained by the
party revealed the time-scale for a wave of withdrawals and base closures. "They
are talking about the whole lot going in less than three years," he said.

Base dismantling was part of a process of "irreversible change" discussed at a
military conference on April 17, the document is said to claim.

It says Lieutenant General Sir Rupert Smith, the Army commander in Northern
Ireland, has decided a "Yes" vote would herald the end of the Army's operational
role.

"This will be the normality end state which we are in the business of achieving
and which will result in no further need of our services. The aim is to achieve
this end state by invisibility," the document says.

An Army spokesman said that unless they saw the document in the hands of the DUP
they could not comment on its contents.

However Army sources indicated that it would take more than a "Yes" vote to get
them to leave.

One admitted withdrawals were possible provided "a proper peace should be
established and the terrorist threat completely removed." In that event, it was
"unlikely there would be a requirement for all security forces."

There are some 17,000 troops in Northern Ireland and in the past it has always
been stated by the Army that even in the event of a total ending of terrorism
thousands would stay.

In essence, there is nowhere in Britain to house them all and permanent Ulster
bases, like those scattered around the rest of the United Kingdom, would be
expected to remain.

Such garrison bases were established in Northern Ireland long before the
violence broke out in 1969.

PRIME Minister Tony Blair is to meet Sinn Fein leader Gerry Adams at 10 Downing
Street tomorrow. The move comes as the party continues its internal debate on
the Stormont peace agreement and whether to call for a "Yes" vote in next
month's referendums on both sides of the border.

Pressure on the peace process grew as Catholic university student Ciaran
Heffron, 22, was shot dead by Loyalists in a lane in Crumlin, Co. Antrim, early
yesterday. Two men were being questioned last night.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ON THE WAY OUT? The familiar sight of a soldier on patrol in Belfast

                            Copyright 1998 MGN Ltd.

                              324 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             April 27, 1998, Monday

Call for review of safety as nuclear security chief quits

SECTION: NEWS; Page 8

LENGTH: 429 words


ENVIRONMENTAL groups yesterday called for an urgent safety review at Britain's
nuclear installations following the resignation of its security chief.

Friends of the Earth campaigners said Anthony Pointer's resignation as head of
the UK Atomic Energy Authority police force highlights alarming and fundamental
problems surrounding nuclear safety.

"We are extremely alarmed to discover that the country's top nuclear policeman
has had to leave his job because he can't guarantee the safety of the industry's
plants," said Friends of the Earth campaigns director Tony Juniper.

But Mr Pointer yesterday sought to reassure the public that the sites were in
safe hands providing they were properly funded and resourced.

From his home in Bournemouth, he said yesterday: "I feel the public needs some
assurance. The force is an excellent one, the police officers are very
professional and the public can be assured that these sites are in safe hands
with the police providing they are properly funded and resourced."

He added that he was unable to speak about his resignation because he was bound
by the Official Secrets Act.

He resigned after falling out with management over the number of officers needed
to safeguard sites such as Dounreay and Sellafield against attack by terrorists
and environmental extremists, said a spokesman for UKAEA.

He tendered his resignation in January and will leave his post on Friday, after
serving a three-month notice period. No new chief constable has yet been
appointed and Mr Pointer's deputy will oversee the force until his successor is
in place, said the authority spokesman.

Security at the sites has since been upgraded and the manpower of the force -
Britain's only permanently armed constabulary - now stands about the 470-officer
level recommended by Mr Pointer, he added.

The spokesman said: "There was a difference of opinion between the chief
constable and senior management regarding manning levels and levels of security
and he tendered his resignation, but the levels were later agreed.

"In February Mr Pointer commented that he now felt that levels of security and
numbers of officers were satisfactory. The UKAEA police authority asked him to
reconsider his resignation, but he chose not to."

Mr Pointer's departure comes at a delicate time for the authority, as the
attention of environmental activists is focused on Dounreay following the
decision to bring 4.3kg of weapons-grade uranium from the former Soviet state of
Georgia to the reprocessing plant in Caithness.


LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1998 Independent Print Ltd

                              325 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                             April 27, 1998, Monday

Minister denies DUP claims of army pull-out

BYLINE: Audrey Magee and Jill Sherman

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 674 words


THE Government moved last night to defuse a dispute in Northern Ireland over
claims by Ian Paisley's Democratic Unionist Party that British troops would
start moving out of the Province and dismantling army bases as early as October.

The DUP claimed yesterday that it had seen a confidential security force
document outlining plans and listing the timescale for a wave of withdrawals and
base closures over the next three years. The document made clear that withdrawal
would start only if Ulster voted "yes" in next month's referendum on the
Northern Ireland peace agreement. But last night George Robertson, the Defence
Secretary, acted swiftly to dismiss the reports outright. "There is no truth in
the suggestion that the Government is planning to withdraw army units from
Northern Ireland," Mr Robertson said. "The Army will continue to provide
whatever level of support is required by the RUC for as long as necessary."

The DUP, which is vehemently opposed to a yes vote, refused to release the
document or say where it had come from. But government sources claimed that they
had no knowledge of the document and refused to comment on it until it had been
published by the DUP. "Unless we see the document we are not prepared to give it
credence," a Defence Ministry spokesman said.

Downing Street also dismissed the report insisting that the Army would remain in
Northern Ireland as long as the police wanted it to remain.

It was suggested that there would be no withdrawal of troops until there had
been a permanent cessation of terrorist violence and genuine peace in the
Province, which would take some time to assess, "much longer than October".

But yesterday DUP members were determined to use the document as ammunition for
its campaign for a no vote. The dispute threatens to overshadow today's meeting
at Downing Street to discuss the agreement between the Prime Minister and Gerry
Adams, the Sinn Fein leader.

"They are talking about the whole lot going in less than three years," Ian
Paisley Jnr said.

He claimed that the document said that base dismantling was part of a process of
"irreversible change" discussed at a military conference on April 17 and that
Lieutenant-General Sir Rupert Smith, the army commander in Northern Ireland, has
decided a yes vote would herald the end of the Army's operation role.

Peter Robinson of the DUP showed the document to his party colleagues at a
meeting in Coleraine. They claim it is authentic as it is marked "restricted"
and was leaked by some party sympathisers in the Northern Ireland Office.

An army spokesman said that they could not comment unless they saw the document
in the hands of the DUP. However, army sources indicated that it would take more
than a yes vote to get them to leave. One admitted that withdrawals were
possible: "If a proper peace should be established and the terrorist threat
completely removed, it is unlikely that there would be a requirement for all
security forces."

There are some 17,000 troops in Northern Ireland and in the past it has always
been stated by the Army that even in the event of a total ending of terrorism
some thousands would stay, if only because there was little space in Britain to
accommodate all the soldiers.

The claim is one of many being made by the DUP as it increases its campaign of
opposition against the peace agreement signed in Belfast on Good Friday. Dr
Paisley, the party leader, is considering whether to engage in a live television
debate with David Trimble, leader of the rival UUP who is pushing for a yes
vote, which will have an impact on the referendum of the Northern Ireland
agreement. The two men have been approached by Ulster Television to participate
in the showdown.

Mr Trimble will be trying desperately hard to persuade Northern Ireland's
Protestant population that he will be able to preserve the union with Britain if
people vote for the referendum. Dr Paisley will tell viewers that the union can
only survive if they vote against the agreement.


LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1998 Times Newspapers Limited

                              326 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                         May 1, 1998, Friday Edition 1

IRA vows to keep its weapons - Terrorist car bomb fails to blow the heart out of
Army HQ town

BYLINE: By IAN GRAHAM

SECTION: BRITAIN TONIGHT, Pg. 20

LENGTH: 286 words


   The IRA has been given new demands to disarm after a huge car bomb was
defused in a town centre in Ulster.

The device containing up to 700lb. of explosive was abandoned in Lisburn, Co
Antrim, yesterday, hours after the Provisionals said they were not prepared to
hand over any weapons.

No one has admitted responsibility for the bomb which has heightened anxieties
among Unionists, who have said they will refuse to deal with Sinn Fein leaders
Gerry Adams and Martin McGuinness in an Assembly until all sides agreed to
decommission their guns.

Elections to the Assembly will take place if there is a Yes vote in the
referendum on May 22 and Republicans could be entitled to at least two seats in
a powersharing executive.

Tony Blair said: "Everyone has got to be clear this is a package. There cannot
be parts that people agree with and parts they do not agree with."

The centre of Lisburn where the Army has its HQ in Northern Ireland, was
evacuated as Army experts carried out three controlled explosions on the car.
Police are now studying security videos from nearby shops to try to trace the
bombers.

But the IRA made it clear no weapons will be surrendered. In a statement, they
said the agreement fell short of presenting a solid basis for a settlement and
added: "There will be no decommissioning."

But as Unionists pressed for a commitment from the republicans, Gerry Adams
said: "I want to see all the guns taken out of Irish politics, total
disarmament, right across the board."

The nomination of Ulster Unionist leader David Trimble and SDLP leader John Hume
for the Nobel Peace Prize for their role in the peace process has been given a
warm welcome at Westminster.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ROYAL SURPRISE- Princess Anne, the Princess Royal, chats to old folk in
Towell House residential home in Belfast during a flying visit yesterday

                Copyright 1998 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              327 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                             May 6, 1998, Wednesday

EIRE TRANSFERS FOR PROVO PRISONERS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 277 words


SIX IRA prisoners were transferred from British to Eire jails yesterday day as
part of continuing efforts to boost the Northern Ireland peace deal.

The group - including the so-called Balcombe Street Four, jailed in London 23
years ago, and two men sentenced for murdering a police officer - were switched
in a high-security move to Portlaoise jail, Co Laois.

The move was confirmed last month but had to await a series of legal procedures
before going ahead.

The men were flown to Dublin's Baldonnel military airport in a specially-
chartered aircraft, and taken on to Portlaoise, 50 miles from Dublin, in a
high-speed convoy.

The repatriated prisoners were named as Balcombe Street four Hugh Doherty, from
Co Donegal, Eddie Butler, from Limerick, Martin O'Connell and Harry Duggan, both
from Co Clare; and San Francisco-born William Quinn and Belfast man Paul Magee.

The Balcombe Street gang were arrested after the five-day 1975 police siege of a
house in London, during which two people were held hostage.

The group all received multiple life sentences for a their part in a two-year
IRA bombing campaign in Britain.

Hugh Doherty is a brother of Sinn Fein vice-president Pat Doherty.

Quinn was jailed for life - with a 30 years tariff - in 1988 for murdering a
policeman.

Magee was sentence to a whole life term in 1993 for murder and attempted murder.

Confirmation that the men were being moved to Eire was welcomed last month by
the Dublin government and opposition parties, as well as by Sinn Fein.

Eire Justice Minister John O'Donoghue said the move would help "underpin" the
agreement on Northern Ireland.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1998 Century Newspapers Limited

                              328 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                  May 6, 1998

Sinn Fein backs jail move for IRA men

SECTION: Pg.4

LENGTH: 233 words


THE transfer of six long-term IRA prisoners from Britain to a jail in the Irish
Republic was welcomed last night by the terror group's Sinn Fein political
allies.

Martin Ferris, a senior figure in the party's policy-directing executive, said
the move was ''long overdue''.

The IRA group - including the so-called Balcombe Street gang, jailed in London
more than 20 years ago, and two convicted killers - were flown back to Ireland
in a high-security operation yesterday.

They were flown to Dublin's Baldonnel military airport and driven in a high
-speed convoy the 50 miles to the top security Portlaoise jail in Co Laois.

The development was described by official sources in Dublin as ''a confidence-
building measure for the Northern Ireland peace deal''.

Importantly, it came just five days before a decision-making conference by Sinn
Fein over the agreement on Northern Ireland struck in Belfast on Good Friday.

Ahead of Sunday's Dublin meeting, the Sinn Fein executive is expected to
recommend that around 1,400 delegates back endorsement of the deal in
referendums on both sides of the Irish border on May 22.

The Balcombe Street four were arrested after the five-day 1975 police siege of a
house in London, during which two people were held hostage. They all received
multiple life sentences for a their part in a two-year IRA bombing campaign in
Britain.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1998 Bristol United Press

                              329 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                         May 8, 1998, Friday Edition 4

Bomber targets ex-policeman - Couple ill in hospital after parcel explodes at
their home

BYLINE: By JOE QUINN

SECTION: BRITAIN TONIGHT, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 319 words


   Detectives probing a series of parcel bombs said today they may to linked to
a case investigated by a former policeman who was injured when one of the
devices exploded.

Michael Coyne, 63, now a private detective, and his wife Margaret were both
seriously hurt last night when the bomb went off at their home in Dundee.

Police today ruled out any terrorists links but said the attacks could be
connected to a case Mr Coyne worked on some years ago.

The device, along with two others, was handed in at a TNT parcel depot in
Thetford, Norfolk, yesterday. Bomb disposal experts defused two other devices -
one was for delivery to an address in Kent, the other was to have gone to an
address in Fife.

Dete Chief Supt Tom Ross said they were not investigating any recent cases which
Mr Coyne was in.

Intended

"This was a fairly sophisticated device. There are links between the intended
recipients of these packages and the man who had posted them. It may be
connected with Mr Coyne's work."

He revealed a vehicle, a black car, which they believe had been driven by the
man who had handed the packages into the TNT Courier depot, had been found in
England. Forensic experts were examining the packages and Mr Ross refused to say
whether the addresses on the front were handwritten, typed or
computer-generated.

Mr Coyne and his wife have run a private investigation company in Dundee since
he retired13 years ago.

Mr Ross stressed it was nothing to do with Mr Coyne's work when he was a police
officer,.

He gave few details about the other two intended recipients of the parcel bombs,
saying only that they were male and, like Mr Coyne, were connected in some way
to the bomber but did not know each other.

It is understood two separate visits over a two-day period were made to the TNT
courier depot in Thetford by the man who is described as being of Middle Eastern
appearance.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ON GUARD - a police officer stands outside the home in Dundee of
Michael and Margaret Coyne badly injured by a parcel bomb, one of three destined
for delivery to various addresses in the United Kingdom

                Copyright 1998 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              330 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                              May 10, 1998, Sunday

TERRORIST THREAT DOESN'T SCARE MO;
 MO MOWLAM NOT WORRIED BY "REAL" IRA THREAT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 251 words


MO MOWLAM says the Government will not be intimidated by IRA rebels who plan a
campaign of terror against Britain.

The group, calling itself the "real" IRA, told a Dublin newspaper it had weapons
it would use against the British but not against republicans.

But the Northern Ireland secretary said: "We will not be intimidated by them or
anybody else."

The rebel republican group, which has about 50 members, has already carried out
a string of attacks.

It was linked to a failed security van raid in Co Wicklow last week in which one
gunman was shot dead and five men were arrested.

A message from the group declared: "A war machine is once again being directed
against the British Cabinet."

The threat will be seen as an attempt to weaken Sinn Fein as it votes on the
Good Friday peace agreement today.

A Sinn Fein spokesman said: "Obviously, any threat of armed action is worrying
but we do not believe that this group has the potential to do great damage."

Members will be urged to back the peace agreement and allow Sinn Fein
politicians to take the historic step of sitting on an Ulster assembly.

And leaders will ask their supporters to vote for the peace deal in referendums
on May 22.

Sinn Fein has accused the Army of harassment after its chief negotiator Martin
McGuinness was stopped at a checkpoint on Friday night. McGuinness called Mo
Mowlam on his mobile phone and was let through 20 minutes later.  He said it was
a "blatant case of intimidation".

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 1998 MGN Ltd.

                              331 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                              May 10, 1998, Sunday

PEACE UNDER THREAT FROM THE 'TRUE IRA';
 "TRUE IRA" VOW TO CONTINUE WAR WITH BRITAIN

BYLINE: James Harper

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 318 words


HARDLINE Republican terrorists calling themselves the "True IRA" are posing a
new threat to the peace settlement.

The group, understood to be led by the IRA's former quartermaster, says it has a
supply of weapons and has formally set up a caretaker "army executive'.

In a codeworded statement yesterday, they made it clear they opposed the peace
strategy of the mainstream IRA and its Sinn Fein allies.

The move came 24 hours before Sinn Fein was scheduled to resume its annual
conference in Dublin.

The decision-making meeting is expected to back the party's peace tactics and
urge supporters to vote in favour of the Northern Ireland settlement in
referendums on May 22.

Sinn Fein leaders have already made clear their general support for the peace
move and days ago their line was accepted by the IRA.

The new Republican faction - said to be made up by as many as 50 members - has
already carried out terrorist attacks in Northern Ireland.

The group has been linked to a failed security van raid last week in Co Wicklow
in the Irish Republic - which ended with police shooting dead one gunman and
arresting five other men.

The faction's message declared "a war machine is once again being directed
against the British Cabinet" and said the "partitionist settlement" on Good
Friday would not bring about peace.

But Sinn Fein negotiator Martin McGuinness said: "These groups are trying to
embarrass the Sinn Fein leadership.

"They are obviously pitching at the nationalist and Republican people, but I
think they are insulting the intelligence of those people."

The British Government last night said it was prepared to meet any new threat
from dissident IRA members.

Northern Ireland Secretary Mo Mowlam said: "We will not be intimidated by them
or by anyone else.

"It will make things more difficult but it must not deter us from where we want
to go."

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1998 MGN Ltd.

                              332 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            May 13, 1998, Wednesday

SWOOP FOILS WORLD CUP BOMBING PLOT

SECTION: Pg. 18

LENGTH: 281 words


ENGLISH police have smashed a terrorist plot to bomb the World Cup in France, it
was revealed today.

The terrorists were apparently due to start their campaign by targeting
England's opening World Cup game against Tunisia in Marseilles on June 15.

Eight suspected Algerian terrorists were arrested in London as part of a joint
operation with the French and Belgian authorities.

Three of the men, described as Islamic fundamentalists, were seized by armed
police at a house within sight of Wembley stadium.

All eight, believed to be key members of a terrorist group responsible for seven
deaths on the French Underground, were held after officers raided six addresses
across the capital.

Scotland Yard said yesterday's operation was "intelligence led" as part of a
carefully planned operation.

Police sources confirmed that the men were North Africans suspected of belonging
to the Armed Islamic Group.

Belgian police were said to have arrested a seven-man "support team" with liquid
explosives, guns, World Cup brochures and maps of the host cities in Brussels.

Massacres

A Metropolitan Police spokesman said: "We are working closely with the French
and Belgian authorities in relation to acts of terrorism committed abroad."

The terrorist group is also believed to be responsible for a series of massacres
in Algeria during a civil war which has killed an estimated 75,000 since 1992.

The men were being questioned at police stations in central London.

Trading standards officers in Birmingham are keeping an eye out for conmen
aiming to cash in on World Cup fever after a plot to flood Britain with shoddy
counterfeit footballs was foiled.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1998 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              333 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Leicester Mercury

                                  May 16, 1998

Terrorist plot to kill royals is revealed

BYLINE: By Mike Harrison

SECTION: Pg.7

LENGTH: 373 words


A REFORMED terrorist today revealed the details of a mission he was sent on to
kill the Prince and Princess of Wales at a pop concert.

Convicted murderer Sean O'Callaghan (43), who was the highest-ranking police
informer ever to have served with the IRA, described the plot as "potentially
the most dangerous scheme ever devised by the Provisional IRA".

For six years from 1979 he risked his life as a police informer, successfully
foiling scores of robberies and murders.

Revenge

In his book, The Informer, which is serialised from today in The Daily
Telegraph, O'Callaghan tells how he was sent by the IRA to London in the summer
of 1983 to plan the attack on the Royal couple.

Their assassinations were to have been in revenge for the British Government's
refusal to give in to the demands of the IRA hunger strikers.

His instructions were to place a bomb near the Royal box at the Dominion
Theatre, in Tottenham Court Road, central London.

The bomb would be timed to explode on July 20 when the Prince and Princess of
Wales were due to attend a Royal Gala in aid of the Prince's Trust to be held at
the theatre.

O'Callaghan says: "My instructions were to murder the royal couple.

"It was a brilliant and horrific plan."

He details how, once he had travelled to England under false papers and
accompanied by a woman and her two small children posing as his "family", the
explosives, including 50lb of Frangex and 17 long-delay timers, would be
smuggled into the country on a coach which travelled once a week from Tralee,
Ireland, to London. The equipment would be left at a hotel in Highgate.

Once in England and left by his "family", O'Callaghan went to Liverpool where he
received his instructions from Owen Coogan, a member of the IRA's "England
department".

O'Callaghan, who had been in contact with police sources throughout the
operation, formulated a plan to sabotage his own mission.

He arranged it so that Scotland Yard told the Press that he was in Britain to
carry out an IRA assassination in the run-up to the General Election. His name
and picture were released.

The idea worked and O'Callaghan fled to France the day before the story appeared
in the newspapers - without completing the mission.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                        Copyright 1998 Leicester Mercury

                              334 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              May 17, 1998, Sunday

Blunders that threaten peace

BYLINE: Vincent Kearney

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 2130 words


Television images of IRA killers getting a heroes' welcome from Sinn Fein caused
huge anger among Unionists. Then officials released another killer. Vincent
Kearney reports on the backlash before the vote.

David Trimble's phone rang minutes after television pictures showed members of
the IRA's notorious Balcombe Street gang being given heroes' welcomes at Sinn
Fein's special conference in Dublin last Sunday. It rang constantly throughout
the rest of the day.

The Ulster Unionist party leader had not seen the pictures but quickly became
aware of the level of revulsion they had caused within his party and the wider
Unionist community. In the zero-sum game of Northern Ireland politics,
perception is vital, and the scenes of jubilation in Dublin heightened Unionist
suspicions of a sellout.

Appalled, Trimble waited until he saw the television footage on Monday before
taking any action, hoping it was not as bad as he had been told. If anything, it
was worse.

Bertie Ahern's advisers may have calculated that releasing the gang, transferred
to the republic from jails in Britain a week earlier, was a gamble worth taking
because it would strengthen the hand of the Sinn Fein leadership in its bid to
win support for the agreement. But it was a public-relations disaster.

Images of smiling IRA killers receiving a standing ovation and being hugged by
Gerry Adams, the Sinn Fein leader and co-author of the agreement, were the last
thing Trimble needed as he tried to shore up the flagging yes vote among
Unionists.

Any IRA prisoners would have caused unease, but the Balcombe Street gang pro
vokes even stronger emotions because of the nature and number of murders they
committed. Twenty-three years after being arrested following a five-day siege in
London, they are still regarded with loathing.

Described by one member at the time as the IRA's best active service unit, the
gang carried out a series of murders and gun and bomb attacks in London in the
early 1970s. They specialised in random terror attacks, shooting and bombing
pubs and restaurants to cause maximum fear and disruption. Their attacks
included the Guildford and Woolwich pub bombings in which seven people were
killed, and for which the Guildford Four were wrongly convicted and spent 15
years in prison.

Other victims included a leading cancer specialist, Gordon Hamilton-Fairley, and
Ross McWhirter, co-compiler of the Guinness Book of Records, who had offered a
reward for information leading to the gang's capture.

Michael O'Brien, a terrorist who shot dead an unarmed police constable and who
was also on release from Portlaoise, made the most triumphalist, and for many,
the most sickening speech. "These men are our Mandelas," he said. "They are fit
and strong, unbowed and unbroken, humorous, politically astute, and they still
believe in unity after 23 years in the belly of the beast."

The Irish government, which had been promised more low-key scenes, admit ted
that it was "hard to stomach" the sight of ruthless terrorists being feted in
this way. Sinn Fein said the reception for the gang was spontaneous.

Their appearance in front of television cameras with arms raised in salute
rather than surrender was too much for Trimble and others to bear. The Ulster
Unionist party leader was also angry that a number of other high-profile IRA
prisoners from the Maze were released by the Northern Ireland Office to attend
the ard fheis.

He telephoned Downing Street on Monday afternoon and spoke to Tony Blair's
officials, demanding to know why they had been released. He was told that the
move had been sanctioned by Mo Mowlam, the secretary of state, and that Downing
Street had not been notified in advance.

Trimble then called senior Irish government officials and lambasted them for
releasing the Balcombe Street gang, a naive and unnecessary move since it was
clear that the Sinn Fein leadership was already on course to secure a resounding
vote in favour of the deal.

Up against growing opposition from his own party dissidents and an increasingly
effective no campaign, Trimble had been hoping for something to reassure
wavering Unionists that the deal was not, as his critics claimed, a surrender to
terrorism. Instead, the no campaign had been handed what one commentator
described as an early Christmas present.

With thousands of previously undecided Unionists, and many who had declared
themselves in support of the deal, moving into the no camp, Trimble took little
comfort from subsequent statements by Blair and Ahern condemning the
triumphalist reception given to the released prisoners, nor the belated apology
from Mowlam for any hurt caused.

He demanded a robust campaign to win back those the governments had alienated
and received assurances that Blair would do what was necessary to bolster his
position. On Wednesday Mowlam pledged in the House of Commons that there would
be no repeat of the scenes witnessed in Dublin.

That evening, Blair took part in an unprecedented question-and-answer session
with a small audience at Downing Street that lasted an hour, making a strong
case for the agreement and going out of his way to assuage Unionist fears.
Trimble breathed a sigh of relief, but his respite was short-lived.

Just 24 hours after Mowlam's pledge, the Northern Ireland Office scored another
calamitous own goal. There was a sense of disbelief in the yes camp when news
bulletins reported that the notorious loyalist killer Michael Stone, serving six
life sentences for the murders of six Catholics, was being let out of the Maze.

Stone, a hero to hardline loyalists for his 1988 attack on the funerals of the
three IRA terrorists killed by the SAS in Gibralter, in which he killed three
mourners and injured 68 others, was also given a hero's welcome when he attended
a yes rally organised by the Ulster Democratic party in the Ulster Hall on
Thursday night.

Unlike the Balcombe Street gang, he was not embraced by the party leadership.
Indeed, the UDA leadership inside the Maze hurriedly issued a statement making
it clear that he was not attending the rally on their behalf, and the UDP
hierarchy was privately furious that he had left them open to charges of
triumphalism and further damaged the yes campaign.

Some within the NIO may have thought that Stone's release would act as a counter
balance to the events in Dublin and win back some of the defectors to the no
camp. But any such thoughts were misplaced. Many middle-class Unionists, the
very people Trimble needs to win over, are as abhorred by loyalist violence as
that of the IRA.

Stone announced that the war was over and urged people to vote yes, but the no
campaigners seized on the event as an illustration that their analysis was
correct; that the only victors in the peace deal were the men of violence.

Trimble was shocked to see television footage of another terrorist being feted
as a hero. He said: "I couldn't believe that they could screw up so badly again.

"It certainly makes you wonder about the level of intelligence of those in the
NIO and, for me, it is the best argument of all for voting yes. If we don't, it
will be left to fools like these to run the country."

A s Stone was preparing for his Ulster Hall appearance, Tony Blair was at the
Balmoral Show in Belfast's King's Hall, delivering a speech he hoped would win
over Unionist waverers.

It was his second visit to the province in a week, and he will make another
before the referendum on Friday. There is now no possibility that the referendum
will be defeated, but the size of the no vote is crucial and the prime minister
is doing his bit to minimise it. The nationalist community will overwhelmingly
support the agreement, taking their lead from the SDLP and Sinn Fein. It is the
split in the Unionist vote that is vital; a small overall majority in fa vour of
the deal would mean that the majority of Unionists would have opposed it.

That would make Trimble's position untenable, and a future assembly and the
cross-border bodies outlined in the deal unworkable, as the combined strength of
the anti-agreement Unionists could be greater than that of the UUP and put them
in a position to block progress.

Blair's speech was heavily influenced by discussions that his officials had with
Trimble, and he pressed all the buttons the UUP leader believed could win over
doubters such as Jeffrey Donaldson, whose support would swing many doubters and
opponents behind the deal.

Blair, addressing the concerns raised by Donaldson, the Orange Order and other
critics, linked the participation of Sinn Fein in a future Stormont cabinet and
the release of prisoners to decommissioning of weapons and said there was no
question of the RUC's being disbanded.

Crucially for Trimble, Blair said legislation would be introduced to ensure the
tests he was setting for participation in the democratic process were met. But
he failed to win over Donaldson, who met with like-minded party members on
Friday and issued a statement saying that they were still unable to support the
agreement.

Blair also failed to win over the crowd at the Balmoral Show where, a year ago,
he received a rapturous reception. On this occasion he left the building through
a back door and did not risk a potentially hostile walk-about as protesters
shouted their opposition.

There was an air of gloom in the headquarters of the UUP in Glengall Street and
in the offices of the yes campaign group when an Irish Times/MBRI poll found
that support for the agreement in Northern Ireland had dropped from 73% on April
14 to 56%. Significantly, 45% of Unionists polled said they would be voting no,
35% were in favour and 20% undecided. For the first time, there was evidence
that Ian Paisley and Robert McCartney, the leaders of the no campaign, were
gaining the upper hand.

Trimble remains in bullish mood and argues that the results were distorted; with
polling conducted in the aftermath of the Balcombe Street gang's triumphal entry
to the Dublin ard fheis, he says many Unionists registered their anger by saying
no, and predicts that many will come back into the yes camp.

But there are indications that Trimble and the yes campaign are failing to win
over the "soft no" voters they are targeting - Unionists who do not like all
aspects of the agreement and are inclined to vote against, but could be open to
persuasion.

T he Very Rev David McGaughey, minister at Mourne Presbyterian Church in the Co
Down fishing village of Kilkeel, was conducting a special service in memory of
two local men awarded the Victoria Cross, one in the Boer war and the other in
the first world war, when the Balcombe Street gang were enjoying their moment in
the limelight.

At the time he was a self-confessed "soft no", opposed to many aspects of the
agreement, but prepared to listen to other interpretations. After watching the
news, he was a committed no voter.

McGaughey was outraged at the scenes of jubilation, and at the adulation shown
to Stone in Belfast on Thursday. Those scenes finally convinced him that the
agreement was wrong. He says the television pictures had a profound effect on
members of his congregation.

"To me, they showed that evil has been rewarded and that is wrong," he said.
"Many others share my view, and I don't differentiate between republican and
loyalist terrorists, they are all wrong.

"I think those pictures brought home to people the enormity of what they are
being asked to say yes to. Many people I have spoken to since last Sunday have
changed their minds about which way they will vote and I don't think anyone will
make them change course now."

Trimble will step up his efforts this week, joined by a number of high-profile
figures from the Labour and Conservative parties. He will attempt to move the
spotlight away from prisoners and on to what he says are the core aspects of the
deal - securing Northern Ireland's constitutional position and creating
accountable local democracy.

He took the battle to the loyalist heartland of Portadown yesterday, where he
came to prominence three years ago when he took part in a triumphal march with
Ian Paisley after the Orange Order was allowed to march along the nationalist
Garvaghy Road after a week-long stand-off.

At that time the two Unionist leaders were united, today they are at war and
there can be only one winner. The result of Friday's referendum, and the
assembly elections in June, could consign one of them to the history books.

A Trimble supporter said: "This is one contest we have to win. It is not simply
a referendum on the deal, this is a referendum on the future of Unionism and
there will be no prizes for second place."


LOAD-DATE: May 21, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Focus

                    Copyright 1998 Times Newspapers Limited

                              335 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                              May 18, 1998, Monday

Blair and Clinton in Ulster appeal

BYLINE: Philip Webster and Martin Fletcher

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 846 words


MP's leaked letter shows campaign to win over Unionist dissidents

TONY BLAIR and President Clinton yesterday combined forces in an effort to
rescue the Good Friday peace accord with a warning that Northern Ireland faced a
future of conflict, frustration and economic decline if Unionists voted " no "
in Friday's referendum.

The two leaders issued an impassioned appeal for support as a letter leaked to
The Times exposed the remarkable lengths to which the Prime Minister has gone to
woo Unionist dissidents before the vote. With polls showing Unionists tilt ing
against the accord, there is intense concern that the Government's greatest
achievement could unravel.

The letter was sent to Downing Street last Monday by Jeffrey Donaldson, the
young Lagan Valley MP. It contained proposals for ensuring that Sinn Fein could
not hold ministerial posts, and IRA prisoners could not be released, until the
republican movement's commitment to non-violence had been firmly established. Mr
Donaldson is a key figure because he, more than any other politician, represents
the "soft No" vote. The speech Mr Blair delivered in Belfast three days later
incorporated chunks of his letter - including most of the proposals - almost
verbatim. The MP still refused to back the deal, saying the speech contained
"ambiguities and omissions".

Northern Ireland will be the scene of frenetic political activity this week. Mr
Blair is to make his third visit in two weeks on Wednesday, William Hague and
Paddy Ashdown are planning visits, and The Times has learnt that the pop group
Ash will stage a free concert tomorrow night in an attempt to woo the youth
vote.

Yesterday Mr Blair and Mr Clinton sought to confront voters with the risks of
saying "no" and to convince them that peace meant prosperity. The Government
would try to pick up the pieces but Northern Ireland would "go back wards", Mr
Blair said. Mr Clinton said the moment might not present itself again for a
generation. He painted a stark contrast between a "rich and good life" if people
supported the accord and the prospect of people being "frustrated, distrustful,
angry and a little bit left out" if they did not.

In Belfast, David Trimble, the Ulster Unionist Party leader, begged Unionists to
consider the accord's wider benefits instead of its immediate drawbacks, and
look to the future with confidence. "We have got to stop ... this clinging on to
the Troubles as if they were a comfort blanket," he said.

A 700lb car bomb planted by renegade republican terrorists in Armagh city on
Saturday night offered a stark reminder of the past that the accord seeks to
banish. It was made safe yesterday.

In another attempt to reassure worried Unionists yesterday, Mr Blair also gave
his strongest commitment that legislation coming before Parliament to implement
the agreement will require the IRA to give up arms before terrorists are
released early and Sinn Fein can sit on Northern Ireland's new executive body.
He made plain for the first time that would also apply to the "shadow assembly"
which will come into being this summer.

Speaking at a press conference at the end of the Group of Eight summit in
Birmingham, Mr Blair declared: "There will not be people taking their seats in
the Northern Ireland executive, nor will there be an accelerated prison release
programme, unless it is clear that violence has been given up for good. I cannot
make it any clearer than that."

Earlier Mr Blair and Mr Clinton gave an unprecedented joint interview for BBC's
Breakfast with Frost programme. Their decision to do so showed their belief that
there is still much to do before Friday. Mr Blair described the agonised debate
among the Unionists as a battle between fear and emotion on the one hand and
reason and hope on the other.

"The fear and emotion is totally understandable but it is important that people
vote for reason and hope." He wanted the agreement to end the position where if
one side was happy with something in Northern Ireland the other was unhappy. Mr
Clinton underlined his previous warning that Sinn Fein would become outcasts if
it returned to violence but he also held out the chance of increased investment
in Northern Ireland if the deal was endorsed.

The President said it could be a "win-win" situation for both sides. "Think
about where the world is going to be in 12 years. You will have a much more
globalised economy. You will have Britain and Ireland more involved in the
European economy. All of us have hope and fear inside. I think on election day
the clear-headedness of the people will prevail in Northern Ireland."

After the summit Mr Blair further hardened his assurances to the Unionists. He
said that the legislation on the agreement would make it clear even for the
shadow assembly that people could not engage in a dual strategy of violence and
democracy.

* Northern Ireland's young voters are backing the peace deal by a two to one
majority, according to a poll commissioned by the unionist News Letter and
nationalist Irish News .


LOAD-DATE: May 18, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1998 Times Newspapers Limited

                              336 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                            May 20, 1998, Wednesday

Loyalists who insist they know the Wright way ahead

BYLINE: Audrey Magee, Ireland Correspondent

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 294 words


THE face of Billy Wright looks down from the freshly painted mural on the gable
end of a house at the entrance to the fiercely loyalist Brownstown Estate in
Portadown.

Wright, the leader of the Loyalist Volunteer Force shot dead by the Republican
INLA in the Maze prison at Christmas, is still seen as the protector of loyalist
Ulster. His face and name remain a potent force, appearing on flyers called "The
Wright View", calling on people to vote No in the referendum.

His legacy is taking hold, at least on the loyalist estates he controlled.
There, the residents with houses decorated in Union flags are either adamant in
their intention to vote No, or uncertain and likely to vote No. Their trenchant
opposition to the Belfast agreement comes despite the fact that their estates
are in the heart of the Upper Bann constituency held by David Trimble, the
Ulster Unionist Party leader.

Clifford Forbes, who attended Wright's funeral, said everyone he knew was voting
No. "Why should anyone vote Yes for something that is going to lead to a united
Ireland?" asked Mr Forbes, a community worker on the loyalist estates. "Tony
Blair cannot afford to have the IRA bombing the mainland because it stops
investment in Britain.

"But rather than take on the IRA and sort them out, he expects us to make
concessions. They appease the IRA and make us suffer. People around here aren't
having it."

The people on the Brownstown Estate and Rectory Park, where Wright lived and
reigned, spoke of betrayal by the Government. One elderly man said Mr Blair was
trying to trick people into a united Ireland: "The British Government does not
want to say directly to us that it wants out, but wants people to vote
themselves into a united Ireland."


LOAD-DATE: May 20, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1998 Times Newspapers Limited

                              337 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                             May 21, 1998, Thursday

'FORGOTTEN' BOMBING VICTIMS;
 DAD'S RAP ON PEACE DRIVE

BYLINE: By Mark Langford

SECTION: Pg. 9

LENGTH: 468 words


THE father of a woman killed in the Birmingham pub bombings has said victims of
violence on mainland Britain have been forgotten in the drive to achieve peace
in Ulster.

Stan Bennett condemned the "Minister for Victims" appointed to co-ordinate help
and compensation for those who have suffered as a result of violence in Northern
Ireland.

Adam Ingram, the Northern Ireland Security Minister, will oversee a pounds 5
million compensation package as part of his job as "a listening ear" for
thousands of victims in the province of the past 30 years.

But Mr Bennett, of Castle Vale, said that the Government should not "make fish
of one and fowl of the other" when dealing with victims.

Mr Bennett's 19-year-old daughter Lynn was one of 21 people killed when IRA
bombs exploded in the Mulberry Bush and Tavern In The Town pubs in November
1974. It remains the worst mainland terrorist act in British history.

Mr Bennett, aged 69, said the only offer of compensation he and his wife
Patricia had ever had was pounds 43 from the Criminal Injuries Compensation
Board towards the cost of his daughter's funeral.

'An insult'

He said: "We didn't accept it. It was an insult. We're not after money
ourselves, but don't the Government think there are people in this country whose
lives have been shattered by terrorist violence who could also use compensation,
people who have never been able to work again?

"Or is it that Tony Blair is only interested in Northern Ireland because we
don't have a vote in the peace referendum. I think the victims in this country
have just been forgotten."

Six men were jailed in 1975 for the pub bombings but were released in 1991 after
the Court of Appeal ruled the convictions were unsafe.

No-one else has since been brought to justice for the killings.

Terrorists jailed for other offences have since been released to help the peace
process, including members of the Balcombe Street gang jailed in the 1970s for a
string of offences in London.

One member who addressed a recent Sinn Fein rally received a hero's's welcome.

Mr Bennett said such scenes left "a bitter taste". He said: "Is that really
going to help the peace process or is it just going to antagonise people?

"I don't agree with it. These people committed a crime and they should be made
to pay. Instead, we are being made to pay.

"My daughter didn't take part in terrorism or throw stones at police. She just
went for a night out and ended up losing her life."

A spokesman from the Northern Ireland Office said: "There will be more specific
information available as to how the pounds 5 million will be spent following a
three month consultation period. The fund has been set up to help the victims of
terrorists and their families over the past 30 years."

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: STAN BENNETT LYNN BENNETT

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1998 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              338 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                              May 24, 1998, Sunday

A PERFECT DAY;
 8 OUT OF 10 SAY YES TO ULSTER PEACE NORTHERN IRELAND VOTING: YES 71.1% NO
28.9%; REPUBLIC VOTING: YES 94.4% NO 5.6%;
 IRISH PEOPLE ENDORSE GOOD FRIDAY PEACE DEAL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1, 2

LENGTH: 1503 words


THE people of Ireland both North and South yesterday said a massive Yes to the
Good Friday peace deal.

An astonishing 94 per cent of people in the South backed the agreement.

And an overwhelmingly majority, 71.12 per cent of Northern Ireland's voters,
also said Yes.

It means eight out of 10 people on the island support the accord - and that the
Republic will now drop its constitutional claim to Northern Ireland in return
for meaningful cross-border bodies. A staggering 953,583 people in Northern
Ireland cast their vote in the referendum. A total of 676,966 voted Yes, while
274,879 cast a No vote.

As the result was read out in Belfast, it was greeted with cheers and chants by
ecstatic Unionist and Nationalist supporters, once sworn enemies who had united
to end the Troubles for

good. More than 80 per cent of people in the North, 1.18 million, cast their
vote for peace. Only DUP leader Ian Paisley's North Antrim constituency voted
against the Agreement.

It was the highest turn out in the Province since 1921. And the 59 per cent turn
out in the Republic was also one of the highest for a referendum.

Nationalist and Unionist leaders alike hailed the huge vote as an emphatic
victory, claiming it proved that the ordinary people never wanted to return to
violence.

The resounding "Yes" signals the start of a furious election campaign for seats
in the new assembly. It should soon put Sinn Fein president Gerry Adams in
government - and terrorist prisoners back on the streets.

But legislation will bar Sinn Fein from government unless it is clear that IRA
violence is over for good.

The election takes place on Thursday, June 25, with a total of 108 members
returned. They will be elected by proportional representation, six in each of
the province's 18 constituencies.

Ulster Unionist leader David Trimble was overjoyed with the result - and called
on the IRA to start decommissioning its weapons.

He also demanded that Gerry Adams publicly declare that the IRA war is over. He
said: "The people want the war to be over so it really is time for the squalid
little terrorist campaign to come to an unambiguous end.

"I want to hear Gerry Adams say the Republican movement will now start disarming
and disbanding the military machine and that there will be no return to
violence."

Dissenting Ulster Unionist MP Jeffrey Donaldson said he had voted No, but
conceded, crucially, that a majority of Unionists had voted Yes. "I accept that
result. I'm a democrat. I accept the people of Northern Ireland have voted. But
I don't think people who voted No have anything to be ashamed about."

SDLP leader John Hume expressed his deepest gratitude to every voter who said
Yes. He added: "The people of Northern Ireland have made history."

But the rival Unionists were at loggerheads over the size of the Unionist Yes
vote. Mr Trimble claimed the majority of Unionists in the North had backed the
deal, while No campaigners Ian Paisley and Robert McCartney insisted that they
had secured a majority.

Both Paisley and McCartney have pledged to do their best to disrupt the new
Northern Ireland Assembly when it is elected in four weeks time.

But UDP leader Gary McMichael said: "If they are prepared to set aside democracy
in order to fill their own selfish aims, people will have to see them for what
they are - destroyers."

Senior Irish politicians watched the formal declaration of the Northern Ireland
result in Dublin. Former Taoiseach John Bruton said: "I am delighted. We have
all worked so hard to achieve this.

"It is a great day for Britain, a great day for Ireland and a great day for the
world. It is a tremendous example of peace- making in action."

On the entire island of Ireland, more than 85 per cent of the people backed the
peace deal. The highest Yes votes in the South were reported to be 98 per cent
in the Dublin North and Kildare North constituencies. And even in the more rural
"old Republican" constituencies the lowest Yes vote was more than 90 per cent.
Foreign Minister David Andrews, who headed the Irish Government's team at the
peace talks, said: "It is an historic day, the end of one road and the beginning
of another.

"We would like to see it as a new beginning, and I believe it is." Minister Of
State Liz O'Donnell, who negotiated the Good Friday peace deal, said she felt
"immensely proud" to have witnessed the huge Yes stampede.

"I feel this indication of support, of a very substantial majority, both north
and south, exceeds all recent expectations."

Election officials in Belfast said the Nationalist Yes vote was "off the scale"
in some constituencies. It was estimated that 98 per cent of Nationalists
supported the agreement while a little more than 55 per cent of Unionists backed
David Trimble's leadership of the UUP. SDLP leader John Hume said that for the
first time the people of both sides of the border were speaking together. But he
reacted cautiously to a possible voting pact between his party and Sinn Fein for
the Assembly elections.

Gerry Adams had said: "I have not had the opportunity to discuss this with John
Hume, but it makes sense.

"What is possible is that we bring war and conflict to an end. Let us all go
forward in partnership to make war a part of history in this country."

Republican dissidents have pledged to continue campaigning against the deal.
Ruairi O'Bradaigh, president of the Sinn Fein party, said he would "continue to
campaign for a British disengagement and for a new Ireland".

But Sinn Fein negotiator Martin McGuinness said the vote was a "tremendous
triumph for hope". He stressed the need for Sinn Fein and the SDLP to work
together to "maximise" the Nationalist vote in the elections to the new Northern
Ireland Assembly once the referendum is out of the way.

He said the divisions within the Unionist community made it all the more
important that the Nationalists were united. And Gerry Adams predicted that a
united Ireland would come about within his lifetime after the referendum vote.
He said: "If God spares me to live long enough, I hope to grow old in a united
Ireland."

He also said his party would continue to use what influence it could to bring
about decommissioning of weapons. We are not the IRA. Whatever the veracity of
these issues, none of them should be allowed to be obstacles.

"Sinn Fein voters have to be accorded the same rights as those who vote for any
other party."

HOW

THEY

VOTED

VOTERS backed the agreement by a huge majority. Every constituency returned a
"Yes" vote of 90 per cent-plus. The total electorate was 2,599,208 of whom
1,485,060 (55.47 per cent) turned out to vote in the 41 constituencies:

Carlow-Kilkenny (Yes 94.72%) (No 5.28%)

Cavan-Monaghan (94.43%) (5.57%)

Clare (94.40%) (5.60%)

Cork East (96.34%) (3.66%)

Cork North Central (96.34%) (3.66%)

Cork North West (93.87%) (6.13%)

Cork South Central (93.95%) (6.05%)

Cork South West (94.10%) (5.90%)

Donegal North East (93.05%) (6.95%)

Donegal South West (93.87%) (6.13%)

Dublin Central (93.99%) (6.01%)

Dublin North (95.72%) (4.28%)

Dublin North Central (94.54%) (5.46%)

Dublin North East (94.54%) (5.46%)

Dublin North West (93.78%) (6.22%)

Dublin South (95.75%) (4.25%)

Dublin South Central (93.63%) (6.37%)

Dublin South East (95.26%) (4.74%)

Dublin South West (94.02%) (5.98%)

Dublin West (94.68%) (5.32%)

Dun Laoghaire (95.80%) (4.20%)

Galway East (95.43%) (4.57%)

Galway West (94.74%) (5.26%)

Kerry North (92.79%) (7.21%)

Kerry South (93.82%) (6.18%)

Kildare North (95.44%) (4.56%)

Kildare South (94.41%) (5.59%)

Laois-Offaly (93.97%) (6.03%)

Limerick East (94.40%) (5.60%)

Limerick West (94.32%) (5.68%)

Longford-Roscommon (94.32%) (5.68%)

Louth (93.98%) (6.02%)

Mayo (94.95%) (5.05%)

Meath (94.92%) (5.08%)

Sligo-Leitrim (94.40%) (5.60%)

Tipperary North (93.92%) (6.08%)

Tipperary South (94.22%) (5.78%)

Waterford (94.28%) (5.72%)

Westmeath (94.12%) (5.88%)

Wexford (93.28%) (6.72%)

Wicklow (94.11%) (5.89%)

Here are the turn-out figures by constituency for Northern Ireland:

East Belfast: Electorate: 60,422. Number who voted 48,890. Percentage (80.91%).

North Belfast: 62,413 - 48,769 (78.14%).

South Belfast: 69,979 - 48,729 (79.91%).

West Belfast: 60,545 - 46,003 (75.98%).

East Antrim: 59,227 - 47,016 (79.38%).

East Londonderry: 59,171 - 47,162 (79.70%).

Fermanagh South Tyrone: 65,232 - 55,570 (85.19%).

Foyle: 68,715 - 54,414 (79.19%).

Lagan Valley: 71,467 - 58,320 (81.60%).

Mid Ulster: 59,854 - 51,886 (86.69%)

North Antrim: 73,103 - 58,537 (80.07%).

North Down: 62,767 - 50,040 (79.72%).

Newry and Armagh: 71,370 - 58,683 (82.22%).

South Antrim: 69,333 - 55,438 (79.96%).

Down: 70,802 - 59,290 (83.74%)

Strangford: 70,724 - 56,801 (80.30%).

Upper Bann: 70,685 - 58,985 (83.45%).

West Tyrone: 58,932 - 49,050 (83.23%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: THUMBS UP FOR PEACE: SDLP chief John Hume (left) and Ulster Unionist
leader David Trimble celebrate; PEACE IN OUR LIFETIME: Martin McGuinness, left,
and Gerry Addams of Sinn Fein;; YOUNG HOPE: William Murray, 8, of North Belfast,
dances with joy. "Now; I can grow up without having to worry about getting
shot," he said

                            Copyright 1998 MGN Ltd.

                              339 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                  May 27, 1998

88 rounded up in World Cup security alert;Tapped phones tip off police to
Islamic threat

BYLINE: Iain Wilson Chief Reporter

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 679 words


POLICE swooped on suspected Islamic militant groups in five European countries
yesterday in a bid to prevent terrorist attacks during the World Cup.

At least 88 people were rounded up in the co-ordinated raids in France, Belgium,
Italy, Germany, and Switzerland.

Police forces from Britain and the Netherlands also assisted in the operation,
according to Italian news agency ANSA.

The raids were designed to isolate Islamic groups from one another during the
June 10-July 12 tournament.

There are fears that extremists, and Algeria's Armed Islamic Group in particular
- believed to be involved in the 1995 Paris subway bombing that killed eight
people - are planning a campaign of terror.

Seven suspected members of a European-based network for the group, known as GIA,
were arrested in Brussels in March, and recently French police discovered a bomb
similar to those used during the wave of attacks in the summer of 1995.

A French interior ministry statement said yesterday's operation followed several
months of surveillance that led police to "suspect the preparation of terrorist
activity in the run-up to the World Cup".

The statement added that the operation was aimed at dismantling "a network of
dissident extremists" from GIA, described as the most violent faction in Algeria
seeking to install strict Muslim rule in the North African country.

French police said the swoops targeted networks loyal to dissident GIA leader
Hassan Hattab, who allegedly wants to bring the Algerian conflict to Europe. Two
men considered to be Hattab's top allies in Europe were detained.

The interior ministry said France's leading anti-terrorist judge, Jean-Louis
Bruguiere, led the Euro-wide operation, and $ 93,000, documents, a computer, and
video cassettes showing training sessions and tracts espousing Hattab's ideas
were seized. No weapons or bombs were found.

In France, local police forces led by anti-terrorist officers swooped at dawn
with at least 53 alleged Islamic activists detained: 30 in the Paris region; a
dozen in Marseilles, and others elsewhere - including Lyons, where the USA plays
Iran on Sunday, June 21.

Concerns surrounding that game are such that an extra 3000 police will be
drafted on to streets and into the stadium. Up to 50,000 European-based Iranians
are expected, and they have lodged an application for a 15,000-strong
demonstration before the match

In Belgium, police searched 10 locations in Brussels and one in Charleroi. In
Germany, five apartments of Algerians suspected of providing explosives were
raided in the Cologne area.

Nine alleged Algerian terrorists were arrested in Italy, and police found false
documents and machinery to print them.

Milan prosecutor Stefano Dambruoso said there was "worry that something could
happen in Italy as well", and added that there had been "more and more talk
about arms and false documents, passports and identity cards" in conversations
tapped in recent weeks among Islamic militants connected with the group Al
Takfir, which means Anathema and Exile.

A spokesman for the public prosecutor's office in Switzerland told of a "large
police operation" outside Zurich against Algerian nationals.

q Football hooligans involved in trouble at a match that was followed by the
murder of a fan were yesterday banned from watching England play in the World
Cup.

The 11 supporters pled guilty to public order offences including throwing coins,
spitting, and offensive gestures at the Gilling-ham v Fulham game on March 28.

Fulham fan Matthew Fox, 24, died during a scuffle between rival fans after the
match. A man has been charged with his murder.

The 11, from Kent, Surrey, London, and Essex, were given exclusion orders by
Kent magistrates, banning them from attending England games for the next two
years. They were also banned from any other matches in the UK for a year.

Mark Pugash, spokesman for Kent Police, said the men were arrested after
analysis of video footage taken inside the Gillingham ground.

Leader comment Page 14

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: A handcuffed suspect, third from left, in Paris.  Picture: REUTERS

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1998 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              340 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            May 27, 1998, Wednesday

Fear of violence from Algeria

BYLINE: Rupert Cornwell

SECTION: NEWS; Page 13

LENGTH: 435 words


YESTERDAY'S arrests in five European countries of more than 80 people suspected
of involvement in an international Islamic terrorist network is further proof of
the worry that the unceasing and bestial conflict in Algeria will spread north
to the European mainland.

Violence has racked Algeria for more than six years, since the government
cancelled elections which the Islamists were certain to win. Almost every day
brings a new atrocity - yesterday's being a bomb which killed at least seven
people in a market in a town 50 miles south-west of Algiers.  On Sunday, five
policemen were killed in an ambush; two days earlier, 16 people were killed in a
market bombing in an Algiers suburb.

And so the litany of barbarities goes on. Since 1992 at least 65,000, perhaps
100,000, people have been slaughtered. But no one knows for sure.  Any
journalist who peers too closely risks death, while the Algerian government has
often seemed accomplice to the killings.

Its ostensible foe is the Armed Islamic Groups (GIA). But the GIA is fragmented
and some parts of it have been infiltrated by the authorities.  Thus the
suspicion that the government, whose supreme duty is ensure the safety of
ordinary Algerians, is now in some cases deliberately conniving at their
killing, to inflate the threat to itself and justify its repressive and
undemocratic policies.

The charge is a terrible one, but how else to explain the army's long failure to
suppress the insurgents, and the massacres which have taken place within a
stone's throw of military and security barracks, which did nothing to stop the
atrocities on their doorsteps.

Making matters yet worse is the split within the regime, between those who seek
political accommodation with the Islamists, and those for whom the only goal is
the eradication of the fundamentalists.

Thus, with both sides divided, and suspicions of conspiracy and double- dealing
rife, small wonder that the feelers put out for a settlement - most visibly by
elements of the Islamic Salvation Front, the fundamentalists' political arm -
have come to naught. And with deadlock at home, terrorism's shadow is spreading
north across the Mediterranean.

For years, MI5 has kept itight tabs on terrorist suspects and British police
last March arrested eight Algerians amid speculation they were planning actions
to disrupt the World Cup. Even so, Paris claims that Britain and other European
countries are too lax. In the United Kingdom, notes France, it is not a criminal
offence to conspire to commit acts of terrorism against a foreign government.


LOAD-DATE: May 27, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1998 Independent Print Ltd

                              341 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                  May 29, 1998

Sinn Fein picks IRA bomber for Assembly

BYLINE: Andrew Sparrow;James Clark

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 883 words



A CONVICTED IRA bomber has been chosen as one of Sinn Fein's candidates in the
elections to the Northern Ireland Assembly.

Gerry Kelly, jailed for life for attacks in London in the Seventies, will
contest North Belfast when Ulster goes to the polls on June 25.

He was named as a candidate yesterday, as RUC Chief Constable Ronnie Flanagan
warned that the IRA and other terrorist groups continue to pose a threat to
peace in the Province.

Paramilitaries involved in the ceasefire - the Provos plus loyalist groups the
UDA, UFF and UVF were holding 'significant quantities' of arms and explosives,
he said.

Intelligence sources said the IRA had positioned itself to react to any end to
its ceasefire within hours.

Although not actively training or recruiting, it had make plans for rapid
strikes if it decided to return to armed struggle.

One source said: 'What they are doing is looking at the tactical overview of the
situation and maintaining a high state of readiness.' However, Sinn Fein again
dismissed calls for the IRA to be forced to decommission their weapons, even
though this is in line with the agreement reached by the Northern Ireland
parties on Good Friday.

The issue is set to overshadow all else in the run-up to the elections, creating
a risk that the Assembly will be disrupted before it takes a single decision.

The republicans' hardline attitude was highlighted by Gerry Adams yesterday when
he warned that the peace agreement 'commences with a view of consent and
self-determination that no Irish republican could accept'.

Speaking in America at the start of a four-day fundraising tour, the Sinn Fein
leader said: 'No other party has been asked to abandon its philosophy and
analysis.

'Nor will we abandon ours and there is nothing in the document which compels us
to do so.' Although the need for terrorists to hand over their weapons within
two years is a central component of the Good Friday accord, Adams did his best
to dismiss the issue.

'The most crucial thing is not some ritual of decommissioning but that the guns
remain silent,' he said.

'The immediate task should not be to make a big issue of taking away what some
see as an assurance of self-protection, and could easily be replaced anyway, but
to convince the people that this is no longer necessary.' Adams, who is expected
to meet Bill Clinton in Washington today, went to the New York Stock Exchange
yesterday as part of his tour to help raise $500,000 for Sinn Fein, which wants
to open an office in London.

Ironically he faced protests from members of the militant Irish Freedom
Committee, who waved placards accusing Adams of a sell-out.

The protest did little to deter more than 400 members of the business and
political community from paying $160 a head to hear him speak. Last night a
group of Irish-American industrialists and stockbrokers paid $650 each to sip
cocktails with him.

Today Adams will address the National Press Club in Washington before his
meeting at the White House. Ulster Unionist leader David Trimble said he has
asked President Clinton to intensify the pressure for decommissioning.

He said: 'We want Sinn Fein-IRA to declare that the terrorist campaign is over
and that there will be no resort to violence by any element of the organisation
in the future.' But the decision to field Kelly as a candidate will give
hardline republicans reassurance that Sinn Fein is not about to make any
concessions to the British.

If elected, Kelly, seen as a future leader, will be expected to pay most of his
$36,000 salary to party funds.

Like other Sinn Fein members of the Assembly, he will receive an 'industrial
wage' from his HQ, with the rest of the taxpayers' cash being used to subsidise
campaigning activities.

FROM JAILED TERRORIST TO PEACE NEGOTIATOR

AS a Sinn Fein negotiator, IRA bomber Gerry Kelly sat across the table from
Ministers at the Stormont peace talks.

Kelly, who joined the IRA in 1972 after the Bloody Sunday shootings, was jailed
for life the following year for his part in bomb attacks on the Old Bailey and
Scotland Yard in which 180 people were injured.

Ten years later, after taking part in the IRA hunger strike, he led a mass
escape of 38 republican inmates from the Maze prison near Belfast.

Kelly (pictured) fled to Holland, where he was captured in 1986 and extradited
to Britain. He was sentenced to five years for the escape but with remission
served only half that before being freed in 1989.

His hero status among republican paramilitaries helped convince the IRA that
their interests would be protected at the Stormont talks.

He was known as a hard-liner and his support for the peace process surprised
many.

The 43-year-old, divorced with a grownup son, was nicknamed the 'quiet man' by
officials because he rarely spoke in the negotiations. They regarded him as
shrewd, intelligent, calculating and a master of detail and one of the few
senior Sinn Fein members who could challenge Gerry Adams.

Kelly took part in the Stormont talks of 1995, and in the 1996 elections to the
new Northern Ireland Forum a 'talking shop' to pave the way for peace
negotiations he won a seat in north Belfast, entitling him to a further role in
the current process.


LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1998 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              342 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Grimsby Evening Telegraph

                                  May 30, 1998

JUNE headlines through the years

SECTION: Communications: press, Pg.25

LENGTH: 344 words


1st, 1935: The driving test was introduced, and the use of L-plates became
compulsory.

1st, 1942: Television licences were first issued, costing GBP 2.

3rd, 1937: Former King Edward VII married Wallis Warfield Simpson, in Paris.

3rd, 1956: British Railways scrapped third-class travel.

3rd, 1965: Ed White became the first American to walk in space.

4th, 1944: Allied Forces liberated Rome.

5th, 1968: Senator Robert Kennedy was shot dead.

6th, 1936: Gatwick Airport opened.

7th, 1950: The first episode of the BBC radio serial, The Archers, was
broadcast.

10th, 1967: The Six-Day War between Israel, Egypt, Syria and Jordan, ended in
victory for Israel.

13th, 1842: Queen Victoria travelled by train for the first time, accompanied by
Price Albert.

13th, 1944: The first VI flying bomb landed in England, killing three people in
a Southampton house.

14th, 1917: The first German bombs from a plane, rather than Zeppelins, were
dropped on London. More than 100 people were killed.

16th, 1963: Russian cosmonaut Valentina Tereshkova became the first woman to
travel in space, in the spaceship, Vostok 6.

19th, 1924: British climber George Mallory who wanted to climb Everest 'because
it's there', disappeared 1,000ft (205 metres) from the summit.

20th, 1837: Queen Victoria acceded to the throne at 18 years of age, beginning
the longest reign by a British monarch. (Her Coronation was on June 28, 1838).

21st, 1908: In London, more than 20,000 Suffragettes demonstrated for women's
rights.

23rd, 1911: Thousands attended the Coronation of King George V.

23rd, 1939: The Irish Government introduced internment without trial after a
series of IRA bombings.

27th, 1967: Barclays Bank unveiled Britain's first hole-in-the-wall, cash
machine, in north London. (On the 29th, 1966, Britain's first credit card,
Barclaycard, had been introduced).

28th, 1801: British carried out is first census, showing a population of
8,872,000.

28th, 1914: A 19-year-old student assassinated Archduke Franz Ferdinand, which
led to the First World War.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1998 Grimsby Evening Telegraph

                              343 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 30, 1998

Sound of the interval bell;
The return to the drama of the nuclear age concentrates the mind wonderfully

BYLINE: MARK LAWSON

SECTION: The Guardian Features Page; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1046 words


BRITISH children during the first eight decades of this century played happily
in the streets and parks, while their parents worried that they would grow up to
fight or die in a war or a bomb explosion. More recently, mothers and fathers
have given little thought to the call-up, the black-edged telegram from the
front, the farewell hug in the underground shelter or (for the last couple of
years) the car bomb, yet were frightened to let their offspring walk to the
shops. You might call this shift the balance of terror. Fear had relocated from
politics to the personal.

This week - with Pakistan following India into the nuclear age and financial
turmoil in Russia - the balance of terror perhaps began to move again. During
such international tension, the instinctive, selfish question - except, perhaps,
for the highest-minded followers of global politics - is: how frightened should
I be? But this is not an improper concern, for it touches fundamentally on the
psychology of being a citizen. An age is defined by its fears.

On Wednesday night, I heard what was, in two senses, a conversation in an
interval. During the 15 gin-and-tonic minutes at a performance of Michael
Frayn's brilliant new play Copenhagen - which restages a meeting between two
forefathers of nuclear physics, Werner Heisenberg and Nils Bohr - a number of
spectators were making complaints along the lines of: "Bit late for a Bomb play.
Would have made more impact in the 80s." Twenty four hours later, these
half-time remarks were contradicted. We were back in the theatre of war. The
second half of the nuclear age was beginning. The old-aged and middle-aged in
Britain are psychologically marked by the international anxieties of their
childhood. The former dreaded for at least five years dying as soldiers or
living as Germans. The latter were grimly confident that Armageddon would come
through nuclear weapons.

FOR a while after Berlin united, the fear of environmental self-destruction
seemed likely to replace the Bomb, but ozone never captured the imagination in
the way that plutonium had. In the past 10 years, ecolological panic has shaded
into pre-millennial tension, but these insecurities, at least in Britain and
America, have generally been domestic rather than international: the safety of
children, the availability of jobs. The certainty of extermination has been
replaced by an assumption of healthy long life.

Many writers have suggested that the cold war period resulted in a general
psychological condition of paranoia, especially in America. That theory can now
be updated to advance the view that the absence of a specific threat in the past
10 years has resulted in a prevailing malady of complacency and self -obsession.

In retrospect, the solemnity - and, to modern eyes and ears, pomposity - of the
politics and media of the past may be seen as in part a reflection of the
current or very recent reasons to be serious: the daily expectation of invasion
or death.

Similarly, the frivolity and triviality of much modern discourse - post
-modernism, happy-clappy politics - is a product of a decade in which nothing
seemed to matter very much; in which - in Middle America or Modern Britain - it
was possible to live in a cocoon of wealthy security.

From the 50s to the 80s, memories of the second world war and subsequent cold
war paranoia produced terrible consequences in xenophobic politics, a vast and
greedy arms industry and a violent and suspicious popular culture. But 10 years
of post-cold-war complacency have produced effects which, though not yet
equivalent, remain regrettable.

Politics became dominated by the selfishness of voters and the crowd-pleasing
theatricality of leaders, these movements combining to create a democracy in
which ideas were considered tedious and debate antique. Even wars lost their
awfulness: in the absence of the nuclear stand-off between America and Russia,
the Gulf war established international conflict as safe, containable, even
entertaining.

IN THIS culture of low stakes, the media felt less and less responsibility to
cover the world in a serious way. Serious discussion seems to have taken place
in some news rooms about the relative weight to give to the Pakistani bomb and
the nuclear row between Ginger Spice and her song-sisters.

It was entirely fitting that, the day before the Pakistan tests, it was revealed
that Tony Blair had just recorded an appearance on the Des O'Connor chat show
(in which he cracked jokes about his mother-in-law and the Queen), while Gordon
Brown was working on a television special with Ulrika Johnsson, intended to
explain the single European currency to a general audience.

Few would want the return of paranoia and xenophobia in our dealings with the
world. But a period of over-reaction to the terrors of the world has been
followed by a period of under-reaction. The chill nuclear wind from Islamabad
this week might provide a useful corrective to the 10-year-long hot aimless
summer of western politics and culture.

And what is the proper level of dread with which to regard the deadly weapons of
the East? The military theorist Lawrence Freedman has cheekily pointed out that,
logically, the west should welcome Pakistan's decision to achieve nuclear
equality with India. The nations are merely emulating the balance of terror
which - we are invited to believe - kept the peace in the West for 40 years. We
ought to believe that there is now no risk of war at all. Yet, oddly, the
greatest supporters of the balance-of-terror argument - the western military and
weapons industries - seem unlikely to take this line and will push for greater
expenditure.

For the citizen, the most likely result will be low-level paranoia - for the
weapons are not yet aimed directly at us - and perhaps a revival of
environmental concerns. The most beneficial outcome would be a general
psychological adjustment: a restored sense of why politics and the rest of the
world matter. The old cry of the cold war demagogue was: "It's later than you
think!" It wasn't. But this week's news alerts us that we may also have misread
the clock face, exaggerating the blissful earliness of the hour. The interval is
over and it's back to the drama.


LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              344 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                              June 1, 1998, Monday

Anger as Sinn Fein leaders snub invitation to royal party

BYLINE: Clare Garner

SECTION: NEWS; Page 2

LENGTH: 437 words


THE LEADERS of Sinn Fein have rejected an invitation from the Government to a
garden party where the guest of honour is to be the Prince of Wales, whose great
uncle, Lord Mountbatten, was killed in an IRA bomb attack in 1979.

Gerry Adams, president of Sinn Fein, and Martin McGuinness, the party's chief
negotiator, declined because the heir to the throne is the Commander- in-Chief
of Britain's Parachute Regiment. Republicans have always reviled the regiment
for its involvement in "Bloody Sunday" when British troops killed 14 Catholics
during a protest in Londonderry in 1972.

About 1,000 guests, including the 18 Northern Ireland MPs, have been invited to
this week's garden party at Hillsborough Castle. The event is one of the major
dates in Northern Ireland's social calendar. The Secretary of State for Northern
Ireland, Mo Mowlam, said that she had included the two leaders of the IRA's
political wing on the guest list because they had signed up to the peace accord.

However, she had known there was a strong possibility that they would turn down
the invitation, saying before receiving their replies: "They are republicans,
they are not supporters of the monarchy." Mr Adams and Mr McGuinness have never
taken up their seats in the House of Commons because they refuse to swear
allegiance to the crown.

The decision to invite the two Sinn Fein MPs angered many Unionists and
Opposition MPs. Ulster Unionist MP Ken Maginnis said: "I believe this is yet
another insensitive decision by Mo Mowlam." Andrew Hunter, vice- chairman of the
Tory backbench committee on Northern Ireland, said: "These men are apologists
for the murderers of the Prince of Wales's uncle. It is dreadful that the Sinn
Fein leadership should be given the mantle of respectability when no weapons
have been decommissioned."

Andrew Mackay, shadow Secretary of State for Northern Ireland, said: "The simple
truth is that an invitation like this puts the fear of God into the Unionist
community. And the danger is they will react by actually electing Unionist
politicians who will be there to wreck or disrupt the assembly which will not be
in the interests of a lasting settlement."

Fifteen police officers and four civilians were injured on Saturday when rioting
erupted in the Garvaghy Road area of Portadown, during an Orange Order march.

At one stage during the six hours of disturbances, a mob of up to 400 rioters
attacked officers with petrol and blast bombs. Police responded by firing
plastic bullets. It was the first major outbreak of street disorder since the
Good Friday peace agreement.


LOAD-DATE: June 02, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1998 Independent Print Ltd

                              345 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                            June 3, 1998, Wednesday

'TERROR SUSPECT DELAYED JAIL PLAN'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 178 words


IMPROVEMENTS in one of Britain's top security prisons were delayed for six
months last year because IRA suspect Roisin McAliskey was being held there, the
Chief Inspector of Prisons, Sir David Ramsbotham, said yesterday.

Ms McAliskey, 26, was on remand in Holloway awaiting extradition to Germany,
where she was wanted in connection with the terrorist bombing of British
barracks at Osnabruck.

She gave birth at a local hospital while held at the jail and was later
transferred permanently to hospital, suffering from post-natal depression.

In March this year Home Secretary Jack Straw blocked her extradition and she has
since returned to Northern Ireland with her year-old daughter, Loinnir.

As a maximum-security Category A inmate and the subject of "enormous media and
political interest", Ms McAliskey had a "disproportionate effect on the
operations and development of the prison", Sir David said.

The governor said: "It did mean we had to make quite a lot of special
arrangements. That would affect the balance of running the prison."

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1998 Century Newspapers Limited

                              346 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                         June 8, 1998, Monday Edition 7

Man denies bombing at Canary Wharf - IRA's warning over blast was inadequate

BYLINE: By MELVYN HOWE

SECTION: BRITAIN TONIGHT, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 334 words


   The IRA gave "inaccurate and wholly inadequate" warnings of the Canary Wharf
bomb blast that killed two men and ended its 18 month ceasefire, a court heard
today.

The bomb, built into a converted lorry, went off as "many thousands" of people
were leaving work and going home, John Bevan, QC, prosecuting, told London's
Woolwich Crown Court.

Blast

He was opening the case against James McCardle, 29, who denies conspiring "with
other persons unknown" to cause an explosion likely to endanger life, or cause
serious injury to property in the United Kingdom or Ireland between October 30,
1995, and February 10, 1996.

The labourer, from Crossmaglen, Northern Ireland, also pleads not guilty to
murdering Inam Bashir and John Jeffries, the two who died in the blast.

Mr Bevan said the explosion at 6.59pm on Friday February 9, 1996, at South Quay,
was "enormous" and "brought to an end the first 18 months ceasefire by the IRA
of a long campaign of bombing targets in Northern Ireland and the mainland."

He went on: "The ceasefire has since been restored and as we all know there are
now grounds for optimism that years of terrorism may be at an end.

"We, however, are concerned with a particular and serious crime.

"Inaccurate and, from the point of view of timing, wholly inadequate warnings
were given by telephone from a number of people. These warnings did not begin to
give police sufficient time to warn and evacuate the many thousands of people
working and leaving work in the area."

The barrister said that "sadly", although a police constable who was on the
scene early managed to warn Mr Bashir and Mr Jeffries to leave the newsagents
they were in near the suspect lorry, they "did not act immediately on his
warning and within a few minutes they were killed instantly when it went off."

History

Mr Bevan said McCardle's alleged role was a "central one at the forefront of the
plan" with his finger, thumb and palm prints were found on a number of exhibits.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 1998 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              347 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  June 8, 1998

Police join French strikers as Britain refuels

BYLINE: PAUL WEBSTER IN PARIS

SECTION: The Guardian Home Page; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 466 words


A PROTEST by French police is set to weaken security at the football World Cup,
which begins this week against a background of air and rail chaos.

A work-to-rule by Paris detectives means that visiting fans will be at risk from
criminals when an expected 1 million people gather in the capital for a giant
parade on the eve of the opening Brazil v Scotland match.

Appeals by the prime minister, Lionel Jospin, to Air France pilots to give up
their industrial action failed at the weekend, making it certain that disruption
to flights will coincide with a rail strike on Wednesday. But the pilots told
management yesterday that they would be prepared to fly aircraft to pick up
soccer fans who have been stranded abroad.

However, transport problems could be far less serious for foreign fans than the
absence of plain-clothes officers.

Paris police officials confirmed yesterday that a three-month protest by the
Police Judiciaire, the equivalent of the CID, had already undermined security in
the capital in the run-up to the World Cup and had caused the scaling down of an
operation to arrest suspected Algerian terrorists to prevent bomb attacks during
the competition. Because detectives at the Quai des Orfevres, France's Scotland
Yard, are refusing to work overtime in a dispute over bonuses, the flying squad
and the drugs and prostitution units have not made a significant arrest for
several weeks. The number of suspects taken into custody has dropped by about
two-thirds.

Detectives confirmed that criminals, including violent gangs, felt safe to
operate openly at certain times of the day because the crime squad could not
keep them under surveillance. This was particularly noticeable for drug dealers
whose presence has become increasingly visible in the city centre.

But one of the most immediate dangers for hundreds of thousands of foreigners is
the temporary dissolution of a specialist anti-pickpocket squad and the
abandoning of plans for a close watch on gangs of petty thieves expected to
mingle with the crowd during tomorrow's parade on the Champs Elysees and the
opening match at the Stade de France on Wednesday.

The protest is also making it difficult to deploy the elite Raid group of police
sharp-shooters who take a leading role in anti-terrorist work.

"Choices will have to be made between protecting visitors and high-level
surveillance of criminal activity," said one senior policeman.

"Police Judiciaire officials have to work in a sort of feudal system," said
Olivier Poli, secretary-general of the detectives' union, after scores of
plain-clothes detectives on bicycles blocked rush-hour traffic as part of their
protest. "If we're paid like junior civil servants then we'll work like them -
eight hours maximum on duty."


LOAD-DATE: June 11, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              348 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  June 8, 1998

Belfast suicides rise as Troubles subside;
Strategy sought as more males aged 16 to 24 kill themselves than die on the
roads

BYLINE: JOHN MULLIN IRELAND CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: The Guardian Home Page; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 747 words


POLITICIANS and community workers in west Belfast are to meet social services
today to try to co-ordinate a strategy against the mushrooming suicide rate.

"It is the number one issue in the city," a youth worker said.

Suicides among males aged 16 to 24 in Northern Ireland are for the first time
outstripping deaths through road accidents. The Government is coming under
pressure to investigate.

John Leckey, the Belfast coroner who said there had been a significant increase
this year in young people hanging themselves, revealed that he was dealing with
the apparent suicides of children as young as 10.

He wrote last week to Tony Worthington, the Northern Ireland health minister,
asking him to announce an inquiry.

The problem areas include west and north Belfast. As well as having pockets of
severe deprivation, each of the inner-city areas has been on the frontline
throughout the Troubles.

Some psychiatrists believe the reduction in terrorist violence may be
contributing to the increase. People are focusing again on their own problems
rather than those of the community.

Suicide rates in Northern Ireland fell sharply soon after the conflict began in
1969, and are still below those in the rest of the United Kingdom. Britain had
similar experiences in both world wars and the Falklands war.

Government figures show that 33 people under 25 killed themselves in Northern
Ireland in 1997. More than 20 young people are believed to have committed
suicide this year, with a 20-year-old and 15-year-old boy hanging themselves in
separate incidents last week.

One survey, carried out by research students at the University of Ulster,
claimed that 16 people in Northern Ireland were attempting to take their own
life every day. One, on average, was successful.

While health officials doubted the problem was as serious as that, Mr Leckey
conceded that official statistics underestimate the extent of suicide. He said
that coroners were reluctant to bring in a suicide verdict unless the proof was
overwhelming.

"Experts might be able to say for sure whether the ceasefire has something to do
with the increase," he said. "My own view is that research be done both before
and after the ceasefire, with an examination of regional variations."

Fra McCann, a Sinn Fein councillor in west Belfast, said his 21-year-old niece
had hanged herself in March. She was one of 11 people that he knew had committed
suicide in west Belfast this year.

Mr McCann, who will be at today's summit, said: "Parents are panic-stricken. It
is unbelievable, an epidemic. People are terrified of arguing with their kids in
case they go off and kill themselves. It dominates every conversation in west
Belfast. The rumour mill is in overdrive."

The Samaritans said yesterday: "We are very, very concerned. We cannot be sure
why it is happening, but there are big increases in some areas. The incidence
rate is very high in west Belfast. We find young men are just unwilling to talk
about their feelings.

"We have just put 50 advertisements on to buses specifically to reach out to
young people. We are considering a cinema advert."

William Smith, a community worker across the peaceline on the Protestant
Shankill Road, said: "The number of attempted suicides is frightening. Adults
who need help know where they can go. But children don't. We have to actively
seek these children out to get them help. It is the number one issue in every
area of Belfast."

Pain of mother who lost two sons

KATHLEEN Kearney, from west Belfast, a widowed mother-of-four, lost two sons to
suicide. Her eldest son, Frankie, killed himself 16 months ago.

She said that he had never recovered from a heavy assault he suffered at the
hands of loyalists, when he believed he was going to die.

Her younger boy, Michael, aged 26, took an overdose on St Patrick's Day this
year.

Michael had had a breakdown after his brother's death. However, he had seemed to
recover and was planning to get engaged.

Mrs Kearney said: "They don't know the grief and the heartache that is left
behind. It's the answers you want and can't get, that is so hard.  Both of them
had so much to live for, and there are plenty of people they could have talked
to.

"I put on a brave face on things and try and get on with life as well as I can,
but there's no joy in anything anymore.

"Every time I hear of a suicide, I think of the pain of the family left behind."


LOAD-DATE: June 11, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              349 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  June 9, 1998

NIGERIA AFTER ABACHA: World waits for giant to come in from cold;
REACTION/The death of the prickly general may improve relations with an
international pariah, writes Ian Black

BYLINE: IAN BLACK

SECTION: The Guardian Foreign Page; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 553 words


THE demise of General Sani Abacha removes a difficult figure from the African
and international stages but leaves in place a raft of sanctions and problems
about how to deal with Nigeria's laggardly return to the democratic straight and
narrow.

With his trademark dark glasses the general became an obsession for Commonwealth
and European Union countries struggling to balance concern about human rights
abuses against the raw economic power of crude oil exports of roughly 2 million
barrels per day.

"Frankly a lot of people will breathe a sigh of relief," one expert said last
night. "Provided the right noises are made this could be an opportunity for a
new beginning."

Whoever does succeed Abacha after his nearly five-year reign will find a country
that has been moving higher up the international agenda since April, when it
became clear that multi-party elections that were supposed to bring the
restoration of civilian rule would have only one candidate - Abacha himself.

Last month the Group of Eight countries said they were "deeply concerned" about
human rights abuses.

Britain led the Commonwealth in imposing sanctions in 1995 after the execution
of the author Ken Saro-Wiwa and eight other Ogoni minority rights activists.

But they have had little effect as Nigeria has managed to divide the
Commonwealth, where there is much furtive support for the West African giant,
and the EU.

The EU condemned the military's transition-to-democracy plan as a "failure", but
the implementation of even its minor sanctions, such as on visas for government
officials, has been at best patchy.

Britain, especially under Labour, has made more noise than anyone. But British
companies with interests in Nigeria have been unhappy, hearing the regime's
angry attacks on London's support for "terrorists".

There is a powerful lobby against sanctions in the United States, which buys
almost half of Nigeria's oil. The US last night urged Nigeria to make a
"genuine" transition to democracy, offering stronger bilateral ties.

"Our hope is that Nigeria's new leadership will continue and make credible the
transition programme currently in place," the state department spokesman, James
Rubin, said.

Ironically, Nigeria has also made itself useful in an unstable region. Its army
helped to restore civilian rule in Liberia and Sierra Leone through a West
African force, Ecomog - the key to British government embarrassment over the
Sandline arms affair.

Frustrated diplomats admit that Nigeria is often an immovable force, but there
was hope last night that the sudden removal of one prickly general might hasten
the day when civilians rule again.

"The main problem of Abacha was that he didn't understand government and had too
little contact with the outside world to understand how unfavourably he was
perceived," said one veteran Nigeria watcher. "He ran his country like a
medieval court, not like a modern leader. So too many people just shrugged their
shoulders and said: 'What can you do?' "

The secretary-general of the Commonwealth, Chief Emeka Anyaoku, himself a
Nigerian, last night urged his compatriots to reach a genuine national consensus
in choosing a successor.

"I have no doubt that all Nigerians would wish to ensure that peace prevails,"
he added.


LOAD-DATE: June 11, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              350 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 June 11, 1998

Advertisement Feature: Manchester Digital Summer: Northern lights;
Martin Wainwright on why it's stopped raining in Manchester

BYLINE: MARTIN WAINWRIGHT

SECTION: The Guardian Online Page; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 987 words


When the IRA bomb went off in central Manchester in 1996 an extraordinary image
was etched on the minds of people glancing up from Saturday gardening on the
slopes of the neighbouring Pennines.

Hundreds of thousands of shards of glass were flung high into the sky where they
caught the June sunshine and glittered across the cityscape like some celestial
vision from John Bunyan.

No one would have wished 3,300 pounds of high explosive on the capital of
Northern England, but both the bomb and the sudden, startling vision it created
in the sky have something important to say about modern Manchester. A
longstanding gridlock over cheering-up and redesigning the centre was abruptly
broken by the immediate requirement to clear away the mess; and the stern old
images of Cottonopolis have finally, comprehensively, been replaced by something
like that strange Saturday shower of light, a brighter and glitzier way of life.

Glitzy may sound a shallow word for a city used to boasting about huge
industries - MetroVicks, Ferranti and Courtaulds - but the value of lifestyle
and creating a pleasant place for people to work is not superficial. Appearing
simultaneously on the front and back cover of the Guinness Book of Records (with
Take That and Ryan Giggs) did Manchester's image a deal of good. So has the
city's plethora of contemporary nicknames (Madchester, Funchester, Gaychester,
even - with the current explosion of eating places - Menuchester).

'If you want modern, hi-tech industries, you need creative people and if you
want creative people, you need somewhere for them to enjoy living,' says Dave
Carter of the city council's economic initiative group. Labour council leader
Richard Leese strikes the same note, singling out 'the huge success in getting
people to return to the city centre to live there, within walking distance of
their work' as one of the main motors of Manchester's resurgence.

There may not be many actual gondolas for hire on the network of canals - pace
the Boddington's beer TV advert - but the pieds-a-terre at Salford Quays are
oversubscribed and Canal Street, focus of the 'gay village' and one of Britain's
strongest pink economies, is like somewhere newly moved, brick, beam and lintel,
from central Amsterdam. Leafiness has broken out, too, in the heart of both the
city and its twin neighbours Salford and Trafford, whose lack of distinct
boundaries with Manchester itself have sometimes muddled the conurbation's
attempts at self-promotion.

This confusing of local landmarks is insignificant, however, compared with the
brilliantly misleading advertisement for Manchester in American airports, which
feature the city's name in enormous letters under an idyllic photograph of
Dungeon Ghyll in the Lake District valley of Langdale (Manchester's water does
at least come from neighbouring Thirlmere).

The campaign is part of a well-organised revival of the city's global links, and
Manchester is genuinely world-famous, thanks to networks established by King
Cotton, Manchester's political liberalism (Gandhi and the Pan-African Congress
had important bases here) and the ship canal, which created one of the world's
great ports 40 miles from the sea.

And thanks to Manchester United, of course. But in practical terms, it is the
rapidly-growing airport which is turning the fame of the men in red (and Oasis,
and the Halle), into an effective part of Manchester's revival. Talk of where to
build Britain's third major airport is redundant. Here it is. Leese describes
the it as 'our second great success story, economically vital and central to the
success of the whole of the North of England.' Manchester still has more than
its fair share of the depressing downside that forms part of every big British
city, the barracky estates put up in the 1950s and 60s to replace wartime bomb
damage and slums. But Leese reckons the third of Manchester's three main
achievements has been 'the transformation of places like Hulme into communities
where people now want to live.' The semi-derelict landscape of Ancoats is next
in line for the treatment.

Hosting Digital Summer 98 underlines the fourth, and most ambitious, of
Manchester's engines of revival - a return of the cutting-edge, entrepreneurial
tradition in the form of new technology industries, and particularly IT.

Carter cites the city's creation of the first Internet exchange outside London,
the associated burgeoning of science parks, and the digital powerline
developments at Norweb, which aim at supplying electronic data down ordinary
domestic wiring. Carter, an ornithologist, enthuses: 'You would be able to log
on to the osprey nest Web site and watch the birds all day, free.'

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              351 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             June 14, 1998, Sunday

Anti-terror chief in line for role as RUC deputy

BYLINE: Chris Ryder and Vincent Kearney

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 388 words


ONE of Britain's highest-profile police officers is in the race to become deputy
chief constable of the RUC. John Grieve, 51, head of the anti-terrorist branch,
is one of eight candidates for the vacancy arising from the recent retirement of
Blair Wallace.

Grieve, whose rank of commander in the Metropolitan police is equivalent to
assistant chief constable, was appointed to the anti-terrorist branch just as
the IRA's London Docklands bombing in 1996 ended the republican ceasefire.

Working with MI5 and regional British police forces, Grieve led the
investigations into subsequent IRA attacks, including the van bomb which
devastated central Manchester in 1996. His unit also foiled a series of
terrorist operations, including a plot to attack utility sites which could have
hit London's water and power supplies.

Grieve won a reputation as a tough "thief taker" after cracking notorious East
End robbery gangs. He has also made his mark as an innovative campaigner against
drug trafficking, once going undercover in long hair and hippie-style clothing
to infiltrate narcotics networks.

A pre-election crisis is looming in Northern Ireland as the Parades Commission
is expected to announce tomorrow that an Orange Order march on Friday will be
rerouted away from nationalist areas of north Belfast.

The commission will rule that the parade of about 8,000 Orangemen and band
members cannot proceed along the six-mile route identified by the organisers. It
is expected that the Tour of the North march will only be allowed to proceed if
it avoids a nationalist section of the route from Cliftonpark Avenue to Duncairn
Gardens.

The decision could result in protests by Orangemen and a confrontation could
attract hardline loyalists opposed to the Stormont agreement.

A confrontation could have serious implications for the peace process, coming
less than a week before the assembly elections.

* Sinn Fein could be granted a new privilege: the right to continue raising
funds in America, even after a law is passed to ban mainland political parties
from accepting foreign donations.

The Neill committee on political funding takes evidence in Northern Ireland this
week and is to ask the province's parties whether they should be exempt from
Labour's promised ban on raising money abroad.


LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1998 Times Newspapers Limited

                              352 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                 June 16, 1998

Business

SECTION: Pg.23

LENGTH: 407 words


in brief

Germans drop Mirror bid

GERMAN publisher Axel Springer Verlag announced yesterday that it would not be
making an offer for the Mirror Group after weeks of speculation. The company
said it had completed an extensive review on "all issues" before it took the
decision. Industry sources said that the German company would have had to make a
bid of about 300p per share in a deal that would have valued the whole group at
about GBP 1.4 billion.

Tetley float off

TETLEY Group yesterday announced it had shelved plans to float on the stock
market. The maker of Tetley, Lyons Tea and Quickbrew has instead decided to
"pursue another opportunity", but spokesmen at both the company and its major
shareholder, venture capital firm PPM, declined to comment on what that was. The
company, which split off from drinks giant Allied Domecq in a management buy-out
three years ago, was due to float valued at GBP 400 million in July.

Drugs firms slide

A report yesterday by the Foundation for Manufacturing and Industry warned that
productivity in the UK drugs industry looks to be falling behind America, Japan,
Germany, France and Italy. FM&I economist Jane Croot said: "It is a cause for
concern to see this happening in one of the UK's best-performing sectors - whose
output is now worth more than GBP 4.5 billion a year - and is something that
needs to be addressed with urgency if the industry is to regain its competitive
edge.

Quick recovery

MANCHESTER'S city centre has recovered from the damage inflicted by the IRA bomb
two years ago, a report said yesterday. Rebuilding has been so successful
following the devastation caused by the explosion near the Arndale Centre that
shop rents have risen faster than almost anywhere else in Britain. Only London's
West End has performed better over the last three years, according to chartered
surveyors Donaldsons.

Confident students

STUDENTS are more confident about finding work after leaving university than at
any time for 10 years, a survey showed yesterday. Optimism among final year
students at Britain's leading universities was highest among those on computer
courses, who expected their average starting salaries to be nearly GBP 18,000.
About one half of those polled said they expected to find work, but the survey
showed big differences in confidence between students on different courses, with
those on computer courses three times as confident as arts students.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 1998 Western Morning News

                              353 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                             June 22, 1998, Monday

SETBACKS FOR UNIONISM 'SELF-INFLICTED';
 PAULEY ON POLITICS

BYLINE: Mervyn Pauley

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 938 words


THE wider unionist community has been unable to understand it and it has
dismayed and frustrated its political representatives over the years - the way
in which the Protestants of Northern Ireland have been bad-mouthed by the
British media.

Negative images of Ulster 'loyalism' - the strident voices of protest, defiant
bowler-hatted men in sashes, the deep-seated siege mentality - have tended to
dominate the national coverage and resulted in stereotyping.

In a book just published, academic Alan F Parkinson looks at this predominantly
hostile reaction of mainland opinion-formers and at the political
marginalisation of unionism in Great Britain.

In doing so, he is probably correct in claiming that he is filling a gap in the
market, given that other researchers who have concentrated specifically on the
phenomenon of Ulster loyalism have arguably been limited in scope.

While this latest effort, Ulster Loyalism and the British Media, retraces much
-furrowed ground, its main emphasis, as the title suggests, is on how the
loyalist case has been reported in the rest of the UK.

Dr Parkinson is a senior lecturer in history and education at South Bank
University, London, and holds degrees from Queen's University, and his
painstaking work includes a detailed case study of the 1987 Poppy Day bombing in
Enniskillen.

Coverage of the outrage, with its heartrending human angle, gripped the British
public. "For perhaps the first and only time they were able to fully empathise
with the civilian population of Northern Ireland," he says.

Despite this rare show of empathy, however, the IRA bombing was not to lead to a
closer awareness of, or identification with, the "unionist predicament".
Unionists were unable to capitalise on the tragic events of that black November
morning and their ostensibly just claims for resisting the hated Hillsborough
pact of 1985 continued to be largely ignored.

Dr Parkinson has explanations as to why unionists have supposedly lost the all
-important propaganda war. One theory, which it is difficult to refute, is that
much of the damage has been self-inflicted, what with internecine disputes and
divisions and the impression given, notably in the 1960s and 70s, that it was a
"squabbling, boisterous and belligerent" creed, stubbornly hanging on to the
last vestiges of power.

With a few exceptions, it was nationalists and republicans who set the "military
and political" agenda. They even managed to gain the moral high ground in
judicial matters, when a series of miscarriages of justice received enormous
media coverage in Britain.

The author has few, if any, kudos for British television's analytical coverage
of the situation. An already frustrated audience was used to seeing the
conflict, and particularly the unionists, in stereotypes.

This was even more evident in American TV coverage of Northern Ireland.  But
that will surprise nobody.

This examination of the nature of loyalism in its broadest sense highlights the
scale of change that occurred since 1968 - not least the stresses and strains
caused by the rise of the DUP under the ebullient Ian Paisley.

Dr Parkinson says: "After a quarter of a century, the majority of the British
public are unable to make informed comments about the situation in Northern
Ireland which, in itself, speaks volumes about the quality of the media
coverage.

"This affected the loyalist case more than the nationalists whose 'friends' (the
Irish government and Irish Americans) remained constant and whose mindset was
focused on the long term."

He tested the premise that the chasm between unionist interpretations of the
moral rectitude of their case and mainland scepticism towards such attitudes,
could not be breached.

The quality of the media's analytical coverage, he found, mitigated against any
proper understanding of the "longest running problem in British politics".

Unionism/loyalism was a casualty of simplistic one-dimensional coverage.  It was
also the subject of significantly fewer programmes than nationalism or
republicanism.

"If one accepts that there is a 'British' as well as an 'Irish' problem and that
British understanding of the most enduring domestic problem over the last 30
years has barely improved, then one should be disturbed by continuing
intolerance in Great Britain towards both traditions in Northern Ireland, and
especially the unionist one," he suggests.

The book was compiled ahead of the changed climate surrounding the Good Friday
Agreement and when I contacted Dr Parkinson I asked him if he thought the accord
might alter mainland perceptions.

"It depends very much on the result of the election and on what kind of move the
Unionist Party actually makes in the next six months," he reckoned.

"Mainland opinion probably would be very sympathetic to Trimble, but if what
happened in the next few months resulted in a split within the unionist
movement, then I think British public opinion would say this is the old
stereotype - unionists refusing to compromise."

He said the British public were very much behind the Agreement and would take a
decidedly dim view of those elements ranged against it.

"A lot depends on whether the Assembly will be made to work and how things pan
out.

"I think there is a danger of the British public, particularly the older
members, saying this is a deja vu, here we go again situation ... for Trimble,
read Terence O'Neill, that sort of thing."

l Ulster Loyalism and the British Media, published by Four Courts Press, Dublin,
at pounds 14.95 paperback, pounds 39.50 hardback.

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SYMPATHY: mainland Britain sympathised over Enniskillen - but unionism
failed to capitalise

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1998 Century Newspapers Limited

                              354 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                             June 23, 1998, Tuesday

THEME FOR THE DAY

BYLINE: Jane Jones

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 510 words


In Britain When I Survey The Wondrous Cross is one of our best known hymns. In
the USA no film featuring Christmas would be complete without a rendition of Joy
to the World. Both these hymns were written by Isaac Watts, a nonconformist
minister fromSout hampton, who died 250 years ago this year.

Isaac Watts was a mere five feet tall. He was in constant poor health and we are
told that he was physically ugly.

In his youth Isaac courted a lady. She said that she "admired the jewel (his
soul) but not the casket (his body)." Poor Isaac was rejected and he never did
get married. But his soul was indeed a jewel that unflinchingly and steadfastly
trusted in God, an d expressed its faith in hymns and psalms.

God often chooses people like Isaac Watts. Rather than the strong and powerful
he uses the weak and the vulnerable. Aware of his own weakness, Isaac wrote: "Oh
God our help in ages past, our hope for years to come, Our shelter from the
stormy blast and o ur eternal home."

Jane Jones, Sutton Coldfield.

FROM THE PAST

200 YEARS AGO: Whereas Richard Hanson, of the Parish of Yardley, in the County
of Worcester, Labourer, hath runaway from his wife and family, whereby
chargeable to the said Parish. The said Richard Hanson is about 33 years of age,
about 5 feet 4 inches h igh, strong made, has a roundish face, grey eyes and
pale complexion. Whoever will secure him shall receive one guinea.

Aris's Birmingham Gazette, June 1798.

100 YEARS AGO: Yesterday was a great day at the Royal Agricultural Show at Four
Oaks Park. The chief feature of interest was of course, being the presence of
the Prince of Wales. His Royal Highness always takes an active interest in the
work of the socie ty and has done for many years. The weather was bright and the
holiday attire of the ladies and the decorations made a gay and animated scene.

The Birmingham Daily Post, June 1898.

50 YEARS AGO: The Birmingham United Hospital and Birmingham Dental Hospital
highlighted the role of the voluntary effort which made their work possible in
their annual reports. The report states to the Contributory Association:
"Without its beneficial se rvices the voluntary hospitals of Birmingham would
not have been able to exist.

The Birmingham Post, June 1948.

ON THIS DAY

Birthdays: Singer and polo player Julian Hipwood, 52; actress Miriam Karlin, 73;
High Court judge Sir Peter Millett, 66; astronomer Prof Martin Rees, 56; poet
Anthony Thwaite, 67.

Anniversaries: 1985: Sikh terrorist bomb explosion killed 325 in Air India
Boeing 747 flying from Canada; 1951: British diplomats Guy Burgess and Donald
Maclean fled to USSR; 1924: Death of Cecil James Sharp, founder of the English
Folk Society; 1916: Bi rth of cricketer Sir Leonard Hutton, English cricket's
first professional captain; 1894: Birth of the Duke of Windsor, who briefly
reigned as Edward VIII in 1936.

28 Colmore Circus, Birmingham B4 6AX

Editorial: Tel 0121 236 3366. Fax: 0121 625 1105

THEME FOR THE DAY

Ian HintonAndrew JonesDawn Sweeney

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1998 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              355 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            June 24, 1998, Wednesday

Councils want curbs on work at Sellafield

BYLINE: Charles Arthur, Technology Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Page 12

LENGTH: 557 words


MORE THAN 100 councils in England and Wales are so worried about the chances of
a devastating nuclear accident at the Sellafield reprocessing plant that they
aim to mount a legal challenge to the government's Nuclear Installations
Inspectorate (NII), which licences the site.

The 117-strong UK Nuclear Free Local Authorities group joined calls by Gordon
Thompson, an American nuclear scientist, for a halt to reprocessing of reactor
waste at the British Nuclear Fuels installation. Only that, said Dr Thompson,
would substantially reduce the risk of an accident in the 1,000 cubic metres of
highly radioactive waste stored in 21 water- cooled tanks at the site.

If an earthquake, operator accident, or terrorist attack occurred the waste
could be released, with effects up to 100 times worse than the 1986 Chernobyl
reactor explosion. The Irish Sea would be polluted with plutonium, while an
explosion could release radioactive caesium that would contaminate anything it
landed on.

"The nuclear industry and the Nuclear Installations Inspectorate doesn't
understand the risks faced by its own industry, but the Chernobyl accident is
the precedent," said Dr Thompson.

Local authorities which could be affected by an accident at Sellafield want the
NII to publicise the data it uses to decide the risks posed by
installations.They are considering court action to force such openness.

But a spokesman for the NII, a subdivision of the Health and Safety Executive,
said nuclear inspectors' hands were bound by the 1974 Health and Safety at Work
Act, which prohibits inspectors from releasing any information about sites they
examine without the express permission of the sites' owners.

"It doesn't sound as though there's any abuse of the law by the NII," said a
spokesman. "It sounds instead like the councils are calling for entirely new
laws, such as a Freedom of Information Act."

Both Dr Thompson and Martin Hemingway, a Leeds councillor who is chair of UK
Nuclear Free Local Authorities, attacked the culture of secrecy which pervades
the present civil nuclear regime in Britain.

Mr Hemingway said: "NII is the safety regulator and must act in the public
interest, not BNFL's, to maintain public confidence. Last week the NII said it
was forced to suppress vital safety information about Dounreay reprocessing
plant to avoid jeopardising commercial prospects there. The NII could only
release its damning report on Dounreay safety because the plant now has no
commercial prospects. We fear a similar story of 'tail wags dog' at Sellafield.

"BNFL can stamp 'commercial in confidence' on documents, or assert proprietorial
rights to basic safety information to prevent NII from releasing it for public
scrutiny. We believe that this weakens regulation and prevents public
accountability. The Government must review the relationship between regulator
and operator."

Dr Thompson, director of the Massachusetts-based Institute for Resource and
Security Studies, said the best option would be to stop reprocessing now, and
address the backlog of waste that now has to be cooled to stop it overheating.

BNFL has said that the present backlog will not be dealt with until at least
2015. But Dr Thompson said that by stopping reprocessing now, the existing waste
could be vitrified by 2007.


LOAD-DATE: June 24, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1998 Independent Print Ltd

                              356 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                        June 26, 1998, Friday Edition 1

Docklands blast Bomber set to go free too soon - MP raps early release after

BYLINE: By Melvyn Howe

SECTION: BRITAIN TONIGHT, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 273 words


   THERE was anger today that an IRA bomber, jailed for 25 years for his part in
the London Docklands blast, could be freed in two years under the peace deal.

Terrorist James McArdle, 29, who saluted supporters in the public gallery as he
was led to the cells yesterday, could be transferred to an Ulster jail and then
set free under the Northern Ireland [Sentences] Bill going through Parliament.

He remained impassive as the judge branded him a "trusted" and "manipulative"
member of the Provisionals.

Halted

The Woolwich Crown Court jury were only able to convict him on one charge of
conspiracy to cause explosions, after the trial was halted because of an
allegedly contemptuous national newspaper report about the case.

The offending story in The Sun has been referred to the Attorney-General for
action.

McArdle had driven a converted car transporter from Ulster to the site and it
exploded with "enormous" force as more than a tonne of home-made explosive
ripped through buildings. Inam Bashir, 29, and John Jeffries, 31, died
instantly.

There was fury from a Tory MP that McArdle could be free in two years under the
early release programme for paramilitary prisoners.

The vice-chairman of the Conservative backbench Northern Ireland committee
Andrew Hunter said the sentence should stand.

The IRA was today believed to be on the point of identifying the graves of
around a dozen people it killed over 20 years.

The bodies are all of civilians, and are unlikely to include Army undercover
officer Capt Robert Nairac, from Sunderland, who was captured and killed by the
IRA in the early 1970s.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: RELEASE HOPE - bomber James McArdle jailed for 25 years

                Copyright 1998 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              357 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                             June 26, 1998, Friday

Police have long list of unsolved attacks on file

BYLINE: Stewart Tendler, Crime Correspondent

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 383 words


JAMES McARDLE was the last IRA suspect awaiting trial in mainland Britain but
Scotland Yard still has a long list of unsolved cases.

Since 1972 there have been 680 IRA incidents on the mainland, including
bombings, shootings and mortar attacks. Police investigations have led to 170
convictions, and 11 other convictions have been overturned on appeal

The list of major terrorist attacks for which no one has been convicted
includes:

JUNE 15, 1996: lorry bomb explosion near Arndale shopping centre in Manchester,
injuring 200 and causing Pounds 200 million damage.

APRIL 24, 1993: lorry bomb at Bishopsgate in the City of London. One killed,
damage estimated up to Pounds 1 billion.

MARCH 20, 1993: two bombs explode in litter bins in Warrington town centre.
Jonathan Ball, 4, killed outright. He was the youngest victim of the IRA on
mainland. Tim Parry, 12, died five days later.

APRIL 10, 1992: Baltic Exchange lorry bomb in the heart of the City of London.
Three killed and damage put at up to Pounds 500 million.

FEBRUARY 7, 1991: three mortar bombs fired at 10 Downing Street during Cabinet
meeting.

JULY 30, 1990: Ian Gow, senior Tory MP and confidant of Margaret Thatcher,
killed by car bomb near Pevensey, East Sussex.

SEPTEMBER 22, 1989: 11 Marines killed by bomb at Royal Marine Music School at
Deal, Kent.

In several cases police believe they know the terrorists but cannot prove their
involvement. Terrorist suspects have also been jailed for other offences, both
in Northern Ireland and mainland Britain.

There are also cases in which one member of an IRA gang has been caught but
others escaped. Those include the Grand Hotel bomb in Brighton, which killed six
during the Conservative Party Conference in October 1984. Patrick Magee was
jailed. At least three others were never brought to justice.

Gilbert McNamee was jailed for making one of the bombs in the attacks on
soldiers in Hyde Park and Regent's Park in July 1982 in which 11 soldiers and
seven horses were killed. The gang who laid the bombs escaped.

Yesterday the Yard said that if new evidence emerged, cases would still be
thoroughly investigated. The Crown Prosecution Service added that each case
would be examined on its merits and prosecutions were possible.


LOAD-DATE: June 26, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1998 Times Newspapers Limited

                              358 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                            June 27, 1998, Saturday

HISTORIC LIONS CONVENTION IS ALL DEN AND DUSTED;
 THE JO IND INTERVIEW

SECTION: Pg. 53

LENGTH: 1811 words


This is the man who has been working on bringing the Lions to Birmingham for the
past 14 years. He has worked on it 17 hours a day for the past 12 months and
attended more than 600 meetings.

Doug Cross is a jolly man who wears a blazer in red, white and blue and looks as
though he is about to sell ice creams at the Henley Regatta.

But at the moment there is nothing so leisurely in the life of the 68-year-old
from Dorridge, West Midlands.

He runs around the Metropole Hotel at the National Exhibition Centre in Solihull
with his mobile phone ringing and a queue of journalists waiting to interview
him.

He is the Chair of the Host Committee of the 1998 Lions International
Convention, which means that about 25,000 overseas visitors are in the city
because of him.

If anything goes wrong, it's down to him. If it all goes right, it's down to
him.

This is the man who has been working on bringing the Lions to Birmingham for the
past 14 years.

He has worked on it 17 hours a day for the past 12 months and attended more than
600 meetings.

So who are these 25,000 Lions? What do they do, where do they come from and why
are they coming?

"We raise money for people who are less fortunate than ourselves," said Doug.

It's that straightforward.

The Lions are men and women from all walks of life from all parts of the globe.

They are quite simply good folk who get together and organise tombolas and
sponsored swims for charity.

You don't have to be a businessman or have any particular social status. You
just have to want to get together to do your bit for the community to be a Lion.

The Lions meet in little local groups, organise their fund-raising events and
decide between themselves where they are going to send their money. The groups
tend to be autonomous.

Their focus is on local projects - a children's home round the corner, for
example - but sometimes they pool money and send it further afield. Typically a
club would use about 70 per cent of their money on charities in the area and 30
per cent wouldgo a broad.

There are 14 Lions clubs in Birmingham, nine in Solihull and 9,000 in Great
Britain and Ireland.

The head quarters of Lions Clubs in Great Britain and Northern Ireland is on the
Alcester Road South in Kings Heath.

And throughout the world there are little clubs of Lions all doing the same kind
of thing.

Two years ago the Lions globally launched an initiative called Sight First which
aimed to wipe out curable blindness throughout the world. Together the clubs
raised more than pounds 1million. Once a year they get together for their annual
general meeting , which is what is happening at the National Exhibition Centre
next week.

There will be delegates from 186 different countries, about 800 from the United
States, 2,000 from Japan, 2,000 from Germany and France and the largest ever
delegation from Nigeria.

In previous years the International Convention has been held at Philadelphia,
Montreal and Seoul. After Birmingham it will be in Santiago, Hawaii, Alaska,
Japan and Hong Kong.

The conference starts off with registration on Monday. On Tuesday there is a
parade around Birmingham city centre, on Wednesday there is an opening session,
which includes a presentation given by the president, Howard Patterson from
Mississippi, anda hu ge flag ceremony from all the different countries which
will last for two or three hours.

On Thursday the Lions are addressed by a speaker, who is usually a Lion. In this
case it is the former president of the USA, George Bush. Then they have their
discussions about housekeeping matters like how much to increase their
subscriptions.

On Friday they have the elections of their president, first vice president and
second vice president.

This year there is no contest for the posts of president and first vice
president but the second vice president post is being hotly contested by a
German and a member from France.

There is no proxy voting at a Lions Conference, so the French and German
delegates are arriving by the coach load to vote for their country to be
represented.

The voting, by computer, starts at 7am on Friday so that an announcement of the
election results can be made at 11.30am and they can all go home at lunchtime.

Is it going to fun?

"Everything can be fun," said Doug. "It's a fun time. The thing about the Lions
is that nobody's here because they have to be. Nobody's paid to be here, well
there are some staf but I'm doing what I'm doing because I want to and so is
everybody else. Tha t's why it's fun."

Doug is a Brummie all the way through and very proud of it.

He was born in Loveday Street Hospital and lived in Washwood Heath before moving
to Water Orton.

His father was a train driver and his mother looked after him and his sister,
Jean, who is 13 years older than he is.

"I was in effect an only child," said Doug.

Why did his parents have him 13 years after his sister?

"I don't know, a mistake I suppose," said Doug. "We never talked about it."

After school Doug became an architect. He did his degree part time while he was
working and he pursued his career until his retirement in November.

He stepped down from his company Cross & Craig Associates, based in Dorridge.

When he became an architect he built a house in Solihull and has lived in that
area ever since.

He married Sheila, whom he met because she also lived in Water Orton, when he
was aged 29, and had two children.

He has a daughter, Alison, who is an occupational therapist and who has got two
little boys and a girl.

And he has a son, Nigel, who is a chartered surveyor and who has his own
surveying company in London.

He became a Lion 27 years ago.

"Ever since I was a young boy I played football," explained Doug, "until one
thing lead onto another and I changed on to the refereeing side.

"I refereed for the local club and then for the Birmingham league and then I
spent nine years refereeing football at league level."

But a man can only run around after other men for so long, and then he has to
retire.

Doug, who likes to throw himself into whatever he does, decided to become a
Lion.

"It gave you an outlet," he said, and he went on to become the president of the
Solihull Lions Club a few years after joining, then the District Governor of the
Midlands in 1968 and finally the chairman of the host committee in the UK.

What does he enjoy about the Lions?

"The camaraderie," said Doug, "and it could be the striving to succeed in
everything that I've ever done in life."

How important is it that the Lions is an international organisation?

"Completely," says Doug. "When you are part of an organisation which is spread
across the world it gives you, well clout is perhaps the wrong word, but it
gives you power. The Lions has an ambassador that is represented at the United
Nations."

How do people from countries like Nigeria afford to go on the international
conventions?

"That's a very good question. I don't know," says Doug.

Do they not have a scheme whereby people from richer countries contribute to the
fares of people from poorer countries?

"No," says Doug. "That's the thing about the Lions. Everybody pays their own
way."

Do cross-cultural issues ever arise in the organisation?

"Yes," said Doug. "An example is the Lions of the British Isles. They are one
unit. The governor of Ireland is in charge of the whole of Ireland, North and
South.

"Then there's Hong Kong. We've always had a lot of Lions clubs in Hong Kong and
when it became a part of China we heard there were four and a half million
people needing cataract operations.

"Through our First Sight initiative and the Hong Kong Lions we were able to
carry out one and a half million operations, which is the first time China has
allowed an outside body to do this sort of thing.

"We anticipate the Lions clubs to be all over communist China in three or four
years time."

It was 14 years ago that Doug first directed his ambition towards bringing the
Lions International Convention to Birmingham.

There is a Lions club at the Exhibition Centre and so a group of them went to
watch while the arena was being built.

"We thought why can't we bring the international convention here?" said Doug.
"That's when it started."

From then Doug, with a fellow Lion, Ian Jones from Moseley, worked at getting
together a bid. Throughout he has worked closely with Birmingham Marketing
Partnership, The National Exhibition Centre and Travel West Midlands.

In fact the contract is held between Birmingham Marketing Partnership and the
Lions Club International.

They tried three times to win the bid, which is always awarded to a country five
years in advance.

The first time they tried it went to Seoul, which, Doug said, was only right and
proper as there are more than 67,000 Lions in Korea.

The second time they tried it went to Montreal, which greatly disappointed the
UK Host Committee as they had expected to win.

But they won the bid when they tried again in 1993 and Doug has been working on
it ever since.

There is going to be a fashion show at the International Convention Centre which
is going to build a catwalk for the first time. The show will be open to the
public on Wednesday.

On Tuesday there will be a parade through Birmingham city centre, starting at
1am and lasting for about four hours.

There will be 15,000 Lions marching from the 186 countries and there will be 27
bands.

The parade will be led by 35 Rover cars for the directors of the board of the
Lions and there will be a special Rover car from the Gaydon Motor Museum.

"We want all the population of Birmingham to come," said Doug. "It's a fun,
exciting parade.

"The parade will take place by the National Indoor Arena and at the back of that
is the Nelson Street Primary School.

"We need to use it for the band to practice in. Their playground needs some
special play equipment so we are going to get equipment in for them from the
money we raise from the food and drink for sale in Centenary Square."

So, now that the moment he has been waiting for for 14 years has come, what is
he most worried about?

"My theory is that we've planned for everything right to the last minute detail
so that everything goes right.

"But we could find something that we haven't planned for and that could be a
problem. Two years ago I would have been worried about a terrorist attack but
there's peace in Ireland so that shouldn't be a problem at the moment.

"There's still the concern that there would be a complete motorway block with
600 coaches on it and it could rain on Tuesday, the day of the parade."

And what is he most excited about?

"The big excitement is that it's here. The adrenaline's running."

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Pride of Birmingham: Doug Cross has spent five years bringing his dream
of the Convention to Birmingham and believes that he has planned for all
eventualities.Pictures/STEVE MURPHY

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1998 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              359 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                             June 30, 1998, Tuesday

Tebbit in attack on 'victory for bullet'

BYLINE: James Landale, Political Reporter

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 304 words


LORD TEBBIT, the former Tory minister who survived an IRA bomb, yesterday
delivered an impassioned attack on the early release of terrorist prisoners
under the Good Friday agreement.

Speaking during the second reading of the Northern Ireland (Sentences) Bill in
the House of Lords, he said it "reeks and stinks of injustice" and marked a
victory for the "bomb and the bullet over the ballot". His remarks were the
strongest attack on the Bill by a Tory and will further weaken the cross-party
consensus on Northern Ireland.

The IRA bombing of the Grand Hotel in Brighton during the 1984 Tory party
conference left Lord Tebbit injured and his wife, Margaret, partially paralysed.
Five people died. Lord Tebbit denied that this meant his opposition to the Bill
was personal.

"That is not the case," he said. "Like most of my generation, I was bombed by
far better men than the IRA when I was still in short trousers. I was bombed by
the Luftwaffe. Nor does my opposition spring from the loss of five good, close
friends. Nor by the savage injury inflicted on my wife which has left her
imprisoned for life in a wheelchair. There is no provision for early release for
the victims of these terrorists.

"I oppose this Bill for the violence it does to the concept of justice. This
Bill gives special treatment to political criminals. I speak for the victims of
these criminals who have shown no repentance, no contrition. The victims of the
past would not wish to stand in the way if it will mean that there will be no
more victims. But there can be no lasting peace without justice."

He also voiced concern at the apparent lack of direct linkage between prisoner
releases and the decommissioning of weapons, and said that the agreement
undermined the Union between Northern Ireland and Great Britain.


LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1998 Times Newspapers Limited

                              360 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             July 4, 1998, Saturday

50 years of the NHS: Appointment times

SECTION: FEATURES; Page 8

LENGTH: 749 words


1948 In London Brock and Sellars carry out first successful heart surgery
Streptomyacin introduced Olympic Games held in London National Health service
launched

1949 Clothing rationing ends Power to charge for prescriptions introduced Cost
of NHS is 2s 6d (12.5p) per head per week - 1/4d more than budget

1950 Ceiling imposed on NHS spending Korean War begins

1951 Charges for dental and optical appliances approved Apartheid introduced in
South Africa

1952 College of General Practitioners formed King George VI dies, Elizabeth
proclaimed Queen

1953 John Gibbon invents the heart-lung machine Two Cambridge scientists propose
theory of DNA

1954 First kidney transplant performed Roger Bannister runs the first
four-minute mile

1955 Ultrasound introduced in obstetrics Commercial television goes on air

1956 Immunisation against polio is introduced Parking meters introduced

1957 TV detector vans introduced Queen makes first Christmas broadcast

1958 BMA report says smoking is chief cause of cancer 44-hour week introduced
for nurses

1959 Mental Health Act comes into force The Mini launched - costing pounds 500

1960 Last National Service call-ups Hearing aids on NHS

1961 Yuri Gagarin is the first man in space Contraceptive pill available on NHS

1962 Oral polio vaccine introduced Cuban missile crisis

1963 Kennedy assassinated in Dallas First liver transplant

1964 First Brook Street Clinic opens to give contraceptive advice to the
unmarried

1965 Legal blood alcohol limits introduced for drivers Birth rate on downward
trend

1966 Measles vaccination starts England win World Cup 116 children and 28 adults
killed in Aberfan disaster

1967 First heart transplant performed in Cape Town Abortion Bill becomes law

1968 Epidural anaesthetics promise less painful births Martin Luther King shot
dead

1969 Steptoe and Edwards pioneer test-tube fertilisation North Sea oil
discovered Neil Armstrong is first man on moon

1970 18-year-olds get the vote Plans to decentralise the NHS under 90 new health
authorities

1971 Decimal currency launched Christian Barnard performs first heart and lung
transplant 66 football fans die in Ibrox disaster

1972 Kidney donor cards introduced

1973 VAT introduced Watergate hearings begin First CAT scans

1974 Free family planning for all on NHS Nurses get 58 per cent pay rise

1975 Vietnam War ends Dutch Elm disease ravages rural Britain Half of NHS's
5,000 beds are closed

1976 Mao Tse-Tung dies at 82 Bjorn Borg, 20, becomes the youngest Wimbledon
champion for 45 years

1977 Elvis Presley dies Space Shuttle makes maiden flight

1978 The world's first test-tube baby, Louise Joy Brown, is born in Oldham

1979 Three Mile Island nuclear crisis First fallopian tube transplant

1980 SAS storms the Iranian Embassy John Lennon shot dead in New York

1981 Prince Charles and Lady Diana Spencer marry

1982 Falklands war American dentist receives mechanical heart

1983 Front seat belts become mandatory pounds 1 coin enters circulation

1984 AIDS virus is discovered IRA bomb blasts Conservative Party conference in
Brighton

1985 Computerised screening programme to cut cervical cancer deaths announced
Live Aid concerts raise pounds 40M for famine relief Blood donations screen for
AIDS virus

1986 Chernobyl is world's worst civil nuclear disaster First triple transplant
of heart, lung and liver

1987 200 die in Herald of Free Enterprise ferry disaster Tien An Men Square
protests

1988 Measles, Mumps, Rubella (MMR) vaccine introduced Pan American jumbo jet
crashes on Lockerbie leaving 270 dead Government announces radical review of NHS

1989 Hepatitis C virus discovered Berlin wall demolished Hillsborough disaster

1990 Hurricane batters southern England NHS and Community Care Act becomes law

1991 Patient's Charter introduced Gulf War

1992 Wounded from Bosnia evacuated to UK General Synod votes for ordination of
women

1993 Calman Report on hospital staffing National Blood Authority established

1994 Flesh-eating bug scare hits Britain Mandela becomes President of South
Africa

1995 Re-organisation of cancer services Water restrictions after driest summer
since 1659

1996 Link between BSE and CJD established 16 primary school children murdered in
Dunblane

1997 Labour elected for first time in 19 years Diana, Princess of Wales, dies in
Paris car crash


LOAD-DATE: July 06, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1998 Independent Print Ltd

                              361 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                  July 5, 1998

Arms and the strategy men: Defence is putting on a new face;
To go: static land force strategy, German garrison, Sea Harriers, 15,000 TA
troops, destroyers and frigates

BYLINE: PATRICK WINTOUR

SECTION: The Observer News Page; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1555 words


THE DAY after the General Election last year, George Robertson entered Downing
Street as Shadow Scottish Secretary. After a brief talk with Tony Blair he
emerged as Secretary of State for Defence, and was immediately taken down
Downing Street, over Whitehall and into his Ministry's huge headquarters.

It would be wrong to say that he will re-emerge for the first time on Wednesday,
to announce the outcome of the long-awaited Strategic Defence Review, but this
week is the moment for which he has been preparing for a year.

The review will reveal much about how Labour envisages projecting British
influence on the world stage - and how willing it is to back this up with force.
It will also say much about the legendary 'hard choices' confronting Labour in
the wider Comprehensive Spending Review, due on 15 July.

For Robertson started with a virtually blank piece of paper. Labour's sole pre
-election defence policy was to drive the difficult subject off the agenda - by
promising a review and committing itself to Trident nuclear submarines and the
pounds 15 billion purchase of 232 Eurofighter aircraft; two expensive but
unavoidable promises.

Postponing decisions until after the election made sense. Informed analysis from
the Opposition benches in the area of defence is always perilous. Since Labour
was last in office, the change in the strategic balance, the procurement
management reforms, the growth of defence agencies, the private finance
initiative and imminence of resource accounting were all combining to change the
face of defence.

However, Mr Blair's instincts were clear enough last year when he appointed
Robertson, who throughout the Eighties held unfashionable pro-Nato Atlanticist
views. Blair surrounded him with a team of right-wing Ministers, the three Johns
- John Reid, John Spellar and Lord John Gilbert.

These appointments sent out the clearest message that the review was about
defence, not about a predetermined Treasury agenda of cuts, sell-offs and
redundancies.

Robertson promised to try for consensus in the academic, political and defence
communities. Guests at his lunchtime seminars ranged from Alan Simpson, left
-wing Campaign Group secretary, to former Tory Defence Secretary Sir John Nott.
Only Michael Heseltine and Michael Portillo declined his invitations.

Roberston also established a structure to ensure that the heads of the Army,
Navy and Air Force could not cook up some deal between them and present it as a
fait accompli.

For the first time members of the forces were allowed to send proposals direct
to Ministers.  Robertson set up two panels of experts and received over 600
submissions, many of which will be published.

Ministers insist that they have been 'kicking the tyres' in search of efficiency
savings while management consultants McKinseys have advised on procurement
policy.

The first three months were dedicated to establishing a foreign-policy baseline
and examining its defence implications. In the aftermath of the Soviet collapse,
defence had focused on the dangers of recidivism and the need to remain
eastward-looking.

The two Tory mini-reviews came too early for an overhaul of strategic thinking.

By contrast, Mr Robertson accepted that the Soviet threat was no longer
credible. To arrive at a post-Cold War configuration, the MoD review examined
seven possible core missions.  They were: protection against external attack
from terrorism; the defence of British overseas territory; the defence of UK
interests and citizens, such as evacuation from trouble spots; regional
conflicts outside the Nato area; a strategic attack on Nato; conflict
prevention, as in Bosnia; and general war. These missions echoed a similar
analysis made by Portillo as Defence Secretary in December 1997.

However, Roberston added one more - defence diplomacy - by which he means
military-to-military contact and bridge-building, including joint exercies
between once-hostile powers.

Robertson also put an emphasis on defence as an adjunct to diplomacy, citing the
words of UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan, in Baghdad: 'You can do a lot more
with diplomacy when it is backed up by firmness and force.'

Defence was no longer just about self-preservation, but 'a force for good in the
world'.

This new international interventionism found Cabinet support in the shape of
Foreign Secretary Robin Cook and International Development Secretary Clare
Short.

Three overriding conclusions emerged. First, British forces should not integrate
with the EU over the next 20 years. Second, if Britain was to retain its world
status, it needed to be able to run two separate military operations
simultaneously. The armed forces, for instance, needed to be able to fight in
Bosnia and the Gulf. This required separate lines of supplies, logistics,
bridge-building and adequate spares, and would entail an increase in the size of
the Army by 3,000.

Most important, the review concluded that there would be more, smaller wars -
many in areas where the infrastructure is primitive or destroyed.  Such threats
would be fuelled by ethnic disputes, anger over income inequality or access to
resources such as water.

These conclusions led the emphasis away from static land forces to an
expeditionary force based on joint-service co-operation, such as the deployment
of RAF Harriers from the Navy's aircaft-carrier in the Gulf.

The emphasis on a flexible expeditionary force required greater integration of
services, training and deployment.  Robertson aims to build on the concept of
the joint-rapid development force, directed from Northolt in north-west London.
He also wants more integrated supply-lines for all three services.

The further question is how far our expeditionary powers will reach. Robertson
has concluded they need not extend to Asia, but only to the Gulf, the Near East
and North Africa, where Britain's interests are most likely to be affected.

In the medium term, Britain will build two giant aircraft-carriers replacing
three smaller ones, due by 2012. They will weigh 40,000 tonnes, cost pounds 4bn
each, and will have longer flight decks and a complement of 5,000, including
2,000 RAF and Navy brigade fighters under joint command.

On board, the Sea Harrier jump-jet, built for use in colder northern climes and
liable to overheating in hotter regions, will be replaced. Britain will also see
use of American-built Apache helicopters, flown by a new air -manoeuvre cavalry
brigade.

Two amphibious assault ships for use with these carriers are being built at
Barrow in Furness. Integral to the plans will be a fresh emphasis on heavy -lift
planes. The price for the Navy will be a cut in destroyers and frigates.

To balance this, the Government will sanction the long-awaited withdrawal from
Germany, where 21,900 soldiers are garrisoned at a cost of more than pounds 1bn
a year.

But the Army successfully argued that if Britian pulled out of Germany
altogether, US Congress would question its commitment to Nato, and Britain would
lose international prestige. The Germans would also be unhappy.

Furthermore, room for an armoured division back in Britain is limited. The army
is housed in Germany rent-free, British tanks have access by rail to the new
training grounds of the Czech Republic and Hungary, so the First Armoured
Division will stay.

Long trailed but still painful, there is likely to be a big cut in the
Territorial Army, which costs about 5 per cent of the total defence budget. Its
numbers will fall from 55,000 to 40,000.

Ministers will try to sweeten this pill by giving the TA a wider role in
logistics and medical support.  Defence sources claim the infantry division has
not been called up in 50 years, and is based on the assumption of a full -scale
Russian invasion.

Analysis initially suggested the TA should be cut to 9,000, but this was
rejected.  But up to 100 TA centres will be sold - part of a rolling prgramme of
MoD land sales.

These proposals went to Cabinet in March, where they survived a sustained
assualt from the Treasury.  Whether they survive the coming political scrutiny -
including a summer analysis from the Defence Select Committee - will be Mr
Robertson's next test.

TODAY'S FORCES

Manpower

Navy: 45,500

Army: 119,000

Royal Air Force: 56,054

Worldwide deployment of all forces:

United Kingdom: 177,000

Bosnia: 5,200

Belize: 190

Brunei: 1,000

Cyprus: 3,900

Germany: 21,900

Royal Air Force

Tornado: 285

Harrier: 66

Jaguar: 50

Nimrod: 28

Hercules: 56

Chinook: 27

Countries where aircraft are based

Turkey: 6

Saudi Arabia: 6

Kuwait: 12

Germany: 52

United Kingdom : 784 aircraft

Army

Approximate manpower in: -

Northern Ireland: 15,600

Brunei: 950

Cyprus: 3,000

Gibraltar: 60

Nepal: 60

Former Yugoslavia: 5,000

Navy

131 ships

256 aircraft

15 Royal fleet auxiliary

32 Patrol vessels

18 Mine counter measure

35 Destroyers and frigates

2 Landing platform docking vessel

3 Aircraft carriers

12 Conventional submarines

2 Trident submarines

6 Survey ships

Operating budget of pounds 3.7bn

Graphic: Glyn Walton / Graphic News

Source: Ministry of Defence


LOAD-DATE: July 7, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1998 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              362 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  July 6, 1998

Royal train for hire to vetted elite in economy drive

BYLINE: VIKRAM DODD

SECTION: The Guardian Home Page; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 220 words


HELP is at hand from the Queen for those fed up with waiting for delayed trains
with dirt-clad carriages and rubbish strewn seats - if their pockets are deep
enough.

She has put the royal train up for hire, and if Buckingham Palace officials
judge you "appropriate", the most luxurious train in Britain is yours for the
day. The aim is to cut the train's annual pounds 1.15 million running costs. But
leasing it will be expensive, although no sum has been mentioned.

Figures released last week showed it was used for 19 journeys last year at a
cost to the taxpayer of between pounds 11,000 and pounds 14,000 each time.

The train's 14 claret-and-grey coaches include royal apartments, a dining car
and domestic staff quarters. All are fitted with steel plates, bomb-proof glass
and an oxygen supply in case of terrorist attack.

It was hired out this year when Cherie Blair took the wives of ministers at the
G7 summit in Birmingham to the Prime Minister's weekend residence at Chequers.

A palace spokeswoman said that having enough money would be no guarantee that an
individual or organisation could hire the train.  Applications would be vetted
to avoid leasing it to someone embarrassing. "Each case will be treated on its
own merits. It has to be something which is felt to be appropriate."


LOAD-DATE: July 7, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              363 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Nottingham Evening Post

                                  July 6, 1998

World and national news

SECTION: World And National News, Pg.8

LENGTH: 1397 words


'We won't give in to violence'

Mowlam stands firm after night of rioting

Ulster Secretary Mo Mowlam insisted today that the Government would not give in
to Loyalist violence and reverse the decision to ban Orangemen from marching
down the nationalist Garvaghy Road in Portadown.

As hundreds of Orangemen camped outside Drumcree Parish Church began their
second day facing police, troops and barricades, she condemned a night of
violence during which Loyalists went on the rampage in Belfast and across the
province, and appealed for calm.

Ms Mowlam said: "I appeal to people to look to the future. We have options in
the future for better peace in Northern Ireland, and to not participate where
there is a potential for violence to result."

She insisted the security forces had the situation under control and people
could go to work as normal. "We will continue to do anything we can to ensure
the rule of law is abided by."

Orangemen, too, condemned the night of Loyalist street violence in support of
their stand at Drumcree.

Rubble-strewn streets and burned out vehicles greeted Northern Ireland as it
rose after the worst night or rioting since the peace agreement.

The RUC slammed the trouble as "wanton destruction".

The worst incidents were in the Sandy Row are of Belfast, where riot police
fired plastic bullets at around 300 petrol bomb-throwing youths.

Portadown Orange Order spokesman David Jones said violence was the very opposite
of what the order wanted as it made its stand against the ban on marching down
Garvaghy Road.

"We have cautioned anyone who is taking part in our particular demonstration
that it should be peaceful and we condemn all acts of violence," he said. "We
are strong in our resolve that what we are doing is fighting for the freedom,
for the same rights, as the rest of the people in the UK."

'My heartbreak'

Lottery host Anthea Turner has spoken for the first time about her "nightmare"
break-up with married father-of-three Grant Bovey.

The 38-year-old TV presenter says she has not spoken to former Notts businessman
Mr Bovey since he went back to his wife Della three months ago.

She tells today's Sun newspaper that Mr Bovey, 34, "broke her heart" when he
left.

She says: "I thought I was living in a nightmare. There were days when I don't
know how I got through it."

Miss Turner, who left her husband Peter Powell earlier this year for Mr Bovey,
said appearing on TV shortly after the split was one of the hardest things she
has done.

And the millionaire star denied any chances of a reconciliation with Mr Powell.

She said: "Pete and I will never again be husband and wife."

Harman in CSA revamp

Government proposals for a comprehensive shake-up of the controversial Child
Support Agency were being revealed to MPs today.

Social Security Secretary Harriet Harman wants to overhaul the system of
ensuring absent parents pay towards the upkeep of their children.

She insisted that the CSA must make itself more comprehensible to parents and
toughen up the enforcement of its decisions as it tackles a backlog of cases
expected to top a million by 2000.

But Ms Harman also warned there would be "no amnesty" for absent fathers who
have so far paid "not one penny".

Under the controversial plans, each parent will receive a fixed percentage of
the absent parent's income for a first child.

A lower fixed percentage of earnings will be awarded for second and third
children, but no payments will be made for subsequent children.

Ministers believe that 70% of existing parents with care of a child or children
will be better off under the proposed new system with 30% worse off.

Britain tonight

Ad challenge

FOUR tobacco giants today won the right to bring a High Court challenge against
an official report which calls for bans on tobacco advertising and smoking in
public places. A judge said the report by the Scientific Committee On Tobacco
and Health contained passages which might do "commercial damage" to the tobacco
companies and it was "arguable" that they should have been consulted and given
the chance to comment before it was published. British American Tobacco,
Gallaher, Imperial, and Rothmans were given leave to seek judicial review and an
order quashing the report.

On top at 15

Three Lions '98 has been banished from the top of the charts by a 15-year-old
schoolgirl. Billie Piper's first single Because We Want To went straight in at
No 1 after she landed a record deal when bosses at Virgin Records spotted her
fronting an advertising campaign by Smash Hits magazine.

On the menu

A charity which has been given a GBP 295,000 National Lottery grant will use
part of the cash to breed giant guinea pigs as food for Peruvian Indians, it was
revealed today. The Cusichaca Trust is working to end poverty among the mountain
people of Peru and will spend around GBP 2,000 on a project to increase the
farming of guinea pigs, which are a staple diet of the Peruvian Indians.

Cars blamed

More than half of motorbike accidents are caused by car drivers, according to
figures out today, with motorists to blame for motorbike crashes in 53.2% of
cases studied by Carole Nash Insurance Consultants. In 60.6% of cases, bikers
were not responsible for accidents.

The figures were taken from an analysis of nearly 600 accident claims.

Viewing vital

The summit of Mount Snowdon, the highest peak in England and Wales, and more
than 4,000 acres in Snowdonia National Park are up for sale, it was confirmed
today. Interested buyers will have to part with more than GBP 3m for the estate,
which includes about one third of Mount Snowdon.

GBP 37,500 bite

Taking the dog for a walk could end up costing you thousands in compensation if
your pet is involved in an accident, owners were warned today. A Newfoundland
which knocked over a frail pensioner led to a GBP 37,500 claim including GBP
10,300 for a hip replacement operation, GBP 14,000 for pain and suffering and
GBP 9,370 to cover costs such as employing a gardener.

World tonight

Eight die

FOUR adults and four children died in what police believe was a tragic accident
when an air conditioning unit sucked poisonous fumes into their home. Two men
had climbed into a pick-up truck, parked in the garage of the house in Lake
Placid, Florida, to listen to the radio. They turned on the truck's engine. The
main air conditioning unit for the home was located in the garage. It apparently
sucked the toxic carbon monoxide fumes into and throughout the house, said
Highlands County Undersheriff Bill Jones. The bodies of two men were discovered
in the truck with the radio on.

Paintings found

TWO paintings by van Gogh and one by Cezanne which were stolen from Italy's
National Gallery of Modern Art have been recovered in police raids, officials
said today. Eight people were arrested. Deputy Premier Walter Veltroni said that
an organised band of thieves had staged the daring theft, which took place at
the Rome museum on May 19. Two of the paintings were recovered in Rome and the
third in Turin.

Gun attack

GUNMEN fired a barrage of bullets inside a Vietnamese restaurant, killing five
people and wounding five others in what police say may have been a gangland
attack. About 20 patrons were inside the Trang Dai restaurant and karaoke club
in Tacoma, Washington state, when at least three gunmen barged in yesterday.
Four men and a woman died in the attack.

Germ action

Military chiefs in Brazil are taking steps to guard against chemical and germ
warfare, building two labs to help the country prepare for such attacks by
terrorists or other nations. A centre in the state of Rio de Janeiro will
analyse lethal chemicals such as sarin, a nerve gas that killed 12 in a 1995
terrorist attack in the Tokyo subway, while another in the Amazon port of Manaus
will study viruses and bacteria.

Academics' plea

Hundreds of Mexican academics, writers and rights activists published an open
letter to President Ernesto Zedillo asking him to stop "playing with fire" in
government attacks on rebel sympathizers in the southern state of Chiapas. In a
paid, full-page advertisement in Mexico's major newspapers, 755 academics said
current policies would cause further violence in the state.

Quake cut

A strong earthquake briefly cut power yesterday to parts of the resort city of
Acapulco, but there were no reports of injury.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 1998 Nottingham Evening Post

                              364 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Nottingham Evening Post

                                  July 7, 1998

World and national news

SECTION: World And National News, Pg.8

LENGTH: 1291 words


On the brink

But Blair will meet the Orangemen

PRIME Minister Tony Blair is to meet Orange Order leaders as the search for a
resolution to the Drumcree crisis becomes more crucial by the hour.

He agreed today to a request from Portadown Orangemen for face-to-face
discussions as the Garvaghy Road stand-off entered its third day.

But the meeting, expected to take place tomorrow, was not being arranged with a
view to reopening the parade decision, said Mr Blair's official spokesman.

Downing Street was unable to say where it would take place - whether Mr Blair
would travel to Northern Ireland or the Orangemen would go to Downing Street.

Orangemen welcomed the decision. Portadown District spokesman David Jones said:
"We will be saying that in the interests of peace and harmony we need to get
people off Drumcree hill, and that's by allowing the parade down Garvaghy Road."

The Orangemen at Drumcree had asked the Rev Ian Paisley to fix up discussions as
the security situation deteriorated across the province.

Mr Paisley said he contacted Ulster Secretary Mo Mowlam and she called him back
within ten minutes to say the meeting would be arranged immediately.

Mr Paisley, meanwhile, has called on the Government to recall the new Northern
Ireland Assembly for an emergency debate on the Drumcree crisis.

In Portadown, a crowd of around 150 Loyalists prevented Nationalist residents
getting out of their area by gathering at police barricades at the bottom of the
Garvaghy Road. They waved Union flags and sang Loyalist songs as they stood
"eyeball to eyeball" with police at the barricades.

Security forces pushed the crowd back up the road to allow exit to a group of
Catholic children setting off for Dublin airport for a cross -community holiday
in America with local Protestant children.

Last night three police patrols in Belfast came under gunfire. And two explosive
devices were thrown at a policeman's home in Carrickfergus.

'Mrs' recovers

Comedienne Caroline Aherne, the Mrs Merton Show star who was found ill at her
home after having taken a suspected overdose, is "well on the road to recovery"
in hospital, her agent said today.

Miss Aherne, 34, was treated in hospital yesterday after police and paramedics
were called to her home in Kensington, west London.

She was allowed home. The star's agent, Carmel Morgan, said Miss Aherne was now
convalescing in another hospital and was already "rising above" what had
happened.

Veterans'plea

Gulf war veterans were handing in a petition to Downing Street today, demanding
a public inquiry into Gulf war syndrome.

The veterans, who will be joined by parents and widows of others who served in
the Gulf, are demanding the Government launch an investigation similar to that
set up to look into the BSE crisis.

More than 2,000 British veterans have reported suffering from a variety of
symptoms, including fatigue, depression and personality changes, since serving
in the war.

PRINCES MEET STARS AT DR DOOLITTLE PREMIERE

Harry is tickled by show

PRINCE OF SMILES: The Prince of Wales and his youngest son Prince Harry laughed
and joked with the cast at a Royal premiere of musical Dr Dolittle which stars
TV presenter Phillip Schofield. Prince Harry tickles the 'Pushmi-pullyu'
character from the play while (inset) his father meets Mary Poppins actress
Julie Andrews, who also stars in the show. The event raised money for the
charity Friends of the Elderly which runs residential and nursing homes to
provide security for people on low incomes

Britain tonight

Tractor tragedy

A FOUR-year-old girl was fatally injured in front of her parents when her father
accidentally drove a tractor over her on a farm at Ramsden, near Witney,
Oxfordshire. Desperate attempts were made by the distraught parents, police and
ambulance paramedics to revive the child, but she was declared dead shortly
after arriving at hospital.

Justice call

THE RoadPeace organisation today launched a five-year campaign to eliminate the
"major injustices" suffered by those injured in or bereaved by road accidents.
It says road victims get none of the support offered to those who suffer in
other situations.

Tube talks

TALKS aimed at averting further disruption on London Underground were being held
between union leaders and managers today.

A second 24-hour walk-out in a dispute over job security is planned to start on
Sunday evening. Tube services were disrupted last month over plans to privatise
parts of the system.

Rees denial

FORMER bodyguard Trevor Rees Jones has strenuously denied giving an interview in
in French magazine Voici in which he is quoted blaming Dodi Fayed for the fatal
Paris car crash which killed Diana, Princess of Wales.

Camelot blitz

LOTTERY operator Camelot has admitted it will never fully stamp out the problem
of under-age sales, despite launching a new blitz to tackle the problem with a
special task force.

Bike squad

POLICE are to patrol Britain's biggest motoring event - the British Grand Prix
at Silvestone this weekend - on bicycles in a crime crackdown.

Two honoured

FORMER policemen Blair Davies and John Brown who were hurt when shielding their
wives from a terrorist attack in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, in April last year, have
been awarded Royal Humane Society certificates.

Some killer...

A NEW species of cat-like dinosaur which combined grace and speed with awesome
killing ability has been discovered in the Isle of Wight. It bears some
resemblance to Velociraptor, the clawed dinosaur featured in the film Jurassic
Park.

Out of tune...

CELLIST Julian Lloyd Webber and his wife Zohra have parted after nine years of
marriage.

World tonight

Shark grabbed

A FATHER and son were attacked by a four-foot shark, but the fish wound up being
the loser when the father dragged it ashore and dumped it on the beach. Clark
Thomas, 47, and his son Mark, ten, were in waist-deep water at Plettenberg Bay,
South Africa, when the shark bit both of them on their right legs. The father
grabbed the ragged-tooth shark, carried it ashore and dropped it on the sand,
then went with his son for medical treatment.

Trains crash

TWO commuter trains collided at a railway station outside Moscow today, killing
at least three people. The accident occurred at Bekasovo, 50 miles south-west of
the capital, when a commuter train slammed into another train that had ignored a
red light.

Ginola steps in

SOCCER star David Ginola is to take up the role in the campaign against
landmines left vacant following the death of Diana, Princess of Wales. The Spurs
midfielder is to spearhead the International Red Cross's anti-landmine campaign.

Airport snags

Minor glitches plagued Hong Kong's new $20bn showcase Chek Lap Kok airport
today, causing some flight delays.

Three charged

THREE white men in Jasper, Texas, have been charged with murder for the alleged
racist killing James Byrd Jr, who was chained to a pick-up truck and dragged to
his death. Named are John William King, 23, Lawrence Russell Brewer, 31, and
Shawn Allen Berry, 23.

Fire escape

THREE days after being driven out by wildfires closing in, the 40,000 people of
Flagler County, Florida, were allowed to return today to find most of their
homes unscathed.

Moscow date

PRESIDENT Bill Clinton he will travel to Moscow in September for talks with
Russian President Boris Yeltsin for their first full-scale summit since March
1997.

Officer killed

ONE German captain serving in the Nato-led peacekeeping force in Bosnia was
killed and three others injured when an armoured transport vehicle crashed.

Bridge terror

A BRIDGE under construction collapsed in Bushbuckridge, 250 miles north-east of
Johannesburg, South Africa, killing 15 construction workers.

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 1998 Nottingham Evening Post

                              365 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                            July 8, 1998, Wednesday

FARRAKHAN'S RIGHT-WING MESSAGE OF HATRED;
 BEHIND THE RED BOW TIES OF THE NATION OF ISLAM HIDES A SINISTER CREED. FINOLA
LYNCH REPORTS.

BYLINE: Finola Lynch

SECTION: Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1010 words


Until last week most people in Britain had never heard of the Nation of Islam.

But the public inquiry into the death of Stephen Lawrence provided an
irresistible stage for the black militant organisation to grab the media's
attention in their eye-catching red bow ties, black suits and Quentin Tarantino
shades.

It is too soon to tell whether the free advertising they gained last week for
the divisive views of their leader, ex-calypso artist Louis Farrakhan, has won
them a new fan-base in Britain.

But their views make for some interesting reading, the more palatable of which
can be traced in their very name.

They align themselves with Muslim doctrine which effectively casts a wedge
between themselves and the main religion of the western world, Christianity.
This is a deliberate strategy which ties in with their second part of their name
Nation. This is a dec laration of their ambition to be a separate state or
nation. The Nation of Islam encourages its members to think of Africa as their
true home.

However, the relative clarity of their views implied by their name belies a
number of contradictions and complications which lie at the heart of this, until
recently, unknown movement in Britain.

Their leader, once known as Calypso Gene, preaches that blacks are God's chosen
people and whites were created in a Satanic laboratory experiment performed by a
mad scientist called Yacoub more than 6,000 years ago.

While Adam and Eve were black, it was Cain who turned white with shock when God
rebuked him for murdering his brother Abel.

And Farrakhan's views get more eccentric than that. He also claims America was
discovered by Abu Bakari, a Mali king, in the 1300s.

Members believe that on September 17, 1985, Farrakhan was beamed aboard a
spacecraft - the mother ship - where he was told President Reagan was plotting
to attack the Muslim world.

Presumably this is the same spaceship which it is claimed is destined to destroy
all white people, after which the rule of true black people will begin.

The vast majority of Muslims in Britain will have nothing to do with this
American-based heretical splinter. Firstly it offends their religious principles
on the grounds it has turned its leader Farrakhan, into a prophet.

But they are also offended by the racist nature of Farrakhan's teachings. In the
past he has attacked Jews in America, calling Aids a genocidal plot by Jewish
doctors while hailing Hitler as a "great man".

Its membership might number only a few hundred in this country, but its impact
in the United States is far more visible. Islam is the fastest-growing religion
in the US and the Nation of Islam can count more than 10,000 members and more
than 120 mosques.

According to Dr Mark Johnson, of the Centre for Research in Ethnic Relations at
the University of Warwick, it was Farrakhan's organisation of what became known
as the Million Man March in Washington in 1995 which brought his status to the
attention of th e US Government.

"Any man who could make more than one million black men stand in the centre of
Washington and the same number of women to march in parallel lines must be taken
seriously.

"It gave him enormous credibility and sent a message to the legislators that
black concerns should be met."

His impact on that day was taken seriously enough by the British Government to
make them slap a ban Farrakhan from entering the country in 1986 to address
supporters in London. An appeal to lift the embargo has just been rejected by
the Home Secretary Ja ck Straw in the wake of violent scenes involving British
followers outside the Stephen Lawrence inquiry.

Its most famous disciple Malcolm Little, later known as Malcolm X, was
Farrakhan's rival in the early days of the movement. He eventually broke away
because of the racist undertone of its views.

Farrakhan declared Malcolm X was "worthy of death", a prophetic statement as it
turned out because his rival was assassinated a year later. A link between
Farrakhan and Malcolm X's death has never been proven.

But despite Farrakhan's more obnoxious flirtations with the Ku Klux Klan, the
American Nazi Party and his friendship with the military dictator, Colonel
Gadaffi, his movement has had some positive impact.

It preaches a strict moral code of sobriety, monogamy and seliscipline and is
credited with getting ghetto youth off drugs and with redeeming hard cases in
the prison system, working with the police of the very nation they want to
succeed from.

It is very concerned with giving black people back their selespect and boosting
morale. Its "schizophrenic" tendencies as a movement, to appeal on the one hand
to liberal ideology while preaching extremist action, is simply a carbon-copy of
the appeal of most religious movements, including Catholicism, says Dr Johnson.

Until a few months ago, the Nation of Islam operated from offices above a
restaurant in Goldhawk Road in London. Now it operates from new offices in
Willesden and has several schools using old-fashioned regimes such as teaching
boys and girls in separate classrooms.

In Britain, London is its main centre although posters have been spotted around
Birmingham advertising Nation of Islam meetings.

Dr Johnson believes the Nation of Islam will grow in this country but by how
much is open to question. "While there are still issues to be addressed and
wrongs to be put to right, the Nation of Islam will attract some people.

"Their sudden appearance at the Stephen Lawrence inquiry did not do their public
image any favours in my opinion but perhaps their contribution can be seen in
the fact they highlighted the inquiry was not just an individual family issue
but a wider issue ."

Mainstream Muslims in this country have so far remained firmly tight-lipped on
the Nation of Islam and what they think of it.

But if they are ready to talk about this underground movement, I have one
burning question no one has been able to answer. Why do Nation of Islam
followers wear red bow ties?

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Heavy mob: Nation of Islam members arrive at the London hearing into
the murder of Stephen Lawrence.

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1998 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              366 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                            July 11, 1998, Saturday

ARRESTS AS POLICE FOIL TERROR BID ON LONDON;
 CITY ONLY MINUTES AWAY FROM BEING BOMBED SAY POLICE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 570 words


POLICE last night foiled a bombing attempt on London after arresting three men
with explosive devices intended to be used "within minutes".

The arrests followed a joint operation with Eire police, who also made arrests.

Scotland Yard's Deputy Assistant Commissioner John Grieve, head of the Anti
-terrorist Branch, said: "This evening's arrests are the result of prolonged
investigation into dissident criminal Irish republican terrorist groups, and a
successful surveillance operation carried out by the Metropolitan Police and MI5
which had thwarted an imminent planned terrorist attack in London.

"We arrested three men this evening and they were found to be in possession of
explosive devices.

"We believe these terrorist devices were intended to be used in London within
minutes."

Mr Grieve praised the work and cooperation of the Garda, intelligence services
and members of the public.

The three arrested suspects, believed to be posing as students, were taken to
police stations for questioning.

Two of the men were arrested at about 4.30pm in Thomas Doyle Street, Southwark,
south London.

The third was arrested at 4.30pm in Gower Street, central London. He is thought
to have been going to the University College London building.

Police said armed officers had been used but no shots were fired and no one was
injured during the operation.

A Scotland Yard statement said: "The operation is on-going, a number of
addresses are in the process of being searched.

The swoop in London followed raids by police in Dublin and Dundalk, Co Louth. In
all, there were six arrests.

The action came after a gardai operation against hardline organisations
determined to resist the Ulster peace deal struck on Good Friday by the British
and Eire governments and the Province's political leaders.

In Dundalk, police uncovered two shotguns - one of them sawn-off - bomb
components and false documents in a town centre flat after arresting a man.

A woman and another man were picked up in Dublin. The three held in London were
all understood to be students from a Dublin university in Britain for summer
time work.

Eire security sources said the trio were from Dublin, Co Kildare and Co Louth.
They were understood to have attempted to dispose of the firebombs as police
approached them.

All of the arrested group were thought to be associated with the 32 County
Sovereignty Committee, a breakaway organisation established to resist Sinn
Fein's involvement in the peace process and the continuing ceasefire of its IRA
allies.

The gardai operation has been continuing for some months following the emergence
of republican factions pledged to face down the bid for peace, but all of
yesterday's action happened over a few hours.

A security manager at University College London said the language centre on
Gower Street had been evacuated and part of the street was cordoned off.

Anti-terrorist officers later arrested a fourth person - a woman - in the
vicinity of Oxford Street, Scotland Yard said.

She has been taken to a London police station for questioning.

The Prime Minister issued a statement last night saying: "This has clearly been
a very important and successful operation and further reflects the close
cooperation that exists between the security forces in the United Kingdom and
Ireland as together we defeat terrorism wherever it may exist."

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CLOSE ENCOUNTER: a forensic officer removes items from Gower Street in
London

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1998 Century Newspapers Limited

                              367 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                       July 11, 1998, Saturday Edition 1

Six held as police foil bomb bid - Capital blast was just minutes away

BYLINE: By DANIEL JAMES

SECTION: BRITAIN TONIGHT, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 387 words


   Six people - including two women - were being questioned in London today in
connection with an imminent terrorist attack on the capital.

Police foiled the bombing attempt yesterday after seizing explosive devices
intended to be used "within minutes".

Three were arrested by anti-terrorist officers in the capital as part of a joint
operation with Irish police, followed later by three other arrests in London.

A further three people were arrested last night in Ireland.

Scotland Yard's Deputy Assistant Commissioner John Grieve, head of the
Anti-terrorist Branch, said: "The arrests are the result of prolonged
investigation into dissident criminal Irish republican terrorist groups, and a
successful surveillance operation which had thwarted an imminent planned
terrorist attack in London."

The first three arrests were made near university buildings. The areas were
sealed off as searches were made. Underground stations were cleared.

Prime Minister Tony Blair described the operation as "very important and
successful".

Scotland Yard would not expand on any of the details or on how many devices had
been found or their targets. Police said armed officers had been used but no
shots were fired.

Meanwhile Loyalists and nationalists will meet indirectly today in a bid to
break the deadlock over the Drumcree stand-off now in its sixth day.

The sides will hold discussions after Mr Blair last night launched a last ditch
initiative to prevent Northern Ireland spiralling into greater violence.

He sent his chief of staff, Jonathan Powell, to the province to organise
"indirect contact talks" between the Portadown Orangemen and the nationalist
Garvaghy Road Residents' Association.

Negotiations, with two "facilitators" shuttling between the two sides, were
beginning in Northern Ireland at 9am.

The intervention came amid fears of escalating violence and civil disorder as
the loyalist marching season approaches its climax on Monday.

The talks also come after another night of violence in the province generally
and at Drumcree specifically.

Police fired rubber bullets after some protesters tried to break through the
barricades preventing them marching through the Garvaghy Road.

But up to 100,000 loyalist demonstrators expected to converge on Drumcree this
weekend.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 1998 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              368 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 July 11, 1998

Drumcree: Blair's last throw;
Orange Order agrees to talks in attempt to end deadlock

BYLINE: MICHAEL WHITE AND JOHN MULLIN

SECTION: The Guardian Home Page; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 762 words


TONY BLAIR will this morning make an eleventh-hour bid to break the deadlock at
Drumcree and head off a violent showdown this weekend when he sends a key aide
to Northern Ireland to broker urgent talks between Orange Order leaders and
nationalist residents.

The Prime Minister's initiative came as security forces signalled renewed
determination to prevent thousands of Orangemen using physical force to
overthrow the ban on their march down the mainly nationalist Garvaghy Road in
Portadown, Co Armagh.

Mr Blair wants both sides to join in "indirect proximity talks" brokered by
Jonathan Powell, his Downing Street chief of staff.

The Orange Order immediately accepted the plan.  Nationalists were expected to
agree and, if so, the talks will begin at an undisclosed location at 9am today.
One condition is a media blackout.

Mr Powell, a diplomat closely involved in the political talks since Mr Blair
took up office, will work with two local "facilitators". They will move between
four representatives of each side. The aim is to seek a solution "both for this
year and future years".

The last-ditch move came as the Orange Order's marching season reaches a climax.
Up to 100,000 Orangemen from Northern Ireland and Britain are expected to
descend on Drumcree on Monday after their own annual July 12 celebrations.

Riot police struggled to hold back 25,000 protesters in the early hours of
yesterday. About 600 crossed a trench and broke through the first of three coils
of barbed wire to enter no man's land. For the second successive night, officers
fired plastic bullets.

Hundreds more troops were deployed yesterday and engineers dug a deeper trench
and added to the coils of barbed wire separating the Orangemen in the fields
beside the church from the Garvaghy Road estate.

Security forces were late last night containing protesters gathered outside the
church for the sixth night. Estimates put the crowd's numbers at 10,000.

There was no repeat by midnight of the blast-bomb and nail-bomb attacks that
injured 30 riot police on Thursday.  Four will need plastic surgery.

Police fired dozens of plastic bullets as about 15 protesters, none wearing the
orange sash, scrambled across the widened and deepened trench to the first of
three lines of coiled wire. They were unable to advance further.

The Orange Order's spokesman in Portadown, David Jones, warned the security
forces against a heavy-handed approach to protesters. "Tony Blair needs to be
careful that in the coming weekend Drumcree doesn't turn out to be his Bloody
Sunday," he said.

Downing Street's move was made after a flurry of telephone calls. Mr Blair spoke
to the Irish prime minister, Bertie Ahern; to the Sinn Fein president, Gerry
Adams; and several times to Mo Mowlam, the Secretary of State for Northern
Ireland. If the two sides fail to reach a compromise, he is determined to uphold
the Parades Commission ban on the Drumcree march.

Both David Trimble, Northern Ireland's first minister, and his deputy, Seamus
Mallon, welcomed Mr Blair's initiative. Mr Trimble said: "It is still a fraught
situation. We are not there yet, but let's hope we are getting there.

"I hope that there will be a positive response from both sides and this can go
some way to bringing about an accommodation."

The key elements of the proposed proximity talks, outlined in letters to Denis
Watson, the Orange Order grand master of Co Armagh, and Breandan MacCionnaith,
who speaks for the Garvaghy Road residents, stipulate that there should be no
direct contact between the two groups. That will be a disappointment for Mr
MacCionnaith.

But it was balanced by the proviso that no side will have a veto over the
other's representatives. The Orange Order had refused to speak to Mr
MacCionnaith because of his terrorist conviction in 1982.

Mr Blair's official spokesman said: "This is an attempt, a genuine attempt, to
address very difficult circumstances through dialogue. What the whole peace
process has been about is to replace terror and violence with dialogue and
democracy. That has prevailed."

Ministers are acutely aware how hardline Unionists and loyalist paramilitaries
wrecked the last power-sharing executive in 1974 with a general strike. There
has been widespread disruption since the Drumcree stand-off began on Sunday.
Roads have been blocked every night by burning barricades. Businesses have been
forced to close early as public transport has been abandoned, losing millions.

News Focus, pages 4-5

Brendan O'Leary, page 20


LOAD-DATE: July 13, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              369 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 July 11, 1998

Blair offer as Bloody Sunday looms;Arrests foil London bomb plot

BYLINE: Alison Hardie

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 871 words


Belfast

TONY Blair offered eleventh hour talks to defuse the increasingly violent
Drumcree standoff and a senior Orangeman warned the dispute could "become his
Bloody Sunday" as police last night opened fire with plastic bullets.

Meanwhile, police in London foiled what they believed to be a bombing attempt
after arresting men with explosive devices they said were intended to be used
"within minutes". The London raids followed a joint operation with Irish police,
who also made arrests.

All of the arrested group were thought to be associated with the 32 County
Sovereignty Committee, a breakaway organisation established to resist Sinn
Fein's involvement in the peace process and the continuing IRA ceasefire.

At Drumcree, police in riot gear fired volleys of baton rounds as loyalist
demonstrators attempted to breach the first of three barbed wire barricades
blocking the path of Orangemen down the Garvaghy Road. Some protesters wore
balaclavas or tied scarves around their faces, and stones were thrown and
catapults and fireworks fired at police lines.

The renewed clashes and Bloody Sunday warning from Portadown Orange Order
spokesman David Jones will cause deep anxiety in Downing Street, where Mr
Blair's official spokesman underlined the Prime Minister's determination to
"uphold the rule of law". Mr Blair said he could not accept the security forces
being attacked while they upheld the Parades Commission's decision to ban the
march down Garvaghy Road.

The offer of talks, to be held in Northern Ireland, came as fears grew of a
major confrontation between loyalists and the security forces this weekend.

In London, Scotland Yard's Deputy Assistant Commissioner John Grieve, head of
the anti-terrorist branch, said of last night's arrests in the city: "They are
the result of prolonged investigation into dissident criminal Irish republican
terrorist groups, and a successful surveillance operation carried out by the
Metropolitan Police and MI5 which had thwarted an imminent planned terrorist
attack in London.

"We arrested three men this evening and they were found to be in possession of
explosive devices. We believe these terrorist devices were intended to be used
in London within minutes."

There were eventually six arrests in London, including two women. They followed
raids by police in Dublin and Dundalk. In all, there were nine arrests.

Some of those held in London were understood to be students from a Dublin
university in Britain for summer time work.

As the spectre of violence reared on both sides of the sectarian divide,
loyalists threatened that if a compromise agreement is not settled by Monday,
Orangemen would gather at Drumcree raising the possibility of a protest
involving between 40,000 and 50,000 people.

Mr Jones said that, while he did not believe the Drumcree protest was being
taken over by radicals, frustration was growing.

He added: ''Tony Blair needs to be careful that over the coming weekend, with
the 12th of July celebrations coming in, that Drumcree doesn't turn out to be
Tony Blair's Bloody Sunday."

Mr Jonathan Powell, the Prime Minister's Chief of Staff, sent a letter proposing
talks to the Garvaghy Road Residents' Association, Armagh County Grand Master
Denis Watson, First Minister David Trimble and his deputy, Seamus Mallon.

The proposed talks, with "no pre-conditions", were due to begin

this morning if accepted.The spokesman for Garvaghy Road residents, Brendan
McKenna, said he initially "welcomed" the proposal, but the suggestion is still
likely to be greeted with deep suspicion.

Similar proximity talks took place in 1996 when there was a three-day standoff,
but a decision was taken, without consultation, to force the march down the
Garvaghy Road.

In the talks, there would be no direct contact between each side and no veto on
the composition of delegations.

The standoff at Drumcree church is now entering its seventh day. Thousands of
Orangemen have poured into the area.

The banning decision has sparked widespread civil unrest across the Province.
Official figures released yesterday by the RUC showed that there have been 550
attacks on the security forces, including 15 shootings and 33 bombings.

Following the continuing disturbances at Drumcree last night, there are fears
that sheer weight of numbers over the weekend may make it impossible for the
security forces to hold the protesters back.

In one disturbing attack on Thursday night, a pig's head impaled on a spike was
thrown towards police officers.

Church of Ireland Primate Archbishop Robin Eames said he was concerned "nothing
on earth" could control the crowds at Drumcree.

Mr Blair was involved in long running telephone negotiations from Chequers. He
spoke with Sinn Fein leader Gerry Adams, the Taoiseach Bertie Ahern and RUC
Chief Constable Ronnie Flanagan.

His officials conducted talks with Mr Trimble, Mr Mallon, the Orange Order and
the Garvaghy Road Residents' Association.

The security forces were yesterday considerably increasing their presence at
Drumcree.

The Army, reinforced by troops from the Parachute Regiment, added to the
defences sealing off the Garvaghy Road.

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Air corps: troops in riot gear assemble at their Chinook in a field
above Drumcree church. They are part of the security deployment aiding the RUC
at the Garvaghy Road barricades keeping back the Orange marchers. Picture: MAX
NASH/AP

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1998 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              370 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            July 11, 1998, Saturday

Six questioned over London bomb find

BYLINE: Louise Jury and Alan Murdoch

SECTION: TITLE; Page 1

LENGTH: 486 words


AN INCENDIARY bomb attack by breakaway Irish republicans on targets in the heart
of London was averted by police last night, with only minutes to spare.

Six people, including two women, were being questioned in the capital under the
Prevention of Terrorism Act by anti-terrorist detectives. Police seized a number
of explosive devices and searched several properties.  Four people were also
being questioned in Ireland.

John Grieve, head of Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist branch, said: "We believe
these terrorist devices were intended to be used in London within minutes."

The arrests followed a joint operation between Irish and British police into
breakaway republican terrorists, believed to be members of the hardline
32-County Sovereignty Committee, which was set up in opposition to Sinn Fein's
participation in the peace process.

If those arrested are confirmed to be members of the breakaway group, led by a
former IRA quartermaster, it would be the first time its members have been
arrested, or had any incidents attributed to them in Britain.

The critical timing of the attack, in the middle of the Drumcree crisis, could
only have been designed to put further pressure on the peace process and provoke
reaction by hardline Loyalists already on edge over the events in Portadown.

Mr Grieve said: "This evening's arrests are the result of prolonged
investigation into dissident criminal Irish republican terrorist groups and a
successful surveillance operation carried out by the Metropolitan Police and
MI5, which had thwarted an imminent planned terrorist attack in London."

Tony Blair, the Prime Minister, described the operation as "very important and
successful", reflecting the close co- operation between the security forces in
the United Kingdom and Ireland.  With the Orange Order determined to march in
Drumcree and the tension rising by the minute, the attempted bombings appeared a
deliberate move to plunge Northern Ireland into crisis.

The dramatic train of events was sparked by three arrests earlier in the day in
Dublin and the republican border town of Dundalk. A search of a flat in Dundalk,
turned up a loaded single-barrel shotgun, a sawn- off shotgun and a quantity of
anti-handling devices for bombs. The Irish police immediately tipped off
Scotland Yard.

Last night a fourth person was arrested in Co Wexford.

In London yesterday afternoon, one man was arrestednear the University College
London language centre in Gower Street, and two others in Thomas Doyle Street,
Southwark. All are believed to be students at Dublin colleges, with home
addresses in Kildare, Louth and Dublin. The university building was evacuated
and the area was sealed off as searches were made.  The Anti-Terrorist Squad
then arrested a woman near Oxford Street and two more people in Euston Road,
near the British Library.

Focus of dissent, page 5


LOAD-DATE: July 13, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1998 Independent Print Ltd

                              371 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                       July 11, 1998, Saturday Edition 1

Bombers are held on brink of London raid - Police clear university and tube
stations

BYLINE: By Gavin Cordon

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 429 words


   Police last night foiled a bombing attempt on London after arresting three
men with explosive devices intended to be used "within minutes".

The arrests followed a joint operation with Irish police who also made arrests.

Scotland Yard's Deputy Assistant Commissioner John Grieve, head of the
Anti-terrorist Branch, said: "This evening's arrests are the result of prolonged
investigation into dissident criminal Irish republican terrorist groups and a
successful surveillance operation carried out by the Metropolitan Police and MI5
which had thwarted an imminent planned terrorist attack in London.

"We arrested three men this evening and they were found to be in possession of
explosive devices.

"We believe these terrorist devices were intended to be used in London within
minutes."

The arrests were made near university buildings. The area was sealed off and
underground stations cleared as searches were made.

The men, all understood to be students from a Dublin university in Britain for
summer work, were being held under the Prevention of Terrorism Act.

Mr Grieve praised the work and cooperation of the Garda, intelligence services
and members of the public.

Two of the men were arrested at about 4.30pm in Thomas Doyle Street, Southwark,
south London. The third was arrested at 4.30pm in Gower Street, central London.
He is thought to have been going to the University College London building.

Armed officers had been used but no shots were fired and no one was injured.

A Scotland Yard statement said: "The operation is on-going, a number of
addresses are in the process of being searched." The swoop in London followed
raids by police in Dublin and the Irish Republic borderside town of Dundalk,
County Louth. In all, there were six arrests.

The action came after an Irish police operation against hardline organisations
determined to resist the Ulster peace deal struck on Good Friday by the British
and Irish governments and the province's political leaders.

In Dundalk, police uncovered two shot-guns - one of them sawn-off - bomb
components and false documents in a town centre flat after arresting a man.

A woman and another man were picked up in Dublin.

Irish security sources said the trio were from Dublin, County Kildare and County
Louth. They were understood to have tried to dispose of the firebombs as police
approached.

All those held were thought to be associated with the 32 County Sovereignty
Committee, a breakaway organisation established to resist Sinn Fein's
involvement in the peace process.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Just champion: Ulster Secretary Dr Mo Mowlam meets Margaret Gibney, 13,
from Belfast, one of the five finalists in last year's Champion Children Awards,
at the London launch yesterday of this year's awards.

                Copyright 1998 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              372 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Nottingham Evening Post

                                 July 11, 1998

World and national news

SECTION: World And National News, Pg.8

LENGTH: 1529 words


Talks hope to end stand-off

Final bid to avert Drumcree violence

A FINAL desperate attempt to break the deadlock over the siege of Drumcree
started today at an undisclosed venue in Northern Ireland.

Orangemen and nationalist residents from Portadown, Co Armagh, embarked on
negotiations set up by Tony Blair as fears mounted that violence on a scale
unseen in years was on the way.

The Prime Minister's trusted chief of staff Jonathan Powell organised "indirect
contact talks" between Loyalists and the nationalist Garvaghy Road Residents'
Coalition.

Negotiations were being conducted with mediators shuttling between the two
sides.

Unionists and Orangemen have sounded apocalyptic warnings about what may happen
if the stand-off is not resolved before the Loyalist marching season reaches its
climax on Monday.

The stand-off is now in its sixth day.

Last night a 26-year-old man was critically injured by a plastic bullet.

The RUC opened fire with baton rounds as the crowd showed increased
determination to break through barriers protecting Garvaghy Road.

Early this morning a blast bomb was thrown at police lines and an attempt was
made to pull away barbed wire on the barricades using a grappling hook attached
to a car.

It failed, but an RUC spokesman said the lines of defence had been reinforced.

He said a ditch had been widened and officers had taken cover behind armoured
vehicles.

From within the crowd a man with a rifle opened fire twice, police said, and
several shots were also fired from a handgun.

RUC Chief Constable Ronnie Flanagan has assured Mr Blair the security forces can
hold the defences.

However, with up to 100,000 loyalist demonstrators expected to converge on
Drumcree this weekend, there are fears they might be able to force a way through
by sheer weight of numbers.

Rebel behind bomb plot

IRISH police believe an ex-IRA quartermaster general masterminded yesterday's
foiled bid to launch terrorist fire bomb attacks in London.

It is thought the man walked out on the mainstream terror group nearly a year
ago in protest at its renewed ceasefire, and set up his own organisation.

Police foiled the bombing attempt after seizing explosive devices intended to be
used "within minutes" in the capital.

Underground stations were closed at the height of the rush hour and terrified
commuters were left stranded as the joint operation between the Metropolitan and
Irish police unfolded.

The planned bombing raids, involving incendiary devices thought to have been
targeted at stores, would have been the breakaway group's most ambitious terror
strike so far.

But within hours all of the main suspects were in custody in London and Ireland.

Ten people were today still being questioned.

The terrifying sequence of events began in Dundalk yesterday morning when police
raided an address and found guns, ammunition and bomb parts.

Afterwards a man was arrested and contact established with Scotland Yard.

Scotland Yard said the arrests were the result of "investigations into dissident
criminal Irish republican terrorist groups".

Mines Bill goes through

MPS paid tribute to the memory of Diana, Princess of Wales, by rushing
legislation aimed at helping rid the world of landmines through all its Commons
stages in fewer than five hours.

The Landmines Bill, ratifying the Ottawa Convention banning the international
sale and use of anti-personnel mines, was given a third reading without a vote
and now goes to the Lords.

It was pushed through the Commons on what was scheduled to be a non-sitting
Friday, following public pressure to act before the first anniversary of the
death of Diana, a fervent campaigner against landmines.

Opening the debate, Robin Cook paid tribute to the contribution made by the late
Princess to the work of organisations campaigning for an international ban.

Life for rail sex attacker

A SEX attacker who targeted women on trains was jailed for life at the Old
Bailey for a "gruesome, terrifying" assault on a young commuter.

Malcolm Blizzard, 35, from Stepney, east London, had forced his 29-year-old
victim into a lavatory on a train from London to Brighton.

He forced the office worker to submit to "the most unpleasant sexual
indignities" during a 50 -minute ordeal, the court heard.

Blizzard admitted indecent assault and false imprisonment. His previous
convictions included raping and threatening to kill a 20-year-old in 1985.

He had also been jailed for a month for two sex attacks on women on trains in
1989.

In 1991 he was jailed for eight years for grievous bodily harm to a man.

Britain tonight

Two killed

TWO men died and two people were seriously injured after a motorway pile-up
early today.

Six vehicles were involved in the accident on the northbound carriageway of the
M3 near junction 4A in Hampshire.

Lights show

MYSTERY today surrounded a series of lights seen high in the sky along the
length of western Britain.

Coastguard stations and police were flooded with calls from people who spotted
the bright display late last night.

Death plunge

A TEENAGER died when he fell through a factory roof while trying to retrieve a
football.

Staffordshire Police said the teenager died at Burton on Trent's Queen's
Hospital after plunging through a skylight at premises in the Horninglow area of
the town.

Pilot killed

A PILOT died after two gliders were involved in a mid-air collision yesterday.
The man was found dead after his glider crashed in a field near Mildenhall,
Suffolk. A police spokesman said the second glider landed safely at RAF
Mildenhall and the male pilot was unhurt.

Rickshaw store

SUPERMARKET chain Sainsbury is to introduce a taste of the exotic East to one of
its stores - by providing rickshaws to take customers and their shopping home.
Three four-wheeled machines decked out in the supermarket's distinctive orange
and blue livery will take to the streets of Islington on a trial basis from
Wednesday next week.

Costly cars

CAR prices in Britain are now up to 53% dearer than elsewhere in the European
Union, a new Brussels Commission survey shows. Of the 74 best-selling models
studied 60, were dearest in the UK - mostly by between 25% and 40%. But a Ford
Mondeo was found to be 58.5% more expensive than in Spain and a Rover 214 was
53% dearer than in Portugal.

Star tours

MUSIC stars Rod Stewart and Lionel Richie yesterday announced tours of some of
the UK's biggest venues towards the end of the year. Richie will play six dates
starting in mid-November. He last toured in 1987.  Stewart, 53, will play five
dates in December.

Pay warning

CHANCELLOR Gordon Brown repeated his warnings to curb inflationary boardroom pay
rises in a speech to the Local Government Association annual conference in
Bournemouth. He said relaxing the grip on inflation would be dangerous.

World tonight

Director's cut

Film director Francis Ford Coppola has won GBP 36m more in damages from Warner
Brothers over the ill-fated Pinocchio project - on top of GBP 12m compensatory
damages he was awarded by a Los Angeles court last week. A jury found that
Warners, by claiming a prior agreement with the director, had unlawfully
interfered with his bid to take Pinocchio to rival Columbia Pictures.

Tombs found

ArchAEOlogists excavating an ancient settlement near Salonica in northern Greece
have discovered a major burial ground containing about 1,000 tombs. The size of
the site and the wide variety of artifacts could offer researchers important
insights into village life during the Iron Age in the 6th or 7th centuries BC.
The tombs contain copper, iron and some gold jewellery and daggers alongside the
skeletons.

Warmer waters

A sudden two degree Fahrenheit (1.1 C) rise in ocean water temperature 20 years
ago may be causing a decline in fish, birds, seaweed and some mammals along the
US West coast. John McGowan, of the Scripps Institution of Oceanography, said in
the journal Science that the warming trend may signal a climate change deeper
than just a temporary El Nino effect.

Quake deaths

More than 1,700 minor aftershocks rumbled through the Azores Islands in the
Atlantic after a 5.8 magnitude quake killed eight people and left about 1,500
homeless. Eight residents, including a seven-month-old baby, were killed.

Good relations

The children of two Central Asian presidents plan to wed, a news agency
reported. The son of Kyrgyzstan president Askar Akayev, Aidar, will marry Alia,
the daughter of Kazakstan president Nursultan Nazarbayev, said the Interfax news
agency.

Pedigree army

The cash-strapped Russian army has apparently found a new way to cut costs -
it's been feeding some soldiers with dog food, a newspaper has reported.
Military prosecutors, who recently checked army food depots near Moscow, found
1,000 tons of dog food, said the business daily Kommersant.

Border clashes

At least two people have died in border clashes between Albanian arms smugglers
and the Yugoslav army. Tensions built up in a village on the Kosovo border with
hundreds of armed Albanians dug in against feared attacks. The deaths occurred
near the border village of Vrbnica, about 45 miles south-west of Pristina.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: BACK TO NATURE: Radio 4's Gardeners' Question Time helps Britain's
biggest naturist club celebrate its 50th anniversary this weekend. The GQT team
is pictured with 200 naturists on the Naturist Foundation's volleyball court at
its headquarters in Orpington, Kent

                     Copyright 1998 Nottingham Evening Post

                              373 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                            July 11, 1998, Saturday

'Bombers halted minutes before London attack'

BYLINE: Stewart Tendler, Martin Fletcher and Audrey Magee

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 813 words


AN IRISH republican splinter group's plan to launch a mainland bombing campaign
in London was foiled when ten people were arrested in a joint police operation
in Britain and Ireland yesterday.

Deputy Assistant Commissioner John Grieve, national coordinator of
anti-terrorist operations, said that three of the men were arrested minutes
before they would have planted explosive devices.

He believed the operation foiled plans by "dissident criminal Irish republican
groups" to mount their first attack since the Good Friday agreement.

Two women and a man were later held after a second wave of arrests in London and
Irish police were questioning three men and a woman.

Detectives backed by heavily-armed officers arrested two of the suspects in
Thomas Doyle Street in southeast London near the Imperial War Museum during the
evening rush hour. A third man was stopped on Gower Street close to London
University.

No shots were fired but witnesses saw armed police force one of the men, wearing
white overclothing apparently intended to protect forensic evidence, to kneel in
the middle of the road with his hands bound behind his back.

The three were all understood to be students from a Dublin university in Britain
for summer work.

An area round Gower Street was closed and a controlled explosion carried out.
Two women and a man were later arrested near Oxford Street and the British
Library and police were searching addresses around London.

Mr Grieve said: "This evening's arrests are the result of prolonged
investigation into dissident criminal Irish republican terrorist groups, and a
successful surveillance operation carried out by the Metropolitan Police and MI5
which had thwarted an imminent planned terrorist attack

"We arrested three men this evening and they were found to be in possession of
explosive devices. We believe these terrorist devices were intended to be used
in London within minutes."

The swoop in London is thought to have been prompted by information from Irish
police operations in Dublin and Dundalk, Co Louth.

In Dundalk, police uncovered two shot guns - one of them sawn-off - bomb
components and false documents in a flat after arresting a man. A woman and
another man were picked up in Dublin and a man in Wexford. The suspects were
understood to have attempted to dispose of the firebombs.

Anti-terrorist experts believe the terrorists were about to launch a low key
bombing campaign. The devices could have been planned by the "Real IRA" which is
based around Dundalk and led by the Provisional IRA's former quartermaster
general. The organisation has links with the 32 County Sovereignty Committee
whose spokesman is Bernadette Sands, sister of Bobby Sands who starved himself
to death in the Maze prison in 1981.

Both groups vehemently oppose the peace process and the "Real IRA" was behind
several bombings and mortar attacks in Northern Ireland that were designed to
destabilise the Stormont talks.

The Prime Minister said last night: "This has clearly been a very important and
successful operation and further reflects the close cooperation that exists
between the security forces in the United Kingdom and Ireland as together we
defeat terrorism wherever it may exist."

The arrests came as desperate efforts were under way to prevent an eruption of
violence in Northern Ireland.

Tony Blair's chief of staff wrote to both sides in the Drumcree stand-off asking
them to attend "proximity" talks at 9 am today in a final attempt to avert an
imminent disaster. The Orange Order and the nationalist Garvaghy Road Residents
Association both cautiously accepted but the residents' leader, Brendan McKenna,
expressed doubts about the proposed venue.

Meanwhile, 2,000 security forces preventing the Orangemen encamped at Drumcree
church from marching down the Garvaghy Road moved to reinforce their defences.
They widened what was once a stream into a moat 12 ft wide and 10 ft deep,
strengthened and lengthened their barbed wire barricades and practised troop
landings in Chinook helicopters.

Police fired several rounds of plastic bullets to fend off protesters attempting
to cross the enlargened trench dug by the security forces. Five of the
protesters were taken to hospital

Thousands of people had gathered but the numbers fell short of previous
evenings. Most of those attending were young men. Women and children stayed away
following the violence of the previous evening.

On Thursday night 20,000 Orangemen breached the first line of the defences. They
hurled nail bombs, missiles, and fireworks at the security forces, injuring 30
policemen. Five were taken to hospital. Between 50,000 and 100,000 Orangmen and
their supporters may have gathered at Drumcree by Monday when the Order
celebrates the anniversary of the Battle of the Boyne.

Letters, page 21


LOAD-DATE: July 11, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1998 Times Newspapers Limited

                              374 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                             July 12, 1998, Sunday

EX-COPS' BID TO SNARE HERO TEC'S MURDERERS;
 TOP EX-POLICEMEN TO PROBE SUSPECTED MURDER OF AN OLD SCOTLAND YARD PAL

BYLINE: Cyril Dixon Crime Reporter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 515 words


THREE top ex-cops have come out of retirement to probe the suspected murder of
an old Scotland Yard pal.

They believe hero detective Paul Hannon, 44, was killed by robbers on a gambling
trip to Las Vegas.

American police were treating the disappearance of the 21-stone six-footer as a
"missing persons" inquiry. But they launched a murder hunt after the ex-Yard men
dug up new evidence on a trip to the States.

The three investigators - Peter D'Arcy, Ken Day and David Saunders - have vowed
to solve their final crime riddle.

Mr D'Arcy, an anti-terrorist squad veteran, said: "His disappearance is baffling
and we fear the worst for him.

"He had an exemplary police career, loved life to the full and had no reason to
disappear, but he has vanished into thin air.

"At the moment everything points to him having been murdered for his cash and
his body having been dumped in the desert."

Boxing champion Mr Hannon vanished during the last days of a six-month holiday
in Las Vegas with his glamorous Californian girlfriend Sylvia Lopez.

The cop earned a string of commendations as a member of the Yard's elite serious
crime squad.

In 15 years he nailed some of the hardest villains, including robbers, killers
and IRA bombers.

Worried

But he left 12 years ago to set up a security firm which was so successful he
was always flush with cash.

"He always carried a large wad of notes," Mr D'Arcy said.

"It was one of his trademarks - and the most likely conclusion to make is that
he was killed for it.

"So now we are certain we are looking for a killer."

The riddle began last autumn, when Mr Hannon's trip to Vegas was drawing to a
close.

His mum Lorraine Knighton was worried when he failed to make his regular
fortnightly call to her home in Swaffham, Norfolk.

She rang his motel, only to be told that his room had been empty since September
29.

His clothes and suitcase had been left behind, so widow Lorraine reported the
disappearance to her local police. They called in Interpol, but cops in Las
Vegas refused to act.

In desperation, Lorraine turned to the three former detectives. It was only
after Mr D'Arcy flew out and began to piece together his ex-colleague's last
known movements that the US police opened a murder inquiry.

Mr Hannon was a heavyweight boxing champion at police training college and a
basketball international.

He was commended for bravery when he tackled an armed robber single-handed.

His exploits included high-profile cases like the Seventies police shoot- out
with bank robbers George Davis and Mickey Ishmael.

He was also part of the crack squad which hunted down IRA bomber Gerard Tuite,
once Britain's most wanted terrorist.

Mr Hannon spent his new-found wealth on long trips abroad and was a regular in
the casinos of Las Vegas.

His mum said: "He was always going off somewhere, either on working trips or for
pleasure."

Sylvia, 48, said from her home in Palm Springs: "I'm very much afraid that he is
dead.

"There is no other explanation for his disappearance."

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: D'ARCY: Fears for pal;; MISSING: Hero Hannon

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 1998 MGN Ltd.

                              375 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                             July 12, 1998, Sunday

BOMB PLOT'S MASTERMIND IS A FORMER IRA LEADER;
 FORMER IRA QUARTERMASTER PLANNED LONDON BOMB BLITZ

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 179 words


THE brains behind the plot to launch a firebomb blitz on London is a former
terrorist chief, police believe.

The bid to bring chaos to the capital was foiled on Friday when armed police
swooped on three men allegedly carrying primed firebombs.

It is believed the former IRA quartermaster who planned the terror bid quit the
Provos last October in protest at the renewed ceasefire and has vowed to destroy
the peace process with a bombing campaign on mainland Britain.

He is also thought to have the backing of some of the most powerful figures in
the republican movement.

A breakaway group behind attacks in Northern Ireland and a massive bomb found in
a car about to board a ferry bound for England in April issued a chilling
message two weeks ago. It said: "A war machine is once again being directed at
the British Cabinet."

Friday's arrests followed a six-week operation by MI5 and police from Britain
and both sides of the Irish border.

The suspects - four men and two women - are being questioned at top-security
London police stations.

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1998 MGN Ltd.

                              376 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             July 13, 1998, Monday

3 BOMB SUSPECTS FREED;
 THREE SUSPECTS HELD OVER THE FOILED BOMB BLITZ IN LONDON HAVE BEEN FREED

BYLINE: Cahal Milmo

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 169 words


THREE suspects held over the foiled bomb blitz in London have been freed.

The man and two women were released yesterday after 48 hours following a joint
operation between police in Britain and Ireland.

Friday's bombing bid was the most ambitious terrorist strike yet by rebel
republicans out to wreck the peace deal.

A Scotland Yard spokesman confirmed yesterday that six fully-primed firebombs
were seized by armed anti-terrorist officers from six suspects. They were feared
to be making their way to stores across the capital.

The spokesman said the swoop on Friday had netted all suspects. No devices were
thought to be lying undiscovered.

They were discovered "within minutes" of being used. One of the suspects, a
woman, was released without charge in London.

In Ireland, a man held after an arms find in the border town of Dundalk, and a
woman arrested in Dublin, were also freed.

A file has been sent to the Irish prosecutor.

Irish police were still holding two suspects.

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1998 MGN Ltd.

                              377 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                 July 13, 1998

Police free three of 10 London bombing suspects

SECTION: Pg.17

LENGTH: 205 words


Police in Britain and Ireland last night released three of the 10 suspects held
in connection with Friday's thwarted bombing blitz on London.

The man and two women were set free after 48 hours' detention following a joint
operation to foil the most ambitious terrorist strike yet by dissident
republicans determined to wreck the Good Friday peace agreement.

Scotland Yard confirmed yesterday that six fully-primed firebombs were seized by
armed anti -terrorist officers in their swoop against six suspects feared to be
making their way to targets across the capital.

One of the six, a woman, was last night released without charge in London.

In Ireland, a man held by Irish police on Friday after an arms find in the
border town of Dundalk, and a woman, arrested with another man in Dublin, were
also set free. A police spokesman in Dublin said in the cases of the two Irish
suspects a file had been sent to the Irish Director of Public Prosecutions with
a view to possible future charges. One woman and four men were last night still
being questioned in London. In the Irish Republic, anti-terrorist officers
continue to detain two other people, one arrested in Dublin and the other in the
southern county of Wexford.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 1998 Western Morning News

                              378 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                        July 14, 1998, Tuesday Edition 1

Bomb attacks on the day of brothers' burial - Plastic bullets fired to clear
protesters from barricades

BYLINE: By Andy Gales

SECTION: BRITAIN TONIGHT, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 478 words


   Three young brothers murdered in a sectarian arson attack in Ulster as
tension mounted over the Drumcree stand-off were being buried today.

Meanwhile, trouble flared at Drumcree early today as the Orange stand-off
entered its ninth day.

Police fired plastic bullets when they were attacked with petrol bombs and
fireworks by a crowd which climbed onto the large barricade, blocking access
into the nationalist Garvaghy road, an RUC spokesman said.

The rioters numbered around 200 to begin with but soon diminished to "a
handful".

Injured

They dismantled handrails and other parts of the barriers and two blasts were
heard from behind it between 2am and 2.15am. An injured man was later removed.
One other protester was hurt falling from the barricade.

Elsewhere the province was free of loyalist protests - but two Orange Halls came
under attack in the early hours.

A petrol bomb was found burning outside a hall on Moira Road, Hillsborough, Co
Down by a military patrol.

Half an hour later and a few miles away in Moira, two petrol bombs were thrown
through the window of a hall on Long Road. They caused minor damage.

Firefighters were also called to an Orange hall in Benburb Road, Dungannon, Co
Tyrone, at 6 am when smoke was spotted coming from the roof.

Richard, Mark, and Jason Quinn were being buried eight miles away from their
home town of Ballymoney, Co Antrim, because their relatives never wanted to
return there again.

The victims, aged 11, ten and nine died when a fire caused by a petrol bomb
raged through their home on the Carnany estate, early on Sunday.

The attack came a week of violent loyalist protests across Northern Ireland
accompanied the Orange Order stand off at Drumcree, Portadown, Co Armagh and
police believe it was sectarian.

The children's mother, Christine, 29, is a Catholic, but her sons had been
educated in the Protestant Leaney School.

However, they were being given a Catholic funeral, at the Church of Our Lady and
St Patrick, Ballymoney, at 11am. They were being buried at Rasharkin because
their mother never wanted to return to Ballymoney again, their grandmother,
Irene Quinn disclosed.

She fled the same estate after being intimidated only days before the petrol
bomb attack on her daughter's home.

Uneasy

The family had been afraid they would be targeted. "I left the estate a few days
before because I just felt uneasy living there," she said.

"Chrissie never wants to go back. She got no warning. Some neighbours got
warnings but she didn't."

Two families moved out yesterday because of the attack and threatening letters,
allegedly from the loyalist terror group the Ulster Volunteer Force, less than
24 hours before the boys died.

Father Peter Forde, who will lead today's funeral mass, said: "I dread the
prospect of three little coffins lined up before me."

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: VICTIMS - the Quinn brothers who died, Richard, Mark and Jason

                Copyright 1998 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              379 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                 July 14, 1998

Swoop by police foils London bombing bid

SECTION: Pg.24

LENGTH: 382 words


Police last night foiled a bombing attempt in London after arresting three men
with explosive devices intended to be used "within minutes".

The arrests followed a joint operation with Irish police, who also made arrests.

Scotland Yard's Deputy Assistant Commissioner, John Grieve, head of the Anti
-terrorist Branch, said: "This evening's arrests are the result of prolonged
investigation into dissident criminal Irish republican terrorist groups, and a
successful surveillance operation carried out by the Metropolitan Police and MI5
which had thwarted an imminent planned terrorist attack in London.

"We arrested three men this evening and they were found to be in possession of
explosive devices. We believe these terrorist devices were intended to be used
in London within minutes."

Mr Grieve praised the work and co-operation of the Garda, intelligence services
and members of the public.

The three arrested suspects, believed to be posing as students, were taken to
police stations for questioning.

Two of the men were arrested about 4.30pm in Thomas Doyle Street, Southwark,
south London. The third was arrested at 4.30pm in Gower Street, central London.

Police said armed officers had been used, but no shots were fired and no-one was
injured during the operation. A Scotland Yard statement said: "The operation is
ongoing, a number of addresses are in the process of being searched.

The swoop followed raids by police in Dublin and the Irish Republic borderside
town of Dundalk, Co Louth. In all, there were six arrests. The action came after
an Irish police operation against hardline organisations determined to resist
the Ulster peace deal.

In Dundalk, police uncovered two shotguns, bomb components and false documents
in a town centre flat after arresting a man. A woman and another man were picked
up in Dublin.

The three held in London were understood to be students from a Dublin university
in Britain for summertime work.

They were understood to have attempted to dispose of the firebombs as police
approached them.

All of the arrested group were thought to be associated with the 32 County
Sovereignty Committee, a breakaway organisation established to resist Sinn
Fein's involvement in the peace process and the continuing ceasefire of its IRA
allies.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 1998 Western Morning News

                              380 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                            July 15, 1998, Wednesday

REPUBLICANS SEND A CHILLING MESSAGE;
 REBEL TERROR GROUPS TAKE UP WHERE IRA LEFT OFF

BYLINE: Lara Bradley

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1001 words


REBEL republican terror groups are taking advantage of the current political
instability to send a message to Ulster: "We haven't gone away you know."

While the world's media focused on Drumcree and Ballymoney, two huge bombs were
made safe by Army Technical Officers in Co Armagh. And last Friday an alliance
of three republican splinter groups attempted to blast London.

No group has claimed responsibility for the 500lb car bomb left outside Newry
courthouse on Monday. Nor for the 1,400lb of home-made explosives abandoned in a
trailer on the Moy to Blackwater road on Friday which took Army Technical
Officers three days to make safe.

It is, however, widely believed they were both the work of dissident group, the
Real IRA.

An Army source said: "While everyone is busy looking at other things there is
still a real danger out there posed by dissident groups. Their capability has
grown since they started with crude and easy devices. If you look at the pattern
of attacks you will see their timing is very significant.  They want to continue
to disrupt the peace process."

The dissident groups are hostile to Sinn Fein's attempts to bring republicanism
into the peace process. The timing of their bomb attacks are aimed at
embarrassing Sinn Fein and weakening their mainstream political credibility.

But this was denied by a Sinn Fein spokesman who said: "It seems they coincide
with significant political developments and are an attack on the peace process.
But I don't think they reinforce the unionist refusal to talk to us. That
attitude has been consistent and pre-dates the existence of these groups."

Senior members of the INLA and the Continuity IRA have struck a deal to share
arms and men with a group which calls itself the Real IRA in the London attack,
which was foiled with just minutes to spare. There is also forensic evidence
that they colluded on a 200lb bomb attack on Markethill RUC station,claimed last
month by the INLA.

Guesstimates have suggested the trio of terror have a membership of 200 in
Ireland, north and south. But a republican insider said: "The INLA are
spectacularly unable to get a box of matches into Britain. The three groups
share a common interest so I'd say they probably did work together on this. They
have a small core command structure but if it reaches the 20s in number I'd be
surprised."

According to security sources the Provisionals were so concerned by dissidents'
attempts to sabotage the peace-process that they tipped off gardai. But Sinn
Fein dismissed this as a malicious suggestion: "It is totally groundless and an
attempt to cause unrest among republicans."

The republican source said: "It is highly unlikely. The dissident groups have an
open-door recruitment policy and are riddled with informers and inexperienced
youngsters which explains their failures."

A former Provo quarter-master leads the Real IRA which shares the views of the
shadowy 32 County Sovereignty Committee. The Real IRA are thought to be the
biggest of the active terror groups.

Their leader, who walked out on the Provos last year in protest at its renewed
ceasefire, is believed to be the mastermind behind Friday's attempt to bomb
London.

The RUC worked with Scotland Yard and the Garda to foil the group's most
ambitious attack yet. And the operation is reckoned to have taken out some of
their key figures.

The Garda has been successful in detecting many of its activities. A car
carrying a bomb destined for the Grand National was intercepted at Dun Laoghaire
and one of the group, Ronan McLoughlin was shot dead during the robbery of a
security van in Co Wicklow earlier this year.

The Continuity IRA is the military wing of Republican Sinn Fein and was formed
five years ago. Although generally dismissed as ineffectual, it has been behind
numerous bomb attacks on Protestant towns and businesses across Ulster.

The INLA is the military wing of the Irish Republican Socialist Party.  It
professes to have a republican and radical socialist ethos but embraces petty
criminals and drug dealers. It is thought the membership has dwindled to no more
than two dozen since fatal feuds among the leaders.

The 32 County Sovereignty Committee is a political pressure group led by
Bernadette Sands-McKevitt, the sister of hunger-striker Bobby Sands.

Timetable of violence

January: 500lb bomb defused in Banbridge; 1.5 tonnes of explosive seized in
Dublin; 300lb car bomb wrecked an Enniskillen night-club

February: Eleven people injured when a 500lb bomb blasted Moira; a car bomb
devastated Portadown; four people injured when a suspect package exploded in
Tomb Street Post Office sorting office, Belfast; a barrel containing 250lbs of
home-made explosion found in Redhills, Co Cavan

March: RUC reservist Cyril Stewart shot dead by INLA outside a shop in Armagh;
500lb car bomb defused in Co Louth; bomb attack in a west Belfast pub; 600lb car
bomb defused south of Armagh border; six customers forced to step over a bomb
thrown into the Northern Bank in Londonderry; primed 1,300lb bomb found in
Dundalk, thought to be destined for Armagh or Fermanagh

April: 1,000lb bomb intercepted in Dun Laoghaire; 3,000lb of fertiliser seized
in bomb-making factory in north Belfast flat

May: 760lb car bomb defused outside Armagh RUC station; two cars each containing
500lb of home-made explosives stopped while driving north from Dundalk; RUC
foiled Lisburn car bomb attack

June: Two shotguns, bomb components and false documents seized and a man
arrested in Dundalk; two people hurt, including a 15-year-old boy, and pounds 2
million damage done when the INLA bombs Newtownhamilton; a 20 foot crater left
when a 200lb bomb exploded on the Newry to Forkhill Road; homes damaged in 200lb
bomb attack in Markethill

July: Police foil an attempt to bomb London city centre; 500 pound car bomb
defused outside Newry courthouse; 1,400 explosives abandoned in a trailer on the
Moy to Blackwater Road

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DESTRUCTION: the aftermath of the bomb attack in Markethill

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1998 Century Newspapers Limited

                              381 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                       July 16, 1998, Thursday Edition 7

Drumcree protest is fading away - IRA ready to start handing over their arms

BYLINE: By Andy Gales

SECTION: BRITAIN TONIGHT, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 340 words


   A token number of Orangemen continued their stand at Drumcree today as
reports claimed the IRA were prepared to begin handing over their arms.

Security services sealed off fields around the besieged church after a bomb
scare.

Only three members of the Portadown District Orange Lodge were allowed back to
maintain a token presence at the barricade barring the route to the nationalist
Garvaghy Road.

Terrorist

But the RUC say no more loyalist protesters will be allowed to return until a
full search is completed.

And security around the site could be stepped up after police turned up a
horrifying arsenal of weapons used on security forces.

The seizures were followed by news that republican terrorist are to hand over
their guns and bombs.

IRA chiefs could be prepared to hand over weapons within weeks if loyalist
paramilitaries matched their gesture, it was claimed.

Unofficial talks outlining the logistics of a handover have been held and it
could take place before the Northern Ireland Assembly begins selecting a 10-man
executive in September.

At Drumcree, Orange leaders have insisted their protest will continue but even
before last night's bomb scare dramatically lower numbers at the nightly vigils
suggest the protest was all but over.

The massive security operation is being scaled down. Half of the 1,000 extra
troops sent to the province to help deal with the dispute were returning to
their base in England, Ulster security minister Adam Ingram said.

And security sources said police were satisfied they had weeded out loyalist
troublemakers at Drumcree.

Searches

Representatives of the RUC, from senior officers to rank and file, were meeting
Prime Minister Tony Blair in Downing Street today.

Members of the Police Federation were telling Mr Blair that Drumcree had shown
their "unbreakable determination" to police the entire community.

Police investigating the murders of three young brothers in the Co Antrim petrol
bomb attack made a "small number" more arrests today.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GOING HOME - Adam Ingram

                Copyright 1998 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              382 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            July 16, 1998, Thursday

GOLF: POLICE ALERT IN OPEN LOCK UP;
 OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP;
 GOLF: TIGHT SECURITY AS POLICE FEAR BOMB THREAT

BYLINE: Steve Millar

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 52, 51

LENGTH: 408 words


By STEVE MILLAR

ROYAL BIRKDALE was yesterday surrounded by the biggest security cordon in
British sporting history.

Four hundred police, some of them armed, anti-terrorist squads and Army
protection units intercepted the first arrivals at breakfast time.

And 10 sniffer dogs were brought in as Merseyside Police feared a Grand
National-type bomb threat.

Police chiefs are also sensitive about the car bomb attack that was foiled in
London last week, and the tensions around Drumcree.

It has all resulted in police cameras being set up at every entry road.  They
will film all the 40,000 spectators who are expected to descend on Royal
Birkdale today.

All cars, including the players' courtesy vehicles, were searched as they drove
in. American Ben Crenshaw watched his car being searched and said: "It's very
sad.

"This is a great event and it would be terrible if anything were to happen.

"I am afraid the way the world is, it has become a necessity to have this sort
of security alert."

Police also installed surveillance equipment inside the course, with fans warned
on arrival that they were being filmed.

Michael Bonallack, the secretary of the Royal and Ancient, said: "Merseyside
Police were involved with the scare at the Grand National.

"Obviously with the added worry over Drumcree, they are extra keen not to take
any chances.

"It's better to be safe than sorry and we want to ensure there is no disruption
to the

Open Championship as there was at Aintree. It's simply an extra precaution.

"They don't want a situation to arise like Aintree, where they had to abandon
everything and people weren't allowed back to their cars.

"At least by searching all the cars, they can avoid that eventuality.  It is
just being sensibly cautious."

Some spectators were subjected to spot-searches as tension on the course mounted
after a hoax bomb call to the clubhouse the previous night.

The mammoth operation will be repeated every day as police take no chances with
the safety of the 200,000 spectators expected on the course this week.

A police spokesman said: "We have taken these unprecedented steps because of the
developments involving a splinter group of the IRA.

"Security will be as tight as this throughout, to ensure a trouble-free four
days."

But the police face a very difficult task, with so much open space, and with
limited security on the far side of the course.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CRENSHAW: Car was searched;; LEE WESTWOOD has more fans than he thinks.
Britain's new young golfing superstar was treated to a touch of light-hearted
adulation yesterday by fellow Open hopeful Tony Johnstone, of Zimbabwe. Picture:
BRADLEY ORMESHER

                            Copyright 1998 MGN Ltd.

                              383 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                 July 16, 1998

HOLIDAY BRITONS IN RAPE TERROR;
 Florida in fear after attacks on couples

BYLINE: Sarah Harris

SECTION: Pg.1

LENGTH: 409 words


A BRITISH woman was brutally raped at gunpoint on the first day of a holiday in
Florida.

The attack happened hours after the woman and her husband checked into their
hotel in the booming tourist area close to Disney World.

American police believe she was the victim of a serial rapist who has struck at
least seven times in the past month.

Last night they urged visitors to be on their guard against the softly- spoken
gunman who has brought terror to the Sunshine State which attracts millions of
holidaymakers.

In each of the attacks, couples have been robbed at gunpoint before being forced
to strip and perform sex acts on each other.

Detectives say that in at least three cases, the woman was raped after her male
companion was forced into the bathroom.

The two British tourists were attacked on Monday night at their hotel in
Kissimmee. It was the second sex attack in the area in three days.

The couple, who are in their 20s and from Middlesex, requested a clothes iron
from the front desk and left their door ajar, expecting a hotel worker.

A police spokesman said: "A black male who had a gun, pushed open the door,
demanded their money and ordered them to strip and lie on the bed."

The rapist managed to accept the iron from a hotel employee without raising
suspicion, and his victims were kept out of sight in their room and silenced.

The man forced the couple to perform sex acts on each other for about half an
hour.

Shock

He then bundled the husband into the bathroom and raped the woman before
fleeing.

The couple are now recovering from shock and helping detectives build up a
profile of their attacker. It is not known when they will return to the Britain.

Early on Saturday, the same man is believed to have attacked a Massachusetts
couple in their room at the Park Inn International on U.S. Highway 192 in
Kissimmee.

He raped the woman and fled before his victims could raise the alarm.

Detectives had not initially linked the series of attacks, which are expected to
have a serious impact on tourism in the area.

The similarities were not apparent until police officers in neighbouring Osceola
and Orange counties began comparing cases after the latest attacks.

The two hotels are about three miles apart in the same tourist area east of Walt
Disney World.

The British couple are now staying at another Orlando hotel while helping police
with their inquiries.



LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1998 Bristol United Press

                              384 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 July 21, 1998

New move to force trial of Lockerbie bomb suspects

BYLINE: IAN BLACK

SECTION: The Guardian Home Page; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 551 words


BRITAIN and the United States have decided that two Libyans accused of the
Lockerbie bombing can be tried in The Hague under Scottish law, reversing their
position that justice can be done only under their jurisdiction - and shifting
the onus on to Colonel Muammar Gadafy to hand them over.

Robin Cook, the Foreign Secretary, and Madeleine Albright, the US secretary of
state, are to make the announcement simultaneously in London and Washington in
the next few days, the Guardian has learned.

The U-turn follows growing evidence that the campaign to isolate Libya through
sanctions was beginning to crumble in the face of an obdurate Libyan leader.

The two allies reached agreement earlier this month but the announcement has
been held up pending a new government in the Netherlands, whose approval is
required for the trial to go ahead.

Abdel Basset al-Megrahi and Lamin Khalifah Fhimah, described as Libyan
intelligence agents, were accused in November 1991 of planting the suitcase bomb
that killed 270 people on Pan Am flight 103 over Lockerbie on December 21 1988.

It was the worst act of terrorism in recent British history, and there have been
conflicting theories about who was responsible.  Libya has refused to hand over
the men, despite United Nations sanctions which Britain and the US find
increasingly hard to maintain as they refuse to accept a third-country trial.

Both have insisted the trial can be held only in Scotland or the US. They
rejected as disingenuous Libyan claims that the two could not get justice under
such jurisdiction.

Jim Swire, of UK Families Flight 103, said last night: "I'm very relieved both
from the point of view of obtaining justice over the murder of our families and
also that our government will not now continue on a course fraught with danger
for its reputation.

"But this is not a time for triumphalism. Lockerbie was a terrible disaster. Let
us hope that this decision provides a way forward."

Libya has not yet been informed of the new position, which is likely to follow
closely a proposal made by the Arab League and the Organisation of African
Unity, which have said Col Gadafy will accept a court operating under Scottish
legal procedure. Under this proposal it would have an international panel of
judges instead of a jury, presided over by a senior Scottish judge appointed by
Tony Blair.

The Hague is home to the International Court of Justice and the Bosnia war
crimes tribunal. If the men are handed over, and convicted, special arrangements
would have to be made for their imprisonment.

Diplomats believe it is unlikely that Col Gadafy will surrender the men but say
if he does not, it should be easier to reinforce sanctions.

In recent months both governments have felt the need to regain the initiative as
they have become isolated over the sanctions in the Arab world, Africa and
beyond.

They also want to focus on maintaining UN sanctions against Iraq, still seen as
an international threat in a way that Libya no longer is.

Only last week Italy said it wanted to normalise relations with its former
colony, while Ms Albright was furious when the Egyptian president, Hosni
Mubarak, obtained UN permission on humanitarian grounds to visit Col Gadafy.

The West's gamble, page 11


LOAD-DATE: July 21, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              385 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 July 21, 1998

Lockerbie: the West takes a gamble;
Ian Black reveals how the US and Britain are hoping to regain the whip hand over
Libya

BYLINE: IAN BLACK

SECTION: The Guardian Foreign Page; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1133 words


NEARLY 10 years after the worst act of terrorism in contemporary British
history, the decision to agree to the Lockerbie bombing suspects being tried in
a neutral venue - expected to be announced later this week - offers the first
chance for justice to be done.

It represents a dramatic turning point in the long and exhausting battle of
wills between the United States and Britain on the one hand and Colonel Muammar
Gadafy on the other - a battle that began when Libya's leader was blamed for the
deadly suitcase bomb placed on a Boeing jet, probably in Malta, just before
Christmas 1988, and which brought mayhem and carnage to the Scottish town over
which the plane broke up.

For Libyans and many Arabs, Lockerbie has become a byword for American -inspired
arrogance, another example of superpower readiness to use the blunt instrument
of sanctions, like those imposed on Libya, to bully smaller countries.

For relatives of the 270 victims of Pan-Am flight 103 - American, British and
others - it was a personal tragedy. Many had all but given up hope of seeing the
two Libyans under suspicion brought to trial.

Britain and the US always insisted that the two, allegedly members of the Libyan
intelligence services, must face trial either in Scotland or the US, and argued
that Libyan claims that the men could not expect justice in these venues were
disingenuous.

Pressure from the relatives has certainly had some effect in changing the stance
of London and Washington. But the key lies in the sense both capitals now have
that without some movement on the Western side, Col Gadafy would never budge.

Lockerbie has been high on the Labour Government's agenda since it took office
in May last year, when it ordered a review of the evidence, though so far there
has been no public hint from the Foreign Office or elsewhere of the
extraordinary turnaround in the case.

Indeed, Libya itself has yet to be informed of the change of heart by Britain
and the US, but there have been preliminary contacts in recent days through the
United Nations secretary-general, Kofi Annan.

There must be grave doubts, however, that Col Gadafy will allow two secret
agents to appear in any court. Most Libya-watchers agree that to do so would be
to expose his own regime to a charge of state terrorism.

So while there is clearly no guarantee that the suspects will come to court, the
British-American agreement to a neutral venue puts the onus squarely on Libya to
comply. This - given that international support for the Anglo -American position
has been withering away - should make it easier to maintain Libya's isolation if
it does not comply.

Few details are known of the precise offer to be made to Tripoli, but it is
likely to follow closely one made by two key supporters of Libya - the Arab
League and the Organisation of African Unity - which have said Col Gadafy will
accept a court operating under the criminal law and procedure of Scotland.

In place of a jury, the envisaged court would have an international panel of
judges, presided over by a senior Scottish judge appointed by Tony Blair.

It is understood that the court would sit in The Hague, already home to the
International Court of Justice and the Bosnia War Crimes Tribunal. If the two
were handed over, and convicted, there would be the question of where they would
be imprisoned.

The Britain-US decision will be applauded by many of the Lockerbie relatives,
led at the British end by Jim Swire, who lost his daughter, Flora, in the
atrocity on December 21, 1988.

Dr Swire asked recently: "What do Britain and America have to lose by agreeing
to a neutral-country trial, except perhaps a smidgen of national pride? Are not
justice and truth more important than that?"

Years of pain and frustration have led many of the bereaved to believe in
complex conspiracy theories about the bombing, variously blaming Iran,
Palestinian radicals or Syria, even though the evidence gathered in this country
by Dumfries and Galloway Police is said to provide a strong case against the two
Libyans.

Indictments against the two agents were issued in November 1991 but Libya has
always refused to hand the men over. In 1992 the United Nations imposed an air
and arms embargo intended to isolate the North African country until it
complied.

The curbs were tightened in 1993 to include a freeze on some Libyan assets
abroad and a ban on some types of equipment used in oil terminals and
refineries.

But, because of the scale of European dependence on Libyan oil, the sanctions
were not allowed to affect the country's oil exports or oil drilling equipment.

Recently, international enthusiasm has waned sharply and the US and Britain have
found themselves almost alone as Col Gadafy has bought friends and influence in
Africa with cheap oil deals and outright bribes.

The Organisation of African Unity is threatening to cease complying with the
sanctions from September this year, unless the UN Security Council agrees to a
third-country trial. Last October, South Africa's influential president, Nelson
Mandela, visited Libya on his way to and from the Commonwealth summit in
Edinburgh.

Last week, Egypt's moderate president, Hosni Mubarak - the largest recipient of
US aid after Israel - flew to Libya to visit Col Gadafy after the Libyan leader
broke his hip. The UN gave permission on humanitarian grounds, but the message
was clear: patience with Libya's punishment was running out.

Accused of bombing

Abdel Basset al-Megrahi

In December 1988, Mr Megrahi was head of Libyan Arab Airlines' security in
Malta. The 1991 indictment described him as a senior intelligence official.

He is accused of having bought the clothes in a Malta store that wound up in the
suitcase bomb.

Believed to be under watch in Tripoli, Mr Megrahi, now aged 46, told a Cairo
newspaper last year that his health was poor.

And he was worried:

"My comrade Lamin Fhimah and I recently emerged unscathed from a car accident
and we thanked God, because we fear our deaths would be interpreted as an
assassination carried out by Libyan officials just to be done with us."

Lamin Khalifah Fhimah

Now aged 42, Mr Fhimah was described as station manager for Libyan Arab Airlines
at Luqa airport, Malta.

In 1996 he protested his innocence in a television chat show. Like Mr Megrahi,
he has consistently denied being an intelligence agent. But both have otherwise
avoided making public statements.

Mr Fhimah was said to have set up a front company on behalf of Libyan
intelligence.

According to some reports the two men have already decided they will never
surrender for trial in Scotland or the United States, though they are said to be
willing to face justice in a third country.


LOAD-DATE: July 21, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              386 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 July 22, 1998

Backdown by U.S. brings justice hope for Lockerbie

BYLINE: Paul Riddell

SECTION: Pg. 10

LENGTH: 456 words


THE trial of two Libyans accused of the Lockerbie bombing moved a step closer
yesterday after Britain and the United States dramatically dropped their
opposition to a court case under Scottish law in a neutral country.

Until now, London and Washington have resisted demands to let intelligence
officers Abdel Basset al-Megrahi, 46, and Lamin Khali-fah Fhimah, 42, be dealt
with outside either the UK or the U.S.

But in a significant move, U.S. Secretary of State Madeleine Albright and
Foreign Secretary Robin Cook will announce the major policy shift later this
week.

Families of those killed in the bombing have campaigned since 1994 for the case
to be heard in the Hague by an international panel of judges instead of a jury,
presided over by a senior serving Scottish judge.

However, delight on the part of victims' relatives was tempered by the fact that
diplomats believe Libyan dictator Colonel Gadaffi will not release the pair,
despite claims he has already promised to do so.

The Libyans are suspected of planting the suitcase bomb that killed 270 people
on Pan Am flight 103 over Lockerbie on December 21, 1988.

It was the worst terrorist atrocity in recent British history. But almost ten
years on, justice has yet to be done.

Yesterday, Prime Minister Tony Blair's official spokesman said the Government
still wanted the suspects tried in Scotland or the U.S.

But crucially he reported that discussions on other options had been taking
place for some time.

In the Commons, Scottish Office Minister Henry McLeish said: 'We have been
determined to bring those responsible to justice. And we have every confidence
in the Scottish judicial system and procedure.

'We are, however, willing to explore any option that will bring justice to the
families.' Washington adopted the same stance. A state department official said:
'Libya must comply with UN sanctions. The victims and their families have waited
too long for justice,' he said.

Dr Jim Swire, spokesman for the British relatives, said he was 'over the moon'
at the U-turn - but added that any trial must be along the lines proposed by
Edinburgh law professor Robert Black, because that is what Libya has agreed to
co-operate with.' Dr Swire, whose daughter Flora was among the victims, said:
'To see reports that the UK and the U.S. are changing course is music to our
ears.

Professor Black said: 'It is, in my view, the sensible thing to do. If this is
right, it would be a triumph for common sense.' The Scots lawyer appointed by
the Libyans, Alistair Duff, said 'Experience teaches us not to believe all we
read in the papers, but if this is correct it's a big step forward which my
clients, I know, will welcome.'


LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: ACCUSED: ABDEL BASSET AL-MEGRAHI CO-ACCUSED: LAMIN KHALIFAH FHIMAH

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1998 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              387 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            July 22, 1998, Wednesday

U-turn over Lockerbie trial abroad

BYLINE: Rupert Cornwell and Stephen Goodwin

SECTION: NEWS; Page 4

LENGTH: 457 words


IN A major policy shift on Lockerbie, Britain and the United States are moving
towards agreement that the two Libyans charged with the bombing of PanAm flight
103 may be tried in a third country - as long urged by the victims' families and
demanded by the Libyan leader, Colonel Muammar Gaddafi.

Initially, the Government denied any decision had been taken to allow the trial
to go ahead in The Hague, and insisted its policy remained that the two suspects
face a court in Scotland or the US, which Colonel Gaddafi refuses.

But, senior Foreign Office officials said, other options had been explored and
that while a third country trial was not the best outcome, "our overall goal is
to get the two before justice". Almost simultaneously in the US, Secretary of
State Madeleine Albright met representatives of the families of the American
victims. "They are talking with the Dutch and looking into moving the trial," a
participant said.

Lamin Khalifah Fhimah and Adbel Basset al-Megrahi, said to be Libyan
intelligence agents, were accused in November 1991 of planting the bomb which
killed 270 people in the worst terrorist incident in British history.  But
Colonel Gaddafi refused to release them, saying they would not get a fair trial
in either Britain or the US.

Since then the two countries have sought to force the Libyan leader to comply
with an array of international sanctions, including a ban on air travel to
Libya. But this strategy is crumbling amid increasing opposition from Arab and
African states, with President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt the most prominent of
several foreign visitors of late to visit Colonel Gaddafi.

With the new approach, London and Washington hope to regain the initiative.
They reckon that even the promise of a trial conducted in a third country under
Scottish procedure, presided by a Scottish judge and with an international panel
of judges instead of a jury, will probably not persuade the Libyan leader to
hand over the suspects.

But even if he refuses, they calculate, it will be far more difficult for the
Arab League and the Organisation of African Unity, which put forward such a
compromise, to back out of sanctions. It will also heal an embarrassing and
painful rift with the families themselves.

Anxious above all for justice almost 10 years after the tragedy, the victims'
relatives have grown increasingly frustrated at Britain and America's refusal to
go along with what has seemed the only realistic means of securing a trial.

Jim Swire, spokesman of the British Lockerbie relatives who lost his daughter
Flora in the bombing said yesterday he was delighted. "This a major step forward
in our search for truth and justice," Dr Swire said.


LOAD-DATE: July 22, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1998 Independent Print Ltd

                              388 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            July 22, 1998, Wednesday

SCOT FREE IS NOT AN OPTION;
 LIBYAN LOCKERBIE SUSPECTS FACE DUTCH TRIAL

BYLINE: Steve King/Rosa Prince

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 593 words


TEN years after the bomb that blasted Pan Am flight 103 out of the skies over
the Scottish border town of Lockerbie, the two wanted Libyans are one step
closer to justice.

In a major U-turn yesterday, the Government indicated it was preparing to
announce it would accept a trial in a neutral country - probably Holland.

The news was welcomed by the families of the 259 people killed on the flight and
the 11 who died on the ground.

But many of those affected by Britain's worst terrorist attack insist it has
taken far too long.

The two men accused of the bombing - Libyan intelligence agents Abel Basset al
-Megrahi and Lamen Khalifa Fhimah - were indicted in Scotland and the United
States in 1991.

And, at that time, both Governments demanded that the terrorists be tried in
either the US or Scotland.

Libyan leader Colonel Gaddafi refused to hand over the pair and the long-
running legal wrangle began.

In 1992, the United Nations imposed an arms and air embargo on Libya in an
attempt to force Gaddafi to hand over the suspects.

It failed but, for those directly affected by the horror, there was no giving
up, no letting the matter rest.

They kept up their campaign in an attempt to find some sort of justice for the
loved ones whose lives were snatched by the evil bombers.

Dr Jim Swire is a prime example. He has campaigned tirelessly for the men to be
tried in a neutral venue.

He said: "I'm over the moon. To see reports that the UK and the US are changing
course is music to our ears.

"But we have to be cautious about this and wait and see what the diplomats
announce.

Dr Swire, whose daughter Flora, 24, was killed in the bomb attack, is one of
many waiting anxiously for confirmation.

The news was welcomed, albeit cautiouly, in Sherwood Crescent, Lockerbie.

The small town, a short drive from the border, was devastated when death fell
from the pre-Christmas sky in 1988.

And Mary Ward, 66, whose home was completely destroyed, echoed the views of
many.

She can't understand why it has taken this long for a breakthrough of this
nature to happen.

She said: "They should have been tried a long time ago if they knew where they
were instead of waiting all this time.

"The Government have been saying for 10 years that they are going to do this and
that but they never seem to get any further forward.

"It doesn't really bother me where it's held now as long as these people don't
get off scot-free."

But this latest announcement doesn't by any means guarantee the two Libyans will
face trial.

And, if they do, there is no shortage of possible strategies for their defence
team.

Over the years, many theories have been raised. Some have been dashed.  Other
hang unanswered in the air.

But, whatever conspiracy theories have been voiced, there are other more
pressing problems that must be addressed.

There are difficulties - practical and otherwise - in holding a trial in a third
country.

Laws may have to be altered and, of course, the two accused have to agree to be
put on trial in a neutral country.

Sceptics believe it will be many years before the men face justice - if indeed
they ever do.

Some believe Gaddafi is simply playing along with the idea of the neutral trial
to ease sanctions.

And that, when it comes to the crunch, he has no intention of agreeing to any of
the suggestions.

Even if he does agree, whether or not a trial will discover the truth and
convict the men of the outrage that shocked the world remains to be seen.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WANTED: The wreckage of Pan Am flight 103 and, inset, Libyan suspects;
Lamen Khalifa Fhimah, left, and Abel Basset al-Megrahi;; JIM SWIRE: 'News is
music to my ears'

                            Copyright 1998 MGN Ltd.

                              389 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Gloucestershire Echo

                                 July 24, 1998

Bomb team moves in

SECTION: Public Services: Armed Forces, Pg.1

LENGTH: 72 words


Army bomb disposal experts are due to move from Hereford to their new home in
Tewkesbury this weekend.

A purpose-built headquarters officially becomes home to the 30 soldiers of 721
Squadron, 11th Explosive Ordnance Disposal Regiment of the Royal Logistic Corps
on Monday.

Their equipment includes robot bomb tracking devices know as wheelbarrows,
famous for missions to defuse terrorist bombs in Britain and Northern Ireland.


LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 1998 Gloucestershire Echo

                              390 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                            July 29, 1998, Wednesday

My year of living dangerously

BYLINE: Martin Fletcher

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 1271 words


Martin Fletcher moved his family to Ulster 12 months ago to report on its
Troubles. Here he pays homage to a strange land

It is a year since my family and I moved to Northern Ireland after a spell
working in Washington - a year that reached its professional apogee one night
during the Drumcree stand-off when I drove into the heart of loyalist East
Belfast.

Mobs were on the rampage, roused by the beat of the drum and fortified with
alcohol. They were stringing barricades across the streets, setting fires,
hijacking the few vehicles whose drivers were foolish enough to be still out. I
suddenly realised that my exit routes were being sealed off and I escaped only
through a couple of rapid U- turns and a high-speed weave through the maze of
terraced streets.

From the relative safety of the Belfast-to-Bangor dual carriageway, I looked
back and saw smoke billowing into the clear evening sky. I had not seen such a
sight since the military coup that toppled President Aristide of Haiti in 1991,
or the 1992 Los Angeles riots. Was this really the UK? The violence and mayhem
during the Drumcree stand-off shocked us relative newcomers, but not friends who
were raised in Northern Ireland or who have lived there for many years. Most
reacted to this annual disruption with a mixture of Dunkirk spirit and black
humour. Many now time their holidays to coincide with the marching season.
Others stock up and batten down until the tensions subside, then resume the
remarkably comfortable lives of Northern Ireland's middle classes.

Violence is an ever-present backdrop to life in "Norn Iron". Republican and
loyalist ceasefires have supposedly been in force throughout the past 12 months,
but there have been at least 25 sectarian murders beginning with that of
Bernadette Martin, an 18-year-old Catholic girl shot in her Protestant
boyfriend's bed, and culminating in those of the three young Quinn brothers
burnt alive in their home.

There have been at least five big car bombs, mortar attacks on three police
stations, and at least 150 kneecappings and punishment beatings. A 79-year-old
man was shot in both knees and ankles after his paramilitary assailants broke
into the wrong flat, and it is no accident that Northern Ireland boasts the
world's best knee surgeons as well as being a leading manufacturer of bullet and
knife-proof vests.

But except in July the violence tends to be in a few notorious hotspots. As in
Washington, America's murder capital, where most of the roughly 500 killings
each year took place in the black ghettos, so violence for most of Northern
Ireland's better-off inhabitants is something they see only on TV. We are ex
directory and thought about changing our English numberplates, but we hardly
live in terror. We do not check beneath the car, or hesitate to answer the
doorbell at night. As a journalist, I visit the troublespots, but as a family we
go near them only to give visitors a ghoulish tour of North and West Belfast.
That invariably includes the heavily fortified police stations, the steel
"peace" walls that slice across streets to keep the warring tribes apart, the
tricolours and painted kerbstones with which they stake out their territory, the
paramilitary murals on gable ends, the IRA graves in Milltown Cemetery and the
republican Felons Club whose membership qualification is past incarceration for
the cause. We rent a large house by the sea near Belfast that would cost less to
buy than a small flat in Central London. The children go to one of the many
excellent grammar schools - private education is almost non-existent.For
recreation, there are pristine beaches, lovely loughs, beautiful countryside,
many golf courses, three Michelin-star restaurants, good music and theatre in
Belfast, and a mini-Glyndebourne in a stately home called Castleward at the foot
of Strangford Lough.

We shop like regular Brits at Tesco or Sainsbury's - though both chains reached
the Province only shortly before we did. Each Wednesday a fish van arrives at
our front door bearing fresh salmon, kippers and smoked haddock. It rains a lot,
but the compensation is a spectacular lushness capped by Gulf Stream-nurtured
palm trees and a deluge of blackberries in the autumn. The breads and cheeses
are fabulous. The children roam at will. The conventional crime rate is well
below that of Britain. There are no long-distance commutes, few traffic jams,
and as many BMWs as you would find in Epsom.

The truth is that Northern Ireland's middle classes enjoy a quality of life that
their English counterparts have long since lost, and in many ways they have
actually benefited from the Troubles.

There are huge British subsidies that have provided an excellent infrastructure,
a swollen public sector that has rendered the Province virtually
recession-proof, and an old-world charm that survives because the forces of
modernity have shunned this seemingly benighted place.

The pace of life remains slow. The people may do terrible things to each other
but could not be kinder to outsiders - and that includes staunch republicans
whose hatred of the British rarely extends to Britons individually. The calendar
is still punctuated by such events as horse fairs, ploughing championships and
cattle markets, and people still indulge in traditional pastimes such as
road-bowling in country lanes on Sundays.

Northern Ireland even retains its own dialect.

But there is a price to pay for these benefits. That same insularity has
retarded social progress. Women are kept in their place. Ian Paisley "guldered"
(roared) about "sodomites at Stormont" when Elton John performed there. The
religious fundamentalism compares to that of America's Bible Belt, with
fire-and-brimstone messages painted on barns, and leisure centres in some of the
stricter towns still closed on the Sabbath.

Foreigners are rare, travel to other parts of Britain is expensive, and the
place often feels like the proverbial goldfish bowl.

It remains probably the most militarised society in Europe. Nearly 30,000 armed
soldiers and policemen protect a population of barely 1.6 million. Armoured Land
Rovers patrol the streets. Checkpoints and watchtowers are almost common. There
are 83,753 licensed firearms in addition to those of the security forces and of
the paramilitaries who control the housing estates. It is also an intensely
politicised society with a vibrant local media where the common man is
well-informed. There is a whole lexicon to be learnt - never talk of "the
mainland", or of "Ulster" to a nationalist, or of "Derry" rather than
"Londonderry" to a Unionist. There is the coy ritual to establish a stranger's
religion - his name, where does he live, what school did he go to. Even my
middle-class, American-reared children know which of their classmates is
Catholic, and politics is a subject safer to avoid at formal dinners.

To live in Northern Ireland is to be permanently on guard, and only when the
aircraft lifts off for Heathrow do you feel the social tension ease.

It is a place where a beautiful country road becomes a veritable Via Dolorosa as
you pass memorials to past atrocities. It is a looking- glass world where former
IRA terrorists tell of their deeds without shame because they feel none. It is a
moral maze where right and wrong are relative terms, and questions often have no
answers. It is an anthropologist's delight where an underground wall was once
built in Belfast's City Cemetery so that even in death Catholics and Protestants
were segregated.

It is a Province more foreign in many ways than Washington.


LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1998 Times Newspapers Limited

                              391 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                 August 2, 1998

NIO drops political status for future terror prisoners

BYLINE: BY HENRY MCDONALD AND MARY HOLLAND

SECTION: The Observer News Page; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 476 words


REPUBLICANS jailed after the Good Friday Agreement will not be allowed into the
Maze top-security prison, thus losing their special political status, the
Northern Ireland Office has announced.

'If an IRA man gets done for a robbery or a punishment attack, he's no longer
treated as a political prisoner. A lot of the IRA members in the H-blocks are
unhappy with that,' said a source in the Maze.

Paramilitaries convicted of terrorist offences committed after 10 April will now
be sent to Maghaberry jail, which houses mainly non-terrorist prisoners.

The news came as the first six IRA prisoners freed under the Good Friday
Agreement were released from Portlaoise prison in the Republic on Friday night,
including three repatriated from prisons in Britain.

This is the first release of paramilitary prisoners belonging to groups
observing the ceasefire and will fuel the anger of unionists opposed to the
release of prisoners before weapons are decommissioned.

Brian Goodman, whose son Glen, a policeman, was shot dead in 1992 by an IRA team
including Michael O'Brien, one of those repatriated, said: 'None of us is very
happy about this. We feel let down by our Government.'

Andrew McKay, the Conservatives' Northern Ireland spokesman, said the releases
were premature in the light

of recent IRA attacks, including the murder of Andrew Kearney.

Peter Robinson, deputy leader of the Democratic Unionist Party, said the
releases were obscene and immoral.  'It proves that terrorism has succeeded.
People are literally getting away with murder.'

Jeffrey Donaldson, a member of the Ulster Unionist Party, who is a severe critic
of the Good Friday Agreement, said the early releases showed the extent to which
the British and Irish Governments were now prepared to go to appease the IRA.

His supporters in the UUP have been canvassing party activists and a number of
councillors to gauge support for a new hardline unionist force without David
Trimble at its head.

One UUP councillor who contacted The Observer said he had been approached at the
beginning of the week by close supporters of Donaldson. Although he did not want
to be named, the councillor said: 'I was asked what my attitude would be to any
new unionist party if it was formed. My impression was that they were looking at
it very seriously.'

Republican sources in South Armagh, meanwhile, claim that a further 12
Provisional IRA members have defected from the mainstream republican group in
Newry to join the dissident Real IRA.

The first IRA Maze inmates will be freed in September. Application forms to
apply to the commission set up to determine which prisoners are freed are
already circulating in the Maze.

Prisoners from the Irish National LIberation Army and Loyalist Volunteer Force
are not included in the special release scheme.


LOAD-DATE: August 3, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1998 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              392 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                             August 3, 1998, Monday

Dissidents who threaten peace

BYLINE: Audrey Magee

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 372 words


ONCE dismissed as a paltry group of yesterday's men, republican dissidents are
quickly becoming a dangerous force. The Continuity IRA, Real IRA and INLA refuse
to call a ceasefire or recognise the two called by the IRA since August 1994.

The Continuity IRA set up within months of the first IRA ceasefire, pledging
"unremitting hostility to the British forces' occupation in Ireland". The group
is linked to Republican Sinn Fein, a political party of purists led Ruairi O
Bradaigh - a former Sinn Fein president - that split from Sinn Fein in 1986.

The terrorists' first attack was on the Killyhevlin Hotel on the outskirts of
Enniskillen, Co Fermanagh, flattened on July 13, 1995 by a car bomb containing
1,250 lb of homemade explosives. Their attacks were mostly confined to car bombs
assembled in the Irish Republic, driven over the border and planted in the
centre of Protestant towns, including one on September 16, 1997, which destroyed
the centre of Markethill, Co Armagh, as the Ulster Unionist Party prepared to
rejoin the multiparty talks.

This year on February 20, the centre of Moira, Co Down, was badly damaged by a
500lb car bomb, for which the Continuity IRA was blamed. Three days later, it
was also blamed for a car bomb in Portadown, Co Armagh.

Numerous other car-bomb attacks have been attempted but thwarted by police and
the Army, including one on September 29, 1996, when a 250lb bomb was defused in
the centre of Belfast, and one on January 6 this year, when a 500lb car bomb was
defused in Banbridge, Co Down.

Attempts by the Continuity IRA, which has fewer than 50 members, to wreak havoc
were bolstered last November with the formation of the Real IRA. It has about 70
members, although its ranks are believed to be growing as more IRA members, many
with bomb-making expertise, switch allegiance. They issued a statement in May
pledging to wage a fresh war on Britain, and said that "a war machine is once
again being directed at the British Cabinet".

The Continuity IRA and Real IRA are believed to be sharing information and
bombmaking techniques and linking up with the INLA, a dangerous group of fewer
than 30 people which has carried out four murders since December.


LOAD-DATE: August 3, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1998 Times Newspapers Limited

                              393 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            August 4, 1998, Tuesday

Shayler: the unanswered questions

BYLINE: Andrew Buncombe and Linus Gregoriadis

SECTION: NEWS; Page 4

LENGTH: 437 words


Who is David Shayler?

A 32-year-old former MI5 officer who revealed secrets about the intelligence
service published in a series of newspaper articles last year and then fled
across the Channel into self-imposed exile.

What has he revealed in the past?

He said that MI5 kept files on Jack Straw, the Home Secretary, and Peter
Mandelson, the Secretary of State for Trade and Industry, when they were student
activists.

He also claimed that intelligence about a planned bomb attack on the Israeli
embassy in London was not passed on. A High Court injunction prevents detailed
publication of the allegations in the UK.

Why was Mr Shayler arrested on Saturday?

Though the Home Office will not comment on the reason there is widespread
speculation it was linked to his plan to publish M15 secrets on the Internet.

It has been claimed that among these secrets were details of a British plan to
assassinate the Libyan leader, Colonel Muammar Gaddafi, and allegations of a
breakdown in communication between Britain's intelligence services which allowed
the IRA to carry out a number of "spectaculars" - major bomb attacks.

What will happen to Mr Shayler now?

In the first instance, Mr Shayler's case will go before the Chambre
d'Accusation, which must decide whether there is a prima facie case for his
extradition to Britain. The British government has 40 days to present its
evidence and the Chambre must then make its decision within 45 days.

Under French extradition procedure - although not formally under French law -
the Prime Minister, Lionel Jospin, decides whether or not to follow the
Chambre's advice. Once he has pronounced, the defence lawyers can, in theory,
lodge appeals right up to the Conseil d'Etat - the final constitutional appeal
court.

Under a strict interpretation of French law, Mr Shayler could be returned to
Britain while such appeals were being prepared and heard. Under French legal
tradition, however, the suspect is always held in France until the appeals
process is exhausted.

Who is Richard Tomlinson and how is he linked?

Richard Tomlinson, a former SAS member, has just finished serving a 12- month
sentence for breaching the Official Secrets Act when he sent a synopsis on a
book to an Australian publisher.

He travelled to France last week without a passport and was arrested on Saturday
night. Mr Tomlinson, who was released without charge, has said he has no plans
to pursue his book deal. He dismissed speculation that he was in Paris to
co-operate on a book with Mr Shayler.

Andrew Buncombe and Linus Gregoriadis


LOAD-DATE: August 04, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1998 Independent Print Ltd

                              394 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            August 4, 1998, Tuesday

BRITISH KNEW OF IRA BOMB PLOTS SAYS EX-OFFICER;
 EX BRITISH INTELLIGENCE OFFICER CLAIMS THREE IRA BOMBINGS COULD HAVE BEEN
PREVENTED IF HIS FORMER BOSSES HAD BEEN MORE EFFICIENT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 120 words


A RENEGADE British intelligence officer has claimed that three IRA bombings
could have been prevented if his former secret service bosses had been more
efficient.

The accusation was made by David Shayler, a former member of Britain's security
service who was arrested in Paris and now faces charges under the Official
Secrets Act.

In an interview yesterday Shayler alleged that red tape bungling by his former
bosses in MI5 cost at least one life - a man killed when an IRA bomb went off in
London's financial district in 1993.

Shayler has also claimed that MI5 was tipped off in advance of a bomb attack in
1994 on the Israeli embassy in London in which 13 people were injured, but that
it did nothing.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1998 MGN Ltd.

                              395 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Nottingham Evening Post

                                 August 7, 1998

World and national news

SECTION: World And National News, Pg.8

LENGTH: 1508 words


US embassies hit by bombs

Dozens of people are reported to have been killed in what appear to be
co-ordinated bomb attacks on two US embassies in East Africa today.

Hundreds of people were injured by an explosion which toppled a seven-storey
building on to the embassy in Nairobi, the Kenyan capital.

The force of the blast ripped bombproof doors from the embassy and the US
ambassador was carried out of an adjacent building on a stretcher.

Minutes later a car bomb exploded outside the US embassy in Dar es Salaam,
capital of neighbouring Tanzania.

Five people, including two white men, are reported to have been killed in that
attack and 54 injured.

It was definitely a bomb," said a US Embassy official in Nairobi. "You can see a
huge crater behind the building, and a bomb went off at the embassy in Tanzania
at the same time."

An unknown number of foreigners were hurt in the Nairobi explosion.

A Nairobi TV station said that Prudence Bushnell, US ambassador to Kenya, was
among the injured. She had just finished addressing a press conference in the
cooperative building and was carried away on a stretcher with blood on her face.

Two commuter buses also took the force of the blast and many were injured on
board the packed vehicles at 10:35 am (0835 BST).

Dozens of other vehicles were wrecked in the Nairobi blast and a plume of black
smoke shot into the sky.

A spokeswoman at the Foreign Office said: "The British High Commission in
Nairobi is only half a mile away, so it is certainly close enough to rattle the
windows, but as far as we know there is no damage to the building or to anyone
inside.

There were unconfirmed reports of other attacks in Uganda and Sudan.

Dozens of people inside and outside the Nairobi are reported to have died and
there are reports of five being killed in the Dar es Salaam blast.

Ambulances and police rushed to the chaotic scene.

Rescuers searched the rubble for survivors while armed US marines patrolled the
street outside the embassy.

Hundreds were sprawled screaming on the sidewalk with bloody wounds.

Mountbatten's killer enjoys first day of freedom

The man who murdered Lord Mountbatten - the only member of the Royal Family to
be killed during the Northern Ireland conflict - was today enjoying his freedom
as part of the Ulster peace deal.

Thomas McMahon, 50, from County Armagh, has been released on an almost weekly
basis for the past two years as part of a pre-release programme agreed by the
Irish government. One of the longest-serving prisoners, his release was
authorised under the terms of the deal which permits terrorists on both sides of
the border to be set free on condition the IRA ceasefire stay.

McMahon gave up his links with the IRA more than a decade ago and had been kept
in custody at the lower security Mountjoy jail in Dublin after his transfer from
Portlaoise.

Ulster Unionist MP Jeffrey Donaldson condemned the decision, saying: "Once again
the release of this notorious killer is another indication of the premature
manner in which both the Irish and British governments are approaching the
release of terrorist prisoners.

"Even Sinn Fein admits the IRA war is not over, yet both governments continue
with the release of prisoners in spite of on-going violence from republicans,
including the IRA."

Earlier this week Northern Ireland Secretary Mo Mowlam looked forward to the
freeing of terrorists in Northern Ireland.

Ulster's prisoner release scheme got under way in earnest yesterday as
paramilitary prisoners in the Maze began filling in their application forms.
About 200 are set to get out in the first wave.

Victims will be notified individually when prisoners are released.

Hindley's friend

Myra Hindley has become friends with brother of one of her victims, it was
reported today. Alan Bennett, 42, whose brother Keith was killed at the age of
12 by Moors murderers Hindley and her lover Ian Brady, embraced her during a
visit at Highpoint Jail in Suffolk on Wednesday, to the horror of his mother, a
national newspaper reported.

Linda's view

Family snaps and rock star portraits are among a collection of photographs by
Linda McCartney being unveiled today in her husband's home town.

Linda's Pictures has never been shown before in Liverpool, although the prints
were given to the city's Walker Art Gallery in 1978 by Sir Paul McCartney's late
wife.

Kissed off

Radio station Kiss 100FM has pulled the plug on its stage at London's Notting
Hill Carnival because of a row about where it should be positioned. The dance
station announced it was withdrawing the stage because it failed to get the
go-ahead from the local council to place it in a local park.

'Kindest way'

Squirting mental patients with CS spray may be the kindest way of dealing with
them, according to Home Office minister Lord Williams of Mostyn. Lord Williams
made the claim in a Lords written reply after a survey showed more than
one-third of NHS mental health trusts had treated people with mental health
problems who had been sprayed by police.

Pilots eject

Two Ministry of Defence test pilots escaped unhurt after ejecting from their
aeroplane as it was about to land. The plane, a Hawker Hunter two-seater jet,
developed problems as they approached Boscombe Down airfield, near Salisbury,
Wiltshire, yesterday, said a spokesman for the Defence Evaluation and Research
Agency.

Mayor's teeth

The Mayor of London is to have the power to refuse major planning applications
in the capital such as large scale developments, the Government said. Major
infrastructure projects and developments which affect key sites and key policies
could also be blocked by the Mayor.

Sick Britain

More than a million people take at least one day off work sick in an average
week, according to a snapshot of sickness absence, compiled by the Office for
National Statistics. The sickness rate for the UK workforce was 4.5%.

Naughty, but...

Iraq's refusal to allow arms inspections was "totally unacceptable," the UN
Security Council ruled - yet it held out the possibility of UN concessions if
Saddam Hussein relented. The

strongly worded condemnation failed to outline what the council planned to do.

Honest Monica

MONICA Lewinsky told grand jurors her first-hand account of a relationship with
President Bill Clinton "truthfully, completely and honestly," said her
spokeswoman Judy Smith.

Yangtze fears

CHINA was evacuating more than 300,000 people today from land along the raging
Yangtze River that could be sacrificed to flooding in a desperate bid to
safeguard areas downstream.

Floods toll

FLOODS sweeping across the Seoul metropolitan area left at least 119 people dead
and 53 others missing today in South Korea's worst natural disaster in years.

Don't be cheeky

PROTESTERS who go nude in Caracas, Venezuela, will be jailed for up to a month,
the city's police chief General Francisco Belisario said today, following a demo
by about a dozen nude university students against higher school fees.

Mob foiled

A BOY of 13 who was about to be lynched by a crowd for allegedly killing an
11-year-old friend was rescued by police and taken into custody, police in
Mante, Mexico, said today.

'Rambo' jailed FORMER police officer Otavio Gambra - nicknamed Rambo - who last
year was filmed beating and shooting motorists has been sentenced to a 44-month
prison sentence in Brazil.

Hutchence row A LEGAL battle over the estate of rock star Michael Hutchence
began behind closed doors in the Queensland Supreme Court today.The late
singer's mother and sister are at loggerheads with the estate's executor, Andrew
Morrison.

Drugs death

A BOLIVIAN woman who swallowed several rubber packages of cocaine to smuggle it
into Chile died when some of the packages broke.

24 killed

A BUS accident in western Cuba killed 24 people and injured at least two others
seriously.

Wrong-label pills alert

NOTTS parents are being urged to return a brand of Paracetamol which has been
wrongly labelled as suitable for young children.

Stores across the country have been ordered to remove thousands of the 16 and 32
packs of Paracetamol Caplets 500mg after the incorrect instructions were
discovered.

About 500,000 Paracetamol Caplets with an expiry date of July 1 are affected by
the error on Tesco's, UniChem's and the Co-op's own brand of Paracetamol.

Luton-based manufacturer Wallis Laboratory has recalled the cartons and printed
warning adverts in the national Press.

The dosage instructions on the recalled cartons says the caplets can be given to
children under 12 when it should say between the ages of six and 12.

The Queen's Medical Centre's drug and information manager Steve May said:
"Paracetamol is used for children under six but in small doses.

"If a child of one or two has had the full dosage as printed on the labels then
they would have had a potential overdose.

"If any parent is worried then they should contact their GP."

Wallis Laboratory technical manager Myer Gohil said anyone who has any queries
can ring 0800 3891637.

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: HEATed appeal: An elderly man pleads for help as a fire threatens to
engulf a forested area outside a northern Athens suburb. Officials have declared
a state of emergency in the greater Athens area and in a southern district as
wind-whipped fires killed at least one person and threatened the ancient site of
the Olympic games. Firefighting aircraft and personnel arrived from Italy and
France to help battle blazes that engulfed homes around Greece and stretched the
country's firefighting forces to the limit

                     Copyright 1998 Nottingham Evening Post

                              396 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                            August 8, 1998, Saturday

I CAN NO LONGER BREATHE SAME AIR AS TERRORISTS

BYLINE: Gary Kelly

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 452 words


SANDRA Peacock whose husband Jim was shot dead by a UVF gunman in September,
1993 is leaving Northern Ireland because she can no longer bear to breathe the
same air as paramilitaries.

Speaking at her Glengormley home yesterday, she said that plans to release 400
terrorist prisoners were the final straw.

"Myra Hindley's still in jail after 30 years in Great Britain. If she tried to
get out of jail there would be a public outcry that you would never hear the end
of," she said.

"In Northern Ireland we have mass murderers here as well, you know, but they're
only doing a few years and then home to their wives or their girlfriends or
fancy women or something else.

"No, if you get life here in Northern Ireland, life should mean life.  If you
get 25 years, it should mean 25 years."

Mrs Peacock, whose family fled in terror earlier this year after her Glengormley
home was attacked by a loyalist gang, said she would be leaving early in the New
Year.

She had been thinking of leaving to be re-united with her son and daughters but
the final push came after the endorsement of early prisoner releases and the
prospect of parties aligned to paramilitary groups taking seats in the new
Executive.

"I would not live in a country with terrorists in government," she said.

"I don't think the British people would like terrorists in their government, so
why should I be asked to put up with it?"

She has no faith in the ceasefires of both republican and loyalist paramilitary
groups.

Last month had seen four murders - the deaths of the three Quinn children in a
petrol bomb attack on their home in Ballymoney, County Antrim, and the murder of
Andrew Kearney, who bled to death after being shot in the legs by republicans in
north Belfast.

Mrs Peacock dismissed the argument that the new arrangements would ultimately
bring peace.

"Somebody should tell that to the young woman and her child whose boyfriend was
left to bleed to death outside her flat.

"They should also tell that to the family of those three children murdered in
Ballymoney," she said.

She hit the headlines back in May with her implacable opposition to the Stormont
Agreement, saying: "I will not live in a country that is going to be governed by
ex-terrorists."

A member of the anti-terrorism group Outcry, which has helped families escape
the clutches of paramilitaries, she said that republicans and loyalists continue
to threaten and intimidate people.

"We are still out there fighting. We are still getting poor critters phoning up,
including a young fella whom the IRA is after.

"Of course, it couldn't have been anything to do with the IRA, it must have been
the Continuity IRA!"

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GETTING OUT: murdered warder's widow Sandra Peacock;; JEAN ARMOUR

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1998 Century Newspapers Limited

                              397 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                            August 8, 1998, Saturday

EMBASSIES ON RED ALERT AFTER BLASTS;
 AT LEAST 60 DEAD AND HUNDREDS INJURED

BYLINE: Cahal Milmo And Susan Doyle Special Correspondents

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 723 words


British and American embassies worldwide were last night put on high alert after
huge bomb attacks in two east African cities that killed at least 60 people and
left more than a thousand injured.

The Foreign Office has notified all diplomatic missions to be "extra vigilant"
after two blasts shook the US embassies in the capital cities of Kenya and
Tanzania - killing at least 60 people and maiming hundreds.

British soldiers were last night at the heart of a desperate operation to find
survivors of the worst of the two attacks in the Kenyan capital Nairobi, where
the force of the explosion caused the collapse of a seven- storey building.

The blast ripped through the centre of the city, busy with office workers and
traders, yesterday morning, killing at least 50 people and injuring 400.

At least five Britons suffered minor injuries.

Within minutes a suspected car bomb killed about nine people as it exploded
outside the American Embassy in Dar es Salaam, capital of neighbouring Tanzania.
Nearly two-thirds of the building was destroyed.

Security at diplomatic buildings worldwide was immediately tightened as
speculation rose that a Muslim terror group may have been responsible.  Kenyan
police were last night holding an Arabic-speaking man arrested in Nairobi.

An FO spokeswoman said: "Upon receiving news of the bombings we immediately sent
an alert message to all our embassies worldwide. Until we know the reasons for
this attack we are advising them to be extra vigilant."

A former assistant secretary to the Pentagon warned that steadfast UK support
for the US on a wide range of issues now puts British diplomats directly in the
firing line.

Mr Lawrence J. Korb, who is also a terror expert, said: "For whatever reason
terrorists have now decided that they are going to express their unhappiness
about ... US and British policies against situations like, for example Iraq,
where Britain and the United States have stood together."

After the bombings, bloodied clothing and papers littered the streets of Nairobi
as rescuers searched the rubble of the seven-storey Ufundi Cooperative building,
which also houses the Kenyan ministry of trade.

Scenes of the carnage were flashed across TV screens worldwide. Bodies lay in
the streets outside the embassy hours after the blast as the Kenyan authorities
battled to cope with the sheer scale of the outrage.

A squad of 25 British troops based at a Nairobi training camp was set to stay at
the blast scene round the clock, after being rushed to the city centre with
heavy lifting equipment and medical supplies. Major Jim Bain, who is co
-ordinating the British Army Training Liaison-Kenya (BATLSK) team sent in after
a request from the British High Commission, said his men were working amid
scenes of absolute horror.

He said: "There is total devastation, they are picking through the ruined
building in search of survivors with seriously injured people lying around. It
is a traumatic thing, even for trained soldiers.

"We have sent in medical supplies and trained personnel, along with volunteer
locals. They will be working in shifts and will continue throughout the night
and tomorrow - we'll stay as long as we're needed."

The British troops, stationed at the Kenyan Army Kahawa Barracks on the northern
outskirts of Nairobi, were also enforcing a security cordon around the blast
scene.

The attacks brought immediate condemnation from governments worldwide. American
President Bill Clinton labelled the bombers "inhuman" as he last night pledged
to hunt the perpetrators down.

Two US military aircraft have been sent to east Africa loaded with medical
supplies and FBI counter-terrorism experts.

Foreign Secretary Mr Robin Cook labelled the attacks "cowardly acts" as he
pledged that Britain would help "in any way it can".

In a statement released by the Foreign Office, Mr Cook said: "I am shocked and
appalled by today's bomb attacks.

"I have conveyed to the governments of the United States, Kenya and Tanzania the
horror of the British Government at these cowardly acts, which have taken the
lives of innocent people and injured many others."

l The BBC was last night forced to apologise after horrific pictures of a
Nairobi bomb victim were transmitted on the BBC One O'Clock News by mistake.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Horror: Rescue workers help to move a blast victim from the American;
Embassy in Nairobi yesterday after a huge explosion heavily damaged the
building, injuring and killing hundreds.

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1998 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              398 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                 August 8, 1998

Alert to embassy staff as 90 die in blasts

BYLINE: Cahal Milmo

SECTION: News, Pg.1/ 2

LENGTH: 882 words


BRITISH and American embassies worldwide were put on red alert last night after
bomb attacks in two East African cities killed at least 90 people and left more
than 1,000 injured.

The Foreign Office has told all British diplomatic missions to be ''extra
vigilant'' after two blasts shook the U.S. embassies in the capitals of Kenya
and Tanzania.

Last night British soldiers were involved in a desperate operation to find
survivors of the worst of the two attacks in the Kenyan capital Nairobi, where
the force of the explosion caused the collapse of a seven-storey building.

The blast ripped through the centre of the busy city yesterday morning, killing
at least 50 people and injuring 400.

At least five Britons suffered minor injuries in the blast.

Exploded

Minutes later a suspected car bomb killed about nine people as it exploded
outside the American Embassy in Dar es Salaam, capital of neighbouring Tanzania.
Nearly two-thirds of the building was destroyed.

Security at diplomatic buildings worldwide was immediately tightened as
speculation rose that a Muslim terror group may have been responsible. Kenyan
police were holding an Arabic-speaking man arrested in Nairobi.

A Foreign Office spokeswoman said: ''Upon receiving news of the bombings we
immediately sent an alert to all our embassies worldwide. Until we know the
reasons for this attack we are advising them to be extra vigilant.''

A former assistant secretary to the Pentagon warned that steadfast UK support
for the U.S. on a wide range of issues puts British diplomats in the firing
line.

Terror expert Lawrence J Korb said: ''For whatever reason terrorists have now
decided that they are going to express their unhappiness about U.S. and British
policies against situations like Iraq, where Britain and the United States have
stood together.''

After the bombings bloodied clothing and papers littered the streets of Nairobi
as rescuers searched the rubble.

Scenes of the carnage were flashed across TV screens worldwide. Bodies lay in
the streets outside the embassy hours after the blast as the Kenyan authorities
battled to cope with the sheer scale of the outrage.

A squad of 25 British troops based at a Nairobi training camp will stay at the
blast scene around the clock after being rushed to the city centre with heavy
lifting equipment and medical supplies.

Major Jim Bain, who is co-ordinating the British Army Training Liaison - Kenya
team sent in after a request from the British High Commission, said his men were
working amid scenes of absolute horror.

He said: ''There is total devastation. They are picking through the ruined
building in search of survivors with seriously injured people lying around. It
is a traumatic thing, even for trained soldiers.

Working

''We have sent in medical supplies and trained personnel, along with volunteer
locals. They will be working in shifts and will continue throughout the night
and tomorrow.''

The attacks brought condemnation from governments worldwide. American President
Bill Clinton labelled the bombers ''inhuman'' as he pledged to hunt the
perpetrators down.

Two U.S. military aircraft have been sent to East Africa loaded with medical
supplies and FBI counter-terrorism experts.

The Foreign Secretary Robin Cook labelled the attacks ''cowardly acts'' and
pledged that Britain would help ''in any way it can.''

Among the stories of horrible suffering at least one remarkable escape came to
light as it was revealed British Airways staff working on the 11th floor of a
building just yards from the explosion had been saved by bomb-proof windows.

A BA spokesman said: ''Our manager in Nairobi told us that no one was harmed,
mainly due to the protective windows we have. The embassy is just yards away and
we are 11 floors up."

The Foreign Office said the five Britons injured in the Nairobi blast had
suffered minor cuts while the ex-patriate community working for British
companies in Kenya appeared to have escaped largely unscathed. No Britons were
injured in Tanzania.

A FO spokeswoman said: ''There have been no reports of Britons seriously injured
in Nairobi. The only victims were passers-by who had minor cuts and came to the
British High Commission for help.''

Anglo-Dutch oil company Shell's headquarters in Kenya, which is near the U.S.
embassy, was shaken by the blast and many of its windows were blown in.

One employee was taken to hospital with minor cuts, but there were no fatalities
or serious injuries among staff.

Reports

British relief agencies in Nairobi and Dar es Salaam said they had received no
reports of their staff being injured.

The BBC had to apologise last night after horrific pictures of a Nairobi bomb
victim were transmitted on the BBC One O'Clock News by mistake.

The brief but shocking glimpse of a near-naked corpse in a smouldering car was
swiftly replaced by a blank screen.

A BBC News spokesman said a ''technical failure'' meant images chosen to replace
the scene were not shown.

Friends and family of Cheltenham Liberal Democrat Nigel Jones feared for his
safety as he toured Tanzania.

He had not been heard from since the attack yesterday morning, but last night
word got through that Mr Jones was safe.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1998 Bristol United Press

                              399 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             August 9, 1998, Sunday

Britain in secret INLA talks

BYLINE: Liam Clarke

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 771 words


THE British government is in secret contact with the Irish National Liberation
Army, the republican terrorist faction involved in the attempted bomb attacks in
London last month.

The extreme left-wing organisation has said it will end its 23-year campaign in
return for the release of prisoners and other concessions. Security sources
believe a ceasefire will probably start next month.

The revelation that the government is dealing with terrorists who are still
trying to bomb Britain will come as an embarrassment to Tony Blair, particularly
because the INLA murdered Tory MP Airey Neave at the House of Commons in 1979.

The security forces in Northern Ireland expect violence in the short-term from
the 80 or so INLA activists who will want to strengthen the organisation's hand
in negotiations. "From what we are seeing they are still continuing to target
and prepare for attacks, but at the same time they are moving towards the end of
their campaign," an intelligence source said.

A complete end to the campaign would seriously weaken the "terror alliance",
which developed between the INLA and other dissident republican groups such as
the Real IRA and the Continuity IRA. All three were involved in the attempt to
plant bombs in central London on July 3.

The Sunday Times has learned that two intermediaries are carrying messages
between the British government and the terrorists. One is a priest and the other
a senior security official. Government and INLA sources have confirmed the
contacts.

An INLA source said: "Channels of communication have been revived and there is
an internal process of consultation within the INLA which is ongoing. I won't
predict its outcome."

Mo Mowlam, the Northern Ireland secretary, made an oblique reference to the
contacts in an interview on Radio 5 Live last Wednesday when she said the INLA
and the Loyalist Volunteer Force "have made overtures to us". Mowlam said: "I am
not closing any doors but I am not opening them until I see some clear
commitment to a ceasefire."

Neither the LVF nor the INLA are included in the scheme for early release of
terrorist prisoners from British jails.

Prisoners of both organisations are believed to be pressing their leaderships to
do a deal with the government that would allow them to be released. If the INLA
called a ceasefire that Mowlam accepted as genuine all its prisoners would be
eligible for release within two years.

The LVF is on ceasefire but Mowlam has refused to allow its prisoners take part
in the early releases.

The INLA has 32 prisoners, 25 of them in Northern Ireland and the remainder in
the republic. Of these only five are due to be released within the next two
years without a deal. The first product of the pact between the INLA and the
other republican splinter groups was a car bomb attack in Newtownhamilton, Co
Armagh, timed to coincide with the Northern Ireland assembly elections on June
25.

One worry about releasing INLA prisoners early is that the organisation has a
history of splits and internecine warfare. The latest internal blood-letting was
only last year. Some INLA prisoners have a history of drifting between different
terrorist groups.

For example, Christopher "Crip" McWilliams, who is charged with the murder of
LVF leader Billy Wright in the Maze prison, was previously a member of the Irish
People's Liberation Organisation, a now-defunct group which fought a bloody feud
with the INLA.

There would be fears that, once released, prisoners would set up a new group or
join the Real IRA, a breakaway faction from the Provisionals which is regarded
by the British and Irish governments as the biggest threat to the peace process.
There also would be fears that former INLA members who broke away from the
organisation, such as Dessie O'Hare, the notorious killer known as the Border
Fox, would rejoin in order to get out of jail. O'Hare is serving 40 years in the
republic.

The Real IRA is actively recruiting and the government has little leverage over
it because, as a new organisation, it has no prisoners seeking release. It has
already attracted a large number of IRA quartermasters, the men who controlled
the organisation's weaponry, and "engineers", who were responsible for creating
improvised devices such as the IRA's mortars.

Since these engineers defected to the Real IRA they are believed to have
developed a means of remotely detonating bombs by the use of digital mobile
phones.

Security sources believe the Real IRA are now planning terrorist attacks on
Belfast city centre and targets on the British mainland.


LOAD-DATE: August 13, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1998 Times Newspapers Limited

                              400 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Hull Daily Mail

                                August 12, 1998

Showbiz: Music

SECTION: Showbiz: Music, Pg.6

LENGTH: 692 words


Merger brings closure threat for off-licences

UK: Around 300 off -licences across the country were today facing closure after
drinks groups Whitbread and Allied Domecq agreed to merge their Thresher and
Victoria Wine businesses. The two will be combined into a new company which will
own around 3,000 shops in total.

A Whitbread spokeswoman warned about 10 per cent of them would be closed over
the next three years, but could not say how many jobs might disappear.

Allied's Victoria Wine also owns the Victoria Wine Cellars, Haddows, Martha's
Vineyard and The Firkin off-licence chains. Whitbread's Thresher arm trades as
Wine Rack, Bottoms Up, Drinks Cabin and Huttons as well as Thresher Wine Shops.
Both currently have just under 1,500 shops in total.

The spokeswoman stressed the company hoped that when shops closed, staff would
be re-deployed and that natural wastage would avoid the need for redundancies.

Blocking the criminals

UK: Police are to mount a nationwide road-block operation that could snare
hundreds of criminals, illegal immigrants and benefit fraudsters.

The one-day action next month, codenamed Operation Mermaid, will be staged by 52
police forces in an attempt to drive dangerous vehicles off the road.

But immigration officials, benefits agency inspectors and customs officers will
be waiting at the roadside to question suspects. A previous, smaller, version of
the operation was carried out in June when 1,098 vehicles were stopped,
according to the Independent.

Not so Glorious Twelfth

UK: The Glorious Twelfth dawned today - with more whimpers than bangs from
Britain's gun-toting field sportsmen. Cold weather and heavy rain in May and
early June killed off many chicks, leave many moors facing the prospect of a
blank start to the grouse-shooting season. The Countryside Alliance said moors
in North Yorkshire, the Pennines andNorthumberland were worst-hit.

US 'warned of bombings'

ISRAEL: The US was warned in advance that their Nairobi embassy was a terrorist
bomb target, an Israeli newspaper claimed today. Haaretz reported that Israel
advised US officials to treat the warning with scepticism.

Balloonist's fuel snag fear

INDIAN OCEAN: Adventurer Steve Fossett today said that fuel consumption problems
may force him to abandon his dreams of being the first to circle the world in a
balloon.

But the intrepid 54-year-old American continues to set new records as he started
the sixth day of his epic journey aboard the Solo Spirit. He is currently
located over the Indian Ocean.

Speaking on Sky News, the Chicago businessman said fuel problems may force him
to abandon his journey if he is unable to maintain a high speed.

He said: "The other problem is getting the right trajectory which keeps me in
fair wind speeds.

"I feel really good about making it across the Indian Ocean ... and then we're
going to see where we stand when we are in Australia or New Zealand."

He said the final leg across the Pacific posed a major problem, especially
because the route would leave him isolated from his support team.

"Unfortunately there isn't a rescue plan right out in the ocean... (which is)
pretty far off any shipping routes."

A decision is expected later today after consultations with meteorologists about
picking a route over the massive Pacific.

The project's weather man Bob Rice said: "It's OK to fly down there, but the
penalty for failure is pretty stiff.

"If you have to abort or run out of fuel, it's pretty bad country out there."

If Mr Fossett's attempt is successful he is expected to land in seven to 10
days.

end

The Rolling Stones ended their 30 year wait to play a concert in Russia when
they performed before a sell-out crowd in Moscow.

Mick Jagger and the band played through driving rain before a crowd of tens of
thousands.

The Stones first applied to perform in Moscow more than 30 years ago, but never
received permission. Soviet officials had gone to watch them play a concert in
Warsaw in 1967, but did not like what they saw.

"They thought the show was so awful, so decadent, that they said this show would
never happen in Moscow," said Mick Jagger.

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: ROCKING THE RUSSIANS:The Stones thrill the Russian crowd, above. Jagger
and Richards go through their musical paces, inset

                         Copyright 1998 Hull Daily Mail

                              401 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                August 16, 1998

Comment: There are at least 27 dead. There are over 200 injured. There is one
remaining question this morning... just how wounded is the peace process?
QSUBHEAD:

BYLINE: GARRET FITZGERALD

SECTION: The Observer News Page; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 997 words


The accounts we have been hearing and seeing of the Omagh massacre have been
absolutely shattering. The scale of the loss of life has been surpassed during
the past three decades only by the loyalist bombing of Dublin in 1976, which
killed more than 30 people. And the killing in Omagh was totally indiscriminate:
the dead and the maimed are shoppers drawn from both Northern Ireland
communities, and may, one report has suggested, include visitors from elsewhere.

We do not know whether the warning was deliberately misleading, or whether the
bombers just did not care what casualties they would cause, or whether they
simply panicked and abandoned the vehicle before reaching their destination.
Whatever the explanation, it was an unforgivable act of murderous brutality.

The warning came from the so-called 'Real IRA' the breakaway element that is
under the leadership of a former quartermaster of the Provisional IRA. This
recently-established organisation is linked to the 32-County Sovereignty
Movement, led by a sister of Bobby Sands. It has been widely reported that, in
the organisation of recent bomb attacks, it has been co-operating with activists
of Republican Sinn Fein which broke away from the IRA over a decade ago on the
issue of Sinn Fein's elected representatives taking their seats in the Dail.

While the estimated 150 members of the 'Real IRA' include breakaway Provisional
IRA members in the North, the organisation's main strength seems to lie in the
Republic. The Gardai have been successful in blocking several shipments of
explosives from ports near to Dublin to Britain, arresting a number of people
involved, and recently successfully tipped off police in Britain about a further
attempt to bomb London.

They have also had some successes against attempts to bomb Northern Ireland, but
half a dozen bombs have got through, several of which have devastated the
centres of towns in the North, although without serious casualties. For some
time past it has been realised that further such bombs carried the risk of
casualties at some point, but no one had envisaged anything on the scale of the
tragedy that has now happened.

Clearly the 'Real IRA' are targetting the peace process, their hope being that
an emotional reaction to their violence on the part of the unionist population
might frighten the Ulster Unionist Party away from implementing the Good Friday
Agreement through the establishment of a Northern Ireland Executive Authority
later this year.

Alternatively, they may hope to provoke loyalist paramilitary bodies to
recommence attacks on nationalists and in this way tempt the Provisional IRA to
abandon the whole peace process. Finally their attempts to bomb Britain are, no
doubt, designed, however unrealistically, to arouse British opinion against the
peace process and ultimately against keeping Northern Ireland in the United
Kingdom.

The indiscriminate character of the Omagh bombing, involving loss of life and
terrible injuries to people of both communities in the North, may, however, to
some extent bind unionists and nationalists together in the face of a common
enemy, in a way the authors of this massacre would not have foreseen.

There must also be some possibility that the loss of innocent life among both
communities may reduce the momentum of the drift from the Provisionals to this
new terrorist group, and that it may damage the morale of the 'Real IRA' at a
crucial stage in its development. Moreover, some people with knowledge of the
working of this organisation could now be somewhat more inclined to tell the
Gardai what they know about it. We cannot, of course, count on such
developments, but we should not exclude these possibilities.

This massacre could also conceivably have some impact on the Provisional IRA's
approach to decommissioning. There have been conflicting reports about its
intentions in this regard. Both the leader of the Provisional prisoners in the
Maze and one of Sinn Fein's leaders spoke some time ago about decommissioning in
positive terms, as something that will happen, but Gerry Adams has recently
spoken more negatively about any imminent concessions even in terms of saying
'the war is over'.

This has led to speculation that hard-line attitudes among grass-root supporters
of Sinn Fein/IRA have been inhibiting movement on this front. Another
interpretation of Adam's stance could, however be that, while accepting the need
for decommissioning within the two-year period laid down in the Agreement, he
has been unwilling by early action on these issues to make it easier for the UUP
to establish in the autumn an Executive Authority in conjunction with Sinn Fein.

Especially if the first of these two interpretations is true, it is at least
possible that this terrible massacre might modify this negative stance. One
consideration for Sinn Fein must be the continuing leakage of Provisional Sinn
Fein explosives to the 'Real IRA' facilitated by the fact that the leader of the
later body is the Provisional IRA's former Quartermaster, who in his former role
had control of the Provisional IRA's stock of explosive and arms. However, Gerry
Adam's unqualified condemnation of the explosion should not necessarily be taken
as an indication of such a change of stance.

The fact that the 'Real IRA' is primarily based in the Republic places a special
onus on the Irish government to contain its activities. The successes already
secured have been encouraging, but the people of both parts of Ireland will
expect even more effective action in the aftermath of this appalling tragedy.

The Irish government need certainly not be inhibited by public opinion from
taking any action they deem necessary. Never have the Irish people been so
united as they are at this moment in condemning and seeking effective action
against this most murderous faction.

Garret FitzGerald is former Taoiseach of Ireland


LOAD-DATE: August 18, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1998 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              402 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                            August 16, 1998, Sunday

MASSACRE OF THE INNOCENTS;
 OMAGH DEATH TOLL IS HIGHEST IN BLOODY HISTORY OF TROUBLES;
 MORE THAN 20 KILLED IN OMAGH BOMB ATTACK

BYLINE: Jim Gallagher

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6, 7

LENGTH: 875 words


AT least 28 people were killed in a horrific bomb attack in Omagh yesterday
after a misleading warning from terrorists.

It was the worst atrocity in the blood-filled history of the Troubles.

The massive explosion went off in a packed shopping area in the middle of a
carnival and injured at least 100 people including dozens of women and children.

Police were given a telephone warning at 2.30pm yesterday that there was a bomb
at the Court House in the Co Tyrone town.But the blast came 40 minutes later
several hundred yards away as police were evacuating the area.

One eyewitness said police were unsuspectingly ushering people directly into the
blast area.

A spokesman for the RUC said: "This was a deliberate attempt to kill the maximum
number of people possible."

The devastating bomb left a scene of unbelievable carnage.

One victim was seen being put into an ambulance with an arm and leg missing.

Eyewitnesses said the streets around the blast were littered with bodies. Shops
and offices were completely destroyed and desperate survivors tore at the rubble
with their bare hands looking for loved ones.

Local landlord Nigel O'Kane, of the Monument pub, said: "It's horrific.  It's
just carnage, the worst possible place to get a bomb."

"It was less than a hundred yards away from the biggest shop and this is the
busiest shopping day of the week.

"There are people looking for loved ones who might have been shopping. People
are crying."

Ulster Unionist MP Ken Maginnis said: "There is blood everywhere.

"The Court House was on a hill and the police cleared out that area.

"People were taken to the lower end of the town where they were congregated when
the explosion went off amongst them."

The injured were taken to Omagh County hospital and police put out an emergency
appeal for medics.

British Prime Minister Tony Blair condemned the attack as an "appalling act of
savagery and evil" by people determined to wreck the peace process.

In a statement issued yesterday, he pledged that the bombers would be pursued
"to the utmost" in order to bring them to justice. "These people will never be
allowed to win."

Loyalist Volunteer Force intermediary, Pastor Kenny McClinton, said he was
praying that the loyalist ceasefire would hold following the bombing.

He also called for the resignation of Taoiseach Bertie Ahern and an end to
planned IRA prisoner releases.

He said: "This is a very black day and it is a disgrace world-wide to be called
Irish.

"These absolute animals came along on a mission of murder. It will take peace
-makers all of our time to prevent people taking the law into their own hands."

But last night, Mr Ahern pledged to crush the dissident Republican terror group
responsible.

He said: "I'm outraged at this horrific act. This is the most evil deed in
years.

"This is the dissident Republican group who have been endeavouring to carry out
other acts."

Eyewitness Sean Conway said: "After the bomb went off, I went down the street to
see if there were injured people.

"Near the corner of a bar, I could see at least five or six bodies and people
running everywhere."

Another witness, Paddy McGowan, who was driving his car close to where the bomb
went off, said: "There was a massive explosion and I thought my car had actually
lifted off the ground.

"Then I saw the terrible smoke. I left the car and people all around me were
running and screaming and there were terrified children everywhere.

"It was absolute carnage, there were bodies everywhere and a terrible loss of
limbs and obviously people were dead."

Dorothy Boyle, who lives in the town, added: "I've never seen anything like it.

"I saw bodies lying everwhere, dead people being zipped into body bags."

Tyrone County Hospital was said to be in a state of "pandemonium" last night,
with four wards and the emergency ward all full.

Helicopters began airlifting some of the sick to hospitals in Belfast and Derry.

Breakaway terrorists strike again

THE Omagh outrage is the latest attack by breakaway terrorists bent on
scuppering the peace process.

RUC sources blame the ongoing attacks on IRA splinter groups like the Continuity
IRA and the Real IRA.

Republican fanatics believe they were "sold out" by mainstream IRA who went
along with Tony Blair.

A Continuity IRA chief sent out a chilling message in an interview with the
Sunday People last May.

"History has taught us that as long as Britain stays in Ireland she will be
opposed by use of arms," said the man known only as Bob.

"It is the British Government who are to blame for these actions. We want peace
but not at any price."

Many of the latest attrocities have happened at weekends.

Just two weeks ago a 500lb car bomb tore apart the town of Banbridge, County
Down, leaving an RUC officer injured.

Last month, Scotland Yard foiled a plot to blitz rush-hour London with a fire
bomb campaign.

Busy streets were cleared as anti-terrorist squad officers arrested suspects at
gunpoint.

Six fully-primed devices were recovered and four people charged.

Police also intercepted a Continuity IRA car bomb destined to blow up the Grand
National in April.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SCENE OF CARNAGE: Omagh in Co Tyrone;; IRISH PM: Horrified at attack on
democracy;; TONY BLAIR: Bombers would be pursued 'to the utmost'

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 1998 MGN Ltd.

                              403 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                            August 16, 1998, Sunday

THREAT IN THE SHADOWS;
 CONTINUITY IRA LINKED TO OMAGH BLAST

BYLINE: Louise Oswald

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 338 words


SINCE the Ulster peace pact was brokered in May one terrorist faction has lived
in hope of renewned bloodshed.

For Continuity IRA - the most volatile and extreme Reublican group - peace is a
goal but only at their high price.

In its eyes Sinn Fein leader Gerry Adams is a traitor for entering into talks
with Premier Tony Blair's Government.

Members believe it will take five years of gun and bomb attacks to make Britain
totally withdraw from Northern Ireland.

To them, force is the only answer and they boast that within time their numbers
and weaponary will outstrip the Provisional IRA.

The mere hint of negotiations triggered a flood of arms shipments to warehouses
as they built up their arsenals for a war which they boast is only just
beginning.

Several of the world's most dangerous terrorist groups, such as Spain's Basque
separatist ETA, pour money and advice into Continuity.

But what is even more sinister is the seemingly respectable veneer that hides
their murderous activities.

Most of them are happy-go-lucky family men who would buy anyone a pint and can
spin a good yarn.

And two of its most ruthless leaders of Continuity's Army Council are women who
organised the bombing of two hotels in Enniskillen.

But away from the comfort of a pub, they talk with fervour about dying for the
cause and they are a magnet for extremists.

One member, identified only as Joe, revealed: "We are approached on a daily
basis by Provos who want to join.

"They are angry at any talks and realise the war is not over. It is just
starting.

"We might be a small group at present but one day the majority will know we are
right.

"When Ireland is reunited and we can all live in peace no one will be calling us
psychopaths."

At night members like Joe travel to secret bomb factories to build deadly
devices to tear the centre out of yet another pub or shopping centre.

And so extreme are its beliefs that it plans to turn its guns on top unionist
and loyalist politicians.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ATTACKED: Gerry Adams

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 1998 MGN Ltd.

                              404 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                            August 16, 1998, Sunday

THE CARNIVAL HAD JUST PASSED BY...WE WERE TOLD TO FLEE...WE RAN RIGHT INTO THE
BOMB;
 OMAGH BLAST KILLS AT LEAST 26 PEOPLE

BYLINE: Jeannette Oldham And Mark Oliver In Omagh

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2, 3

LENGTH: 1468 words


THE car bomb which devastated the Ulster town of Omagh, killing at least 26
people and injuring another 200, was last night condemned as "an act of savagery
and evil" by Prime Minister Tony Blair.

Among the dead were two babies and three other children... and 15 women were
also reported to be fatalities. The injured included a mother-to- be who lost
both her legs and a little boy who also had his legs blown off.

The massive explosion went off in the centre of the tiny County Tyrone market
town when it was packed with people.

Ten minutes earlier, children taking part in Omagh's annual carnival had
travelled the length of the pretty high street on colourful floats.

Music rang out, shoppers waved to the children under the summer sun...tragedy
could not have seemed further away.

At 2.30pm police were given a telephone warning that there was a bomb at the
court house.

They moved people to the other end of the high street - only for them to catch
the full force of the bomb there.

The police had been wrongly informed about where the bomb had been placed - and
at 3.10pm it exploded in a maroon-coloured Astra car.

It was Britain's single worst atrocity during 30 years of terrorist violence in
which at least 3,300 people have died.

Twenty-two people were killed in the 1974 Birmingham pub bombings, and 18
soldiers died in an IRA bomb ambush at Warrenpoint in 1979.

There were 11 deaths in the Remembrance Sunday blast at Enniskillen in 1987.

No organisation has yet claimed responsibility for yesterday's blast.  Sources
within the security forces said the "Real IRA" - a 70-strong splinter group
which rejects the Ulster peace process - may have been behind the attack. The
"Real IRA", headed by a notorious former IRA quartermaster, has links with the
Continuity IRA and the Irish National Liberation Army, who have also rejected
the ceasefire.

One local man, Paul McBurney, said: "People were running around screaming, with
blood pouring from wounds.

"A lot of people were very badly hurt. I saw one young girl being put into an
ambulance with her arm and leg blown off."

Another eye-witness, Nigel O'Kane, landlord of the Monument pub, said: "It was
totally indiscriminate. Police were pushing everyone towards the bottom end of
the town, not knowing the bomb was there.

"It went off outside one of the busiest shops in the town, flattening that shop
and the one beside it.

"A lot of people have been badly injured. People here are absolutely stunned.
They have been running around in panic looking for loved ones in the rubble."

Ulster Unionist MP Ken Maginnis described the bomb as a crime against humanity.
"People were cleared out of the court house area and down to the lower end of
the town, where they had congregated - when the bomb actually exploded in the
midst of them," he said.

"Martin McGuinness, Sinn Fein MP for Mid-Ulster, said he was disgusted by the
bombing. "This appalling act was designed to wreck the peace process," he said.
"Everyone should work to ensure the process continues.""

Sinn Fein president Gerry Adams said: "I am totally horrified by this action. I
condemn it without any equivocation."

A police spokesman said a phone warning had been received through "the normal
media" which said the bomb was at the court house.

"Police were checking the area around the court house and evacuating people when
an explosion occurred," he said.

The shock of the bombing resounded across the nation. The Queen said in a
statement: "I was shocked to hear of the appalling crime in Omagh which resulted
in so many deaths and injuries.  Please pass my heartfelt sympathy to the
bereaved, injured and those others who have suffered in their distress."

The anguish will continue long after the streets of Omagh have been cleared of
rubble. "I've never seen anything like it in my life. I saw bodies lying
everywhere,"" said Dorothy Boyle, 59, who lives in the town.

"There were limbs lying about that had been blown off people. Everyone was
running round trying to help people.""

Mrs Boyle said a young pregnant woman had lost her legs. "Another woman in a
wheelchair was screaming for help. There was one boy who had half his leg blown
off and it was lying there with the wee shoe still on it. He didn't cry or
anything. He was just in shock."

At least five children were last night confirmed as being among the dead at the
Tyrone County Hospital. Thirty-one casualities were kept in overnight there, Dr
Clive Russell said. He said at least four Spanish children were among those
hurt.. some seriously that they needed amputations.

They had been transferred to Altnagalvin Hospital in Londonderry as Army
helicopters moved 44 of the wounded to the Royal Victoria in Belfast and Erne
Hospital in Enniskillen.

Dr Russell said: "There have been extensive shrapnel injuries to children and
adults and traumatic amputations of lower limbs and upper limbs and multiple
fractures.

"We have had some serious burn injuries which have had to be transferred, and
there have been some serious abdominal injuries which have necessitated patients
going to the operating theatre."

Head nurse Glynis Henry said a total of 108 casualties had passed through the
hospital, but the majority had now been transferred elsewhere.

All around the hospital tiny pockets of people gathered, waiting to learn the
worst.

Some crumpled to the ground as the search for loved ones became too much. Other
relatives of victims only learnt the awful truth as they recognised the bodies
of family members being taken to the morgue.

Inside the hospital a makeshift family centre had been set up. A young man in
his twenties crouched by a wall, his head in his hands, whimpering: "My best
friend's baby is dead. They've killed his baby. Eight months old, only eight
months old."

His red-raw eyes looked in the direction of a nearby ward where he said the
baby's broken-hearted father was being comforted by hospital staff.  The man's
critically injured wife had been flown to another hospital - and had yet to
learn her child was dead.

For some hospital staff the pain became all too personal as they learned their
own relatives were among the injured.

At an incident room set up at the town's leisure centre stunned survivors told
of their terror after the bomb exploded.

Shellshocked Pauline McMahon sobbed: "I was in the shop nearest to where the
bomb went off. I didn"t see anything but I heard this incredible bang. I looked
all around me and bits of the building were flying towards me. The bomb blew
away one of the shop's walls and the roof came tumbling down on top of us. I
don't know how I managed it but I just got up and started trying to help
people."

Beside Pauline sat her frail 73-year-old mother Bridget McEllhatton. She gasped:
"My daughter saved my life. But for her we wouldn't have got out of there."

Her dazed husband, John, also 73, was too traumatised to speak and could only
sit, silently shaking his head.

A stony faced senior detective who was at the scene said: "There were bodies
lying around all over the place. They were obviously dead, there was just
nothing we could do. I was running up to one body realising the person was dead
and then hearing someone nearby moaning and running to help them.

"There was blood all over the street and there were bits of bodies everywhere."

An ambulance worker said: "It's been the worst day of my life. We've seen such
horrific injuries. We had children die in our arms.

Catholic priest Father John Ryder was almost lost for words. He said the scene
inside the hospital was "chaotic" but staff were doing marvellous work.

""So many families were uncertain, just coming along and not knowing what to
do,"" he said.""They are distraught because some of them don't even know yet
whether they've anybody here or not.

A Church of Ireland minister, the Rev Canon John Hay, came from the nearby
village of Fintona. He said: "One can only be with the families and friends of
those who have been so badly injured."

Colin Noble, 40, heard the blast half a mile away at Omagh Golf Club.  Golfers
with medical qualifications immediately rushed to the scene.

President Clinton condemned the bombing as "butchery". He added: "I renew my
pledge to stand with the people of Northern Ireland against the perpetrators of
violence."

Irish Prime Minister Bertie Ahern said yesterday that he would ruthlessly
suppress" terrorist organisations that opposed the wish for peace on both sides
of the Ulster border.

Mr Blair pledged that the bombers would be pursued. "These people will never be
allowed to win," he said."

A casualty number has been set up for relatives and friends. The number is 01232
673371.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WALKING WOUNDED: A woman victim covered in blood;; CENTRE OF THE BLAST:
Horrified firemen beside the twisted wreckage of the maroon Astra car that
carried the lethal bomb that devastated Omagh; Pictures: MARTIN McCULLOUGH and
ALAN LEWIS

                            Copyright 1998 MGN Ltd.

                              405 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                            August 17, 1998, Monday

IRELAND FACES NEW FEAR OF LOYALIST BACKLASH;
 THE WEEKEND BOMBING MAY SIGNAL A NEW MURDEROUS CAMPAIGN, WARNS JOHN DEANE.

BYLINE: John Deane

SECTION: Pg. 15

LENGTH: 545 words


The Omagh outrage may foreshadow a sustained and particularly murderous bombing
campaign in Northern Ireland and on the mainland.

Loyalist terrorists have already come under intense pressure to retaliate, a
leading expert on terrorism warned.

Prof Paul Rogers, head of peace studies at Bradford University, said the
bomber's intention was clearly to destabilise the evolving peace process, both
via the shock of the explosion, and by provoking a violent response from
loyalist paramilitaries.

"The objective was quite clear cut - to do their best to wreck the Good Friday
agreement and incite a reaction from Loyalist paramilitaries," said Professor
Rogers.

There were recent indications that the Loyalist Volunteer Force, and the
republican INLA, were coming under increasing pressure from associated prisoners
to call ceasefires so that those inmates could benefit from the early release
programme.

Saturday's bombing, as well as severely damaging the prospects of new
ceasefires, would act as a severe provocation to loyalist paramilitaries,
particularly the LVF.

"If there's no loyalist paramilitary reaction, the peace process stands a good
chance of staying on track fully. If the loyalists hold back, that will be one
of the few positive things to come out of this mess.

"But there's a real risk that they will not," warned the professor.

The grouping responsible for the bombing appeared to have access to explosives,
one or two 'quartermaster' type figures, and people capable of preparing and
planting the bombs.

Last month, the Real IRA were cited as potential instigators of an attempt to
plant firebombs in London. They were also suspected of involvement when, in
April, Irish police intercepted a major car bomb thought to have been en route
to the Grand National .

Professor Rogers warned: "There may be further bombs, and they may come over to
Britain as well. I have no doubt that they would like to try it (a mainland
bombing). They are determined to try to wreck the (Good Friday) deal." But,
unless a major reactio n from a loyalist paramilitary group complicated the
situation the terrorists were not certain to succeed in that aim.

Both the British and Irish governments were determined to pursue the peace
process.

And the random carnage inflicted on a mixed community could reinforce the desire
of ordinary people in the province to pursue a peaceful resolution.

A key question as yet unanswered was whether it was the bombers' intention to
kill and maim on such a scale.

Very few of the bombing outrages of the last 30 years had involved the
deliberate mass murder of civilians.

If that was the bombers' intention, it reflected the depth of their desperation
to destroy the peace process, and could indicate the emergence of a new tactic
frightening even by the standards of Northern Ireland.

"If they deliberately set out to do this, the implications are really quite
horrendous.

"Any bomb can kill large numbers, but there's something different about
deliberately trying to entice people into an area where there is a bomb.

"It could have been a cock-up, it could have been a unilateral action by the
person giving the warning, or it could have been the intention of the group."

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1998 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              406 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                       August 17, 1998, Monday Edition 1

Hunt for fanatics behind Omagh outrage - Security sources say bombing suspect is
ready to kill and kill again

BYLINE: By Deric Henderson

SECTION: BRITAIN TONIGHT, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 438 words


   Senior politicians and police chiefs on both sides of the Northern Ireland
border are meeting today as detectives intensify their hunt for the team of
dissident Republicans involved in the Omagh bombing atrocity.

RUC chief constable Ronnie Flanagan is to have talks with the Republic's Garda
Commissioner Pat Byrne to assess all available intelligence on the gang
suspected of planting the massive car bomb which killed 28 people and injured
more than 200 others.

Discussions

At the same time, the Northern Ireland Secretary Mo Mowlam - who returned home
after breaking away from her summer holiday - is to have discussions with the
Irish Justice Minister, John O'Donoghue.

The Prime Minister Tony Blair stayed the night at Hillsborough Castle after
meeting politicians on all sides and spending an hour at the hospital bedsides
in Belfast of some of the maimed and injured survivors.

The Prime Minister briefed US President Bill Clinton on the latest developments
during a 10-minute call to the White House at 1am this morning and vowed that
the peace process would not be derailed.

Meanwhile, the hunt was being stepped up for the renegade Republican fanatic
believed to have masterminded Northern Ireland's worst terrorist atrocity. It
emerged that the man suspected of ordering the Omagh bombing is an
out-of-control Republican fanatic and former IRA quartermaster who formed the
self-styled Real IRA.

He is a middle-aged businessman who is separated from his wife and living in Co
Louth with a woman who belongs to a Belfast Republican family. She, too, is
vehemently opposed to Sinn Fein's involvement in the peace process.

The pair and where they live are well-known to police on both sides of the
border.

Security sources said he was prepared to kill again and again to try to end the
Northern Ireland peace process and one added: "He is a ruthless, uncompromising
bastard who has no qualms about what he is doing."

The man formed the self-styled Real IRA after breaking away from the
Provisionals late last year in a major fall-out over his opposition to the peace
strategy of Sinn Fein's Gerry Adams and Martin McGuinness.

Condemnation

The bombing has led to universal condemnation from across the political
spectrum, including from Sinn Fein, and politicians urged loyalist
paramilitaries to maintain their ceasefire.

The scale of the human suffering caused by the 500lb bomb in the town centre
became clear as details of victims emerged. Among the 28 dead were three
generations of one family - a grandmother, her daughter pregnant with twins and
her young granddaughter.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: POIGNANT TRIBUTE - flowers laid at the bomb scene by mourners with the
word 'Why' written one piece of paper summing up the disbelief

                Copyright 1998 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              407 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                August 17, 1998

No hiding place for the Omagh bombers

BYLINE: Alison Hardie And;Iain Wilson;Chief Reporter;

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 805 words


THE Prime Ministers of Britain and the Republic of Ireland last night vowed to
work together to bring the Omagh bombers to swift justice.

Tony Blair and Taoiseach Bertie Ahern said an urgent cross-border security
summit had already been ordered by Ireland's two police chiefs.

As the death toll was confirmed at 28, including members of three generations of
one family, it became clear the identity of the dissident republican group
in-volved, which styles itself the Real IRA, was already known to the
intelligence service.

The car used in the blast was stolen last Thursday in the Irish Republic. The
Vauxhall Cavalier disappeared in Carrickmacross, County Monaghan, not far from
the border, before being fitted with Northern Ireland registration plates.

Mr Blair said RUC Chief Constable Ronnie Flanagan and Garda commissioner Pat
Byrne were to engage in priority talks as part of the massive operation to track
down the killers who planted the car bomb.

The Prime Minister said he expected "significant proposals" to emerge quickly
from the summit.

As forensic scientists picked through the debris of the devastated County Tyrone
market town, Mr Blair said: "For our part, we have agreed that the two
governments will work together and do everything possible in their power to hunt
down those responsible for this outrage. We have got to do everything we can to
root out those people responsible."

Mr Ahern said: "Whatever resources are necessary to crush this organisation will
be given."

He refused to rule out the re-introduction of internment without trial.
Internment was recently removed from the British statute book and new
legislation would be required here to re-introduce it.

Nine children were among the fatalities and 220 people were injured in
Saturday's carnival day blast, a hideous toll created when misinformation from
the terror group responsible led to crowds being shepherded by police into the
force of the blast.

Also among the dead were a Spanish schoolboy and his female teacher, who were
visiting Ireland to learn English.

As she surveyed the devastation, Mary McAleese, Ireland's first Northern
Ireland-born head of state, said: "There is an almost holy silence here. People
are only whispering to each other.

"Anybody parking the car yesterday with the bomb in it would have seen little
shops on a very, very busy Saturday afternoon - mummies and daddies and shoppers
up and down the streets. That's what they would have seen: a scene of such
simple, humble innocence. Whoever planted that bomb, they knew exactly what they
were doing."

She said there was "a posse of serial killers at loose" on the island of Ireland
who should be hunted down and brought to justice.

Mr Blair cut short his holiday in France and arrived in the Province yesterday
with deputy Prime Minister John Prescott.

The bombing was universally condemned, including a statement from Sinn Fein
leader Gerry Adams, who significantly said he condemned the bombing "without any
equivocation whatsoever". It was the first time he had openly condemned a
republican terrorist atrocity.

After meeting Mr Blair, Mr Adams said it was vital everyone continued to work
together to keep the peace process on track. He said: "I want David Trimble and
Seamus Mallon to call a meeting of all political leaders to try and handle this
crisis. It is important that we all take it as an incentive to move forward,
that we give people hope."

Security chiefs in Belfast and Dublin believe the IRA's former quartermaster is
the prime suspect. It has brought renewed pressure to bear on Mr Adams and Sinn
Fein to convince the Provisional IRA to make a statement that "the war is over".

Mr Blair said the meeting between the two police chiefs would take place today.
He feels it is important he and Mr Ahern receive the view of security experts
from both north and south as the main suspects are believed to be based in
County Louth, in the Republic.

The Prime Minister stressed he wanted to get on with the peace process. "If we
don't, we have allowed the people behind this atrocity to achieve the very thing
we don't want them to achieve."

Mr Blair said those behind the bombing had "no political organisation, no vote,
no political voice. They stand for nothing other than the chance to wreck the
future for the people of Northern Ireland. I will never give up, we mustn't give
up on the process of peace."

Meanwhile, a debate was simmering as to whether the terrorists planned maximum
carnage or not.

Professor Paul Rogers, head of peace studies at Bradford University, said: "It
could have been a cock-up, it could have been a unilateral action by the person
giving the warning, or it could have been the intention of the group. If the
latter, they could do it again."

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: In the aftermath of atrocity a mother prays at the Mass at the Sacred
Heart chapel in Omagh. Her young son sits quietly beside her. Nine children died
in the blast.  Picture: PAUL McERLANE/AP

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1998 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              408 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Nottingham Evening Post

                                August 17, 1998

World and national news

SECTION: World And National News, Pg.8

LENGTH: 1733 words


Ulster bomb: five arrested

Five men were arrested today by police investigating the Omagh bombing atrocity
in which 28 people died.

The men were detained in raids on homes at Mount Joy, just outside the town, and
in the neighbouring village of Sixmilecross, Co Tyrone, security sources said.

All five were taken in for questioning at the RUC's main interrogation centre at
Castlereagh, Belfast.

It is understood one of the men detained is a relative of a leading member of
the 32 County Sovereignty Committee, a Republican pressure group which denies
any links with the Real IRA, the organisation suspected of involvement in the
bombing.

Members of the RUC's uniformed mobile support unit were involved in the raids
after dawn.

They took place as RUC Chief Constable Ronnie Flanagan and the Republic's Garda
commissioner Pat Byrne prepared for talks, as part of the cross-border police
investigation into the outrage.

Meanwhile, Prime Minister Tony Blair vowed to track down the "mad, psychopathic,
criminal, evil" bombers who brought carnage to Omagh and ensure they did not
succeed in blowing apart the Northern Ireland peace process.

While the Prime Minister focused on security issues as he sought to buttress
confidence in the shaken peace process, Sinn Fein's chief negotiator, Martin
McGuinness, was anxious to play down the issue of decommissioning IRA weapons.

And he insisted that the early prisoner release programme had to continue.

David Trimble, First Minister of the new Northern Ireland Assembly and leader of
the Ulster Unionist Party, insisted the bombers must not be allowed to destroy
the Good Friday peace accord.

Mr Blair, interviewed on BBC Radio Ulster, said: "I do not believe these evil
people should ever be able to triumph over the will of the vast majority."

"We are only going to defeat them if we take the security measures we can take,
and make sure we are offering a different way forward."

Eight victims of the bomb blast - which left 28 men, women and children dead -
are still critically ill in hospital. Up to 100 other survivors are also being
treated in hospitals throughout Northern Ireland.

THE VICTIMS

The identities of 25 of the 28 victims have been made public.

Avril Monaghan, a 30-year-old mother-of-four, heavily pregnant with twins, was
on a shopping trip with her 20-month-old daughter Maura and mother Mary Grimes,
65,

Breda Devine, an 18-month-old toddler from Aughabrack, who had been taken to
town by her mother Tracey, 27, who was fighting for life.

Lorraine Wilson, a 15-year-old schoolgirl from Omagh, was doing her weekly
volunteer stint at an Oxfam charity shop with her best friend Samantha
McFarland, 17.

Gareth Conway, 19, from Carrick, was about to enrol in an engineering course.

Julie Hughes, 21, from Omagh, was working at her part-time holiday job in a
photoshop in High Street.

Brenda Logue, 17, a schoolgirl from Carrickmore left her mother and grandmother
in a shop to see why people were fleeing, when she caught the full force of the
blast.

Elizabeth Rush, 57, from Omagh, was killed while working in her pine shop.

Rocio Abad, a 24-year-old woman teacher from Madrid, was helping supervise a
group of Spanish schoolchildren on a language course. Her group included
Fernando Blasco, 12 from Madrid, and three boys from the neighbouring county of
Donegal: Sean McLaughlin, 12, Oran Doherty, eight, and James Barker, whose
bloodied face was seen around the world as he was stretchered away unconscious.

Philomena Skelton, 39, a mother-of-four from Drumquin was shopping for school
uniforms with her daughters.

Esther Gibson, a Protestant Sunday school teacher from Beragh, aged in her 30s,
had recently become engaged and was to marry next July.

Catholic mother-of-one Geraldine Breslin, 35, was killed as she fled the
Watterson's clothes shop with best friend and fellow worker Ann McCombe, a
48-year-old Protestant, and Veda Short , 46, from Gortiaclare, south of Armagh,
a mother of four.

Adrian Gallagher, 21, a college graduate shopping for new boots and jeans.

Alan Radford, a 17 -year-old awaiting the results of his recent GCSE exams.

Fred White, 60, was an officeholder in the local Omagh Ulster Unionist
Association. It is believed he died with his son Brian.

Brian McCrorry, from Omagh was believed to be in his 40s.

Clinton faces the jury

Bill Clinton was today becoming the first US president to testify before a
criminal grand jury when he faces a grilling by prosecutors over his
relationship with Monica Lewinsky.

Even if he acknowledges he had sex with Ms Lewinsky he can expect to be peppered
with questions on his own conduct, and that of his aides during the earlier
lawsuit brought by Paula Jones.

It is reported that he has been coached to acknowledge an "inappropriate
relationship".

Any admission is certain to prove painful not only to his family, but to the
legions of supporters who have vigorously defended Clinton since January.

The president's political opponents on Capitol Hill warned that the truthfulness
of today's testimony will affect whether they seek impeachment.

Starr and several prosecutors were due at the White House at 1pm local time (6pm
British Summer Time) to begin questioning. The extraordinary proceedings were to
be video-transmitted to 23 grand jurors at the federal courthouse.

An admission of a relationship with Ms Lewinsky would open up questions about
whether his desire to keep the relationship quiet caused contacts with witnesses
or other actions that might have obstructed the lawsuit.

Beach battle

Two top seaside resorts are embroiled in a row over a birdman competition with
both going ahead next Sunday. Tourism chiefs at Eastbourne are angry that its
annual competition, in which feathered contestants try to fly off the town pier,
clashes with a similar event at the rival Sussex resort of Bognor Regis. But
Bognor says its competition pre-dates Eastbourne's and the day was fixed a year
ago.

Gatwick tours

Britain's second biggest airport is to get a multi-million pound visitor centre.
Outline planning permission has been granted to build a 16,000 square metre
centre on a site near the south terminal of Gatwick airport in West Sussex. The
building will focus on the airport and aviation in the past, present and future,
and is likely to feature a ride which will bring the history of flight to life.

Dome guests

An "all-ticket" gathering of 10,000 people will see in the new Millennium at the
spectacular opening of the Greenwich Dome. VIPs, including, possibly the Queen
and Prime Minister Tony Blair, will join members of the public for the event in
south London. The news comes as the world this week moves into the final 500
days of the decade, the century and the millennium.

God is good

Going to church and reading the Bible help prevent high blood pressure,
researchers have claimed after discovering marked differences in blood pressure
between people who were religiously active and those who were not. Those who
attended a religious service once a week were more than a third less likely to
have dangerously high blood pressure but people who tuned in to religious TV and
radio programmes had higher blood pressure.

Planning fees

People who challenge planning decisions could run up bills of at least GBP 2,000
under new Government proposals in a planned shake-up in the system by the
Department of the Environment, Transport and the Regions, according to Planning
magazine. It says under the new proposals - which could begin in April 1999 -
people will have to pay a minimum of GBP 2,000, plus a daily rate of GBP 1,000
if the hearing lasts longer than a day.

Drink danger?

Fizzy drinks may be to blame for the world's worst epidemic of oral Crohn's
Disease which has struck in the west of Scotland, researchers claim. Dental
experts believe an allergic reaction to carbonated drinks could be the cause of
the outbreak of the incurable illness.

Russia cracks

After weeks of financial turmoil, Russia announced today it will devalue the
rouble. The Central Bank has revised the corridor in which it supports the
rouble, from about 6.3 to the US dollar to 9.5 to the dollar.

26 die in crash

At least 26 people were killed and eight seriously injured in Indonesia when a
crowded bus skidded off a highway and plunged into a 26ft ditch, the official
Antara news agency reported today. Police said some survivors claimed the bus
driver fell asleep at the wheel, about 100 miles east of Jakarta.

Who's back

The Who guitarist Pete Townshend returned to Woodstock in Bethel, New York, for
its 29th anniversary show even though he had a "rotten time" at the original
1969 rock music festival.

Townshend said before taking the stage: "It was the most important concert (the
Who) ever played."

Mexican wave

Mexico won't try to stop its citizens crossing illegally into the United States
because they have a right to try to better their lives, the head of Mexico's
migration agency says.

"We will do nothing that limits or discourages migration to the US by people who
leave their families and their hometowns to better their living conditions,"
Fernando Solis Camara, head of the Subsecretariat of Population and Migration
Services, said.

300% or strike

Two major labour groups in Honduras said yesterday they will stage huge strikes
if President Carlos Flores Facusse does not triple salaries nationwide within 30
days.

The United Workers' Federation and the General Workers' Central said they would
block roads, bridges and government offices and stage a general strike if their
demand is not met.

Boat sinks

A small boat carrying political activists sank off the Pacific coast of western
Panama, and rescuers pulled ten people and one body from the waters on Sunday.
Four others remained missing.

The boat was taking 15 activists from the opposition Arnulfista Party on a tour
of western Veraguas province to rally against a referendum that would allow the
re-election of the president.

Cable car stuck

Firefighters rescued 40 people trapped in a mountain cable car 30ft up.

The car got stuck shortly before arriving at its destination, Estany Gento, in
north-east Spain, with 38 passengers and two workers aboard, the private news
agency Europa Press said.

In a four-hour operation, firefighters in a helicopter helped 31 of the people
aboard use climbing ropes.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 1998 Nottingham Evening Post

                              409 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                August 17, 1998

Is the worst still to come?

BYLINE: JOHN DEANE

SECTION: News, Pg.6

LENGTH: 487 words


THE Omagh outrage may foreshadow a sustained and particularly murderous bombing
campaign in Northern Ireland and on the mainland - and has already put Loyalist
terrorists under intense pressure to retaliate, a leading expert on terrorism
has warned.

Professor Paul Rogers, head of peace studies at Bradford University, said the
bombers' intentions were clearly to de-stabilise the evolving peace process,
both by the shock of the explosion and by provoking a violent response from
Loyalist paramilitaries.

''The objective was quite clear cut: To do their best to wreck the Good Friday
agreement and incite a reaction from Loyalist para-militaries,'' said Professor
Rogers.

There were recent indications that the Loyalist Volunteer Force, and the
Republican INLA, were coming under increasing pressure from associated prisoners
to call ceasefires so that those inmates could benefit from the early release
programme.

Saturday's bombing, as well as severely damaging the prospects of new
ceasefires, would act as a severe provocation to Loyalist paramilitaries.

''If there's no Loyalist paramilitary reaction, the peace process stands a good
chance of staying on track fully. If the Loyalists hold back, that will be one
of the few positive things to come out of this mess.

''But there's a real risk that they will not,'' warned the professor. Such a
reaction was likely to come within a week or two.

The group responsible for Saturday's bombing appeared to have access to
explosives, one or two 'quartermaster' type figures and people capable of
preparing and planting the bombs.

Last month, the Real IRA were cited as potential instigators of an attempt to
plant firebombs in London. They were also suspected of involvement when, in
April, Irish police intercepted a major car bomb thought to have been en route
to the Grand National.

Professor Rogers warned: ''There may be further bombs, and they may come over to
Britain as well. I have no doubt that they would like to try a mainland bombing.
They are determined to try to wreck the (Good Friday) deal.''

However, the British and Irish governments were determined to pursue the peace
process.

And the random carnage inflicted on a mixed community could reinforce the desire
of ordinary people in the province to pursue a peaceful resolution.

''This could simply act as a sobering indication of what could happen if the
peace process is wrecked,'' said Professor Rogers.

A key question as yet unanswered was whether it was the bombers' intention to
kill and maim on such a scale. Few of the bombing outrages of the past 30 years
have involved the deliberate mass murder of civilians.

''If they deliberately set out to do this, the implications are really quite
horrendous. Any bomb can kill large numbers, but there's something different
about deliberately trying to entice people into an area where there is a bomb."

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1998 Bristol United Press

                              410 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            August 18, 1998, Tuesday

PROBE CALL OVER

BYLINE: Mail Special Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 337 words


LIBYA today asked Britain to investigate allegations by a former British
intelligence agent that London plotted the assassination of Libyan leader
Moammar Gadaffi.

Former British agent David Shayler alleged in a televised TV interview earlier
this month that Britain's Secret Intelligence Service channelled about 160,000
dollars (pounds 100,000) to an Islamic group to kill Gadaffi.

"The government of the United Kingdom is called upon to open an independent
investigation concerning what David Shayler revealed," said a Libyan foreign
ministry statement. It was carried by the official Libyan news agency, JANA.

But the British government dismissed the allegations.

"There is no British plot to assassinate Gadaffi," a British Foreign Office
spokeswoman said in London.

Foreign Secretary Robin Cook has already described the allegations "as fantasy,
so it's a non-story," the spokeswoman said.

The Libyan Foreign Ministry demanded that London hand over to Tripoli Libyan
"terrorists" living in Britain as proof that it was not involved in the alleged
plot.

The statement said Shayler's arrest "confirms the involvement of the British
government in this terrorist act."

Libya "reserves the right to defend itself and also sue the British government
at the suitable time," the statement added.

It was Libya's first comment on the alleged plot.

Meanwhile, the Libyan Foreign Ministry asked France to extradite Shayler or
allow Libyan judicial authorities to question him in France, said Libyan radio,
monitored by the BBC.

It said a Libyan Foreign Ministry official made the request in a meeting with
the French charge d'affaires in Tripoli.

Shayler, who worked for Britain's internal MI5 intelligence agency from 1994
until 1997, was arrested in Paris on August 1.

The British government is trying to extradite him to face charges under the
Official Secrets Act. The former agent had threatened to put a 7,000 word
dossier on Britain's secret services on an Internet website.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1998 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              411 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                       August 18, 1998, Tuesday Edition 1

Funerals start after Ulster bomb outrage - Province in mourning as police
continue to quiz five

BYLINE: By Peter Williamson

SECTION: BRITAIN TONIGHT, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 352 words


   The first of the Omagh victims were buried today with the funeral of a
pregnant mother and her baby.

Avril Monaghan, who was expecting twins in two months time, and her 18-month-old
daughter Maura, was being laid to rest near their family home in Augher, County
Tyrone.

They are the first of Saturday's 28 bomb victims to be buried.

Blast

Avril and her baby daughter were killed in the blast with Avril's mother Mary
Grimes, 65.

At least another five funerals, including Mrs Grimes', are planned for tomorrow
with yet more scheduled to take place on Thursday.

Meanwhile, as five men continued to be questioned in connection with the
outrage, the Government announced it was looking at ways of introducing new
powers to deal with terrorists. Hours after Prime Minister Tony Blair vowed that
the "mad, psychopathic, criminal, evil" bombers would be tracked down, the
Northern Ireland Secretary Mo Mowlam last night told the people of Omagh that no
stone would be left unturned in the bid to track down the bombers who ripped out
the heart of their town.

Ms Mowlam, who gave her pledge after seeing for herself the devastation of
Saturday afternoon's terrorist attack, confirmed that

London and Dublin were examining three key options:

Looking at enhancing practical security operations in border areas

Making it easier to get convictions for membership of proscribed organisations
on both sides of the border

Considering a host of other measures which had a complex legal dimension and
which would have to be discussed by Mr Blair and the Republic's Taoiseach Bertie
Ahern.

Proposals

Mr Blair, who returned to France to continue his holiday, last night spoke to
his Irish counterpart Bertie Ahern by telephone.

Downing Street said the two men discussed specific proposals put forward by the
police chiefs following their meeting earlier in the day.

The two men also discussed the contacts each had had with political leaders, and
agreed to speak again this morning.

It was also announced last night that President Bill Clinton will visit Ulster
on September 3.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PROMISE - Northern Ireland Secretary Mo Mowlen pledged that no stone
would be left unturned in the hunt for the Omagh bombers who killed 28. Up to
100 survivors are still being treated in hospital

                Copyright 1998 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              412 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Nottingham Evening Post

                                August 18, 1998

World and national news

SECTION: World And National News, Pg.8

LENGTH: 1576 words


Eire plans new curbs on terror

Reform follows Omagh outrage

THE Irish government is ready to give the go-ahead to legal moves which would
boost the prospects of convicting anyone accused of being in a terrorist
organisation.

The reform is part of a security package being finalised today by police and
senior legal officials after close consultation with Prime Minister Bertie Ahern
following the Omagh bomb outrage.

The plan - forming the agenda for tomorrow's emergency Irish Cabinet meeting -
will incorporate a strong cross -border dimension aimed at ensuring that, in Mr
Ahern's words, the terror threat from renegade Irish republicans is "ruthlessly
repressed".

Outlawing

Mr Ahern had a meeting with Tony Blair in Northern Ireland on Sunday and at
least twice since then there have been lengthy telephone conversations between
them.

Northern Ireland Secretary Mo Mowlam had detailed discussions with Irish Justice
Minister John O'Donoghue yesterday. Police chiefs from the two parts of Ireland,
the RUC's Ronnie Flanagan and Pat Byrne of the Irish Republic's Garda Siochana,
also met.

Central to the proposed package, one of the strongest to be drafted by Dublin in
the 30-year history of the current unrest, will be amendments to legislation
outlawing membership of terrorist groups.

The intention is that police should be able to secure convictions at Dublin's no
-jury anti-terrorist Special Criminal Court by establishing that those accused
associate with known subversives, backing the view of a Garda superintendent.

Also likely are new curbs on the right of silence in terrorist cases and
tightened bail restrictions.

Meanwhile, Michael McDowell, a senior member of the Irish bar, today indicated
that people suspected of leading dissident groups like the Real IRA could be
named in the Dail, the Irish parliament.

- More than 100 victims of the Omagh bombing outrage were still in hospital
today, eight of them in a critical condition. Five men are still being quizzed
about the attack.

Exam feedback planned

Pupils will get the chance to inspect their marked exam papers, under plans to
be announced today.

Education Secretary David Blunkett will reveal that, from next year, GCSE and
A-level students will be given automatic access to marked scripts if they
believe there are grounds to appealing against a grade.

The scheme will also give those who have failed the opportunity to learn from
their mistakes.

It is being seen as a way of increasing freedom of information, as well as
improving examiners' performances.

This year's A-level results, due to reach candidates on Thursday, should be the
last to remain secret.

- GCSE results published in Ulster today, are expected to show top grades up by
a third.

Hunt for missing divers

The search for two divers missing in the Solent was continuing this morning.

In a massive operation, a coastguard helicopter's crew, using night -vision
goggles, searched through the night.

The aircraft covered an area 25 miles south of Littlehampton, West Sussex, where
the divers were last seen.

A mayday was sent by the diving boat the Spartacus at 5pm yesterday, 45 minutes
after the divers should have resurfaced from exploring a wreck. Weather
conditions at the time were good.

The Solent coastguard immediately launched the RNLI lifeboat and scrambled the
rescue helicopter.

A Navy diving team from Portsmouth has been flown in to assist in the search,
along with another lifeboat.

Clinton admits affair

PRESIDENT Bill Clinton today acknowledged to a grand jury and the American
people that he had an "inappropriate" relationship with Monica Lewinsky.

But he refused to give detailed answers to questions about the explicit nature
of the contacts.

"I misled people, including my wife. I deeply regret that," Mr Clinton told
Americans in a nationally televised address.

"Indeed, I did have a relationship with Ms Lewinsky that was not appropriate. In
fact, it was wrong," Mr Clinton said after becoming the first president to
testify before a grand jury investigating his conduct.

Seeking to stave off a possible impeachment, the president said part of the
reason he did not come forward earlier was to save himself from embarrassment
and because of his mistrust of independent counsel Kenneth Starr.

Prosecutors are now assessing whether to call him back because he declined to
answer specific questions. And his dramatic reversal left his own advisers
worried about whether he lost credibility that would affect his presidency.

Pilot jailed

Pilot Peter Dimond was jailed for two years at the Old Bailey today for helping
fugitive businessman Asil Nadir escape from British justice. Dimond, 57, from
Petersfield, Hants, had perverted the course of justice by using his specialised
knowledge to arrange to fly Nadir out of the country in May 1993, said the
Recorder of London, Judge Michael Hyam.

Homes figures

Members of ethnic minorities are twice as likely as white people to end up
homeless or badly housed, says a report issued today by homelessness charity
Shelter. A total of 12% of the 75,000 people who approached Shelter in England
for help with housing problems over the last year belonged to ethnic minorities
- double the proportion in the population as a whole.

Help from afar

A little girl who had to be airlifted to hospital for life-saving surgery was
recovering today after the emergency services were forced to call for a
helicopter from Belgium. The incident happened in Kent but no air ambulance was
available in the south-east of England. The four-year-old, who has not been
named, survived a car crash yesterday in which her mother died. Her condition
was 'good' today, after the operation.

Atom protest

Three peace protesters were arrested early today at the Royal Navy's nuclear
submarine base on the Clyde, the target of determined anti-nuclear protests for
more than a week. Protesters say the trio from the group For Mother Earth, clad
in wet suits and "disarmament tools", breached the outer circle of security at
the base and reached a submarine berth.

Dung roaming

At first glance a camel dung ashtray, a marijuana leaf, chilli-fried worms, a
hand grenade and a blade of grass from Ramsay Street may not seem to have much
in common. But they were all brought home as souvenirs by round-the-world
backpackers last year.

Brock busters

The Government has sought to reassure animal welfare groups that it has no
intention of eradicating Britain's badger population after announcing a
selective cullto investigate the link between tuberculosis in cattle and the
badger.

Inflation fall

The annual rate of inflation fell again last month, with the underlying rate
down to 2.6% from 2.8%. The fall, which excludes mortgage interest payments,
brings it closer to the Treasury's inflation target of 2.5%. Headline inflation,
including mortgage payments, also fell to 3.5% from June's 3.7%.

Kabila struggle

LAURENT Kabila was today struggling for his government's survival in the
southern Congolese city of Lubumbashi, where he declared himself president of
the vast central African country only 15 months ago. Kabila is in Lubumbashi to
continue his efforts to rally support against an advancing rebel army - of his
former Rwandan allies, ethnic Tutsi fighters and disaffected members of the
president's own military.

Flood battle

Flood waters two storeys high covered tourist sites on Sun Island as the
northeastern Chinese city of Harbin was hit by what is feared will be its worst
flood in 50 years. Soldiers worked 24 hours piling sandbags along a 16-mile
embankment protecting Harbin. More than 260,000 people were trying to protect
the city of nine million.

Children suffer Multiple threats to the health, wellbeing and basic education of
Indonesia's children constitute an international emergency, Unicef said today.
Four million children under two are severely malnourished and more than 30% of
the country's children are at risk of failing to complete primary school.
Indonesia's economic crisis has seriously devalued the currency and nearly
doubled the cost of food, fuel and other basic consumer goods.

Shoot-out terror

A domestic dispute turned into a shoot-out in Wilburton, Oklahoma, where a
husband and wife were killed and the sheriff was wounded. Rebecca Bell, 24, was
shopping when her estranged husband entered the shop with a .22-calibre rifle.
Mrs Bell fled through a side door, but Michael Grant Bell, 41, followed and
killed her. Sheriff Melvin Holly ordered Bell to drop his rifle, the gunman shot
the sheriff and Holly fired back, killing the gunman.

Letters to Iraq

With Iraq still defiant in its stand-off with weapons experts, the UN Security
Council has approved a muted message of support for inspectors that backs their
work but leaves it up to them to decide whether to test an Iraqi ban on
searches. Council members finalised drafts of letters to send to the top two
weapons inspectors, who reported last week that their work was being undermined
by Baghdad's decision to freeze co-operation with the United Nations.

Talks on talks

American diplomats and Serb officials conferred behind closed doors on ways to
set up talks between the Yugoslav government and Kosovo rebels on the future of
separatist Kosovo province. The US diplomatic initiative, headed by envoy
Christopher Hill, may be successful but the talks, once they resume after they
broke down in May, may not.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: LOOK HERE: A British soldier shows his binoculars to Albanian children
during the Nato Co-operative Assembly '98 live training exercises at the Bize
camp. Forces from 14 countries and observers from another six are participating
in the manoeuvres as part of Nato initiatives to promote security and stability
in Albania and in the former Yugoslav republic of Macedonia

                     Copyright 1998 Nottingham Evening Post

                              413 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                August 18, 1998

Five over

SECTION: Pg.24

LENGTH: 929 words


Five men were being questioned last night about the Omagh outrage as Prime
Minister Tony Blair vowed that the "mad, psychopathic, criminal, evil" bombers
would be tracked down.

And the Irish Government confirmed it is considering amending its anti-terrorist
legislation in a new move to crack down on dissident republicans suspected of
involvement in the attack.

Northern Ireland Secretary Mo Mowlam last night told the people of Omagh no
stone would be left unturned in the bid to track down the bombers.

She gave the pledge after seeing for herself the devastation of Saturday
afternoon's terrorist attack.

Speaking after a tour of the wrecked buildings, and seeing rubble piled high in
the streets, she said: "I just can't get out of my head the pain, the suffering
that is going on. That is overwhelming."

Ms Mowlam said she had hoped desperately that bombs had become part of Northern
Ireland's history.

She stressed the importance of remembering that the groups involved in the
Northern Ireland peace process had not been responsible for the bombing.

But in an new call on the IRA to declare that their war was over, Ms Mowlam
added: "It is important to remember that if we are going to make progress, what
we want is some indication from all the groups - particularly those associated
with paramilitaries - to make some very clear, positive statements."

Ms Mowlam said she had spent the afternoon in talks with police chiefs from both
sides of the border, looking at what could be done immediately to respond to the
outrage.

As a result a host of measures was being considered. She repeated that
internment was an option that remained on the books for the Irish Government and
was always an option for Britain.

Ms Mowlam made her comments close to an ever-growing pile of floral tributes.
They were left on the Omagh bridge throughout the day by people, many of them
young children.

Some of those paying tribute had crossed the border from the Irish Republic and
others were tourists on holiday in Northern Ireland.

Hardline unionist leaders yesterday visited the site of the bombing in which 28
men, women and children died and hundreds were injured.

They blamed the attack on the Government's "policy of appeasement" which
included the release of IRA prisoners under the Good Friday agreement before any
decommissioning of terrorist weapons.

But Sinn Fein played down the decommissioning issue and insisted the early
prisoner release programme must continue.

One of the men arrested yesterday is the son of Francis Mackey, chairman of the
32 County Sovereignty Committee, which has been linked to the Real IRA, the
organisation suspected of involvement in the attack.

Mr Mackey denied his organisation was the Real IRA's political wing or connected
with the blast, but confirmed his teenage son Shane had been arrested.

The five people were detained in raids on homes at Mount Joy, just outside the
town, and in the neighbouring village of Sixmilecross, Co Tyrone, security
sources said.

All five were taken for questioning at the RUC's main interrogation centre at
Castlereagh, Belfast.

The policeman leading the hunt for the bombers, Deputy Assistant Chief Constable
Eric Anderson, said there could be further arrests.

But Mr Mackey and other leaders of the republican grouping distanced themselves
from the attack, and he said his 19-year-old student son had been at work when
the bomb went off.

Mr Mackey, a member of Omagh District Council, said there was no justification
for the huge bomb in Omagh.

Emerging from an emergency session of the council, he said: "I am saying that I,
and the 32 County Sovereignty movement, is not involved in any military activity
or involved in any way in what took place on Saturday."

The denial was repeated by Bernadette Sands, a prominent member of the 32 County
Sovereignty Committee and the partner of Michael McKevitt, who is thought to be
the leader of the "Real IRA", the dissident group suspected of involvement.

The "Real IRA" is opposed to the Sinn Fein peace strategy and is thought to have
the support of about 100 former IRA activists.

The RUC released a list naming 26 of the dead as tales of suffering emerged in
the aftermath of the worst terrorist atrocity in the province in 30 years of the
Troubles.

Books of condolence were opened in Dublin and Omagh and a memorial fund set up.
A steady stream of people turned up at the scene to leave bunches of flowers.

Before leaving for France to resume his holiday, Prime Minister Tony Blair said:
"Those people who oppose this (peace) agreement and carry on with this mad,
psychopathic, criminal, evil behaviour are the very people we have got to
defeat.

"We are only going to defeat them if we take the security measures we can take
and make sure we are offering a different way forward for the future."

Lord Holme, Liberal Democrat spokesman on Northern Ireland, said internment
could not be ruled out.

"Selective detention of those who remain committed to violence in the face of
the overwhelming democratic wish of the people of Ireland, North and South, to
pursue a peaceful and democratic future cannot be ruled out."

And former Irish Taoiseach Dr Garret FitzGerald said that internment was a
possible option for tackling dissident republicans, but said there were problems
with the policy

Eight victims of the bomb blast were still critically ill in hospital last
night. Up to 100 other survivors were also being treated in hospitals throughout
Northern Ireland.

Hearts and bodies that will never heal - Page 10

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 1998 Western Morning News

                              414 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                      August 19, 1998, Wednesday Edition 1

Ceasefire branded an insult - Terror group's decision slammed as too little too
late

BYLINE: By John Deane

SECTION: BRITAIN TONIGHT, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 469 words


   The declaration of a ceasefire by the "Real" IRA - the group which admitted
the Omagh bombing - met a scathing response today.

Northern Ireland Secretary Mo Mowlam branded it an "insult", coming on the day
that 16 of the dead killed in the attack were being buried.

The province's Deputy First Minister, Seamus Mallon, described it as a "callous
and cynical ploy" while Irish deputy Prime Minister Mary Harney said there was
no sign of any remorse.

In its statement, relayed early today to the Dublin office of the Belfast-based
Irish News newspaper by a caller using a recognised codeword, the Real IRA said
it had suspended what it called "military operations".

But Ms Mowlam said that while any halt to violence was to be welcomed , this was
just too little and too late.

Callous

"On the day 16 victims are buried, I think it's an insult to believe words mean
anything," she said.

"The pain and the grief don't go away, and I think it is a bit late."

The declaration came just hours after the group admitted responsibility for the
Omagh bombing and offered "apologies" to the relatives of the 28 dead.

Mr Mallon said: "It could well be a cynical and callous ploy to try and avail of
the advantages of the Good Friday agreement while at the same time their
objective, by their bomb at Omagh and their bombs elsewhere, was to destroy the
very same Good Friday agreement."

Both the British and the Irish governments said the statement would not deflect
them in their determination to track down the killers.

Ms Mowlam said: "We will continue to leave no stone unturned to hunt the men
down who did this.

"We will charge them if we can, we will prosecute them and we will put them away
for a very long time."

The Irish Cabinet was holding an emergency meeting in Dublin today to discuss
new security measures in the wake of the Omagh attack.

The Real IRA, which is based in the Republic, said it was responding to a demand
by Irish Prime Minister Bertie Ahern to all paramilitary groups not on ceasefire
to declare their intentions.

The statement read: "As a direct result of the Omagh tragedy and also in
response to the appeals of Bertie Ahern and others, we are currently embarking
on a process of consultation on our future direction.

"In the meantime, all military operations have been suspended from 12 midnight."

The anonymous caller also said "no timeframe" was attached to the declaration.

An Irish Government source said the move appeared to amount to a response to the
pressure on the terror group since its mass murder bomb attack on Omagh, Co
Tyrone.

Security officials in Dublin pointed to "confusion" within the organisation
because of different signals emerging from statements issued within hours of
each other about their campaign of violence.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DEEP SORROW - tearful women and girls hug each other during a vigil
last night at Omagh in memory of the bomb outrage victims. Now the group which
said committed the outrage has said it has halted action

                Copyright 1998 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              415 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           August 19, 1998, Wednesday

Obituary: General Sir Harry Tuzo

BYLINE: Max Arthur

SECTION: OBITUARIES; Page 7

LENGTH: 940 words


AS A Major-General, Harry Tuzo was not considered Commander-in- Chief material,
but luck, the vital ingredient for success, played an important part in his
career.

In 1971 General Vernon Erskine-Crum died, a few weeks after becoming General
Officer Commanding and Director of Operations in Northern Ireland.  Tuzo was
selected to take his place, and for the next two traumatic years he was to need
every ounce of his diplomatic, negotiating and military skills, for these were
terrifying times for the Province.

Just before he arrived the first soldier was killed on duty; a month later three
young Scottish soldiers were lured to their death. Internment without trial was
introduced which only increased the violence. In January 1972 "Bloody Sunday"
provoked international criticism and by June of that year, the 100th British
soldier had been killed. "Bloody Friday", in which nine civilians were killed by
an IRA bomb, followed a month later. Something had to be done.

After consultation with Whitehall, Tuzo saturated the Republican areas of West
Belfast and Londonderry with 30,000 troops and prised open the "no-go" areas.
The success of Operation "Motorman" was a turning point in the troubles. Those
who had judged Tuzo not C-in-C material had not seen him under fire.

Born in Bangalore, India, in 1917, he was the son of John Tuzo, an army officer
who died of fever before his son had a chance to know him. He was educated at
Wellington and Oriel College, Oxford, and joined the Supplementary Reserve from
where he was commissioned into the Royal Artillery in 1939.

After a fortnight's training he crossed to France with the 21st Anti- Tank
Regiment. By May 1940 he was part of the evacuating British Expeditionary Force
heading for Harwich in a paddle cruiser. He remained in Britain with the 21st
A-T Regiment on coastal defence until June 1944 when he crossed the Channel with
them in support of the 11th Guards Armoured Division in Normandy.  In the
battles across north-west Europe, where there was often bitter fighting,
particularly around Caen, he won an MC. As a battery commander in Germany, he
had the unusual experience of accepting the surrender of a German Admiral (the
Flag Officer U Boats).

After the war his career was a combination of staff and artillery appointments.
In 1958 he was made a Brevet Lieutenant-Colonel after commanding L Battery in
the 2nd Regiment, Royal Horse Artillery (RHA). He then served as GSO1 in Staff
Duties and then Directorate of the General Staff at the War Office.  He was then
given command of the 3rd Regiment, RHA in 1960 and took them to Kenya as part of
the Strategic Reserve, east of Suez.

Tuzo returned to become Assistant Commandant of Sandhurst, but 18 months later
was given command of the 51st Gurkha Brigade in Borneo, where one of his areas
of responsibility was Brunei. It was an unusual appointment which he relished.
His Gurkha battalions not only helped to win over the "hearts and minds" of the
local tribesmen, but along with the SAS in Operation "Claret" were involved in
several successful "shoot and scoot" incursions across the border to threaten
the Indonesian forces. The Sultan of Brunei was delighted with Tuzo's work and
honoured him with the title Dato Setia Nagara in 1965.

He attended Staff College before being promoted Major-General as Chief of Staff
of the British Army of the Rhine (BAOR) in 1967. This was followed by his
appointment as Director of Royal Artillery based at the Ministry of Defence.

He was expecting to retire from this appointment, but was called to Northern
Ireland and further promotion. Northern Ireland honed his understanding of the
military and political implications of a situation and this led to his
appointment as Commander Northern Army Group and C-in-C BAOR in 1973. It was a
natural progression for Tuzo to become Deputy Supreme Commander in Europe to
General Al Haig in 1976.

On his retirement in 1979 he became chairman of Marconi Space and Defence
Systems until 1983. He maintained close contact with the army as Master Gunner,
from 1977 to 1983. During his time as chairman of the Royal United Services
Institute (1980-83), he restructured and restaffed the institute, which laid the
foundation for its subsequent role in international security affairs,
particularly in its informal dealings with Warsaw Pact countries.

He felt passionately about his home county, Norfolk, where he was a Deputy
Lieutenant and President of the Norfolk Society. He was also chairman of the
Pensthorpe Waterfowl Trust and chaired the board of King's Lynn Arts Festival.

Tuzo was a man of considerable courage, charm and charisma. He had a sharp
intellect, great humour and could hold an audience spellbound. His natural
warmth, smile and genuine concern for others endeared him not only to generals
and international statesmen, but to the private soldier or the flower arranger
at his local church. He seldom left any organisation or situation without having
enriched it with his wisdom.

Harry Craufurd Tuzo, soldier: born Bangalore, India 26 August 1917; MC 1945; OBE
1961; Chief of Staff, British Army of the Rhine 1967-69, Commander- in-Chief
1973-76; Director, Royal Artillery 1969-71, Colonel Commandant 1971-83; General
Officer Commanding and Director of Operations, Northern Ireland 1971-73; KCB
1971, GCB 1973; Commander, Northern Army Group 1973- 76; Deputy Supreme Allied
Commander, Europe 1976-78; Aide-de-Camp (Gen) to the Queen 1974-77; Master
Gunner, St James's Park 1977-83; married 1943 Monica Salter (one daughter); died
Norwich 7 August 1998.


LOAD-DATE: August 19, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1998 Independent Print Ltd

                              416 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           August 20, 1998, Thursday

Omagh Aftermath: McKevitt family in hiding deny role in bomb role

BYLINE: David McKittrick Ireland Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Page 5

LENGTH: 595 words


THE REPUBLICAN McKevitt family of Dundalk, who have been linked by newspapers in
Britain and Ireland with the Real IRA and the Omagh bomb attack, have moved out
of their home for fear of reprisals.

Michael McKevitt, who has been repeatedly accused of being the former IRA
quartermaster-general who founded and led the Real IRA, has denied any
connection with the Omagh bombing. His partner, Bernadette Sands-McKevitt, is
said to be terrified that she and her children might be attacked.

Ms Sands-McKevitt yesterday appeared on a popular Irish radio phone-in programme
to assure listeners: "I don't agree with violence such as we have witnessed. I
would prefer we see this done by peaceful means."

The comments from the couple coincide with two statements from the Real IRA. The
first of these indicated that its campaign would continue while the second
announced that "all military operations have been suspended".  Taken in
conjunction, all of this suggests disarray in the ranks, though there are real
hopes in security circles that the second announcement may signal a genuine
ceasefire.

A Dundalk priest, Father Desmond Campbell, revealed that Ms Sands-McKevitt had
telephoned him on Sunday after he said during mass that it was disturbing to
know that the chief suspect for the Omagh attack lived in his parish.

He said that Ms Sands- McKevitt, sister of the IRA hunger-strike martyr Bobby
Sands, wept uncontrollably during the conversation, adding: "She was crying so
much she could hardly speak. She told me she was afraid for herself and her
children. She said she was frightened because there was a march planned and she
was afraid that somebody would hurt her children.

"It was a despairing thing when they rang me. She broke down and cried and said,
'We are terribly upset about what is taking place. It is my children. I am
frightened out of my life that they will do something to my three children. They
are supposed to be converging here on the home and I am worried sick'."

Fr Campbell added that Mr McKevitt then took the phone and told him he had "no
hand, act or part" in the Omagh bombing. He said Mr McKevitt told him: "The
first I knew about it was when I was listening to the news on Saturday evening,
and it came on. That was the first I knew about this bomb that went off in
Omagh, and I had nothing whatsoever to do with it."

A more composed Ms Sands-McKevitt said on RTE radio yesterday that she did not
know why she and her husband had been singled out by the media.  Of the bombing
she said: "It is condemned. We will not condone it. The loss of innocent lives
cannot be justified. I don't agree with violence such as we have witnessed. I
would prefer we see this done by peaceful means, because that is the only way
forward."

Ms Sands-McKevitt, a leading member of the 32 County Sovereignty Committee,
added: "As a committee, that is what we are trying to do. What I am saying is
that there are always people who have been engaged in violence.

"If we don't address the problem how are we going to solve it. The Good Friday
agreement fell short of addressing the problem."

She added that she was sure the people behind the bombing would be brought to
justice.

Residents of Dundalk are to stage a rally on Saturday in an effort to dissociate
the town from violence. One of the organisers, solicitor John Woods, said: "This
is a town that has suffered greatly.  We will not have it that people will
portray the image of Dundalk as a politically violent town - the El Paso image."


LOAD-DATE: August 20, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1998 Independent Print Ltd

                              417 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                August 21, 1998

Now could be the time to get tough

BYLINE: Alison Hardie

SECTION: Pg. 15

LENGTH: 814 words


In the wake of the Omagh atrocity, Alison Hardie considers whether the British
and Irish governments should reintroduce internment

INTERNMENT is one of the most emotional and sensitive ingredients in the Irish
political brew. Down the island's troubled ages, the brutish policy of
imprisonment without trial had been broadly used simultaneously on both sides of
the border - and was judged to have had a stabilising effect - until the advent
of the 1970s.

On August 9, 1971, the government of Northern Ireland led by Brian Faulkner,
reintroduced internment - an act that would prove an unmitigated and bloody
disaster.

According to the commentator J J Lee: "Internment merely offered a high profile
set piece for which he (Faulkner) could be denounced."

It also played straight into the hands of the Provisional IRA, instantaneously
uniting all shades of Catholic opinion against the British authorities. In fact,
far from stemming violence, internment provided the Provos with an enormous
propaganda victory which boosted recruitment.

And, of course, it inexorably led 14 civilians to their deaths during the civil
liberties demonstration against internment in Derry on January 30, 1972, the
dark day that became known as Bloody Sunday.

What better indicator, then, of how far the political process in Northern
Ireland has come today that, in the wake of the Omagh atrocity, the

considered reluctance of both the Irish and British Governments to rule out
internment has been met with barely a whimper of indignation from either side.

When an appalled Northern Ireland Secretary Mo Mowlam announced the perpetrators
of the Omagh bomb blast "just aren't human, they're

animals" who should be "taken off the streets", there was hardly a word spoken
in defiance.

And, as hardline republicans looked increasingly isolated with a coalition
against them that stretched from Tony Blair to Sinn Fein,

Martin McGuinness warned the bombers that they would feel the "widespread
revulsion" of their fellow republicans.

The vice-president of Sinn Fein and Assembly member for mid-Ulster, who had
marshalled the crowds in Derry in 1972, said the renegades of the Real IRA could
not expect to be shielded from the wrath of London or Dublin.

So, can internment work in the modern Ireland? History shows us that the policy
can have dramatically successful effects.

It was first applied during the civil war period in the early 1920s, then again
during the Second World War, and more recently in 1956-57, when the IRA mounted
a sporadic

border campaign.

In all of these instances, internment was judged to have had a stabilising
effect. Indeed, the IRA's campaign in the fifties was abruptly brought to a
close with the systematic rounding up and arrests of known activists.

The Ulster Unionists' Ken Maginnis has seized on these moments in time to make
vociferous demands for legislation to reinstate internment on the British
statute book.

However, with a substantial majority of the members of the Real IRA - and its
allies in the Continuity IRA - resident in the Republic, Britain can afford to
watch and wait as the security forces south of the border put the Taoiseach
Bertie Ahern's strong words into action.

Mr Ahern said on Wednesday: "The question of internment has been raised and has
been considered by the Government. While it remains an option, what we are doing
now is judge to be the most effective way of dealing with the current situation.

"Internment, as experience has shown, has potential drawbacks which we cannot
overlook.

"Having said that, however, I want to emphasise that the option remains open and
it is an option which the Government will avail of should that be the right
course of action."

When Brian Faulkner introduced internment in 1971 he said he had taken the
action because Britain was in a "state of war" with the IRA.

In his book, The Trouble with Guns, the journalist and commentator Malachi
O'Doherty says: "He (Faulkner) was treating the IRA as a physical threat that
could be restrained with physical measures.

"No doubt many in the IRA thought they were fighting a war in the same sense,
pitting force against force, with the political prize going to the winner.

"Circumstance had already decided that no such war between the two was possible.
The IRA would only get stronger if it was physically repressed. A moral
advantage would always go to the victims of the state."

Today the only victims are the innocents murdered and maimed by the fanatics of
the Real IRA and the Prime Minister wisely shies away from Faulkner's emotive
language, despite the immense provocation of recent outrages in Ulster.

It is, perhaps, arguable that now we have a time where both Ireland and Britain
can get tough with the men of terror without creating a new legacy of bloodshed.

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Strong words: Bertie Ahern.

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1998 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              418 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            August 21, 1998, Friday

REAL IRA IN PLAN TO BLITZ BRITISH CITIES;
 OMAGH BOMBING: THE TERRORISTS BEHIND OMAGH HAVE SET UP CELLS AND ARMS DUMPS IN
BRITAIN READY TO HIT MAJOR CITIES

BYLINE: Jeff Edwards

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 322 words


THE terrorists behind the Omagh atrocity have set up cells and arms dumps in
Britain ready to hit major cities.

Security sources say the renegade terrorists have placed 'sleepers' in
Manchester and Kent, and have set up arms dumps in the Lake District.

They are said to be trying to blackmail Sinn Fein leaders Gerry Adams and Martin
McGuinness to renege on the peace deal by threatening to attack British targets
if the Provos hand over weapons for decommissioning.

One republican source said: "Cells have been set up in England and large amounts
of bomb equipment have been put in place. All the 'sleepers' are experienced
hardline former Provos who have defected.

"They are trying to twist the arm of Sinn Fein by threatening devastating
attacks if they hand over their weapons."

The Real IRA is also planning bomb attacks in Belfast and Derry to coincide with
the opening of the Northern Ireland Assembly next month.

The Real IRA is said to have about 70 front-line 'soldiers', governed by a 20
-strong "executive" committee.

The organisation, which is organising itself along the same lines as the Provos,
are a mixture of some of the most experienced and hard-bitten IRA terrorists
controlling a new intake of dedicated 'young guns' - some as young as 17.

The more experienced members include:

A 48-year-old dedicated terrorist thought to have masterminded the Brighton and
Warrington bombings. He is originally from the Turf Lodge area of west Belfast
but has lived in the Republic for more than 20 years.

A 40-year-old Limerick republican who had control of the Provos' arms bunkers in
Limerick, Kerry and north Cork

A Northern Ireland-born terrorist in his late 40s who once held a senior
position within the Provisional IRA's ruling Army Council.

Several of the RIRA's front-line troops are already on bail on charges in
connection with large explosive finds in the Republic.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1998 MGN Ltd.

                              419 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Nottingham Evening Post

                                August 21, 1998

World and national news

SECTION: World And National News, Pg.8

LENGTH: 1091 words


Blair backing US air strikes

CALL FOR UN INTERVENTION AFTER MISSILE LAUNCH

Senior British politicians lined up behind Tony Blair today to back President
Clinton's missile attacks on suspected terrorist bases in Sudan and Afghanistan.

But veteran Labour backbenchers criticised the air strikes, saying the United
Nations should have been consulted before any assault was launched.

The Prime Minister was informed in advance about the attacks and gave his
"strong support" to President Clinton.

"Terrorists the world over must know that democratic governments will act
decisively to prevent their evil crimes," Mr Blair said.

The attacks, launched in retaliation for the bombing of the US embassies in
Kenya and Tanzania, are thought to have killed at least eight people in
Afghanistan.

Speaking from France, where he is on holiday, Mr Blair added: "The atrocities
this month in Nairobi, Dar es Salaam and Omagh have shown the pain and suffering
terrorism can bring to innocent people."

Shadow Foreign Secretary Michael Howard gave Tory backing to the US attack on
supporters of suspected Saudi terrorist chief Osama bin Laden, saying: "These
terrorists are enemies of humanity. I do not think they should be given a free
run. International terrorism is one of the greatest dangers to mankind."

Liberal Democrat Foreign Affairs spokesman Menzies Campbell said the reported
deaths caused by the US action against camps in Afghanistan and a chemical plant
in Sudan were regrettable but unavoidable.

"Of course the loss of human life is something that one regrets very
substantially.

"But just remember, this chemical factory has been placed very close to a
residential area. That is traditionally what has been done by people who are
manufacturing chemicals of this kind.

"They do that to try and inhibit any effort like the one the US has just carried
through and to provide some kind of disguise as to precisely what is taking
place there."

But there was criticism from the Labour backbenches. Former Cabinet minister
Tony Benn has written to Foreign Secretary Robin Cook demanding to know whether
the US troops involved could be brought before the proposed International War
Crimes Tribunal, which is backed by the Government.

"It is a totally cynical and unprincipled move because it is a defiance of
international law. It's the law of the jungle, what we used to call gun boat
diplomacy in the days of the British Empire. It will have very grave
consequences because what you will be finding now is an ongoing war between
American fundamentalists and Islamic fundamentalists with consequences that
cannot be foreseen."

Clinton 'drawing Lewinsky fire'

Bill Clinton was facing questions about his true motives today after ordering
surprise air strikes against "terrorist facilities" in Afghanistan and Sudan.

The president linked the targets to the US embassy bombings in Africa and said
terrorists led by Muslim "fanatic" Osama bin Laden were planning new attacks. He
made sure his closest international ally Tony Blair was told in advance the air
strikes - while many US politicians were not.

The president's opponents immediately suggested the attacks were to district
attention from the Monica Lewinsky affair.

Mr Blair's endorsement of the strikes, which were launched without United
Nations' backing, drew flak from Labour's left-wing.

Mr Blair drew parallels between the attack on the US embassies in Kenya and
Tanzania and the Omagh atrocity. But Labour's Tam Dalyell expressed the "deepest
concern" and said any action should have been UN-endorsed.

Stalker to be sentenced

A MAN who stalked a Pamela Anderson lookalike was due to be sentenced today
after undergoing psychiatric tests.

Clarence Morris, 38, who pleaded guilty to causing actual bodily harm to dental
nurse Perry Southall by harassing her over an eight-month period, could walk
free from Southwark Crown Court if psychiatrists advise he is not mad.

In June, Judge Peter Fingret ordered that Morris, of Poplar, east London, should
undergo a psychological assessment before sentence, in the hope he could be
locked up in a secure mental hospital.

The judge's move came after a top psychiatrist insisted that - even though there
was a "high risk of future violence" - Morris's condition did not warrant
admitting him to Rampton secure hospital in north Notts.

Chunnel fire crews row

Fire chiefs on both sides of the Channel were meeting today to outline their
campaign to fight Eurotunnel plans to replace professional firefighters with
their own private force.

Fire unions in France and Britain are vehemently opposed to the tunnel
operator's decision to use its own force as a rapid reaction unit to tackle
blazes. They say safety will be jeopardised if the plans go ahead.

A spokesman for the Fire Brigades Union said: "We are opposed to any proposals
to remove professional firefighters from FLOR (First Level of Response) teams.

"We are going to campaign to ensure we stay as the first response team. This is
not a matter of money, it's a matter of safety."

Fire chiefs have been highly critical of Eurotunnel's safety procedures in
recent years.

Britain tonigh

Royal birthday

Princess Margaret was celebrating her 68th birthday today. She was expected to
spend it at Balmoral Castle with other members of the Royal Family.

Starr line-up

Ex-Beatle Ringo Starr is staging a one-off British show at Shepherd's Bush
Empire in London - his first UK show in years. His All Starr Band includes
guitarist Peter Frampton, Cream's bassist Jack Bruce, Procol Harum's Gary
Brooker and Free's Simon Kirke. It is the fourth incarnation of the group, with
past versions including his son Zak Starkey, Welsh rocker Dave Edmunds, former
Eagles musician Joe Walsh and The Who's John Entwistle.

World tonight

Dirt on Delon

French actor Alain Delon, 63, has failed to persuade a court to order a magazine
off the shelves after it published sordid allegations from a planned
unauthorised biography. Marianne got around an earlier court decision that
blocked anyone from publishing the book's synopsis, by running court papers that
cite its contents. It quotes Delon's alleged youthful dalliances with actors or
actresses and reported ties to shady politicians, mafia figures and mercenaries.

Cheque scam

Three Russians were arrested in New Jersey and charged with writing bad cheques
to buy thousands of dollars of merchandise, including clothing, cordless phones
and toiletries. The men were arrested as they prepared to return to Russia.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 1998 Nottingham Evening Post

                              420 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                      August 22, 1998, Saturday Edition 1

Silent tribute to bomb victims - As thousands remember Omagh, royal service
revealed

BYLINE: By peter walker

SECTION: BRITAIN TONIGHT, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 405 words


   Northern Ireland, the Republic and part of the British mainland was paying a
silent tribute today to the victims of the Omagh bombing outrage.

And it was announced the Queen is to lead mourners at a formal memorial service
also attended by the Duke of Edinburgh and Prime Minister Tony Blair. The date
and venue have yet to be finalised.

Special religious services and prayers were being held today in cities and towns
on both sides of the border.

The most moving tribute of all was an Act of Prayerful Reflection just yards
from the site of the terrorist atrocity a week ago which left 28 people dead and
more than 200 injured.

Crowds were also gathering in London and New York, but it is in Co Tyrone -
where all but five of the victims lived - that emotions were highest.

However, churchmen and politicians on all sides believe it might also signal the
start of the rebuilding process in a shattered community still trying to come to
terms with the enormity of the outrage amid unimaginable anguish.

Omagh District Council's chief executive John McKinney said the families and
friends of the victims would "draw great comfort from those around them".

Churches

A minute's silence was taking place at 3.10pm, the precise moment the 500 car
bomb went off in Market Street.

Leaders of all the main political parties and senior representatives of the four
main churches were in Omagh for an interdenominational service.

Afterwards, Irish Prime Minister Bertie Ahern was to have talks afterwards with
Ulster Unionist leader David Trimble, First Minister of the new Northern Ireland
Assembly, and his deputy at Stormont, the SDLP's Seamus Mallon.

In Dundalk, Co Louth, base of many of the self-style Real IRA - the republican
splinter group that has admitted blame for the bombing - townspeople were
holding a silent parade.

Meanwhile, Downing Street said Mr Ahern and Irish President Mary McAleese, as
well as Spanish Prime Minister Jose-Maria Aznar, would also be invited to the
service attended by the Queen.

A spokesman said the wishes of the relatives of the victims would be
"paramount", so the timing, location and form of the service would be decided in
consultation with them.

A young mother who has given birth after narrowly escaping death in the bombing
wants her daughter to be a symbol of new hope for Ulster. "I hope she can grow
up and be safe," said Nicola Emery, 21.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: memorial plan - the Queen

                Copyright 1998 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              421 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Grimsby Evening Telegraph

                                August 22, 1998

Millions in tribute to Omagh bomb victims

SECTION: Politics: Northern Ireland, Pg.7

LENGTH: 677 words


Northern Ireland, the Republic and part of the British mainland will fall silent
later today with more than a million people expected to share in the grief of
the Omagh bombing.

Special religious services and prayers are being held in cities and towns on
both sides of the border.

More than 30,000 are expected in the devastated town for the most moving tribute
of all, an Act of Prayerful Reflection just yards from the site of the terrorist
atrocity a week ago which left 28 people dead and more than 200 injured.

Crowds are due to gather as well in London and New York, but it is in Co Tyrone
- where all but five of the victims lived - that emotions will be highest.

Churchmen and politicians on all sides, however, believe it might also signal
the start of the rebuilding process in a shattered community still trying to
come to terms with the enormity of the outrage amid unimaginable anguish.

Omagh District Council's chief executive, John McKinney, said: "It's going to be
a difficult afternoon for us all, particularly the families, their relatives and
friends and they can draw great comfort from those around them."

A minute's silence will take place at 3.10pm, the precise moment the 500lb car
bomb went off in Market Street.

Leaders of all the main political parties and senior representatives of the four
main churches will be in Omagh on the steep hill of the High Street outside the
town's Courthouse for an interdenominational service, which is also likely to be
attended by the Republic's President Mary McAleese and Taoiseach Bertie Ahern.

He will have talks afterwards with Ulster Unionist leader David Trimble, first
minister of the new Northern Ireland Assembly and his deputy at Stormont, the
SDLP's Seamus Mallon.

Up to 200 VIPs, including representatives of the Government will be there as
well.

With the starting times for all major sporting events being delayed for 15
minutes, Ireland - north and south - will be at a standstill for the day of
mourning the like of which Ireland has never seen before and civic leaders
believe more than a million people will pause in memory of the dead.

In Dundalk, Co Louth, where many members of the self-style Real IRA are based -
this is the republican splinter group that has admitted responsibility for the
bombing - townspeople are to hold a silent parade.

There will be religious services in virtually every major town and many villages
in Northern Ireland.

In Enniskillen, Co Fermanagh where 11 people were killed in the Remembrance Day
bombing church bells will ring out before a five minute commemorative silence.

Banbridge, Co Down - where the same republican gang of bombers struck three
weeks ago injuring 35 people - will show poignant solidarity. Trade union
leaders have called on all their members to observe the minutes silence.

Special ceremonies have been arranged for outside some shops in the greater
Belfast area and the city's Church of Ireland St Anne's Cathedral will be open
for seven hours for private prayer.

Many are planned for the Republic over the weekend, one of them at St Patrick's
Cathedral.

St Martin's-In-The-Fields in London's Trafalgar Square, which works with cross
community groups, will light candles for the dead and the Irish chaplaincy in
Britain will be holding a Memorial Mass at Camden.

Trade Union leaders and the CBI have urged their members to observe a minutes
silence in Northern Ireland.

"Our aim is to allow everyone to express their support and sympathy in a way
that demonstrates their abhorrence at the atrocity," a spokesman said.

Football supporters and players in Scotland's Premier League will observe a one
minute silence at 3pm. The Northern Ireland international team's match against
Malta scheduled for last Wednesday was cancelled earlier as a mark of respect.

Roger Mitchell, the Scottish League's Chief Executive, said: "The dreadful loss
of life in Omagh last weekend put football and sport in general into
perspective.

"We are making this gesture to simply pay our respects to those who died."$

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1998 Grimsby Evening Telegraph

                              422 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           August 22, 1998, Saturday

Monitor; All the News of the World;The Omagh bomb US missile attacks President
Clinton's confession A-level results Glenn Hoddle's book The X-Files

SECTION: FEATURES; Page 4

LENGTH: 3137 words


US MISSILE ATTACKS

Reaction to yesterday's missile attacks on Afghanistan and Sudan in retaliation
for terrorist bombings in Africa

The Washington Post

US

THE UNITED States was correct to send its military forces into action against
terrorist bases in Afghanistan and Sudan yesterday. The bombing two weeks ago of
embassies in Kenya and Tanzania that killed more than 250 people and injured
thousands more was an act of war. It is not the kind of war many Americans grew
up with, in which one country invades another, but it is war nonetheless.

u

Financial Times

UK

THERE CAN be no denying that this is a gamble of considerable proportions for
President Bill Clinton. Committing violence deep inside a distant state is not
an action to be undertaken lightly. The risks are obvious: of something going
militarily wrong; of a political backlash in the Islamic world; of an escalating
war in which many more innocent lives are lost.  The only question is whether
the threat posed by the terrorists to US and international security is large and
imminent enough to justify running such risks.

u

Philadelphia Inquirer

US

IT IS tempting, in light of President Clinton's fall from public grace earlier
this week, to deduce that the strikes were planned as a powerful ploy to shift
domestic opinion and shore up America's damaged reputation abroad. But Mr
Clinton declared that the strikes were planned and executed for more important
reasons and, this time, we must take him at his word.

u

Chicago Tribune

US

LET'S BE sober about what has been achieved. Twelve years ago, the US launched a
bombing raid on Libya. It succeeded in quieting Col Moammar Gadhafi for a time -
but he's still around, still a sponsor of world terrorism.  The missile assault
on bin Laden's operation may well chill his efforts for a time but won't reverse
the course of terrorism. As for timing, for now we'll take on faith that the
president's domestic troubles had no impact on this initiative.  To think
otherwise is chilling in itself.

u

The Guardian

UK

FOR MR Clinton the firm action against those who have taken American and other
lives is a clear way of demonstrating that the institution of the US presidency
is about much more than the first DNA test taken at the White House.

u

Daily Mail

UK

IN PROMOTING favourites Mr Blair has done nothing that many of his predecessors
have not done: prime ministers have a natural urge to have those they know and
trust about them. Indeed, this can make for effective government.  But if
pursued too relentlessly, cronyism can cocoon a leader from political reality
and rob the government of talent. Mr Blair may not have crossed this line with
his changes. Nonetheless, he has strayed close to it.

u

Detroit News Chronicle

US

AMERICA'S TERRORIST enemies do need to understand that America's domestic
differences stop at the water's edge. When talk of impeachment was gathering
strength during the Nixon administration in 1973, for example, a new Arab-
Israeli war broke out, with the Soviet Union threatening to involve itself.  Yet
America rallied to Israel's defense. Likewise, this President's political and
legal difficulties should not be read by others as a license to make America a
target. The US, as a constitutional democracy, is bigger and more formidable
than any one man, including the President himself.

Murdered for living in peace

THE BOMBING OF OMAGH

Opinions on the bombing by the Real IRA of a small market town, which left 28
dead and 330 injured.

The Boston Globe

US

THE WORST terrorist attack in 30 years of violence in Northern Ireland gets its
special horror from the indiscriminate nature of the killings.  The town of
Omagh, 50 miles west of Belfast, is a relatively integrated community, with
Catholics and Protestants striving to live together. Both Catholics and
Protestants voted for the political settlement approved resoundingly in May.
Both Catholics and Protestants were killed by those who would undermine the
settlement.

That is the outrage: The dead apparently were not targeted because they were
perceived as oppressors or separatists or in retribution for other violence but
simply because they lived in peace.

u

The Irish Times

Ireland

THE TWO governments are not immune from charges of tardiness. Perhaps after the
pinnacle of the Agreement and the tensions of the Drumcree crisis an element of
exhaustion or some loss of concentration came about. For what happened at Omagh
was not unpredictable. The so-called "Real IRA" had already made six bombing
attempts, of which the most recent was at Banbridge. Their murderous intent was
clear and their capacity proven.  There is nothing known about these people's
intentions or capabilities which was not known before last Saturday.

It should not have taken the outrage at Omagh to mobilise the governments to
action. The measures which are now to be taken - and they are almost certain to
include new law - must be considered carefully and then put into place with
speed and resolution.

u

The Daily Telegraph

UK

IN ATTENDANCE at yesterday's funerals were Sinn Fein/IRA's Gerry Adams and
Martin McGuinness, as though it was the most normal thing in the world.  Instead
of being chased from the burial ground, they have garnered further publicity. If
the gun is for ever to be taken out of Irish politics, then opprobrium must be
heaped on all apologists for violence.

u

New Statesman

UK

ADAMS, McGUINNESS and McLaughlin have taken their organisation a long way from
the strategy of bombing as many British and Protestants as possible; they are
enmeshing themselves in a democratic politics which, now, means media politics
and at least some degree of transparency. They are close to losing their mandate
of blood and soul. The real test - of a spiritual as well as a political
denunciation - has yet to be passed.

International

Herald Tribune

France

MAKE NO mistake about it: Ulster is a far sicker place then Germany was after a
dozen years of Nazi power. Two hundred years of institutional bigotry have made
sure of that. Unless Mr Blair and Mr Ahern roll up their sleeves, it will be
hard to prevent this bleeding ulcer from contaminating life in the rest of
Ireland and perhaps eventually in parts of Britain, too.

u

Belfast Telegraph

UK

THE MOST frustrating aspect of the Omagh bomb is that the authorities have
evidently already established the identities of leading members of the Real IRA.
In Northern Ireland, the eternal problem for the police has been to secure
sufficient evidence to bring to justice those who were known to be behind
various terrorist campaigns. Internment has been raised as an option, but it
should be unnecessary to resort to a measure which has proved counter-productive
and ineffective in the past.

The best means of ending the Real IRA's campaign is for the whole community to
unite against this maverick organisation. The will of the people is the most
effective weapon in a concerted drive against an organisation which has brought
shame on Ireland.

u

The Irish News

UK

THE ONLY way out of the abyss is via the Good Friday agreement. The need to work
it has been strengthened by Omagh, not weakened. Sinn Fein and the Unionists
will have to get around a table. The prisoner release programme will have to
continue, despite the Paisleys', the Robinsons' and the Donaldsons' cheap shots
at Mo Mowlam on the issue. The goal after Omagh must be the pursuit of justice,
not vengeance, and, via the Belfast agreement, the achievement of a state of
relationships within these islands wherein such a hideous catastrophe can never
ever reoccur. (Tim Pat Coogan)

PRESIDENT CLINTON'S CONFESSION

Comments following Bill Clinton's televised address in which he spoke of having
had an 'inappropriate' relationship with Monica Lewinsky

The Sydney Morning Herald

Australia

AFTER PRESIDENT Clinton's extraordinary address to the American people, the most
important question is whether it marks an end to something that has gone on far
too long or the beginning of an even deeper descent into a debilitating
political crisis. The US political system is a model of free and open democracy.
But in this affair the central forces - the political parties, the media, the
"moral majority" - within American democracy have produced a situation where the
original cause is so out of proportion to its broad political effects, the world
stands amazed.

u

La Repubblica

Italy

THE WHOLE world was in the Map Room with Clinton, and it wasn't looking for a
marital confession. It was looking for the proof of steadiness of nerves,
critical competence, and intelligence. Or else, America would have wanted to see
someone that, even by their tone of voice, realises the vastness of the
disillusion to the public, even by asking: "Can I still govern?" In doing so,
Clinton would have shown he understood the importance of this drama. None of
these things happened. His four-minute address to the country was a sad and
pathetic act from someone who thought he could lie and still easily get away
with it.

u

El Pais

Spain

IT SEEMS to the American liberal establishment that Clinton has lost an
opportunity to say sorry unambiguously, to acknowledge his guilt and appeal with
contrition to the people's good sense. On the contrary, the President, in line
with his personality, wanted to pay the minimum political price for his
indisputable error: "I didn't tell the whole truth, but I didn't lie." Only
legalistic cynicism can reconcile these two proposals.

u

New York Times

US

HERE WAS a man of compassionate impulse and lofty ambition who went to
Washington with every imaginable political skill except one. He seemed to think
he was immune from a rule that leaps out from any reading of modern
Presidencies. Everything comes to light sooner or later. Mr Clinton cannot stop
the process of revelation in which he participated yesterday.  By and by, we
will see entire the lineaments of his fate and his standing among the
Presidents. It can never be what he and the nation hoped, for he long ago chose
to manipulate the narrative of his political life in such a way as to cripple
trust.

A-LEVEL RESULTS

Verdicts on this year's A-level exam results, released on Thursday

The Sun

THE A-LEVEL results are out and Britain's kids have done it again. Another
record year for passes is a cause for celebration. We are delighted that all the
hard work and dedication paid off for so many teenagers. And parents will be
pleased that the money they invested in home computers has paid off, too.  All
those hours surfing the Web were educational after all!

u

The Daily Telegraph

THE FACT is that subjects such as television studies and sport have no business
masquerading as A-levels. They should be redesignated as vocational courses, and
A-levels returned to being the purely academic qualifications they were
originally designed as. All concerned, pupils and parents, schools and
universities, would then know what each qualification was really worth. If
A-levels are ever to be restored to the undisputed status they previously
enjoyed, we must first be clear as to what they stand for.

u

Daily Mail

WHAT OUGHT to be the "gold standard" of our school system has been eroded.  This
claim might have had some validity in other years. Not this time.  The overall
pass rate has gone up by an insignificant 0.2 per cent. Hardly galloping
erosion. We congratulate all who have done well. And hope they go on to do even
better.

u

The Express

THERE IS still hope for those who think they have missed the mark. Of those who
started as undergraduates last year, 54,401 gained their places through
clearing. So even to those for whom this morning brings disappointment, the
message must be: don't give up hope.

GLENN HODDLE'S BOOK ABOUT THE WORLD CUP

Comments on the England football coach's publication of a book

detailing his conversations with players during the World Cup

Sunday Mirror

HOW CAN Lancaster Gate now threaten anyone this season with bringing the game
into disrepute after the revelations in Glen Hoddle's new book?  Chris Sutton,
Gazza, Alex Ferguson and others were all slagged off by the current England
coach in a book co-written with the FA's David Davies.  He may have the title
but a kiss-and-tell book while in office will hardly give him the respect of
those playing under him.

(Eamonn Holmes)

u

The People

WHAT A load of old tosh Glen Hoddle does talk. His memoirs of the World Cup are
filled with paeans of praise for faith-healer Eileen Drewery - at one point he
compares her to Christ - and he reckons that had she accompanied the England
squad to France, the outcome would have been different.  Really? So how come
when David Beckham consulted her about a problem with his calf, it ended up with
an uncontrollable twitch? (Carol Sarler)

u

The Times

HODDLE HAS prevailed, not by moral rightness but by the power of a good
performance. It is the only way to acquire moral stature in a culture that looks
to television for its moral lead. You can do anything you like, inappropriate,
or flagrantly immoral: but, if you can still look the camera in the eye and put
on a decent show, you will never lose. (Simon Barnes)

u

The Daily Telegraph

HODDLE MUST be naive to think the players might accept his invitation to tell
him if they dislike the book. What Hoddle has inevitably lost is some dignity
and trust which may undermine the Euro 2000 campaign.  (David Miller)

u

The Evening Standard

YOUR COUNTRY needs you, Glenn Hoddle but it needs you most to win football
matches. It doesn't need you to be a great author, diarist or instigator of
protracted controversies. All we ask is that you win the matches that matter -
like the ones against Romania and Argentina in France in June.  (Michael Hart)

FILM OF THE WEEK

Reviews of the film version of 'The X-Files'

The Daily Telegraph

THE X-FILES is more than passable fun, for all its modish millennial angst.
Both stars look in their element on a 50ft screen - the low-key Duchovny,
especially, looks as though he has a glowing future in movies.  One could say
the same for The X-Files itself, clearly being positioned as a future franchise
along the lines of Star Trek films (its ending hints none too gently at possible
sequels). But things could be worse: did you really want to see Godzilla II?

(David Gritten)

u

The Guardian

THE FILM'S influences lie somewhere between All the President's Men and
Superman, and it should attract a wider audience because of that.  The X-Files,
we now see, is what happens when Nixon's children grow up.  Because the film's
uniformed protocol is so well played, it's easy to miss the fact that it is
based on a presupposed belief in the paranormal by all parties. The question is
never whether aliens exist (though of course the audience is inclined to side
with the believer heroes). The issue is that some people are open about their
belief (or knowledge), and some people are covering it up.

(Gaby Wood)

u

Time Out

WITH A narrative that's gone bonkers, you never know what's coming next, and
there are a number of delicious surprises in store for the unwary.  There's fun
to have from the teaser storyline, and plenty of movie references to tick off,
though the major mystery remains why the dark forces don't just shoot Mulder and
Scully and be done with it. Guess that would harm a very obvious sequel
opportunity. (Trevor Johnston)

Quotes of the Week

"For some people, sex is the main reason for going to work. I sometimes wondered
whether any work was being done at all."

Jean Civil, a psychoanalyst who has spent seven years studying sex in the
workplace

"It's fair to say this is not the best day of her life."

Marsha Berry, Hillary Clinton's press secretary, on the day the President
confessed his infidelity on TV

"In France we tried to make films like The Full Monty, but they were just
boring. It was people on the dole eating soup."

Daniel Auteuil, French actor

"There are a lot of people in Sweden in my situation. I have to clean out my
kidneys and liver, and they should do the same."

Ingvar Kamprad, founder of Ikea

"It is a place of indescribable grief - a land of shadow and appalling pain, for
which there are no words."

Shane Bradely, Buncana parish priest, at a funeral for three child victims of
the Omagh bombing

The Post

Zambia

EVEN THOUGH Zambia is a poor country which is now dependent on alms, certain
minimum standards of self-respect ought to be observed. Such ceremonies as the
handover of kitchen utensils at Lusaka Central Prisons yesterday are ridiculous,
demeaning and troubling. They raise questions of whether the Zambian government
is serious or has been seized by a particularly virulent form of mental
paralysis. The utensils that the Swedes bought for the prison are highly
appreciated, and Zambians have no right to be ungrateful. But they are items
which the Ministry of Home Affairs can buy any day from its own resources even
with the economic problems the country is going through.

Katmandu Post

Nepal

DESPITE THE fact that Lord Gautam Buddha was born in Nepal, the truth has been
overshadowed and Nepal has been unable to attract Buddhist tourists to this
country. Over 500 million Buddhist people live in Asia alone.  Japan, Thailand,
Myanmar, Sri Lanka etc have a majority Buddhist population.  Even taxi drivers
in Thailand show great interest in Buddha.

u

Daily Yomiuri

Japan

WHILE MANY young Japanese wish to get married, some tend to spend their twenties
working and playing so hard that they have little time to find a partner. This
may leave them wondering how to find a spouse later in life.  Japan Marriage
System can provide a solution - a go-between service helping those who wish to
find marriage partners. Changes in society mean that commercial matchmaking
services are springing up alongside their traditional counterparts.

u

Daily Gleaner

Jamaica

FEW PEOPLE have neutral feelings about the 1970s. In North America many people
describe this period as an era of great excitement, that is, big afros; funky
bell-bottom trousers; wide, high-heeled shoes; and rousing disco music. For
others, it is a period best forgotten along with its outlandish fashions, loud
annoying music and the little it offered by way of creative cultural ideas.

MISCELLANEOUS


LOAD-DATE: August 24, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1998 Independent Print Ltd

                              423 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Leicester Mercury

                                August 22, 1998

Pakistan retracts stray missile claim Raids are condemned

SECTION: Pg.7

LENGTH: 514 words


PAKISTAN yesterday condemned America's attack on neighbouring Afghanistan, but
the government retracted an earlier statement that a stray missile had struck
its territory and killed at least five people.

The retraction came after a telephone call from President Bill Clinton to the
Pakistani prime minister, Nawaz Sharif.

Pakistani Foreign Ministry spokesman Tariq Altaf said earlier yesterday that
five or six people were killed by a stray American missile.

But hours later, a Foreign Ministry statement said Altaf's comments were based
on "inaccurate information".

"No casualty has occurred inside Pakistani territory as believed earlier," the
statement said.

"No damage either has been caused on the Pakistan side."

Before Altaf's announcement, Foreign Minister Sartaj Aziz told the Pakistani
senate: "Irrespective of the motives of these strikes, the act of violation of
the sovereignty and territorial integrity of these Islamic countries cannot but
be a matter of grave concern to the people of Pakistan who justifiably feel
outraged."

Bombings

Demonstrators yesterday burned US flags, threw stones at consulates and chanted
angry slogans across Pakistan.

Many of the protests were called by conservative Islamic parties who have
condemned the US military attacks on bases linked to Osama Bin Laden.

Mr Clinton said investigators had determined bin Laden was behind the August 7
US embassy bombings in East Africa that killed 257 people.

The United Nations closed its offices and directed its American and other
foreign staff to stay in their homes for their own safety.

The US State Department had recalled all non-essential diplomatic staff and
their families on Monday, and warned other Americans to leave the country.

A SENIOR Leicestershire Muslim has launched a stinging attack on America after
the US Navy bombed sites in Afghanistan and the Sudan.

Pakistan's foreign ministry earlier reported that one of the scores of missiles
fired from warships in the Red Sea landed on their soil, killing at least six
people.

This claim was later retracted.

The strikes at alleged terrorist bases in the two nations were a response to the
bombing of US embassies in Kenya and Tanzania which killed 257, including 10
Americans.

Muslim Council of Britain spokesman Manzoor Moghal, who is also chairman of the
Federation of Muslim Organisations in Leicestershire, said: "The Muslim Council
of Britain condemns unequivocally all acts of terrorism, including the ones
recently carried out in Kenya, Tanzania and Northern Ireland by individuals,
groups or nations.

"We believe that nothing can justify the killing of innocent people anywhere.

"We also strongly condemn Thursday night's air strikes.

"The American action is a clear violation of international law and takes us back
to the days of gunboat diplomacy, when might was right and the law of the jungle
prevailed.

"What the terrorists did was wrong. And what the Americans did in retaliation
against two Muslim countries who were not at war with America was also wrong and
totally unjustified."

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                        Copyright 1998 Leicester Mercury

                              424 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           August 22, 1998, Saturday

BORIS SLAMS BOMBER BILL'S 'INDECENT ACT';
 RUSSIAN PRESIDENT BORIS YELTSIN CONDEMS AMERICA'S AIR STRIKES

BYLINE: Andy Lines In New York

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 403 words


RUSSIAN president Boris Yeltsin yesterday branded Bill Clinton's air strikes
against Afghanistan and Sudan as "indecent".

Clearly furious, he said: "I am outraged and I condemn. My attitude is negative
as it would be to any act of terrorism.

"I didn't know this strike would be carried out. That means the whole world was
unaware of it, which makes it even more indecent."

White House spokesman Mike McCurry retorted: "We disagree with President
Yeltsin. You don't negotiate with terrorists."

Yeltsin hit out as a huge international row flared over the Cruise missile
attacks on terror bases in the Afghan mountains and a suspected chemical warfare
plant north of Khartoum.

As Clinton made a series of phone calls to world leaders to explain his action,
Britain gave its close ally unstinting support.

Speaking in France, Premier Tony Blair said: "It is necessary to take measures
against terrorism that are successful. The US must have the right to defend
themselves and we support our allies in that cause."

But elsewhere huge protests erupted. Sudan made an official complaint to the UN
Security Council and withdrew its entire diplomatic staff from Washington and
New York.  Sudanese President Omar el-Bashir warned: "My country reserves the
right to respond to the attack using all necessary measures."

In Khartoum, thousands of people gathered outside the abandoned US Embassy and
burned flags.

The Sudanese Embassy in Kenya described Clinton as "a sexual pervert and
maniac." It said: "The sole motive was to divert attention away from his
crumbling credibility."

Attacks on US embassies in Kenya and Tanzania in which 263 people died sparked
Thursday's attacks.

Iraq and Libya accused Washington of committing "international terrorism." China
said the US should have acted within international law.

Nations publicly supporting Clinton included Australia, Japan, Spain and
Belgium.  In Britain, Shadow Foreign Secretary Michael Howard gave Tory backing,
saying "terrorists are enemies of humanity." The Lib Dems said the strike was
justified.

US ambassador Philip Lader thanked Britain for its support, saying: "If there is
any nation that should be sensitive to the threats and sad realities of
terrorism, it is the UK."

But Labour Left-wingers Tony Benn and George Galloway called the strike
"cowardly" and "cynical."

World On Red Alert

- Pages 8 and 9

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Boris Yeltsin yesterday;; Tony Blair yesterday

                            Copyright 1998 MGN Ltd.

                              425 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           August 22, 1998, Saturday

BACKING BOMBER BILL PUTS US AT RISK;
 PAUL ROUTLEDGE CONSIDERS BACKING AMERICA PUTS BRITAIN AT RISK

BYLINE: Paul Routledge

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 416 words


THE idea that President Bill Clinton bombed the Sudan and Afghanistan to divert
attention from his sex scandal is entertaining.

But I just don't buy it. It may be argued that air strikes on terrorist targets
at the same time as Monica Lewinsky was dishing more dirt to a grand jury is too
much of a coincidence to be true.

Yet the president says he acted after receiving intelligence information that
America's tormentors were about to attack again. This time he could be telling
the truth.

What worries me is the impact that the US military intervention will have on
Britain.

Faster than a Tomahawk missile, Tony Blair leaps to Clinton's side, offering
"strong support" for his actions.

No-one doubts their close friendship or their similar style of leadership or
their commitment to fighting terrorism. But aren't we a bit too quick off the
mark?

Cosying up to the president may be useful to the Prime Minister but how does
this automatic backing for the US serve British interests? That is the only test
of foreign policy.

So far, we have heard practically nothing from the Foreign Office, only that
Britons should stay away from the countries that have been bombed.

Deputy Premier John Prescott insists his boss Tony is "absolutely right...that's
all we have to say at the moment".

Well, that isn't good enough. Britain has a diplomatic and business presence in
Islamic countries all over the world.

There must now be a risk that Britons abroad will be exposed to retaliatory
violence. And there are more than two million Muslims right here in the UK.

What must they think about this glib talk of Islamic fundamentalists, labelling
the faithful as political militants? We haven't really been told WHY we are so
slavishly following the US government. Platitudes about fighting international
terrorism do not a foreign policy make.

The Americans say they were attacking the terrorist sites of Saudi millionaire
terrorist Osama bin Laden. But remember, the Americans were actually arming bin
Laden when he was fighting a guerilla war against the occupying Soviet forces in
Afghanistan a decade ago.

So it is quite possible that American explosives were used against US embassies
and civilians in the outrages in Kenya and Tanzania.

I cannot believe our Foreign Office is happy with the government's blank cheque
for Bomber Bill. So when are Mr Blair and silent Robin Cook going to tell us
what they are letting the country in for - and why?

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1998 MGN Ltd.

                              426 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                August 23, 1998

SECTION: *; Pg. *

LENGTH: 560 words


THE HOME Office launched an urgent investigation yesterday after learning that
an alleged supporter of the world's most wanted terrorist, Osama bin Laden, had
been appointed by Jack Straw, the Home Secretary, to an influential race
relations committee.

Makbool Javaid, who used to be legal adviser to the Commission for Racial
Equality, was selected by Mr Straw to be a member of the Race Relations Forum,
which had its inaugural meeting in June.

Sources at the Home Office admitted yesterday Mr Straw was unaware that Mr
Javaid was a prominent member of the London-based fundamentalist group Al
-Muhajiroun, and is closely linked to British members of the political wing of
the International Islamic Front.

The front is headed by Mr Bin Laden, who is believed to be behind the bombing of
the American embassies in Kenya and Tanzania. Al-Muhajiroun is the mouthpiece of
the front in the UK.

It receives faxes from the front and disseminates them among newspapers,
including the London-based Al Hayat, and the group's estimated 600 supporters.

Recently, Al-Muhajiroun issued a press release "applauding" the explosions in
Dar-as-Salaam and Nairobi, which killed more than 260.

The group supported Mr Bin Laden's call for a Jihad against the US when the
International Islamic Front was created in February.

Mr Javaid is believed to be out of the country and could not be contacted
yesterday, but Sheikh Omar Bakri Mohammed, who founded Al-Muhajiroun, confirmed
he was a member of the group.

"We would not carry out terrorist activity ourselves, but we endorse the use of
violence," he said. "Bin Laden is a hero to all Muslims." Sheikh Omar is also a
spokesman in Britain for the front.

The Home Office confirmed that it had launched an investigation into Mr Javaid's
background.

The forum was set up by Mr Straw earlier this year "to give ethnic minority
communities a voice in the heart of government." Other members of the forum
include Bernie Grant, Labour MP for Tottenham, and Trevor Phillips, the
broadcaster and journalist.

The investigation is an embarrassment for Tony Blair, who was among the first to
be told about the US air strikes and the first foreign leader publicly to
endorse them. Mr Blair said yesterday the West would "wage war against
terrorism" wherever it was perpetrated.

The shadow Foreign Secretary, Michael Howard, said: "These terrorists are
enemies of humanity. International terrorism is one of the greatest dangers to
mankind".

But Labour backbencher Tony Benn described the strikes as "a totally cynical and
unprincipled move . . . a defiance of international law. It's what we used to
call gunboat diplomacy in the days of the British empire."

Another Labour leftwinger, George Galloway, called the strikes "a cowardly act,
just as cowardly as the maniacs who put the bombs outside the US embassies."

Ghayasuddin Siddiqui, leader of the Muslim Parliament of Great Britain, said:
"The US has unilaterally, with no prior sanction, attacked two independent and
sovereign states."

About 100 Muslim protesters gathered at the US embassy in London to protest
against the air strikes.

Omer Yousif Breedo, the Sudanese ambassador in London, condemned the strikes as
"unprovoked aggression . . . in violation of international law and the charter
of the United Nations".


LOAD-DATE: August 24, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              427 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            August 23, 1998, Sunday

Sudan rioters attack British embassy; US steps up attempts to seize terror boss
bin Laden's assets

BYLINE: RAYMOND WHITAKER AND ANDREW MARSHALL

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Page 1

LENGTH: 507 words


AN ANGRY crowd attacked the British embassy in Khartoum, the Sudanese capital,
yesterday, smashing windows and tearing the Union flag to pieces. Although
police reinforcements arrived to protect embassy staff, the incident has
heightened fears that Britain's immediate support for the American missile
attacks on Sudan and Afghanistan will put British lives and property at risk
abroad.

The deserted US embassy in Khartoum was also stormed yesterday by thousands of
Sudanese, chanting "God is greater than America". They were spurred on by
Sudan's president, Omar el-Bashir, who said his people were prepared to die in a
holy war. Afterwards about 500 people marched to the British embassy. They
stoned the building, smashing most of the windows, and cut down the Union flag
from a pole in front before tearing it to pieces.

A Foreign Office spokesman said the Government had protested to the Sudanese
authorities over the attack, which lasted about 20 minutes. "When the crowd
arrived, we asked the foreign ministry for additional police protection, which
arrived quickly," he said. "Our staff are in remarkably good spirits.  They were
able to continue with their work, keeping in close touch with the 200-odd
British nationals still in Sudan." Last week the Government advised Britons in
Sudan to leave, and to be vigilant and avoid crowds if they stayed. Travel to
Sudan was discouraged unless it was essential.

Anger has run high in Sudan since six of the 76 cruise missiles fired by the US
on Thursday demolished a factory on the outskirts of Khartoum, killing one
person and injuring nine. Washington said the plant was being used to produce
chemical weapons, a claim strongly denied by the Sudanese government. There are
also suspicions that America was seeking to punish Sudan for its past
associations with Osama bin Laden, the Saudi billionaire accused by Washington
of masterminding the bomb attacks on its embassies in east Africa from his base
in Afghanistan.

Yesterday President Bill Clinton announced measures designed to clamp down on Mr
bin Laden's assets, banning transactions between the US and companies or
individuals linked to him. "We must not allow sanctuary for terrorism - not for
terrorists or for their money," Mr Clinton said in his weekly radio address. "It
takes money - lots of it - to build the terrorist network bin Laden has. We'll
do our best to see that he has less of it."

Although it emerged that the US has compiled a thick dossier of allegations
against the Saudi revolutionary, and that it had made at least two attempts
during the past year to extricate him from Afghanistan, the absence of public
proof of his involvement in the embassy bombings has led to criticism of Tony
Blair for giving Mr Clinton swift and unequivocal support.  Maverick Labour MPs
including Tony Benn and Tam Dalyell condemned the missile attacks yesterday and
called on Mr Blair to withdraw Britain's approval.

Afghan eyewitness, page 13; Focus, pages 22-23; Leading article, page 24


LOAD-DATE: August 24, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1998 Independent Print Ltd

                              428 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                            August 23, 1998, Sunday

FROM RUBBLE ...A PATH TO PEACE;
 IN GRIEF THIS TOWN STOOD TOGETHER - UNITED AGAINST THE EVIL TERRORISTS;
 OMAGH BOMBING: MEMORIAL TO OMAGH DEAD

BYLINE: John Smith

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8, 9

LENGTH: 1507 words


T was only 60 seconds of silence, a mere blip in the long and bloody history of
Northern Ireland.

But in the sorrowing, sun-lit streets of Omagh yesterday that one minute in
memory of the dead surely marked a milestone on the path to peace.

Seven days after cowardly terrorists blasted the heart out of this friendly
market town, the people of Omagh led all of Ireland in a mute and moving plea
for conciliation which even the most callous of killers would find hard to
ignore.

No words were needed.

The agony of Omagh was etched in every face as huge crowds, many in tears, stood
in the sunshine outside the historic courthouse while John McKinney, chief
executive of Omagh district council, read out the names of the 28 dead.

They ranged from 18-month-old baby Maura Monoghan to her 65-year-old
grandmother, Mary Grimes, members of a family who lost three generations in the
blast.

Memory

Only stifled sobs split the silence as the names rolled on, each one jogging a
treasured memory for the grieving relatives who had found the strength to join
the simple 25-minute service within sight of the shattered shell of Market
Street where the bomb went off.

They sat stony-faced in front of the courthouse alongside Irish Premier Bertie
Ahern, the Republic's President Mary McAleese, Britain's Deputy Prime Minister
John Prescott and Tory deputy leader Peter Lilley.

Ulster First Minister David Trimble, Sinn Fein's Gerry Adams and Martin
McGuinness, SDLP leader John Hume and RUC Chief Constable Ronnie Flanagan were
also there as the grim roll-call went on and on.

Teenage girl shop assistants, an eight-year-old lad visiting from Co Donegal, a
21-year-old car mechanic who had popped out to buy a pair of jeans and walked
straight into the heart of the explosion.

They were all there on the list, innocent men, women and children slaughtered in
a split second of summer madness on an afternoon just like this.

Tears streaming down their young faces, teenage boys and girls hugged each other
for comfort as the remorseless roll reached the names of four past and present
students of Omagh High School. All unwittingly directed to their deaths because
the IRA murderers gave deliberately misleading messages about the location of
the 500lb bomb.

Big, bold and black, the hands on the courthouse clock edged inextricably
towards 3.10pm, the exact moment the bomb exploded just one week ago.

A week ago, under clear blue skies, cheerful crowds thronged the Market Street
shops.

There was a carnival atmosphere as families took up position for a parade of
floats which was to mark the end of a week-long festival. But then, at 3.10pm,
the massive car bomb exploded. Seven days on, everywhere you looked there were
reminders of the horror.

But the grimmest reminder of all lay less than a minute walk away, up the
sloping High Street to the bombed-out remains of Market Street.

A splintered glass Guinness sign dangles crookedly from the gutted remains of
the Cosy Corner pub and boarded-up windows cover the front of the Supervalu
supermarket. Just a week ago, in the hellish aftermath of the bomb which killed
and maimed so many, Omagh was the last place on earth that anyone would want to
be.

Now, however, it seemed that the whole of Ireland wanted to stand by Omagh in
its grief, its defiance, its pride and its hope.

Stretching between the cordoned-off bombsite and the imposing old courthouse,
the High Street was jammed with people.

Thousands more pressed in from the narrow surrounding streets, threatening to
double Omagh's normal population of 25,000. Their voices soared to the clear
blue sky as they sang The Lord Is My Shepherd, accompanied by the St Eugene's
band which last week was playing for the town carnival.

The presence of armed police and British Army soldiers provided a sobering
reminder that in Northern Ireland nothing can be left to chance, even in a town
still reeling from an unthinkable atrocity.The Rev Robert Herron, one of the
service organisers, said: "We want to say with a loud as voice as possible that
evil is not going to defeat us."

Stirring words.

But there was no longer any need for pronouncements from priests, politicians or
civil servants.

The people of Omagh had taken back their town.

Bound together in silence, they marked the anniversary of the saddest Saturday
in their history with reverence and resolution.

Here beneath the courthouse clock, it was time to embrace the cruel and ironic
reality that a whole new future could be built from the bombed out ruins of
Market Street.

They had spent the week burying their dead. Maybe the most lasting monument to
their loved ones would be an end to the killing and the violence.

There was an audible intake of breath as the hands of the clock clicked to ten
past three.

Awful

As the minute's silence ticked away, memories of lives which were so brutally
cut short mingled with the awful images and the nightmare scenes which had been
enacted a week ago just up the road from Boots and Dorothy Perkins.

But there was time, too, to look ahead.

Too many towns had been branded forever by the mark of the bomber.

Warrington, Guildford, Enniskillen, Brighton. Like them, Omagh had paid a
terrible price for its infamy.

But now everybody was saying that this was a bomb too far.

If history is to stick a label on Omagh they would prefer it to say something
about peace and a new beginning.

Earlier Patricia Gallagher stared straight ahead as the crowds pressed in around
her. Lots of visitors kept looking up the slope of the High Street, straining
for a glimpse of the shattered shopping centre.

But Patricia couldn't bare to look in that direction.

For it was somewhere up there, behind the blue-and-white police tapes which now
cordoned off the blitzed zone, that her 21-year-old son Aidan died.

So the heartbroken mum just kept her eyes to the front, fighting back the tears
and standing close to her husband Michael.

Painful

"That's what she had been dreading, coming close to where Aidan was killed,"
explained Michael, who had also brought his daughters Sharon, 25, and Kathy, 20.

"But, painful as it might be we just had to come into town today.

"Losing a son I loved so much has left my life totally shattered. Yet some good
may come out of it.

"Maybe people will look at what happened here and vow to do everything in their
power to see it doesn't happen again.

"Ireland has had enough of violence and killing and misery.

"Here is a God-given opportunity to say, 'Enough is enough'."

The sentiments of the grief-stricken father perfectly matched the moods of the
crowds in front of the imposing old courthouse.

They seemed determined to salvage something from the senseless slaughter that
devastated this friendly market town which prides itself on good relations
between Protestant and Catholic.

Joe McDonald was working in an ironmonger's shop when the bomb went off only 20
yards away from him last Saturday.

He ran from the store into a scene of carnage, the street littered with the dead
bodies of men, women and children and other casualties with injuries so hideous
that he shudders at the memory.

Yet he too, believes that the sheer savagery of the attack has had a shock
effect which could curtail similar attrocities. With a glance towards the
devastated stretch of Market Street, he said: "I don't think Northern Ireland
will ever see an outrage like this again.

"The whole world has been touched by it. Nobody wants to see anything like it
again. I don't even think the people who planted the bomb would want that."

Flowers and messages of sympathy are piled up outside the wrecked shops.

More flowers spill onto the pavement outside the Oxfam shop where two teenage
girls who were also amongst the fatalities worked as voluntary helpers. A poster
in the Oxfam window says: "People in Sudan need your help now."

A local clergyman suggested that the ghosts of those who died will forever be
seen on the streets of Omagh. But having spent a week burying their dead, Omagh
looked ready yesterday to lay those ghosts to rest as well.

"We need to put life back into the town centre," said council leader John
McKinney.

"Losing so many of our friends and neighbours was a terrible price to pay. But
let's hope they have not died in vain. Let's hope that what has happened here
will bring an end to violence and provide a peaceful future for our people."

Up on the bridge which spans the tranquil Strule River, floral tributes from all
over Ireland and the rest of the world stretched out in a bright carpet of
colour.

And pinned to the railings, edged in black, was an anonymous message to the
bombers. It said:

"Do not fool yourselves if you thought the outcome of this bomb would be a
community divided, a town torn apart.

"Think again. If this was your mission, you chose the wrong town. In grief we
stand together now. United against you."

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRIEVING: The crowd in Omagh centre yesterday Pictures: SIMEON;
FRANCIS/PHIL RICHARDS

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 1998 MGN Ltd.

                              429 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                            August 23, 1998, Sunday

DESPERATE BOMBERS SMUGGLED OUT BY SEA;
 OMAGH TERROR SUSPECTS FLEEING IRELAND BY SEA

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 445 words


TERRORISTS suspected of the Omagh bombing are fleeing Ireland by sea as the
dragnet closes in on them.  Skippers along the east coast have been offered huge
bribes to smuggle out desperate Real IRA members.  Police fear boatmen who
refuse could be killed but say any caught helping the republicans face long jail
sentences. An anti-terrorist detective said: "Dozens of Real IRA men are on the
run and frantic to get out of the country.  "We have been told by seamen that
approaches have been made with the promise of big payouts if they take them out
of the country, preferably to Europe.  "But only a madman would help them. We
hate to think what the Real IRA will resort to now. They could try anything."
Police are keeping a watch on all sea and air ports. Coves and bays dotted along
the coast are also being monitored. Many Real IRA members are under constant
surveillance and are expected to be arrested within days.  They could have been
detained earlier but security chiefs are waiting for new laws to be rushed
through which allow suspects to be interrogated for longer. The speed and
effectiveness of the Omagh police inquiry has reflected the public's revulsion
at the outrage.  Five arrests were made less than a day after the blast. In the
past it has taken months of painstaking police work to bring Provo killers to
justice.  But the Good Friday peace deal meant those privy to IRA secrets were
more willing to co-operate against hardliners. Their help was vital in helping
security chiefs build up a picture of the renegades who make up the Real IRA.
This, combined with unprecedented openness between the British and Dublin
governments, allowed swift action.  Footage of the car used to transport the
500lb bomb to Omagh was also an important breakthrough.  The film, believed to
be from a security video, shows two men parking the maroon Vauxhall Cavalier in
Market Street 40 minutes before the blast.  The RUC discovered the car had been
stolen two days before from Carrickmacross in the Irish Republic.  Arrests were
made after an exchange of intelligence between RUC Chief Constable Ronnie
Flanagan and Garda chief Pat Byrne.  More swoops are likely once the Irish
government's new anti-terrorism measures come into force.  They will extend
periods of detention without charge, make it easier to get convictions against
members of subversive groups and make it an offence to direct an unlawful
organisation.  Tony Blair is under pressure to come up with similar Draconian
laws for Britain.  Insiders predict the Real IRA - which was formed out of a
twisted hatred at the "betrayal" of the IRA ceasefire - could be smashed within
weeks.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 1998 MGN Ltd.

                              430 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            August 23, 1998, Sunday

Balance of terror

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 1263 words


In all the years of the cold war Soviet communism never dared to strike at the
civilian population of the West as bloodily as terrorists have in recent weeks.
The bombings of two American embassies in east Africa and the devastation of the
once peaceful town of Omagh have been on a scale the West never had to confront
before. The danger of nuclear war was so great that both sides found it prudent
to co-exist. When co-existence was threatened, as it was during the Cuban
missile crisis, the antagonists found ways to restore the status quo before the
missile silos were emptied.

No such self-interest motivates those who would plunge the world into a new dark
age today. They delude themselves into thinking they can act with impunity. The
fact that the August 7 atrocities in Nairobi and Dar es Salaam were committed by
Muslim fundamentalists while the Omagh attack was perpetrated by dissident Irish
republicans makes little difference to the overall pattern. What both groups
profess to believe is of minor importance since their minds are closed to
debate. Their cold-blooded use of similar bombing tactics makes them fellow
travellers on the road to ruin. They know they can inflict devastating loss of
life and limb at minimal risk to themselves. Their refusal to engage in direct
confrontation with their enemies renders traditional calculations of military
strength useless. In the end they can be defeated only by good intelligence, the
loss of safe sanctuaries and, when possible, iron-fisted retaliation.

The West's technological might may win battles in such dirty wars but seldom
finishes them. President Reagan sent his bombers against Libya's Muammar
Gadaffi, yet Gadaffi still rules in Tripoli. Saddam Hussein's years in power are
a standing rebuke to those who believe in the supremacy of missiles and modern
high-tech warfare. A great opportunity was lost to rid the world of the Iraqi
dictator at the end of the Gulf war and cruise missiles cannot make up for that
error. Successive British governments concluded years ago that the Provisional
IRA could not be beaten by military means alone. President Clinton claims to
have received reliable information about the terrorist targets that he attacked
in Afghanistan and Sudan on Thursday. But nobody believes that Osama Bin Laden
and his anti-American fanatics have been eliminated or that Sudan's blood-soaked
rulers and Afghanistan's Taliban masters have been forced to recognise the error
of their ways. That does not mean Mr Clinton was wrong to order American forces
into action. He was right to do so, as was Tony Blair right to support him, just
as Margaret Thatcher was right to back Mr Reagan's bombing of Libya in 1986.
Short of all-out war, there can never be a level killing field in the struggle
against international outlaws. But the enemy must be denied carte blanche.
Gadaffi and Saddam are hardly reformed characters but they are not so brazen as
they once were. They know the American eagle has talons.

Mr Clinton's own character received a battering last week after his admission of
lying to the American people and his wife over his affair with Monica Lewinsky.
Yet he had no choice but to act on the terrorist information before him. Had he
done nothing, he would have betrayed his higher oath to defend America's
interests and the wider cause of freedom. Inaction would have confirmed that his
critics were right to accuse him of being a "lame duck" president.

In contrast to Mr Clinton's fightback, Mr Blair's response to last weekend's
attack on Omagh by IRA dissidents lacked drama but was still effective. Britain
has no obvious targets to hit, even if it could. Omagh was primarily a tragedy
for Ireland, just as all the violence of the past 30 years has been. If the
British government finds itself watching from the sidelines as both parts of
Ireland come to terms with their divided heritage, that will be all to the good.
Last week may have seen a new start as Ireland's people rejected the heartless
cruelty of the bombers and united as never before in repudiating them. The
ensuing rejection of terrorism across the whole spectrum of Irish politics and
religious allegiances offers more hope for the future than any number of air
strikes. Those who still advocate violence as a legitimate means of achieving a
united Ireland stand exposed as murderous mavericks, lethal outcasts from decent
society.

Mr Blair's emotional response to the suffering he witnessed after the bombing
may not have been to everyone's taste. But his analysis was right. The
terrorists may have calculated on their atrocity creating such a sensation that
the Good Friday agreement, endorsed by majorities in both the nationalist and
Unionist communities, would collapse under the impact. It has not done so. Nor
have loyalist paramilitaries broken their ceasefire in knee-jerk reprisals, as
some predicted. The swift reaction by Bertie Ahern, the taoiseach, in
strengthening the republic's anti-terrorist powers has underlined the importance
of Dublin's full partnership in the peace process. David Trimble, Northern
Ireland's first minister and mainstream Unionist leader, has also emerged with
his stature enhanced from the horror.

We still have to wait until next month to see whether the province's newly
elected assembly has the willpower to shoulder its responsibilities but the
prospects are good. A lot depends on how the Provisional IRA responds to Mr
Trimble's call on its members to disarm. Mr Blair views the military
significance of this coolly but it would send an important political message. It
would strengthen Sinn Fein's claim to legitimacy and a share in the assembly's
executive powers. Gerry Adams and Martin McGuinness of Sinn Fein have a historic
opportunity to justify Mr Blair's confidence in them by making a final push for
peace. Omagh's suffering makes this possible. By its stupidity, the Real IRA has
aroused a degree of revulsion across the whole of Ireland that few would have
thought possible. It enabled the Irish president to cross the border on a
mission of condolence that would have caused uproar not so long ago and allowed
the Prince of Wales to win nationalist plaudits for his visit to Omagh. Irish
nationalists, republicans and Ulster Unionists reached out to each other in
shock and common grief. "The Brits", whom the Real IRA said were its targets,
were suddenly irrelevant to the debate. Ireland knew the Good Friday agreement
gave it a sure foundation for lasting peace. Nothing could obscure the fact that
a murdering gang was trying to destroy it.

Britain's best service to peace in Ireland now lies in reinforcing the momentum
that is already under way there. Parliament should be recalled to tighten the
existing anti-terrorist legislation. Old-style internment has been ruled out,
but Mr Ahern and Mr Blair have agreed to make it more difficult for terrorist
suspects to walk free. Sceptics such as Ian Paisley, who deny that Britain and
Ireland have ever been "in it" together in the fight against terrorism must be
proved wrong. People in the republic's border areas have finally acknowledged
that IRA terrorism, whatever its label, is the harbinger of death and suffering,
devoid of all courage or patriotism. That is an advance in itself.

Britain has fought the IRA for 30 years while standing alongside the United
States in its fight against international terrorism. Both allies know the heavy
price of resisting terrorism but believe it is worth paying. There can be no
softening of that resolve now.


LOAD-DATE: August 24, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Leading Article

                    Copyright 1998 Times Newspapers Limited

                              431 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                                August 24, 1998

The police net closes on Omagh's bombers

SECTION: Crime: Terrorism, Pg.5

LENGTH: 983 words


THE net was closing in on the Omagh bombers last night as people in the
shattered town prepared to make a faltering return to normality.

Photographs of the car used in the attack were broadcast in a TV appeal, which
detectives believe will prompt a massive response.

And security chiefs confirmed they were examining two phone boxes believed to
have been used by the bombers to make their warning calls.

The call boxes at Silverbridge, near Forkhill in south Armagh, were sealed off
soon after the bombing and flown by helicopter to a forensic laboratory near
Carrickfergus, Co Antrim.

"We are hammering things as hard as we can," said Detective Chief Superintendent
Eric Anderson, who is heading the investigation.

Another key factor is a photograph of the car carrying the bomb, taken minutes
before it exploded. Posters featuring the maroon Vauxhall Cavalier have been put
up across the Omagh area and were featured in a TV appeal last night.

Mr Anderson said officers from the Metropolitan Police's anti-terrorist branch
have been helping to sift through the wreckage.

Tony Blair, meanwhile, was preparing to deliver a message of hope when he flies
into Belfast tomorrow. He believes the explosion which claimed 28 lives has
brought people of the province closer together.

"Good can come out of this evil. It could be the final horrific event which
closes this chapter in Irish history forever," Mr Blair will say.

But, in stark contrast, his Irish counterpart Bertie Ahern yesterday expressed
doubts that the Omagh massacre would be the last.

"I would love to say to you that I believe this is the last event, as I would
have loved to say it on a number of the last events," Mr Ahern said.

"But I think there is a small element, and they are small, who do not share that
feeling. They believed they have some kind of mandate."

Mr Blair has rejected the idea of sending in the SAS to "take out" known members
of the Real IRA behind the Omagh bomb.

He said both the British and Irish Governments were determined to give the
security forces the best legal framework in which to hunt down the terrorists.

But he insisted the Government must only use democratic methods to defeat the
Real IRA.

Peter Robinson, deputy leader of the Democratic Unionists, said the Prime
Minister should "take out" the bombers.

"If they know who the people are, if they know where the people are then that is
an option they should be considering."

He added: "There is a euphoria that it is all over, that terrible though Omagh
was it was the last terrorist attack. I'm afraid I don't share that optimism."

Andrew Robathan, vice-chairman of the Conservative party's backbench Northern
Ireland committee, supported Mr Blair's rejection of moves to "take out" the
bombers.

Accusation

But he warned there would be no lasting peace because the Government had made
too many concessions to the terrorists. He also accused the people of Omagh and
Dundalk of supporting the terrorists.

Omagh takes the first tentative step towards bringing life back to the town
today when shops reopen.

They have been closed for the past eight days following the blast which left
many shopworkers were among the dead and 220 injured.

Chamber of Commerce president Michael Gaine, said: "It is going to be terrible
for some people because they really have to start all over.

"Omagh will never be the same again. I don't think it should ever be the same
again. We have to make it a far, far better place."

Sinn Fein plea: end the fight

SENIOR Sinn Fein strategist Martin McGuinness yesterday issued a new appeal to
dissident republican paramilitaries to quit their campaign of violence.

He told the still-active terrorists: "You've nowhere else to go."

The Mid-Ulster MP made the plea as former US Sinn Fein supporter Martin Galvin
held talks with leaders of the breakaway 32 County Sovereignty Committee, the
reputed political representatives of the Real IRA faction that carried out last
week's Omagh bombing.

New York lawyer Galvin, banned from entering Britain because of his one-time
links with IRA fundraising activities in the United States, is a friend of
committee vice-chairwoman Bernadette Sands-McKevitt, whose partner, Michael
McKevitt, is alleged to be the Real IRA's top man.

Mr Galvin, who split from Sinn Fein more than two years ago when the mainstream
Irish republican movement became part of the Northern Ireland peace process, is
regarded as an opponent of the Good Friday agreement.

He flew to Dublin at the weekend, and was believed to have made contact with Ms
Sands-McKevitt at a secret location for what aides called "a full assessment of
the current situation".

Last week, Mr Galvin refused to condemn the Omagh outrage - in which 28 people
died and more than 200 were injured - but said the loss of life was "a tragedy
of immense proportions".

Three days after the bombing, the Real IRA said it was suspending its military
operations for "a process of consultations" about its future.

Mr McGuinness said yesterday: "The clear message for these people is that they
should be stopping their activities."

Speaking on Irish radio, he said: "They have to face up to reality. People are
supportive of the Sinn Fein peace strategy."

v Junior Irish Foreign Minister Liz O'Donnell yesterday stressed that the Dublin
Government's "draconian" anti-terrorist package of new laws and security
measures had not been initiated as "an act of vengeance" for the Omagh attack.

"It is to make the state competent to deal with this threat to our society," she
declared.

The minister also confirmed that the internment without trial of terrorist
suspects - still on the statute books - was "always an option".

Meanwhile, Irish President Mary McAleese yesterday led the packed congregation
at a memorial service for the Omagh victims in Dublin's Church of Ireland St
Patrick's Cathedral.

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                   Copyright 1998 Aberdeen Press and Journal

                              432 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                August 24, 1998

Straw urged to expel Islamic terror fanatics

BYLINE: David Shaw

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 216 words


HOME SECRETARY Jack Straw came under fresh pressure to act against Islamic
fanatics using London as a safe haven from which to plot international terror
attacks.

He was said to be examining the case for expelling known militants from Britain
as the West went on alert against revenge attacks in the wake of the American
air strikes on Afghanistan and Sudan.

Donald Anderson, chairman of the Commons' Foreign Affairs Committee, said Mr
Straw should be looking to deport anyone involved in preparing acts of terrorism
in Britain or abroad.

Having heard supporters of Osama bin Laden and his International Islamic Front
justify recent outrages, Mr Anderson called them apologists for terror and told
BBC radio: "Most ordinary citizens in the UK will be asking themselves why we
are harbouring such fanatics, people who are inciting terrorism."

In New York the United Nations Security Council was meeting to discuss last
week's air strikes as Sudan continued to claim that the factory flattened by
missiles was an innocent pharmaceuticals plant.

lAn American cruise missile fired at guerrilla camps in Afghanistan has been
found unexploded in south-west Pakistan. The missile was found by local people
in the Kharan district of the country.

Parliamentary Correspondent


LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1998 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              433 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                August 24, 1998

Blair prepares anti-terror package;
PM and Taoiseach disagree over whether Omagh is 'final event' of 29 years of
Troubles - 'Amateurs' become last group still at war: Britain to borrow Irish
practice of convicting suspects on the word of a senior police officer

BYLINE: MICHAEL WHITE, RICHARD NORTON-TAYLOR AND JOHN MULLIN

SECTION: The Guardian Home Page; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 762 words


TONY Blair's counter-terrorism measures to match the Irish government's
crackdown will avoid the need to recall Parliament, it emerged last night as the
Prime Minister prepared to visit Northern Ireland tomorrow.

Though Whitehall believes that Dublin is, for the most part, "catching up" with
Britain's anti-terrorist legislation, the Government plans to borrow the Irish
practice of convicting suspects of belonging to a banned organisation, solely on
the word of a senior police officer.

But the prospect that the security services will win a campaign to have evidence
obtained by telephone tapping admitted in court proceedings is receding, sources
hinted. An amendment to the 1885 Interception of Communications Act would mean a
brief recall of both Houses of Parliament, which ministers wish to avoid.

On Saturday, a week after the Omagh bomb, the Irish National Liberation Army
announced it was ending its 23-year campaign of violence. It was responsible for
about 100 killings, including many of its members murdered in internal feuding.
In 1979 the INLA assassinated Airey Neave, the shadow Northern Ireland
secretary, at Westminster, and, latterly, just after Christmas shot dead the
Loyalist Volunteer Force leader, Billy Wright, in the Maze prison.

With Unionist and nationalist communities in the province anxious for
reassurance, Mr Blair will tomorrow be treading a political tightrope during
what is expected to be an overnight visit to Belfast and beyond.

One sign of sensitivity came yesterday over his reported optimism that the 28
deaths at Omagh would prove to be the "final horrific event" of 29 years of the
Troubles.

The Taoiseach, Bertie Ahern, warned that such hopes were misplaced.

"I'd love to say to you that I believe this is the last event, as I would have
loved to say it on a number of past events, Mr Ahern told BBC1's Breakfast With
Frost.

"But I think there is a small element, and they are small, who do not share that
feeling.

"They believe that they have some kind of a mandate from some period in history
that gives them some right to do this. Of course they have not."

Mr Ahern also predicted that the IRA would be able to move on beyond "a lot of
the rhetoric of the past and the harsh words", and decommission its weapons, as
agreed, in the next two years.

Mr Ahern coupled the remark with a reference to the need "to talk about
demilitarisation in an overall sense". This term is usually a coded phrase for
withdrawal of British troops, and alarmed some Unionists.

Given his unqualified support last week for the United States' bombing attacks
on suspected terrorist targets, Mr Blair also surprised some MPs on both sides
of the Ulster debate in an article for yesterday's Observer when he ruled out
using the SAS to "take out" known terrorists.

"Our country is a country built on democratic values" and must win the argument
by democratic means, he explained.

Labour MP Tam Dalyell asked: "There are terrorists in Dundalk. Should we bomb
Dundalk, or Noraid in New York?"

Unionist MPs are suspicious of government rhetoric for the opposite reason. The
Democratic Unionist Party's Peter Robinson last night warned that both London
and Dublin would miss a vital opportunity if they did not impose tougher
measures while both communities were outraged by the Omagh bomb. "Support for
such action will not be there for long," he said.

With the Blair family still on holiday until today, ministers and officials, led
by the Lord Chancellor, Lord Irvine, are still working on the measures promised
last week.

Most of the measures the Irish government has said it will introduce are already
enshrined in Britain's Prevention of Terrorism Act and the 1996 PTA (Additional
Powers Act) which gives the police wide-ranging powers to arrest, detain,
question, stop and search.

The power to imprison suspects for being members of a proscribed terrorist
organisation on the sworn evidence of a single senior police officer - will not
need a change in primary legislation, Downing Street suggested yesterday. The
Northern Ireland Office confirmed that the Real IRA, which admitted
responsibility for the Omagh bomb, was already such a proscribed organisation;
no legal change was needed.

The attack in Omagh, and those on US targets in Kenya and Tanzania, are likely
to speed up proposals - due to be announced in January - for new, permanent
anti-terrorist legislation originally designed primarily to combat members of
international terrorist groups based in Britain.


LOAD-DATE: August 24, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              434 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            August 24, 1998, Monday

UK prepared to attack terrorist bases

BYLINE: Paul Waugh and Marcus Tanner

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Page 1

LENGTH: 390 words


GEORGE ROBERTSON, the Secretary of State for Defence, warned yesterday that the
Government was prepared to order US-style missile strikes on terrorist targets
if British embassies were attacked.

In the most hawkish comments yet made by a minister, Mr Robertson said
terrorists would be shown that there was "a price to be paid" for any assaults
on UK installations.

But Tony Benn, the Labour MP for Chesterfield, said Mr Robertson's remarks
showed that the British Government's uncritical support of US strikes in
Afghanistan and Sudan had placed Britons abroad in danger and proved the urgent
need to recall Parliament.

Tam Dalyell, Labour MP for Linlithgow, said he was "astonished" by Mr
Robertson's statement, adding: "I believe the Prime Minister has been
irresponsible in endorsing President Bill Clinton and I believe that George
Robertson has also been irresponsible. He has rendered vulnerable British
embassies and the softer targets of British council officers."

Mr Robertson said Britain had evidence that the Saudi dissident, Osama bin
Laden, was behind the bombings of US embassies in East Africa and was attempting
to acquire chemical weapons.

He refused to rule out missile attacks by the Royal Navy or RAF if any British
targets were hit by a terror campaign believed to involve Mr bin Laden. "We have
given the same indications and the same warnings to international terrorists who
would threaten our embassies that the consequences would be dire on them if they
did it," he told BBC Radio 4's The World This Weekend.  "We are all targets if
they believe they can get away with it with impunity."

Mr Robertson said his US counterpart, William Cohen, had compelling evidence
that the El Shifa pharmaceutical factory in the Sudanese capital Khartoum was
producing chemical and biological weapons.

His remarks further widen the gap between Britain and its European allies on the
US air strikes. With the exception of Tony Blair, European leaders have reacted
coolly to the American cruise missile bombings of alleged terrorist sites in
Afghanistan and Sudan.

Sudan renewed its demand yesterday for a United Nations team to investigate the
factory attacked by the US, which it insists produced medical drugs.

Call for UN probe, page 10

Paul Spike,

Review, page 4


LOAD-DATE: August 24, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1998 Independent Print Ltd

                              435 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            August 24, 1998, Monday

BRITAIN: WE WILL BOMB TERRORIST;
 AIR STRIKES WARNING OVER RETALIATION FEAR;
 ISLAMIC TERRORISTS WARNED THEY FACE MILITARY AIR STRIKES IF THEY BOMB BRITISH
EMBASSIES

BYLINE: Will Woodward

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 274 words


ISLAMIC terrorists were last night warned they face military air strikes if they
bomb British embassies.

Defence Secretary George Robertson made the pledge as he backed America's
attacks on terror chief Osama bin Laden's bases in Afghanistan and Sudan.

The US claims the Saudi millionaire was behind the bombings of two of its
embassies in Africa, which killed 247 people.

Prime Minister Tony Blair backed President Bill Clinton's action, sparking fears
or retaliation.

On Saturday angry crowds stoned the British embassy in Sudan's capital,
Khartoum.

Supporters of Bin Laden in Britain are being shadowed by Special Branch, MI5 and
MI6.

Mr Robertson said: "We will protect our people in the same way the Americans
protect theirs.

"We have given the same indications and the same warnings to international
terrorists who would threaten our embassies that the consequences would be dire
on them if they did it.

"That is the only way in which we can give a clear message to that form of
organised, wealthy and deadly terrorist that he cannot get away with the
outrages."

Bin Laden is believed to have survived the missile strikes at an alleged
chemical weapons factory in Khartoum and a training camp in Afghanistan.

The UN Security Council will today discuss Sudan's claim the factory made only
medicine.

British engineer Tom Carnaffin, who helped build and equip the factory,
yesterday backed the Sudanese.

Mr Carnaffin, of Hexham, Northumberland, said: "It just does not lend itself to
the manufacture of chemical weapons." But Mr Robertson said there was
"compelling evidence" this was the case.

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ALERT: Minister George Robertson

                            Copyright 1998 MGN Ltd.

                              436 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                August 24, 1998

Ireland's tears: Nation unites in grief at exactly 3.10pm;
 40,000 PACK OMAGH TO REMEMBER THE 28 LIVES SHATTERED BY TERRORIST BOMB

BYLINE: Melissa Kite

SECTION: Pg.16

LENGTH: 814 words


UP TO 40,000 people packed the tiny streets of Omagh at the weekend and stood in
tearful silence as they remembered the moment their lives were shattered by a
terrorist bomb.

Catholics and Protestants embraced and stood together in mourning during an
emotional service of remembrance for the 28 people killed in the atrocity at the
same precise time a week earlier.

Men, women and children flooded into Omagh from across the Province - doubling
the 20,000 population for an afternoon - while other towns and cities came to a
halt to remember the dead.

Services were held across Ulster, in the Republic and in London to remember the
dead. They took place within hours of the republican INLA announcing the end of
its 23-year terror campaign with an apology for the murders of innocent victims.

And in Dundalk, Co Louth - home town of Michael McKevitt, reputed leader of the
Real IRA that has claimed responsibility for the Omagh bombing - thousands
gathered for a vigil to remember the dead and distance themselves from the
terror group's actions.

In Omagh, relatives of the dead stood on the courthouse steps beside political
leaders, including Sinn Fein's Gerry Adams and the Ulster Unionists' David
Trimble, as prayers were said by representatives from across the community
divide.

In front of them a sea of people stretched back to where a security barrier
still closed off the spot where the bomb exploded.

In the tiny streets beyond, tens of thousands more stood listening to the
service relayed by loudspeakers.

During a minute's silence at 3.10pm, the time the bomb exploded, the only sound
was a muffled sobbing from the crowd. Even young children bowed their heads and
cried.

As the names of the dead were read out, some of the relatives on the steps
crumpled and had to be supported by those around them.

The service was a dignified expression of grief. But there were times when the
emotion was overwhelming.

As a song Broken Things was performed by a young local singer, Juliet Turner,
there were sobs from the crowd.

At least two people collapsed and needed medical attention during the service.

Prayers were read out in Irish and Spanish as well as English by members of the
community, including a doctor who treated some of the worst injured in the
blast.

Dominic Pinto said: ''We ask for wholeness and healing in body, mind and soul.''

Politicians standing on the steps also appeared moved by the sad occasion, among
them the Irish President Mary McAleese, Britain's Deputy Prime Minister John
Prescott, SDLP leader John Hume, Gerry Adams and Martin McGuinness of Sinn Fein
and First Minister David Trimble and his deputy, Seamus Mallon.

After the service the politicians and relatives embraced and shook hands.

Catholic priest Father Kevin Mullan said they had created ''a silent sanctuary
of remembrance''.

The Rev Brendan McCarthy said they had come together to reclaim their town and
to stand together as a united community.

''We declare that evil will not triumph. The pain and the loss will remain but
our community will not be torn apart,'' he said.

Families of the two Spanish victims led hundreds of mourners by lighting candles
in tribute to the dead at a special memorial service in London. The parents of
12-year-old Fernando Baselga and Rocio Abad Ramos, 23, flew to London for a
Service of Solidarity at St Martin's-in-the-Fields in Trafalgar Square.

Accompanied by Spanish and Irish embassy officials, they listened to poems,
prayers and readings.

Elsewhere in Northern Ireland, traffic stopped in the centre of Belfast as
thousands left shops and stood in the bright sunshine for a minute's silence.

Outside Omagh, two of the most moving services were in Londonderry, once the
centre of so much violence and civil unrest when the Troubles first erupted
nearly 30 years ago, and in Enniskillen, Co Fermanagh, where 11 people were
killed in the 1987 Remembrance Day bombing.

Thousands gathered in Derry, but many also left the city to attend a service in
the neighbouring seaside town of Buncrana, across the border in Co Donegal,
where three of the dead, all young boys, lived.

Hundreds of churches in the Irish Republic also staged commemorative services.
In central Dublin and other towns, cities and villages throughout the land,
shoppers, tourists and passers-by paused for the minute's silence.

Proceedings were also halted at two top sporting events on the southern side of
the border.

At the European Golf Championships, being staged at the K Club, in Co Kildare,
30 miles south of Dublin, internationally famous players and spectators
interrupted their games to remember.

And in the capital, Dublin, a moving 15-minute church service was held on the
pitch at the city centre Croke Park stadium, headquarters of Ireland's Gaelic
Athletic Association.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1998 Bristol United Press

                              437 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                            August 25, 1998, Tuesday

WE MUST NOT TOLERATE THE ENEMY WITHIN;
 THE RHETORIC OF THE FOLLOWERS OF MOSLEM RADICAL OSAMA BIN LADEN IS AN ABUSE OF
BRITISH HOSPITALITY, SAYS DENNIS ELLAM.

BYLINE: Dennis Ellam

SECTION: Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1066 words


To strike at terrorist lairs overseas, in far-off countries, is a comparatively
easy option; programme the missiles, let them go, and then proclaim that there
will be no hiding place anywhere in the world for the enemies of democracy.

What happens, though, when the enemy is found to be lurking within?

The friends of Osama bin Laden who are living here, freely in Britain, have been
emerging from the shadows in the days since the attacks on Sudan and
Afghanistan, openly to declare their support for his brand of Islamic zealotry.

They have been speaking of a Holy War against America, and of a fatwah - an
obligation upon the Moslem faithful to fulfil their role in that war.

Carefully they have stopped short of calling their brothers to arms.

They understand very well the laws concerning incitement, as they apply in the
UK, and the continuing affair of the death threat to the author Salman Rushdie
has taught them to develop a sophisticated line of reasoning, whereby killing
can be advocated w ithout the instruction being given.

Effectively, they are Osama bin Laden's authorised agents and official spokesmen
in London.

One of them, Anjem Choudhary, leader of a fundamentalist organisation named Al
-Muhajiroun which flourishes among UK Moslems, has gone so far as to give some
indication of how that Holy War might be conducted.

"Civilians will not be targeted," he has said. "But if they are caught in any
action, that would be an accident of war."

Obviously, that philosophy would be applied to the toll of 200-plus civilians,
and non-Americans, who perished, and the thousand or so who were injured, in the
outrages in Nairobi and Dar-es-Salam which, there is now little doubt, bin Laden
ordered,orch estrated and possibly funded.

Another of the British-based brotherhood, the Saudi dissident Khaled Fauwaz,
agreed to be interviewed on BBC radio at the weekend, perhaps unwisely; he was
soon obliged to admit that he could not denounce the spreading of a Holy War.

Indeed, he went on to add, bin Laden would be calling on true disciples of the
faith to "bring the battle to the streets of London."

The Americans' tough reponse to the assault on their embassies has heightened
the danger of more terrorist atrocities around the globe, perhaps of a kind more
murderous and dastardly than any which we have seen until now.

But it raises particular questions for those Western nations, Britain foremost
among them, who so far have tolerated the very extremes of fundamentalism which
have pledged themselves to such tactics.

We pride ourselves on our democracy. But for how long can we permit residents of
the UK, who command positions of influence within their own communities, to go
public with remarks which, at the very least, might be taken to be inflammatory?

To hear it said that a battle is to be brought to the streets of London, and
very possibly our other cities as well, is surely an affront to the very
principles which keep that democracy intact.

How much longer, it is bound to be asked, should the British have to tolerate
the rantings of bin Laden's henchmen, from their refuges which are not a
continent away but here, on our own doorstep?

The argument should not be viewed simply in terms of Britain's relationship with
the USA, and the support which - rightly - the Government pledged at once to
America's actions last week.

After all, it could never be said that Americans have been particularly
sensitive to voices within their own country which, elsewhere, would be regarded
as inciting terrorist violence, just so long as that violence was not directed
towards Americans.

The level of support for the IRA in parts of the States, throughout the Irish
troubles, is an excellent example of how a blind eye might be turned to
dangerous fanaticism, when it has suited Washington to do so.

The fund-raising organisation Noraid kept the terrorists constantly supplied
with the funds to buy weapons, and few Congressmen would ever risk the Irish
-American vote to condemn it.

There is no doubt, even as the politicians struggle to maintain the Irish peace
process, that Noraid's work on behalf of Republican terrorists still continues
unhindered.

It is not out of trans-Atlantic solidarity, therefore, but through the
reasonable wish to protect our own citizens, and our own institutions of
democracy, that we should look urgently to the enemies who are rising from our
own midst.

They are equally the enemies of Moslems who desire peace, as they are of
Christians, Jews, aetheists, and every British citizen with a belief in that
most fundamental of human rights, to lead a life unthreatened by acts of hatred.

We have, in this small island country, a remarkable record of tolerance, between
races and cultures and religious ideologies.

Certainly Moslems who have moved here, and chosen to settle peacably in our
towns and cities, have benefited from this British characteristic as much as any
other sector of our varied communities.

Mosques dedicated to Islam in its various forms have become familiar in many an
urban landscape; the Moslem adherence to family values, and the ethic of
selufficiency through hard work, has been accepted and admired, and in fact is
seen as a salutary les son to the British on how standards ought to be
maintained.

But our tolerance should not be mistaken for naivety.

It ought not to be assumed, by any outspoken braggart, whatever the cause he
claims to represent, that violence can be threatened against the very community
which has accepted him, with complete impunity.

Perhaps unwittingly, Prime Minister Tony Blair has given conflicting signals
about his approach to terrorism, only this weekend.

While insisting that the Americans were justified in their strikes upon the
terrorists overseas, he has given the impression that Britain would be less
vigorous in its own actions. He should resolve those doubts, at once.

He should instruct that the friends of Osama bin Laden must be identified in the
UK, that their right to residence here should be checked, and that they must be
formally warned that their public pledges of aggression will not be permitted.

"Those who support the United States are our enemies," Anjem Choudhary said this
weekend.

So be it - he has announced his own status among the British people.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Vital values: The Mosque in Regents Park, London, is a symbol of Muslim
integration in our society.

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1998 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              438 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                            August 25, 1998, Tuesday

WHITE HOUSE URGED TO SHARE FACTS ON 'WEAPONS FACTORY'

BYLINE: Alison Little

SECTION: Pg. 9

LENGTH: 597 words


America owes it to Britain to share its evidence that the Sudanese factory it
bombed was a weapons factory, the chairman of a powerful Commons committee said
yesterday.

Mr Donald Anderson, Labour chairman of the Foreign Affairs Select Committee,
also backed calls for the "fanatic" leaders of fundamentalist groups based in
the United Kingdom to be deported.

He told BBC Radio 4's Today programme he understood Home Secretary Mr Jack Straw
was urgently looking at the position of such "terrorist" organisations, said to
be based in London.

The United Nations Security Council met yesterday to discuss Sudan's request for
an inquiry into the US strike against the factory in Khartoum, which Sudan
insists produced only medicines not, as claimed, components for deadly VX gas.

The American attack, and another on a so-called terrorist university in
Afghanistan - both raids backed by Britain - followed the bombing of US
embassies in Kenya and Tanzania.

Mr Anderson said the evidence about the Afghanistan target was clear but
Khartoum was "a different matter".

He added: "That evidence, as I understand it, has not been produced by the US to
its allies. Those allies, in particular Britain which has been very close to the
US, deserve to see that evidence."

Britain and the US should stand together against world terrorism, he said. "But
when we go out on a limb, as we have done, the US owes us the position that they
should tell us the evidence they have."

The Government says it has evidence that Osama bin Laden, the terrorist believed
to have masterminded the attacks on the US embassies, was trying to acquire
chemical and biological weapons.

Defence Secretary Mr George Robertson said on Sunday that the Government also
had evidence Bin Laden was responsible for the bombs and that he planned more
atrocities.

Mr Robertson said he had spoken to US Defence Secretary Mr William Cohen and
insisted the Americans had "compelling evidence" the Khartoum factory had been
producing chemical weapons.

But Sudan's ambassador to the UN, Mr Mohamed Erwa said America's claims were
untrue.

He added: "We didn't pose any threat to the US. How can a small country
thousands of miles away in Africa pose a threat to a superpower like the US?"

Yesterday Sudanese President Omar Hassan al-Bashir said his country reserved the
right to hit back at the United States, but would act within the law.  He said:
"We have been subjected to aggression by the American administration and we
reserve our right to respond ... we are talking about legal means."

He blamed the attack on President Bill Clinton personally, not the American
people. "The American citizens are innocent of this crime. They are also victims
of the lies and treachery of the President," Mr Bashir said.

"We demand that the American president apologise to the people of Sudan and
demand the necessary compensation for the factory or factories that were
affected and the people who were wounded."

British engineer Mr Tom Carnaffin, who worked as technical manager for the
former owners of the factory, said the site was set up to produce human and
animal medicine.

"They (the strikes) have not only killed people but put at risk many thousands
of other people who now will not be able to get the medicines they require to
live. They've got it very wrong."

Sheikh Omar Bakri Mohamed, leader of London-based Al Muhajiroun, an group
dedicated to establishing a world Islamic state, backed the attacks on the US
embassies in Africa but regretted civilian casualties.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1998 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              439 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                August 25, 1998

Pressure grows on Straw for action against fanatics

SECTION: Pg. 20

LENGTH: 205 words


HOME Secretary Jack Straw faced calls yesterday to deport Arab activists who use
Britain as a refuge to foster terrorist atrocities.

Donald Anderson, chairman of the Commons foreign affairs select committee,
called for action after hearing yet another London-based supporter of Islamic
terror leader Osama bin Laden endorse outrages against U.S. embassies.

The Labour MP told Radio 4's Today programme: 'Most people in the UK will be
asking themselves why we are harbouring people who are inciting terrorism.'
Sheik Omar Bakri Mohamed, international leader of Al-Muhajiroun, which aims to
establish a world Islamic state and has a strong following in London, said he
regretted civilian casualties but they were a consequence of 'war'.

He already has British citizenship.

Mr Straw is considering laws against raising funds for terrorism abroad.

Anjem Choudary and Khaled Fauwaz, two other London-based followers of Osama bin
Laden, who has urged supporters to carry out revenge attacks following U.S.
airstrikes, have also refused to condemn the 'holy war'.

Tory home affairs spokesman James Clappison has complained that bin Laden's UK
supporters are a threat to national security and British lives.


LOAD-DATE: August 26, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1998 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              440 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                August 25, 1998

'The memory of those who died deserves nothing less than truth'

BYLINE: Andrew Beaven

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1242 words


FAMILIES of Lockerbie victims in Britain and the U.S. yesterday gave a mixed
reaction to the news that two Libyan terrorist suspects were to be tried in the
Netherlands under Scots law.

Campaigners accepted that the Anglo-American agreement was a 'major step
forward' in bringing the bombers to justice, but stressed that the process was
far from complete.

The UK Lockerbie relatives' group also complained that yesterday's announcement
had come several years too late.

Jim Swire, whose 23-year-old daughter Flora was a victim, acts as official
spokesman for UK Families Flight 103, the group set up to represent Britons who
lost relatives.

Dr Swire went to North Africa for face-to-face talks with Colonel Gaddafi to
persuade the dictator to hand over the two suspects for trial.

Last night he said: 'The memory of those who died is one that deserves to be
honoured and the best way to do that is by getting to the truth. Only a fair
criminal trial can provide a satisfactory outcome and yesterday's decision
brings us much closer to what we have been trying to achieve for years.' He
added: 'Failure by U.S. and UK governments to compromise over the venue would
have guaranteed that no trial would ever have occurred.

'It is right that Scottish senior law officer Lord Hardie should have made the
decision to accept trial under Scottish criminal law in The Hague.

'The fact that he is prepared to accept a neutral country venue is a major step
forward.' According to Dr Swire, families of the Lockerbie victims are angry
that it has taken so long for the U.S. and UK governments to reach an agreement.

He said: 'We congratulate all three governments for their apparent willingness
to allow these negotiations to proceed in this way, although we deprecate the
six-year delay.

'But we have to be optimistic. Now we have got this far there should be nothing
to interrupt the process of the trial.' Families are also worried that a trial
will only go so far in laying bare those responsible for the tragedy. According
to Dr Swire, more could have been done to prevent the bomb exploding in the
first place.

He said: 'British Intelligence knew that a bombing campaign was being planned.
But despite numerous warnings, a bomb was loaded onto that plane at Heathrow
Airport.

'A trial can establish whether or not the two men accused planted the bomb but
victims' families will still have questions unanswered.' In the U.S., families
who lost relatives insisted that America should have stuck to its old position
and demanded the trial be held in either Scotland or the United States.

Daniel Cohen, who lost his daughter Theodora, claimed that holding the trial in
a neutral country represented an unacceptable compromise.

Speaking from his home in Cape May, New Jersey, he said: 'Our opposition is
firm.

'It sets a very bad precedent for the country.' His wife, Susan, said: 'It's
appalling.

It's the one thing the U.S. government said it would never do.'

TIMETABLE

* Dec 21, 1988 Flight 103 blown up over Lockerbie, killing 270 people.

* Nov 14, 1991 U.S.

and Britain accuse al-Megrahi and Fhimah of bombing. Libya denies involvement.

* March 23, 1992 Libya's UN ambassador says suspects will be handed over to Arab
League. The West rejects this.

March 26 International Court of Justice in The Hague hears Libyan requests to
bar U.S. and Britain from military action.

March 31 Libya told to surrender suspects or face sanctions.

April 15 UN air and arms embargo starts.

* Jan 22, 1994 Gaddafi says a trial in the Hague could resolve dispute.

* Mar 23, 1995 FBI offers record $ 4million reward for information leading to
arrest of Libyan suspects.

* 1997 Nelson Mandela meets Colonel Gaddafi then Tony Blair to suggest a trial
in a neutral country. Mr Blair rejects this.

* August 24, 1998 Britain and U.S. agree to trial for the Libyans in The Hague
under Scots law.

Daily Mail Reporter

Cat-and- mouse game with Gaddafi

IT has been the biggest criminal investigation in history.

The fatal flight of Pan Am flight 103 opened a case that saw the world's leading
politicians spending hours in investigation and diplomatic wrangling between
London, Washington and Libya.

In ten years there have been many false dawns, with Libyan leader Colonel
Gaddafi playing a cunning game of diplomatic bluff, counterbluff and
brinkmanship with his Western adversaries.

Yesterday the waiting game neared an end for the families of those who died in
Britain's worst terrorist air attack.

The Boeing 747 left Heathrow at 6.25pm bound for New York.

Radar contact was lost at 7.19pm, and it soon emerged that the jumbo jet, with
259 people aboard, had crashed from 31,000ft. There were no survivors.

Responsibility for the atrocity centred on Middle Eastern groups upset by Yasser
Arafat's peace moves.

In January 1989 the Lord Advocate, Peter Fraser, insisted that the investigation
would be run from Scotland.

After the bomb detonated it took two minutes for the jet to hit the ground.
Harrowing accounts by experts revealed that passengers could have been conscious
for part or even all of the six-mile fall.

Warrants were issued in Edinburgh and Washington for the arrest of Abdel Ali
al-Megrahi and Lamen Khalifa Fhimah, two employees of the Libyan state airline.

In November 1991 two Libyan intelligence agents al-Megrahi and Fhimah-became the
world's most wanted men after being charged with the bombing.

But while Britain and America demanded that Libya hand them over, police and
politicians admitted that it was unlikely to happen.

In early 1992 the attitude of the international community hardened as evidence
mounted of Libyan involvement. That February, the United Nations pressed for
sanctions.

Libya stepped up its campaign of bluff and double bluff when it offered to
conduct its own hearing for the accused.

Unhindered, the five permanent members of the UN Security Council agreed an arms
and trade embargo to force Colonel Gaddafi to hand over the suspects.

In mid-February 1992 Tripoli was assured by Britain that if the two were handed
over, they would not be sent to America for trial.

At that point, hopes on both sides of the Atlantic had never been higher of
bringing the accused to justice.

Sanctions against Libya began on April 15, 1992 after the International Court of
Justice in the Hague rejected Libyan claims that the British and U.S. sanctions
were illegal.

In 1993 secret talks were thought to have finalised the handover of the two
accused Libyans. But again it proved a false dawn when British, French and
American diplomats' meetings with aides of Colonel Gaddafi failed to clear the
way for the hand-over.

Demands for a holy war against Britain and America came as lawyer Ibrahim
Legwell ruled out a trial in Scotland or the U.S. He claimed they would not
receive a fair hearing as most of the 270 dead came from those countries.

He said they were willing to face trial in Switzerland, but for the Foreign
Office that was unacceptable.

Yesterday's announcement represents a hugely important shift in attitude by
Britain and America. The agreement means the two will be tried in The Hague.

Foreign Secretary Robin Cook said the trial would be 'a Scots court
administering Scottish law under Scottish rules of evidence.'

UK's worst air terrorist attack


LOAD-DATE: August 28, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: TRAGEDY: DEBRIS OF THE PAN AM JET AT LOCKERBIE TEN YEARS AGO, RIGHT.
DETERMINED: DR JIM SWIRE, ABOVE, WELCOMED YESTERDAY'S DEVELOPMENTS.

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1998 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              441 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                August 25, 1998

Libyans offered trial at neutral venue;
Remaining problems not insuperable, say lawyers: Foreign Secretary agrees to
Lockerbie case being heard abroad, but insists on panel of all-Scottish judges,
reports Jamie Wilson

BYLINE: JAMIE WILSON

SECTION: The Guardian Home Page; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1194 words


THERE have always been two seemingly insurmountable problems in bringing the
Libyans accused of perpetrating the worst act of terrorism in contemporary
British history to justice. The first has been the venue of the trial and the
second the form that the court would take.

Since November 1991 when Britain and the US indicted Abdel Baset Ali Mohamed
al-Megrahi and al-Amin Khalifa Fhimah for the bombing of Pan Am flight 103 in
which 270 people died, Libya has refused to budge on its demand that the two men
be tried in a neutral country.

The FBI feature the two men on the list of their 10 most wanted fugitives, on
which they are described as being "armed and extremely dangerous". Both are
accused of conspiring to destroy, and destroying, a US civil aircraft, and
related offences.

A 1992 United Nations arms and air embargo intended to isolate Libya until it
complied with a Security Council resolution to hand over the suspects for trial
in Scotland or the US failed to force the North African country into complying.

The tightening of curbs in 1993 to include a freeze on some Libyan assets abroad
and a ban on some types of equipment used in oil terminals and refineries met
with the same response.

In September 1993 Ibrahim Legwell, the Libyan lawyer for the two suspects, said
that they would be willing to stand trial in Switzerland, but Britain and the US
still insisted that the two suspects must face trial either in the Scotland or
America.

The first breakthrough came at a meeting in Tripoli in April this year between
Libyan government officials, lawyers and British representatives of the bombing
victims - including Jim Swire the spokesman for the UK families of flight 103 -
at which the Libyans confirmed that they would accept a plan devised by Robert
Black, professor of law at the University of Edinburgh.

His proposal involved the case being tried in a neutral country, operating under
Scottish law. Instead of a jury there would be an international panel of judges
presided over by a senior Scottish judge.

While agreeing to a neutral venue Robin Cook, the Foreign Secretary, yesterday
rejected Mr Black's proposal for an international panel and opted for an all
-Scottish judges panel. However Mr Cook has rejected what was always likely to
be a major sticking point - the prospect of the two accused being judged by a
Scottish jury.

Alistair Duff, the Scottish lawyer for the two Libyan suspects, said as much
yesterday. "As soon as possible there is going to be a meeting of the defence
team with the two suspects in Tripoli in order to discuss any proposal which is
put forward.

"The possibility of that proposal involving a trial before a panel of Scottish
judges rather than an international panel of judges is not one that necessarily
renders this package unacceptable."

But an agreement over the venue and make-up of the court is not the final
obstacle. According to Mr Duff a number of areas still need to be ironed out
before the men agree to leave Tripoli.

These include guarantees about their safe custody from Libya. If they are
acquitted there will also have to be guarantees about their safe custody back.

"What will the conditions of their detention be, what access will they have to
their legal team? How long are they expected to remain in custody before the
trial takes place?" Mr Duff said.

"What access will the defence be given to the prosecution evidence? How long
will the defence have in order to get properly prepared?

"The prosecution have had 10 years to organise this case. We will need some
time. Having said that, none of these things are insuperable."

Even if the two suspects do leave Libya to face trial there are no guarantees
that they will be convicted.

According to Mike McConville, head of Warwick university's law school, the trial
could last up to 12 months, cost more than pounds 10 million and would probably
fail to result in convictions. "The prosecution task is not impossible but it is
still going to be formidable," he said.

"The evidence would have to be extremely persuasive and it would have to be
stronger than the material which has so far come into the public domain."

A lack of forensic evidence taken from the suspects in the immediate aftermath
of the bombing would appear to be one of the main difficulties the prosecution
will face.

Professor McConville said: "Evidence such as traces of explosives on a suspect's
hands is compelling and is the sort of thing which can lead to a conviction.

"Circumstantial evidence about the suspects - their characters, their political
connections - is very rarely so compelling and it seems that the prosecution
will be relying on that to an important degree."

From a legal perspective, the trial would be unique. The only comparable cases
have been war crimes trials but they have all been held under general
international legislation, often provided by the United Nations.

But the Lockerbie suspects would have to be tried under a one-off set of agreed
rules tailored to their case alone, albeit with reference, perhaps, to war
crimes legislation.

The biggest doubt must be whether Colonel Gadafy will allow two secret agents to
appear in any court which could leave his regime open to the charge of state
terrorism.

This view was echoed yesterday by Bill Merrick, an American who lost his sister
in the bombing. "I don't think it's ever going to be resolved because I don't
think Gadafy is ever going to turn the two suspects over. He said he would do
this before and he has backed down."

The suspects

Abdel Baset al-Megrahi

ALLEGEDLY a former director of Libya's Centre for Strategic Studies, al -Megrahi
was head of Libyan Arab Airlines' security in Malta in December 1988.  He is
accused of having bought the clothes in Malta that wound up in the suitcase
bomb. The 1991 indictment described him as a senior intelligence official.

Born in Tripoli, he speaks English and Arabic. Al-Megrahi, who is married, is
thought to possess four Libyan passports and nine aliases. Believed to be under
watch in Tripoli, al-Megrahi, now aged 46, told a Cairo newspaper last year that
his health was poor. He added: "My comrade, Lamin Fhimah, and I recently emerged
unscathed from a car accident and we thanked God, because we fear our deaths
would be interpreted as an assassination carried out by Libyan officials just to
be done with us."

Al-Amin Khalifah Fhimah

NOW aged 42, Fhimah was reported to be station manager for Libyan Arab Airlines
at Luqa airport, Malta. Born in Suk Giuma, Libya, he speaks Arabic and English.
He is believed to carry three Libyan passports, and to have used three aliases.

Like Megrahi, he has consistently denied being an intelligence agent. But both
have otherwise avoided making public statements. Fhimah was said to have set up
a front company on behalf of Libyan intelligence.

In November 1991 he confirmed to Radio Monte Carlo that he had worked for Libyan
Arab Airlines in Malta, but insisted he was a peace loving, married father of
five, who was "neither an intelligence man nor a politician".


LOAD-DATE: August 26, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              442 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                August 25, 1998

No Headline Present

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1024 words


Teething troubles

If the thought of going to the dentist brings on a panic attack and fills you
with sheer terror then read on, your traumas may be over. A team led by Dr J M
Girkin of the University of Strathclyde has developed a low power laser system
which can accurately detect early stage tooth decay.

The scanning technique uses short bursts of light which builds up three
dimensional images of intact teeth. With these images of the internal structure
of teeth the dentist can monitor the progression of disease more closely and
decaying teeth can be treated without the need for drilling or fillings.

The research team will reveal its findings, including the first ever 3-D images
of teeth, at a lasers and optoelectronics conference scheduled to take place in
Glasgow next month.

Currently dentists have three methods to assess the health of teeth: scraping
with a dental pick; X-rays and experience of what a diseased tooth looks like.
The cost of a complete laser scanning system is about $ 20,000 which is in -line
with the cost of a traditional dental X-ray machine.

Optoelectronics, the merger of optics and electronics, is becoming increasingly
present in our everyday lives. It is commonly used in compact disc players,
barcode readers and fibre-optic communication systems.

Best way from here

Ever wondered what the quickest route is between Glasgow and Hull? Or the scenic
route from Melrose to Morecambe? A recently launched software system combines
Britain's rail and air services to provide details of any journey in Britain. It
gives travelling times, transfer details and optimum routes using different
means of travel, air or rail.

The system which provides all of this information at the blink of an eye is
called JourneyPlan. It has been compiled in Scotland using software developed in
The Netherlands and used by Dutch, Danish, Norwegian and Swedish Railways. The
data is maintained using an advanced proprietary passenger timetable database
system which allows fast updating.

A single user annual subscription to JourneyPlan costs $ 85 which also provides
regular updates at timetable changeover times as well as information on new or
altered services. The system is PC-based and runs on Windows 3.1, 3.11, 95 and
NT.

It was launched on August 10 and as a special offer the company is inviting you
to download JourneyPlan from its website free of charge for the remaining summer
timetable period. You can get it on http:/www.journeyplan.co.uk

And where to stay

Once you have found the best way to get to where you are going your next inquiry
may well be about accommodation. Enter Leisurehunt, the Internet-based booking
directory for UK accommodation. It was launched just over one year ago and has
dealt with more than1.2 million enquiries since then.

The system has information on more than 50,000 different places to stay
throughout the UK, from small B&Bs to large London hotels. The idea is to enter
the name of the town or village which you are visiting or click on detailed maps
the area you wish to visit. And of course because the Internet is a global
network, tourists visiting the UK can plan their stay from a computer anywhere
in the world.

http:/www.leisurehunt.com

Ambitious amphibian

Next month's Tomorrow's World carries a story about an amphibious vehicle that
has been developed by inventor, David Baker. Called Landshark, the three
-wheeled motorbike is capable of 200mph on the road and 50mph on water.

When the machine enters the water its front mudguards flip over to become skis
for hydroplaning and its rear wheel acts like a jet turbine, drawing water in at
one side and pushing it out at the other to drive the machine forwards.

It is powered by a 180bhp Honda SuperBlackbird engine and can seat up to three
passengers. Baker has invested $ 25,000 preparing to build a prototype. The
machine has already attracted the interest of the UK and US defence research
agencies.

Schools on line

Over the next three years City of Edinburgh Council's Education Department is
investing a $ 6.1m in its information and communications strategy. By the year
2000 every pupil and member of staff will have access to e-mail and every
classroom in every school in Edinburgh (nursery, primary, secondary and special
needs) will be connected to the Internet.

Wider community access will also be provided through Community Education
Centres.

The contract to install Internet services has been awarded to a partnership
consisting of Microsoft, Hewlett-Packard and Morse, providing skills, technology
and consulting resource.

Microsoft is supplying the underlying software technology, Exchange, IIS, NT,
and Office, and Hewlett-Packard supplying HP NetServers running NT and its
OpenView suite of management tools.

Ian Hamilton, principal officer for IT within education said: "We needed to
provide a safe, secure, easy-to-use and easy-to-manage environment. Creating an
environment that is easy to manage at both the network server, and the client
hardware - whether in

homes or schools - is critical to the

successful use of IT."

Out for a duck

No, it's not April 1, but many of us could be forgiven for thinking otherwise
when we reveal the story about the three post-graduates at the Silsoe Research
Institute in Bedford. Their research has shown that animals respond well to
machines and find them less threatening than humans and other animals.

The team's goal has been to find a way where animals' interaction with humans
can be made less stressful. Research has led the team to develop a robot (a
machine) which can enter an arena, gather a flock of ducks and guide them safely
in much the same way as a sheepdog rounds up sheep.

The robot, which hasn't been given a name, can nip across short grass at a rate
of 9mph. At this speed it can outpace a walking duck, however, our sources don't
tell us whether the robot can fly.

It doesn't look like a human, more like a couple of tin cans, so it's doubtful
if our ducks are going to see it as a threat as it weaves among them by remote
control.

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Play the game and it will go away: "roboduck" among the flock.

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1998 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              443 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            August 25, 1998, Tuesday

Cook calls bluff on Lockerbie

BYLINE: Colin Brown and Paul Lashmar

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Page 1

LENGTH: 641 words


BRITAIN AND the United States took the unprecedented step yesterday of agreeing
to hold a special trial in The Hague, under Scottish law, to bring to justice
the alleged terrorists behind the Lockerbie bombing.

In a U-turn by the two governments, the Foreign Secretary, Robin Cook, said the
decision to hold the trial in a neutral country 10 years after the bombing of
PanAm 103, killing all 259 on board and 11 on the ground, should be seen as a
signal to other terrorists responsible for the attacks on the US embassies in
East Africa that "however long it takes, they will be brought to justice".

The trial could take place by next May, but there was widespread scepticism at
the highest levels of Government that Colonel Muammar Gaddafi would surrender
the two suspects for trial - Abdul Basset al-Megrahi and al- Amin Khalifa Fhimah
- despite repeated Libyan demands for a trial in a neutral country, such as the
Netherlands.

"I cannot answer for Colonel Gaddafi. His government has said they would accept
a trial by a Scottish court with Scottish judges. If they choose not to take up
that offer, it will very severely undermine the credibility that they will have
for making that undertaking earlier this year," said Mr Cook. He added that
sanctions against Libya could be lifted the moment the two accused were handed
over for trial. The terms were not negotiable.  The Lord Advocate, Lord Hardie,
said the two could not be tried in their absence. There will be extradition
proceedings, and, if they submit themselves for trial, a full committal
procedure with a trial by three Scottish judges under full Scottish law held
within 110 days.

They would be held "in a special facility" in The Hague by Scottish prison
officers until the trial, and if found guilty, would serve their sentence in
Scotland. Lord Hardie rejected calls for an international court, with a
presiding Scottish judge, "because there is no body of international criminal
law and procedure under which it could operate".

The move won support from Lord Fraser of Carmyllie, Tory Lord Advocate at the
time of the bombing. He said that,10 years on, "the anguish of the relatives of
all those who died in the tragedy and the way that conspiracy theories have
proliferated" dictated holding a trial.

Families of the victims welcomed the decision. Jim Swire whose 23-year- old
daughter, Flora, died on flight 103 on 21 December 1988, was "euphoric".  He
said: "Anyone in their right mind would welcome this decision." Mr Swire, the
spokesman for the UK Families Flight 103 group, said: "This is something that
our group have been working for six years for."

Alistair Duff, Scottish lawyer for the two Libyans, said the issue of the judges
was not insurmountable. But Mr Duff told BBC Radio the men would need various
reassurances, such as the condition of their custody and access to lawyers
before agreeing to leave Tripoli.

Until recently the British and American governments maintained that the Libyans
must be handed over for trial in Britain or the United States.

The US Secretary of State, Madeleine Albright, announcing the joint proposal in
Washington, called for Libya to end its "10 years of evasion". She said: "We now
challenge Libya to turn promises into deeds. The suspects should be surrendered
for trial promptly."

The United Nations Secretary-General, Kofi Annan, welcomed the joint initiative
and offered the UN's services to arrange the transfer of the accused men to the
Netherlands, if Libya agreed. Details of the proposed compromise were to be
given to Tripoli by Mr Annan.

The US and Britain are expected to submit the draft of a new resolution to the
UN Security Council that will envisage an end to international sanctions against
Libya if it agrees to surrender the accused men for trial.


LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1998 Independent Print Ltd

                              444 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            August 25, 1998, Tuesday

Letter: Terror tactics

BYLINE: A Blagden

SECTION: COMMENT; Page 2

LENGTH: 182 words


Sir: I am appalled at the inflammatory remarks of George Robertson, the
Secretary of State for Defence, threatening the use of force, were British
embassies to be attacked by terrorists (report, 24 August). Is not this the type
of comment likely to provoke attacks?

It was bad enough that Tony Blair wholeheartedly voiced his approval of the
Sudan and Afghanistan missile strikes, against countries we are not at war with.
Has neither the US not the British government learnt from experiences in Libya,
Iraq and Serbia that missile strikes have limited effect against "rogue"
regimes, let alone shadowy terrorist groupings?

Apart from US investment in Britain, the US has always been cautious about
overtly backing Britain, as in the Suez crisis and the Falklands war. It is
about time Tony Blair started to learn to act independently and with caution and
prudence, and not jump every time the US says to.

While terrorism has to be acted against, is it not better for the government to
act discreetly, without making bold pronouncements?

A BLAGDEN

London SE20


LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1998 Independent Print Ltd

                              445 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                       August 25, 1998, Tuesday Edition 1

Sudanese recall their ambassador to Britain - UK support for air attack leads to
diplomatic blow

BYLINE: By Frances Young

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 413 words


   SUDAN'S President yesterday said he was recalling his country's ambassador to
Britain and would be asking the Foreign Office in London to recall its
ambassador from Khartoum.

President Omar Hassan el-Bashir said he was reducing diplomatic representation
to the level of charge d'affaires.

This was in response to Britain's support for the US missile strike on the
factory last week, he said.

Earlier, he said the United States had asked to open security co-operation with
Sudan and assured it last week's attack on a Khartoum factory was aimed at
terrorism, not at the Sudanese government.

El-Bashir made the comments in his first news conference since last Thursday's
strike on a factory that US officials said manufactured chemical weapons agents,
but which Sudan insists made only medicines.

He said that the US government had communicated with Sudan through a third
party, which he would not name, to say that his country was "not targeted in the
attack, but terrorism".

"They also said that they wanted co-operation between the Sudanese and the
American security apparatus, and this happens for the first time although they
have refused a similar request we made in the past," el-Bashir said.

The president had already called all Sudanese diplomats back from Washington. On
Sunday, he said American diplomats, who have been working out of neighbouring
Kenya and Egypt since 1996, "will not be allowed to return to their work in
Khartoum".

He added that ambassadors from European countries who supported the missile
strike would be summoned "to inform them of our strong protest for their
positions".

Yesterday the Arab League denounced the military strikes against Sudan as an
aggression against an Arab country and gave strong political backing to the
Islamic government in Khartoum.

In a resolution following an emergency meeting of its council, the 22-member
league also urged Washington to refrain from any further actions "which may
arouse public outrage" in the Arab world.

The council, made up of Arab ambassadors to the league, adopted the resolution
unanimously after a two-hour debate. The league's council also urged "the United
States as a permanent member of the Security Council and as a superpower to
respect international legitimacy and refrain from these actions which constitute
an aggression against the sovereignty of states."

Sudan has urged a meeting of the UN Security Council to discuss the air strikes.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Women's protest: Sudanese women wave a sign portraying Monica Lewinksy
with the words "No war for Monika" during a demo in Khartoum.

                Copyright 1998 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              446 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            August 25, 1998, Tuesday

GIVE US LOCKERBIE BOMBING SUSPECTS;
 THEY'LL GET FAIR TRIAL, COL GADDAFI TOLD;
 CALL FOR LOCKERBIE BOMB SUSPECTS TO BE TRIED AT THE HAGUE

BYLINE: Will Woodward

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 650 words


LIBYAN dictator Colonel Gaddafi was told last night: "Hand over the Lockerbie
bomb suspects for trial."

The demand came after Britain and America unveiled a radical joint plan to try
the two Libyans at The Hague.

The case would be heard under Scottish law using three Scottish judges.

The men could be arrested within six weeks and on trial within six months,
predicted the Scottish Lord Advocate, Lord Hardie.

US Secretary of State Madeleine Albright said the time had come to "call the
Libyan government's bluff and bring the fugitives into court".

She added: "We now challenge Libya to turn words into deeds."

The move was announced seven years after warrants were issued for the arrest of
Abdel Baset Ali Mohamed al-Megrahi and Lamen al-Amin Khalifa Fhimah.

And it comes nearly a decade after Pan Am flight 103 was blown up over
Lockerbie, killing all 259 passengers and crew on board and 11 people on the
ground.

The suspects, believed to be Libyan intelligence officers acting on Gaddafi's
orders, remain on the FBI's list of 10 most-wanted fugitives.

Mrs Albright said the offer was a "take it or leave it proposition - it is not
subject to negotiation or change."

Britain said sanctions would be lifted against Libya if Gaddafi handed the men
over.

The Libyan leader previously demanded that they should be tried before an
international panel of judges.

He will be reluctant to hand over the pair during the present bitter conflict
between America and Islamic fanatic Osama bin Laden.

On Friday he took part in an massed rally in Tripoli to protest against the US
bombings in Sudan and Afghanistan. But last night Alistair Duff, the Scottish
lawyer representing the pair, stressed: "This proposal is certainly not being
rejected.

"The fact that the Government has conceded that the trial can take place
somewhere other than Scotland or the United States is a significant step
forward."

He said the men were "confident that in a trial they would be acquitted."

Mr Duff said he would soon have talks with their Libyan lawyer in Tripoli.

Foreign Secretary Robin Cook said it was time the relatives of the victims
learned the full facts in their "long wait for justice."

The agreement was a "historic innovation in international legal practice."

The trial deal delighted GP Jim Swire, spokesman for the relatives of the
British victims.

Mr Swire, whose 24-year-old daughter Flora died in the outrage, said: "We are
now full of optimism that a trial is going to happen."

He added: "If there is a trial, and someone is convicted, then it sends a
message to those who might think of doing it in the future that: 'No, you cannot
get off with bloody premeditated murder.'

"I don't want vengeance, I want justice.

"But it will not help me to get over Flora. All you can do is make a lonely
pilgrimage through your own grief."

Dumfries MP Russell Brown said the deal was good news for relatives who had
given up any hope of seeing a trial.

But in America Susan Cohen, whose daughter Theodora perished, stormed: "It's a
desecration. Why should a suspect terrorist have a right to decide where he is
tried?"

If convicted, the Libyans would serve their sentences in Scottish jails.

The trial would cost up to pounds 10million and could take years to complete.

The judges would be able to agree a majority verdict.

Voice of Mirror - Page 6

10-YR JUSTICE FIGHT

Dec 21, 1988: Pan Am 103 blown up, killing 270.

Nov 1991: US and Britain accuse two Libyans.

April 1992: UN embargo against Libya after it fails to hand over suspects.

April 1996: Lawyer says suspects willing to stand trial under Scottish law in a
neutral location.

Oct 1997: Tony Blair insists two Libyans stand trial in Scotland.

Aug 1998: Blair ready to consider trial in neutral country with panel made up of
Scottish judges.

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SUSPECT: Lamen al-Amin Khalifa Fhimah faces arrest;; ACCUSED: Abdel
Baset Ali Mohamed al-Megrahi

                            Copyright 1998 MGN Ltd.

                              447 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            August 25, 1998, Tuesday

CHANCE TO END PAIN OF LOCKERBIE;
 VOICE OF THE MIRROR: CALL FOR LOCKERBIE SUSPECTS TO BE TRIED IN HOLLAND

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 175 words


IT IS rare for those accused of international terrorism to face justice.

Some die a violent death while others hide behind the protection of tyrannical
dictators.

So, it is remarkable that the two men accused of the Lockerbie bombing,
Britain's worst terrorist atrocity, look likely to face trial.

For the past year they have been protected by Libya's Colonel Gaddafi, who
refused to let them be tried in Scotland or America.

Now a deal worked out by Foreign Secretary Robin Cook could well be accepted. It
would see the men stand trial in Holland in front of three Scottish judges.

Colonel Gaddafi has not accepted yet, but Mr Cook's plan, which could lead to
sanctions against Libya being lifted, will tempt him.

The Foreign Secretary is right to make this attempt. The ten years since the
atrocity which killed 270 have not lessened the pain of the grieving relatives
they left behind.

The two accused will get a fair trial. And the world will know at last if they
are guilty of that horrific crime over Lockerbie.

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1998 MGN Ltd.

                              448 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                August 25, 1998

Cook restates UK support for US

SECTION: Pg.29

LENGTH: 481 words


Foreign Secretary Robin Cook last night reinforced Britain's backing for a US
missile strike on a factory in Sudan as Khartoum stepped up its protest over the
attack.

Sudan today announced that it was withdrawing its ambassador from Britain and
asking the UK to recall its representative in Khartoum.

The Sudanese government says the factory made medicines and not chemical weapons
agents as claimed by the Americans.

But Mr Cook last night signalled that Britain was maintaining its backing of the
US strikes on targets in Sudan and Afghanistan following terrorist bomb attacks
on two American embassies in East Africa.

He told Channel 4 News: "We cannot allow innocent people to have their lives put
at risk by the terrorists.

"We have supported the action by the US, the Prime Minister has made that
position perfectly clear.

"We are, of course, confident that America would not have chosen those targets
without very clear evidence that they were correct targets."

Mr Cook said he had himself seen some intelligence evidence on the targets but
declined to discuss it further.

"I have seen some evidence and I am not going to disclose any more here," he
told Channel 4 News.

The Foreign Office earlier said it was considering its reaction to Sudan's
request for the withdrawal of British ambassador Alan Goulty from Khartoum.

A spokeswoman said that no decision had been made yet and said that the Foreign
Office regretted the move by Sudan.

The president of Sudan, Omar Hassan el-Bashir, said he was reducing diplomatic
representation to the level of charge d'affaires in response to Britain's
support for the US missile strike on the factory last week.

He said the United States had asked to open security co-operation with Sudan and
assured it that last week's attack on a Khartoum factory was aimed at terrorism,
not at the Sudanese government.

El-Bashir made the comments in his first news conference since Thursday's strike
on a factory that US officials said manufactured chemical weapons agents but
Sudan insists made only medicines.

He said that the US government had communicated with Sudan through a third
party, which he would not name, to say that his country was "not targeted in the
attack, but terrorism."

"They also said that they wanted cooperation between the Sudanese and the
American security apparatus, and this happens for the first time although they
have refused a similar request we made in the past," el-Bashir said.

The president had already called all Sudanese diplomats back from Washington.

He said yesterday that American diplomats, who have been working out of
neighbouring Kenya and Egypt since 1996, "will not be allowed to return to their
work in Khartoum".

He added that ambassadors from European countries who supported the missile
strike would be summoned "to inform them of our strong protest for their
positions."

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 1998 Western Morning News

                              449 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                August 26, 1998

Growing Labour revolt over Blair's support for Clinton

BYLINE: John Deans

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 635 words


A DAMAGING Cabinet split has opened in the wake of the U.S. missile strike on a
suspected chemical weapons plant in the Sudan.

While Tony Blair and Defence Secretary George Robertson have openly backed the
controversial operation, other senior Ministers have been appalled at the attack
on a factory reported to have been producing only medicines.

Foreign Secretary Robin Cook is said to be seething at the way his colleagues
rushed to support President Clinton after the American embassy bombings in
Nairobi and Dar es Salaam, and has flatly refused to publicly endorse the
Downing Street line.

Some of Mr Cook's colleagues also regard the U.S. raid as a massive blunder
which marred an otherwise a justified response to the car bomb blasts in Kenya
and Tanzania.

Yesterday, one Minister said the attack on the $20million Al Shifa
pharmaceutical factory in northern Khartoum had undermined Allied antiterrorist
strategy and seriously weakened the authority of President Clinton.

'It was a serious mistake and it looks increasingly unlikely that the Khartoum
factory was linked to chemical weapons manufacture,' he said.

Mr Blair will be keen to play down the Cabinet rift when he returns to Downing
Street later today, after his family holiday in Italy and France and yesterday's
visit to Northern Ireland.

However, next week's recall of Parliament to rush through emergency legislation
on terrorism in both Ulster and the wider world will give MPs the opportunity to
challenge Ministers over the U.S. retaliatory missile strikes.

In another development yesterday, Labour MP Mohammad Sarwar called off a planned
visit to the Sudan.

The maverick Scots MP - and the

first Moslem to sit in the Commons - was due to fly out to Khartoum today on a
special fact-finding mission.

He had been invited by the Sudanese authorities, who have consistently rejected
U.S.

claims that the pharmaceutical plant was secretly producing chemical weapons for
international terrorists led by the millionaire Saudi fanatic, Osama bin Laden.

Although those senior Labour Ministers who strongly backed the U.S.

military action pressed Mr Sarwar not to make the visit, he confirmed his
intention to go.

He declared on Sunday: 'I don't think that I will be used for propaganda
purposes.

'The situation is very grave and very serious when these unilateral acts of one
superpower are creating tensions between the Moslem world and the Western
countries.' However, after further consultation with senior Labour figures
yesterday, Mr Sarwar decided to postpone the trip - and is expected to abandon
the project altogether.

Friends said the Govan backbencher's change of mind was a result of the Sudanese
decision to break off diplomatic relations with Britain and to demand the
withdrawal of British ambassador Alan Goulty. After Sudan's president Omar
el-Bashir called the UK 'just another American state', one source close to Mr
Sarwar said: 'It was decided that it was best to postpone the trip.' Mr Sarwar
is currently suspended from the Labour Party on charges of election fraud and
perverting the course of justice.

TOP aides to Bill Clinton were said last night to be 'seriously worried' about
whether he can survive as president.

As the New York Post became the first mainstream American newspaper to refer to
alleged sordid sex games involving Mr Clinton and Monica Lewinsky, a Gallup poll
showed that 67 per cent of Americans believe he is neither honest nor
trustworthy.

Athough 67 per cent of voters are still against impeachment, aides are said to
fear that public opinion will change when graphic details of the affair are
revealed, along with what is alleged to be 'a mountain of evidence' that Mr
Clinton perjured himself and obstructed justice.


LOAD-DATE: August 28, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1998 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              450 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                August 26, 1998

When is a terrorist not a terrorist? When it suits us, of course

BYLINE: RICHARD NORTON-TAYLOR

SECTION: The Guardian Features Page; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 906 words


SCEPTICS could be forgiven for treating Tony Blair's decision to recall
parliament next week to rush through new anti-terrorism laws as little more than
a political gesture. A show of solidarity with the victims of the Omagh outrage
and with the Irish government, certainly. But essentially a question of being
seen to be doing something in the wake of a terrorist atrocity in Britain's
backyard.

After all, most of the measures the Irish government has said it will introduce
are already enshrined in Britain's Prevention of Terrorism Act and the 1996 PTA
(Additional Powers Act) which gives the police wide-ranging powers to arrest,
detain, question, stop and search.

It is already an offence under the PTA to fail to disclose information likely to
be of assistance in preventing an act of terrorism or in securing the arrest of
a terrorist. It is also an offence to collect information which might be useful
to terrorists.

The Government now wants to add to this panoply an offence whereby courts could
treat silence or refusal to answer questions as corroboration of police claims
that the suspect belongs to an illegal organisation. In effect, the accused
could be convicted on a sworn statement by a senior police officer.

The police and security services say they know the leaders of the Real IRA,
responsible for the Omagh bombing, just as they knew the identity of the IRA
leadership. The difficulty has been turning intelligence into hard evidence
usable in court. One of the main sources of intelligence is telephone tapping -
Northern Ireland is pretty well tapped. MI5 and the RUC have been pressing the
Government for years to allow the product of telephone taps to be used in court
- a move rejected by the Home Office on the spurious grounds that it would
reveal the operational methods of the security and intelligence agencies.

Whether abandoning the normal rules of evidence in the way the Government now
plans leads to any safe conviction remains to be seen. What is clear is that,
encouraged by popular revulsion and demonstrations against the Real IRA, whose
membership is estimated at less than 100, the Government apparently believes its
proposed new law will be sustainable in court as well as welcome politically.

It certainly believes it is easier to legislate against Irish-based terrorists
than spokesmen of militant Islamic groups based in Britain - notably Omar Bakri
Mohamed and Makbool Javaid of al-Muhajiroun - who have endorsed the bombing of
the US embassies in Kenya and Tanzania and are also likely to be in MPs' firing
line next week.

Proposals to replace the PTA (introduced after the 1974 Birmingham pub bombing
and still officially a "temporary" measure) with permanent legislation aimed at
international, as well as Irish-based, terrorism are to be tabled next week,
instead of later in the autumn as planned. They were originally supposed to be
announced last January - the delay reflected the Government's concern that it is
entering a political and legal minefield.

The plan is to catch individuals based here who are funding, inciting, or
conspiring in terrorist acts abroad. According to Lord Lloyd, the former law
lord asked by the Government to draw up proposals for the new legislation,
terrorism should be defined as "the use of serious violence against persons or
property, or the threat to use such violence to intimidate or coerce a
government, the public or any section of the public, in order to promote
political, social or ideological objectives".

THE cliche, though no less true for that, that one man's terrorist is another
man's freedom fighter comes to mind. Nelson Mandela and the African National
Congress, described by Thatcher as a terrorist organisation, would have been
caught under such a definition. It is a recipe for cherry-picking terrorists,
according to political and diplomatic pressures rather than consistency under
the law.

A new law might be used against dissidents who intimidate the Saudi royal
family, on whom lucrative British arms exports depend, but presumably would not
catch Iraqi dissidents funded by the CIA or MI6 to topple Saddam Hussein. In an
astonishing example of deceitful diplomacy, it has emerged that, while publicly
insisting on unrestricted access for UN inspectors, the Clinton administration
secretly told them to back off. "Maybe if more evidence of nuclear, biological,
or chemical weapons were found, the requisite response would be just too
difficult, politically, diplomatically and militarily," commented the the
Washington Post, which broke the story.

It may not be long before the Libyan leader, Colonel Gadafy, once derided as the
world's most dangerous perpetrator of state terrorism but no friend of Islamic
fundamentalist groups, is brought back into the Western fold. British Aerospace,
which has admitted holding secret talks with an intermediary acting for Libya
with an eye on juicy contracts, seems to think so.

Too often, the US and Britain have fallen into the trap of demonising, and thus
glamorising, individuals - Osama bin Laden is the latest example - who are
rarely, if ever, brought to book. Far better to apply the rule of good domestic
and international law consistently, without fear or favour, based on hard
evidence.  Or even, heaven forbid, to address the causes of politically or
ideologically-motivated violence.

Jonathan Freedland is away


LOAD-DATE: August 26, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              451 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                August 26, 1998

Labour widens terror net

BYLINE: MICHAEL WHITE

SECTION: The Guardian Home Page; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 654 words


THE Government's new package of anti-terrorist legislation will include
unprecedented powers to convict people guilty of conspiring within Britain to
commit terrorist offences anywhere in the world, Tony Blair unexpectedly
revealed in Northern Ireland last night.

Ministers have decided to use next week's emergency session of Parliament,
initially intended to strengthen the law against militant Irish republicanism,
to throw a wider net over potentially violent terrorist groups - primarily those
involved in Islamic and Middle East politics - operating out of London.

The Prime Minister's announcement came during a visit to the scene of this
month's Omagh bombing, in which the Real IRA claimed 28 lives.

The measure will become part of a hastily examined bill which MPs will consider
during a rare holiday recall next Wednesday and peers will be asked to endorse
the following day.

At present the 1978 Suppression of Terrorism Act allows only the offence of
conspiracy to commit murder abroad, in specific countries, mostly in Europe, to
be subject to criminal charges.

Many countries, notably in the Middle East, have protested at British "laxity",
although civil libertarians, including Tory and Labour MPs, said the kind of
sweeping change envisaged would once have locked up Nelson Mandela and could
threaten peaceful supporters of the Pakistani campaign for a "free Kashmir".

The Home Office, which has supported such a change under Labour and Tory
governments, has a bill virtually ready for publication. It will now be blended
into ministerial plans to make it easier to convict those suspected of
membership of proscribed organisations.

Mitchel McLaughlin, chairman of Sinn Fein, condemned the proposals. "The result
of such repressive legislation has historically been the routine violation of
human and civil rights, and resulting miscarriages of justice," he said. "Given
the history of the RUC it would be an act of extreme folly to give that force
additional repressive powers."

But Willie Thompson, the hardline Ulster Unionist MP whose West Tyrone
constituency includes Omagh, said the measures were "too little too late". He
added: "It is still not a good enough way of dealing with the real problem of
terrorism."

Ministers have seized an opportunity by adding the wider clause, which will
carry a maximum sentence of 10 years in prison. Last night, the Saudi dissident
Mohammed al Masari, who thwarted Home Office attempts to deport him in 1996,
insisted that Islamic radicals in Britain were merely political and
intellectual.

"No one is conspiring to do anything," he told Channel 4 News. "If there is any
military activity, terrorism or jihad, whatever you call it, it is not in the
UK."

After last week's US cruise missile attacks in Afghanistan and Sudan, London and
Washington were engaged in an "hysterical reaction".

Coincidentally yesterday, the Tory MP Gerald Howarth wrote to the Home
Secretary, Jack Straw, protesting at the activities in London of Omar Bakri
Mohammed of the Al Muhajiroun group, who publicly endorsed this month's bombing
of US embassies in Kenya and Tanzania.

Whitehall is not pointing fingers at any one political or cultural group, but
history has made London an attractive refuge for those at odds with Middle East
regimes and from the former British empire.  "Many states are concerned about
it," one senior official said.

Conservative MP Nigel Waterson, whose private member's bill to enact a global
anti-terrorist law in 1997 was blocked, welcomed the Government's move as "not
before time".  But Labour MP George Galloway, who led the opposition to that
bill, said it was "deplorable" to mix such a contentious change with measures
"on which there is an overwhelming consensus".

New terror laws, page 3; Bin Laden 'behind Clinton plots', page 10; Richard
Norton-Taylor, page 16; Leader comment, page 17


LOAD-DATE: August 26, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              452 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                August 26, 1998

New Terror Laws: Muslims who find a haven in London;
Fundamentalists decry end of traditional tolerance to dissidents as 'hysterical
reaction' - Sinn Fein condemns it as form of internment: THE GROUPS/ How Islamic
activists find the freedom to rally political support in London's suburbs

BYLINE: LUKE HARDING

SECTION: The Guardian Home Page; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 856 words


BRITAIN has become an international centre for Islamic activists, with London
the home to a bewildering variety of Islamic fundamentalist movements, many of
which make no secret of their passion for violence to achieve their
revolutionary goals.

There are several reasons for this: Britain's honourable tradition of tolerance
of dissidents; flexible asylum laws that can be exploited; a colonial past which
has given Britain a large Muslim community to whom the dissidents can preach;
and a burgeoning overseas student population.

Well before Tony Blair's announcement yesterday, the Home Office had
contemplated introducing a specific offence in Britain of conspiring to commit
terrorist offences outside the UK.

Last November the Home Secretary, Jack Straw, promised to bring in new
legislation following the terrorist attack on tourists in Luxor in Egypt.
Legislation was not expected, however, until next year.

There is no doubt that Islamic groups use London to support terrorist movements
in their homelands, either through political campaigning or raising funds.
Security chiefs in Israel and France also hint that some terrorist operations
have been plotted from Britain. This has long been the complaint of governments
in Algeria, Tunisia, Egypt, Saudi Arabia and Bahrain, which bitterly protest
that Britain's asylum laws provide terrorists with a safe haven.

Other experts disagree. "Several of these so-called groups are simply one guy
and a fax machine," one source said last night. "They can be very shambolic.
Some of them are little more than bigmouths. It will be very difficult to find
hard evidence of terrorist activity."

Among the groups are:

al-Muhajiroun

Omar Bakri Mohammed, the leader of al-Muhajiroun - The Emigrants - yesterday
condemned the new law.

He said: "Any Muslim should be able to fight to liberate their homeland from an
occupying force such as freedom fighters against Israel, or against US troops
occupying the Middle East. I fear this new law will target these people. I fear
any Muslim trying to liberate their homeland from an occupying force will now be
called a terrorist."

Mr Bakri operates out of an unassuming office in Edmonton. His group is said to
be the fastest growing militant Islamic organisation in the world. He has
expressed support for Hamas, the Palestinian terrorist operation with a lethal
reputation for suicide bombing, and recently said he "applauded" the bombing of
the US embassies in East Africa.

He wants to see the establishment of a khilafah - an Islamic state - in Britain.
He also wants the overthrow of Western society. Mr Bakri is a past associate of
Sheikh Omar Abdel-Rahman, the Blind Sheikh jailed for the 1993 World Trade
Centre bombing in New York.

Committee for the Defence of Legitimate Rights in Saudi Arabia

Among Mr Bakri's admirers is Mohammed al-Masari, the Saudi dissident who fought
off Home Office attempts to deport him to Dominica two years ago. He yesterday
described the new law as a "hysterical reaction".

Mr al-Masari has called for the annihilation of the Jews and supports the
Iranian fatwa against the novelist Salman Rushdie. He works from a suburban
office in Brondesbury, north London, where his organisation campaigns to
overthrow the Saudi monarchy.

Islamic Observation Centre

Based in Maida Vale, in west London, this group is run by an Egyptian, Ali al
-Sirri. He has links to the Muslim Brotherhood in Egypt, and has applied for
political asylum. His name figures on Egypt's most wanted list.

Hizb-ut-Tahrir (Islamic Liberation Party)

Another extreme British Muslim organisation which has its base in Tottenham is
Hizb-ut-Tahrir (HUT) - the Islamic Liberation Party - which campaigns for the
establishment of a Muslim regime in Britain.

HUT is now regarded as far less militant than it once was. The mainly student
body - led by Farid Kassim - is part of an international movement of the same
name that is banned throughout the Arab world.

Front Islamique de Salvation

The dissident groups are united by their hatred of established Arab regimes,
particularly those in Algeria and Egypt. Algeria's Islamic Salvation Front, a
banned political party, continues to operate in Britain and publishes a
newsletter from a PO Box number in Southall. Its armed wing, the Islamic
Salvation Army, has been responsible for a series of terrorist attacks in
Algeria.

Filisteen al-Muslima (Islamic Palestine)

Israeli security sources have also put pressure on Britain to bear down on
Hamas, which they believe has its educational headquarters in London.

The Hamas monthly magazine, Filisteen al-Muslima (Islamic Palestine), is
published from the unlikely centre of leafy Cricklewood, north London, where its
charities also operate freely.

Al Ansar al-Shariah

It is not hard to see why London has become the epicentre of long-distance
Islamic revolution. Abu Hamzah al-Masri, who runs an organisation called Al
-Ansar al-Shariah which supports Algerian and Egyptian terrorist groups, puts it
like this: "The British know how to leave you some space."


LOAD-DATE: August 26, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              453 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                August 26, 1998

New Terror Laws: Law to cover plotting overseas offences;
ANALYSIS/ Measure will run into problem of obtaining proof abroad

BYLINE: RICHARD NORTON-TAYLOR

SECTION: The Guardian Home Page; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 641 words


TWO specific measures will be tabled by the Government next week strengthening
Britain's existing anti-terrorist legislation.

Conviction for belonging to a proscribed organisation on the evidence of a
senior police officer:

This would significantly lessen the burden of proof needed to secure a
conviction for membership of illegal organisations which will include the Real
IRA, the group responsible for the Omagh bombing. The measure also amounts to a
new restriction of the right to silence.

Refusal by a suspect to mention something later relied on as a defence, or
refusal to answer any relevant question during interrogation or later, or a
refusal to co-operate with any relevant inquiry, would be regarded as
corroboration of the police officer's evidence.

In effect, a suspect could be convicted on the evidence alone of a senior police
officer.

The proposed change in the law reflects those proposed by the Irish government.

For the first time it will be an offence in Britain to conspire to commit
terrorist offences abroad:

This radical departure is fraught with difficulties, so much so that the
Government had put off proposals it originally planned to announce in a
consultation paper - not even as a bill - last January.

The Government was concerned about widespread cross-party opposition to a
similar measure in a private member's bill backed by its Conservative
predecessor but which fell in early 1997 as a result of lack of parliamentary
time and the incompetence of government whips.

At present the criminal law extends only to murder or conspiring to commit
murder, in certain designated, mainly European, countries, and to the possession
of items, such as explosives, connected "with the commission, preparation or
instigation of acts of terrorism" here or overseas.

The Government is planning to extend the notoriously difficult concept of
conspiracy to cover speech and written material - possibly including the content
of faxes and other communications with foreign countries - as well as the
funding in Britain of terrorist groups abroad.

The problem is not only one of defining terrorism, but of obtaining evidence and
proof. Many countries - notably Egypt, Algeria, and Tunisia - which have
persistently accused Britain of harbouring terrorists - have been unable to come
up with evidence usable in a British court. Prosecutors may have to rely on
evidence provided by foreign governments with different political and legal
systems.

During the debates on the Jurisdiction (Conspiracy and Incitement) Bill in 1997,
Alun Michael, now a Home Office minister, warned that it could be abused and hit
"unintended targets". The Government might include a possible safeguard giving
the Attorney-General the final say in politically sensitive cases.

The new law is likely to say that it would be an offence to incite or conspire
in activities in foreign countries which would be both unlawful if committed
there and unlawful if carried out in Britain - a so-called "dual criminality"
test. Yet that, too, suggests a parity between British law and the law of other
countries.

The new measure will be welcomed by MI5 and by the Foreign Office and is likely
to make it easier for courts to deport non-British subjects convicted under the
new law.

The 1997 bill was prompted in particular by the activities of Mohammed Al
Masari, the Saudi dissident opposed to the Saudi monarchy.

Other possible proposals:

* Allowing the product of telephone taps to be used as evidence.

* Making it easier to use the evidence of informers.

* Making it an offence to "direct" an illegal organisation. This would be aimed
at individuals against whom there is no first-hand evidence or who admit
membership of political groups but deny links with associated paramilitary
groups.


LOAD-DATE: August 26, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              454 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                August 26, 1998

New Terror Laws: 'Government has learnt nothing from history';
HUMAN RIGHTS/ Policing failures led to violations

BYLINE: JAMIE WILSON AND VIKRAM DODD

SECTION: The Guardian Home Page; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 462 words


HUMAN rights groups were last night united in their condemnation of the new
legislation proposed by Tony Blair.

A spokesman for the civil rights group Liberty said: "The Government seems to
have learnt nothing from the history of anti-terrorism laws which have rarely
been effective and have often led to the wrong people being accused and
convicted. These measures are more likely to increase support for extremist
organisations and reduce respect for the rule of law."

Julia Hall of the international Human Rights Watch was equally damning: "We are
all revolted by what happened at Omagh, but this type of repressive legislation
can't be the answer to providing justice for the victims. The Government and
parties to the Good Friday Agreement agreed there was a need for fundamental
change to policing.

"We believe the new policing commission in the North was established in part
based on a series of human rights violations by the RUC over the past 30 years.
To now give them additional extraordinary powers to arrest persons suspected of
political violence when we know in the past that these types of laws have had a
disproportionate impact on nationalists, seriously undermines the agreement."

Sean O'Callaghan, a former IRA member, said terrorist groups in Ulster would
find ways of frustrating the planned new law.

He said: "When questioned you can say: 'I'm not a member of the group you are
accusing me of belonging to, and I will say nothing more'. That is the tactic
they will use."

Veteran Labour MP Tony Benn was also scathing in his analysis of the new
legislation. "The peace process in Northern Ireland is the thing that has really
brought terrorism to an end, the tremendous opposition to violence. That is the
most powerful weapon against terror.

"If you look at Britain's reaction to the Ireland problem, of the years from
occupied partition, direct rule, internment, and many other measures, none of
them solved the problem. It began to change only with genuine all party talks,
which included Sinn Feinn.

"If you imagine you can deal with the problem with legislation of the most
draconian kind, then the danger is that it runs against the tide of opposition
that wants the peace process."

Mr Benn warned that rushing legislation through Parliament could lead to
mistakes being made that would be regretted later.

Nick Hardwick, director of the Refugee Council, said he wanted to see the
details of the new proposals: "We share the horror at the recent bombings and
would support measures to stop them.

"The question is how you define what is terrorist and what does conspiracy
involve in practice.

"The question is where the line is drawn between opposition to oppressive
regimes and terrorist acts."


LOAD-DATE: August 26, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              455 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                August 26, 1998

Trident activists 'breach' barriers;
MoD denies protesters swam loch to within yards of a Faslane submarine. John
Vidal reports

BYLINE: JOHN VIDAL

SECTION: The Guardian Home Page; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 606 words


TWO anti-nuclear protesters claim that twice in a week they have breached
Britain's nuclear defences to get within yards of a Trident submarine at the
Faslane naval base near Glasgow.

Armed with hammers and intending to damage or occupy the nuclear submarine,
Krista van Velzen, aged 23, from Holland, and Katri Silvonen, aged 20, from
Finland, together with Rick Springer, an American, aged 47, swam for 90 minutes
across a loch and through a floating barrier around the submarine. They say they
were within 10 to 20 yards of the nuclear arsenal before the alarm was raised.

A few days later, Crista and Katri swam back through the defences reaching a
dock warehouse where the submarines are repaired. They say they could "easily"
have boarded the submarine had they had sub-aqua equipment or been trying to
evade the authorities.

"It was so easy. It took almost no planning. We just started swimming. I was
able to swim past two security boats and cruise through the barrier, right up
alongside Trident," said Rick Springer. "Security at Faslane is an illusion.
They are highly susceptible to acts of terrorism. Thank god we're not violent."

The Ministry of Defence and the local police are embarrassed, having been warned
in advance by the peace activists that they intended to damage the nuclear
base's installations and property. The navy is reported to have spent an extra
pounds 1 million increasing security at the base to fend off repeated actions by
more than 100 protesters camped nearby.

The Government, however, says there was no formal breach of security. An MoD
spokesman in London said: "There has never been a breach of security. These
people are making all kinds of claims. This is open criminal activity. They were
picked up at the outer barrier, well away from any submarine. We have a duty to
report accurately security breaches and none was recorded."

A Royal Navy spokesman at the base admitted the swimmers had been detained in a
restricted area and said: "Security has had to be stepped up. These people are
sadly irresponsible, a great cost to the taxpayer and a nuisance."

More than 130 Trident Ploughshare protesters have spent two weeks camped at the
base for concerted direct action. They include priests, students and peace
campaigners, from 12 countries. So far, there have been 107 arrests with four
people held in custody. Both women who swam to Trident had all charges against
them dropped yesterday.

Trident Ploughshares yesterday filed a legal complaint at Dunbarton Sheriff's
court against the Government for "preparation of crimes against humanity". They
are hoping to test international law on nuclear weapons.

Responding to MoD denials that they had breached security, one of the protesters
yesterday said: "We have pledged to be open, transparent and honest at all
times. Why would we lie?"

The Faslane base has long been a target of protesters. A permanent peace camp is
pitched outside its gates. Last month, two activists, aged 16 and 17, broke into
the base, spent an hour wandering around and claimed they boarded a
hunter-killer submarine from where they telephoned security personnel.

In another security incident, two women, including Angie Zelter, who was
acquitted last year of damaging a Hawk jet destined for Indonesia from a BAe
factory in Lancashire, stole a boat from the Faslane high security area and took
it to the nearby Coulport base where Britain's nuclear weapons are stored.

In the past two weeks protesters have broken into the base and played football
for more than half an hour before being arrested.

Cover story, G2


LOAD-DATE: August 26, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              456 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           August 26, 1998, Wednesday

NO REFUGE HERE FOR TERRORISTS;
 VOICE OF THE MIRROR: COMMENT ON NEW PROPOSALS FOR WAR AGAINST TERRORISM

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 231 words


THE fear of war which haunted earlier generations has gone. But in its place is
an even worse dread.

This is the age of the terrorist - fanatics who strike randomly at the innocent.

This country has suffered more than most from terrorism over the years.

But even though there is a ceasefire in Northern Ireland and a new spirit of
peaceful co-operation, the day of the terrorist is not gone. That was seen all
too horribly in Omagh.

So there should be universal support for the tough new measures announced
yesterday by Tony Blair.

The Prime Minister is determined to crack down on the few outcasts left outside
the peace talks - those interested only in bombing and shooting, killing and
maiming.

But Mr Blair is also creating powers to deal with terrorists who use this
country to plot their deadly attacks in other parts of the world.

Britain's hospitality has sadly been abused. It is getting a reputation for
playing host to some highly undesirable people. The normal rules of law and
order cannot apply to terrorists. They play by no rules.

The sort of people who plant a bomb in a busy street deserve to be dealt with
ruthlessly.

They have to be stopped and Tony Blair's attempts to do that must get total
backing.

These people are not fighting for a grand political cause. They are crazed
killers who must be left with nowhere to hide.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1998 MGN Ltd.

                              457 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           August 26, 1998, Wednesday

NEW WAR ON TERRORISTS;
 NEW TERRORISM MEASURES ANNOUNCED

BYLINE: James Hardy Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 153 words


TOUGH new anti-terrorist measures were announced yesterday by Tony Blair.

MPs are being recalled next week to pass the laws to target the Real IRA, which
has admitted the Omagh attack. They will also seek to curb Arab extremists from
plotting foreign terror attacks from Britain.

Mr Blair said the laws were aimed at those who "have no political support" and
who were "outcasts".

The laws would allow terrorists to be convicted on the word of a senior police
officer and could include making phone tap evidence admissible.  Sinn Fein
chairman Mitch McLaughlin said the proposals were repressive.

And hardline Unionist William Thompson said they were "too little, too late".

Mr Blair said a law will also be introduced making it an offence to plot
terrorism abroad, with penalties of up to life imprisonment.

Police will be able to prosecute extremists if they are linked to future
outrages.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CRITICISM: McLaughlin

                            Copyright 1998 MGN Ltd.

                              458 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           August 26, 1998, Wednesday

NO HIDING PLACE FOR TERRORISTS;
 BLAIR VOWS TO DESTROY FANATICS AS NEW LAWS ANNOUNCED;
 TONY BLAIR DECLARES TERRORISTS WILL HAVE NO HIDING PLACE IN BRITAIN

BYLINE: Don Mackay And Tom Newton Dunn

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1, 2

LENGTH: 852 words


PRIME MINISTER Tony Blair pledged yesterday that terrorists will have no hiding
place in Britain.

As he stood in the wrecked heart of Omagh he said: "The days of the men of
violence are now consigned to the past where they belong."

The market town massacre was the final straw, he said, and promised tough new
security measures.

"It is of scant consolation to those who have been the victims of this appalling
terrorist outrage, but we have the determination not just here but in the Irish
Republic to take whatever measures we can to bring


those who are responsible to justice.

"For the first time it will be a specific offence in the UK to conspire to
commit terrorist offences outside the UK."

He said the new laws, to be put before a reconvened Parliament next week, had
been urged by countries worldwide desperate for Britain not to be a plotter's
haven for extremists.

Mr Blair stood outside Omagh's devastated Market Street and, grim-faced, also
said that terrorists' silence during police interrogation would now be taken as
a sign of guilt.

"In the wake of recent terrorist attacks abroad this is a move to underscore our
commitment to defeat terrorism wherever it is plotted or executed."

On the spot where 28 innocent men, women and children were slaughtered while out
shopping or enjoying the town's carnival, he added that the sole word of a
senior police officer would now be enough to put any terrorist suspect behind
bars.

Outcasts

He said the breakaway Real IRA were total outcasts "in every sense of the word"
across the whole of Ireland.

Behind him was the boarded-up wreckage of McElroy's shoe shop and Dawn's
Hairdressers.

In front of him were the remains of what had been the Pine Emporium where
Lawrence Rush lost his "soulmate" of 40 years, Libby.

RUC Chief Constable Ronnie Flannagan had consistently been on the phone to the
Prime Minister at his French holiday villa since the horrific bomb blast that
sickened the world, pressing home the point of tougher anti- terrorist
legislation.

Ironically, as the Prime Minister spoke, over his shoulder was a bent "one way"
road sign - symbolically pointing out that there was only one route to travel to
peace.

"We know we are dealing with a group with no political support, no base, no
votes and no representation in any part of the community," he said.

Mr Blair's healthily tanned face was etched with the grey lines of horror as he
spoke from the spot where 11 days ago lay the broken corpses of the dead and the
agony-ridden, writhing bodies of those who were maimed and injured.

He said: "We can only guess at the trauma the people of this town have gone
through.

"As I said to some of the people, the sense of solidarity and condolences and
sympathy we share, not just throughout Northern Ireland or the United Kingdom or
the Irish Republic, but throughout the world.

"But we do now have a real sense of a very different situation for co- operation
in security today.

"We and the Irish government in Dublin are working closer than ever."

Mr Blair looked shaken after visiting the local draper's shop, Watterson's,
where three shop assistants - Geraldine Breslin, 43, Veda Short, 56, and 41
-year-old Ann McCombe - died as they thought they were being shepherded to
safety.

Instead, they were ushered straight into the path of the blast as 500lb of
home-made explosives packed into a stolen car exploded in the bright afternoon
sunshine.

The Prime Minister also tried to console volunteers from the Oxfam shop a few
doors away who lost teenage workers Lorraine Wilson and Samantha McFarland.

As he shook his head in stunned shock, he said: "We will never ever forget what
happened to your town."

Mr Blair met Sister Sarah Fisher, the nurse in charge of the intensive care unit
at Tyrone County General Hospital where those injured by the bomb were first
taken.

She told reporters: "We are at our weakest point at the moment, now the disaster
has had time to sink in.

"We really appreciate Mr Blair coming here to show us he cares, even though we
are trying to come to terms with what happened privately."

Friendly

Sister Fisher had moved to the famously friendly town of Omagh to get away from
the troubles of Belfast.

"Catholics and Protestants get on so well here," she said.

"The thought that something like this would happen here was inconceivable until
last Saturday."

Mr Blair also met trauma team co-ordinator Michael Duffy, who runs the emergency
centre that has been set up to offer support to townspeople.

"He asked us how we were coping," said Mr Duffy, "and we discussed how really
terrific it was that the town, all the people had come together so strongly to
help each other."

Mr Blair said he hadn't come to Omagh before because the doctors, nurses and
police officers had much more important things on their minds.

"I also wanted to come here when we were able to offer something to the people
of Omagh," he said.

"This package of legislation will give us the tools to bring the guilty to
justice."

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HAND OF COMFORT: Prime Minister Tony Blair meets the people of; Omagh
during his vist there yesterday; CRACKDOWN: Mr Blair and Ulster Secretary Mo
Mowlam in Omagh;; EVERY ONE A HERO: The Prime Minister chats with the dedicated
nursing and medical staff who treated the victims of the Omagh car bomb;; TENDER
TOUCH: Mr Blair receives a kiss from a woman who thanked him for coming to lend
his support to the townspeople of Omagh during his visit yesterday

                            Copyright 1998 MGN Ltd.

                              459 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                                August 27, 1998

Libya move may end sanctions

SECTION: Supplement: Daily News, Pg.24

LENGTH: 291 words


Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi's qualified acceptance of a proposal to end a
stalemate over where to try two Libyans suspected of the Lockerbie bombing is a
cautious move that could help ease his country's international isolation.

For almost six years, Libya has been subjected to UN sanctions aimed at forcing
Gaddafi to surrender the men accused of planting a bomb that destroyed a 1988
Pan Am flight over Lockerbie killing 270. Yesterday, Libya accepted a US-British
compromise to try the two suspects in the Netherlands, but it also urged that
the UN sanctions be lifted.

The Libyan move came after Washington and London agreed to hold a trial for the
bombing suspects in the Netherlands, under Scottish law, dropping their earlier
insistence that any trial must be held in Britain or the US.

The UN is now considering a draft resolution that would suspend the sanctions
after the suspects - Abdel Basset Ali al-Megrahi and Lamen Khalifa Fhimah -
arrive in the Netherlands for trial. Libya did not say when the pair might be
moved to the Netherlands or when the trial might start.

For years, Gaddafi has carried out high-profile acts of defiance of the UN
sanctions, which ban air travel to and from Libya. He has flown to friendly
countries, and Muslim pilgrims have flown from Libya to the holy city of Mecca.

But the sanctions have largely held.

Many foreign companies have shunned dealing with a country that is on the US
State Department's list of nations engaging in state-sponsored terrorism.

Also discouraging business is a US law that imposes economic sanctions against
companies that invest more than 40 million US dollars (GBP 25m) in the Libyan
oil or gas sectors. Tourism to the country is virtually non-existent.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                         Copyright 1998 Evening Herald

                              460 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                                August 27, 1998

Libyan move could end sanctions

SECTION: Supplement: Daily News, Pg.25

LENGTH: 313 words


Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi's qualified acceptance of a proposal to end a
stalemate over where to try two Libyans suspected of the Lockerbie bombing is a
cautious move that could help ease his country's international isolation.

For almost six years, Libya has been subjected to UN sanctions aimed at forcing
Gaddafi to surrender the men accused of planting a bomb that destroyed a 1988
Pan Am flight over Lockerbie killing 270. Yesterday, Libya accepted a US-British
compromise to try the two suspects in the Netherlands, but it also urged that
the UN sanctions be lifted.

The Libyan move came after Washington and London agreed to hold a trial for the
bombing suspects in the Netherlands, under Scottish law, dropping their earlier
insistence that any trial must be held in Britain or the US.

The UN is now considering a draft resolution that would suspend the sanctions
after the suspects - Abdel Basset Ali al-Megrahi and Lamen Khalifa Fhimah -
arrive in the Netherlands for trial. Libya did not say when the pair might be
moved to the Netherlands or when the trial might start.

For years, Gaddafi has carried out high-profile acts of defiance of the UN
sanctions, which ban air travel to and from Libya. He has flown to friendly
countries, and Muslim pilgrims have flown from Libya to the holy city of Mecca.

But the sanctions have largely held.

Many foreign companies have shunned dealing with a country that is on the US
State Department's list of nations engaging in state-sponsored terrorism.

Also discouraging business is a US law that imposes economic sanctions against
companies that invest more than 40 million US dollars (GBP 25m) in the Libyan
oil or gas sectors.

Tourism to the country is virtually non-existent. Visitors must take a ferry to
Libya or fly to neighbouring Egypt or Tunisia and drive to Libya, which can take
up to half a day.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                         Copyright 1998 Evening Herald

                              461 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                August 27, 1998

Leading article: Summer movies;
More theatres give less choice

SECTION: The Guardian Features Page; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 339 words


IT MUST have been a common experience this summer for readers who fancied an
evening out at the cinema to run through the list of programmes at the local
multiplex and find only those films which sensible critics had advised them to
keep away from. No use, either, taking the car to the multiplex in the next town
or the neighbouring suburb: despite the richness of choice which the move into
multi-screen cinemas once promised to bring us, the list there may very well be
exactly the same. Some who study these things have begun to argue that the
quality of the movies on general release over the past few months is the worst
it has ever been. Meanwhile, well-reviewed pictures like the one which stars
Stephen Fry as Oscar Wilde get a very limited showing. All those scenes where a
man embraces another man: you can't show that kind of thing, it still seems to
be thought, to the popcorn chompers of Swindon. . .

In the spring a movie called Wag the Dog arrived in Britain. This is the tale of
a US president involved in a sex scandal who in the hope of distracting
attention orders an attack on Albania. There is even a scene in which the
president hugs his accuser. Since the Lewinsky affair came to the boil, and more
especially since the US missile attacks on alleged terrorist bases, this
instance of fiction anticipating fact has seemed more and more uncanny. The
coincidence was even raised with the US government spokesman after last week's
attacks. One might have thought that with all this free promotion the cinema
chains would be bursting to get Wag the Dog back in front of the public. Yet
this week it wasn't even listed in London; nor is it next. And many quite large
centres in Britain have still had no chance to see it at all.

From weary experience one expects art movies to struggle to get a showing
outside a few favoured locations where intellectuals are reputed to gather, but
here, it seems, there is a solid commercial opportunity in letting the Dog Wag
again. Why is nobody grabbing it?


LOAD-DATE: August 28, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              462 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                August 27, 1998

LOCKERBIE TRIAL DEAL;
 Libya bomb suspects to face court at last

BYLINE: Western Daily Press reporters

SECTION: News, Pg.1

LENGTH: 613 words


THE two Lockerbie bombing suspects were last night set to stand trial - ten
years after the outrage that killed 270 people.

The breakthrough came after Libya signalled that it was finally ready to hand
over the suspects.

Last night Foreign Secretary Robin Cook hailed the Libyan response to the joint
British-American initiative to end the deadlock over the case.

As part of the new deal, the suspects would be tried by a panel of three
Scottish judges under Scottish law in the Hague.

Hearing

The proposal comes ten years after the bombing of Pan-Am flight 103 over the
small Scottish town of Lockerbie.

The announcement was made shortly after Libyan leader Colonel Gadaffi met senior
aides to discuss the proposal.

The decision brings the prospect of a trial much closer, although the suspects'
Scottish lawyer Alistair Duff suggested that a hearing could still be some way
off.

Mr Duff said the position of the authorities in Tripoli was still not entirely
clear.

''It is difficult to know exactly what the Libyan government means when they say
they accept the new position of Britain and the United States.

''If it means my two clients are being parcelled up to be transported to the
Hague then that is fairly dramatic and I would want to discuss the situation
with my clients.

''But, on the other hand, the Libyans could mean they are simply accepting the
British and U.S. proposal in principle but may not accept it fully.

''It would still mean that the decision to go to trial at the Hague would be
with the accused.''

Under the joint proposal, the suspects - Abdel Baset Ali Mohamed al-Megrahi and
al-Amin Khalifa Fhimah could not be extradited from the Netherlands. But if
found guilty, they would serve their sentences in the UK. Labour MP Tam Dalyell,
who has taken a close interest in the Lockerbie affair, urged the suspects to go
to the Netherlands for the trial.

''It would be extremely wise if they did so.

"I think personally they will get justice from the Scottish judges."

But Mr Dalyell repeated his belief that he did not believe Gadaffi was behind
the Lockerbie bombing, and blamed supporters of Palestinian terrorist Abu Nidal.

'He also insisted it was up to the lawyers of the accused as to whether they
turned up for trial in the Netherlands.

'Shadow Foreign Secretary Michael Howard said: ''We've made it clear we support
the Government's policy on this issue.

''We welcome the news that the Libyans have agreed to the trial plan.''

David Ben-Aryeah, a journalist who became an adviser to the families in the wake
of tragedy, said: ''I have dreamed of this day.''

The journalist, one of the first reporters to arrive at the scene, said he
believed a trial would now take place.

But he added: ''Since hours after that terrible flash in the sky all the
relatives of 270 souls from 21 nations have had two requests which no one can
deny - truth and justice.

''The relatives desperately want the evidence to be produced in a court, to be
laid before a court, to be subjected to the cut and thrust of cross- examination
in a court and, in the fullness of time, God willing, a verdict to be reached.

''At that point, and that point only, will they feel that the lies, deceit and
misinformation of the past nine years will be laid to rest.''

Mr Cook welcomed the Libyans' statement but said he would be examining the exact
wording for any conditions.

He said: ''I welcome this statement which looks like a positive development.

''We shall need to study exactly what the Libyans have said, and to ensure that
they are not setting any conditions on their acceptance."

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1998 Bristol United Press

                              463 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                August 28, 1998

Yard says London is 'target-rich' for bombers planning random attacks

BYLINE: Justin Davenport;John Sturgis

SECTION: Pg. 23

LENGTH: 767 words



SCOTLAND YARD is liaising with the FBI in a world-wide hunt for the extremists
who planted Cape Town's Planet Hollywood bomb which severely injured a British
family.

Security at potential American targets for Middle East extremists in London has
been stepped up following the attack, and surveillance on certain dissident Arab
groups has also been increased.

Senior Yard sources admit London, like other capital cities, is a "target-rich"
environment for Muslim groups who are intent on pursuing a holy war against
America or Britain.

However, they say they are more concerned about a maverick group committing a
"one-off" random attack on a target such as Planet Hollywood, which is
impossible to predict or plan for.

One source said: "The challenge is not from organised networks but from
spontaneous action anywhere in the world which is seen to support the jihad
against Britain or America. It could be a spontaneous one-off group."

Security chiefs have welcomed the Government's plans to combat extremists who
use Britain as a "safe haven" to commit terrorist acts abroad.

The source said: "We monitor groups here and we disrupt their activities but
part of the jigsaw that is missing is being able to prosecute for conspiracy to
commit acts of terrorism outside Britain. We need to see what happens after Cape
Town. All our contingency plans are in place.

"There is no real reason to think that London will be targeted but we are
liaising with all the relevant agencies here and abroad. We work constantly with
the FBI."

The last major Middle-East-inspired attack in London was in 1994 when two
Palestinians planted a car bomb outside the Israeli Embassy, causing £5million
in damage and injuring 13 people.

Scotland Yard says it has been successful in helping the French, particu- larly
with Algerian terrorists plotting acts in France from London.

The pressure on Britain to ban extremist Islamic organisations based here has
been mounting in recent years. The Government plans to make it a criminal
offence to conspire to commit terrorist offences abroad from within the UK, set
to be approved by the emergency session in Parliament next week. It could
finally end London's reputation as a safe haven for terrorists.

Several groups which are banned in their own countries have offices or
fundraising bases in London.

In Finsbury Park, The Followers of Sharia, or Al-Ansar al-Shariah, commend
London as a base. "The British know how to leave you some space," as they put
it.

These and other militant groups are the visible face of Arab extremism in
London. Their tracts are distributed at the 100 or so Mosques around the city,
and they operate openly.

Other groups include the Islamic Jihad and al-Gamaa al-Islaamiya from Egypt, who
claimed responsibility for the Luxor attack last year in which 58 tourists died.
Five members of the group are believed to be in London.

Exact numbers of known terror groups in London are impossible to calculate, but
intelligence sources have no doubt they are here.

CRICKLEWOOD: Filisteen al-Muslima (an Islamic Palestine) runs a magazine
supporting Hamas.

DOLLIS HILL: Nassiha wal-Isla (The Advice and Reformation Committee), headed by
Khaled Abdul Rahman Hmad al-Fauwaz, a close supporter of Osama bin Laden, who is
wanted in connection with the US Embassy bombings.

BRONDESBURY: The Committee for the Defence of Legitimate Rights in Saudi Arabia,
headed by Saudi dissident Mohamed al-Masari, who successfully battled the
Government over their attempts to deport him.

SOUTHALL: The Front Islamique de Salvation (the Islamic Salvation Front), an
Algerian political group banned by the Algiers government but runs a magazine
here.

MARYLEBONE: Al-Marsad al-l'ami al-Islami (Islamic Information Monitoring Centre)
headed by wanted Egyptian Abu Ammar, who has links to the Moslem Brotherhood and
has applied for political asylum.

MAIDA VALE: The Islamic Observation centre, linked to Egyptian extremist groups,
headed by Egyptian Abdel Meguid Fahmy.

TOTTENHAM: Hizb-ut-Tahrir or Islamic Liberation Army, a student group banned in
many parts of the Arab world.

EDMONTON: The al-Muhajiroun or Emigrants, whose leader Omar Bakri Mohamed, a
Syrian, reportedly "endorses and applauds the bombing of US embassies". The
group has called on Muslims to use "all means" to oppose Britain's role in the
Gulf as an enemy of Iraq.

FINSBURY PARK: The Followers of Sharia, or Al-Ansar al-Shariah, known as
supporters of Algerian and Egyptian terror groups.

The capital's Arab groups


LOAD-DATE: August 31, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: CHAOTIC SCENES AFTER THE BOMBING AT PLANET HOLLYWOOD THE DEVASTATED
ISRAELI EMBASSY IN 1994, T HE LAST TIME TERRORISTS STRUCK IN THE HEART OF LONDON

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1998 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              464 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                August 28, 1998

Kenya bomb suspects face US trial;
Scotland Yard admits Britain could be target in terrorist war as diplomatic
staff are sent home from Sudan in retaliation for air strike

BYLINE: GARY YOUNGE IN WASHINGTON, RICHARD NORTON-TAYLOR AND DUNCAN CAMPBELL

SECTION: The Guardian Home Page; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 818 words


TWO suspects in the American embassy bombings in Kenya were yesterday sent for
trial in the US, where they could face the death penalty. The move came as
senior Scotland Yard sources said London and other major cities offer a
"target-rich environment" for terrorist groups planning a holy war against
Americans around the world.

Khalid Salim, believed to be a Yemeni, was flown from Nairobi to New York by the
FBI and appeared before a judge on 12 counts of murder, conspiracy to murder and
possessing weapons of mass destruction. The other man, Mohammed Saddiq Howaidah,
was arrested in Pakistan on the day of the bombing and is believed to be
Jordanian or Palestinian.

The US attorney-general, Janet Reno, hailed the arrests as part of "the most
extensive international investigation" in history. The blast killed 258 people
and injured more than 5,000.

Mr Salim is alleged to have admitted tossing a grenade at a guard outside the
Nairobi embassy and to have said that he did not expect to survive the attack.
He allegedly confessed that he had been trained in explosives, hijacking and
kidnapping in Afghan camps run by the Saudi millionaire Osama bin Laden, who has
been accused of orchestrating the bombings.

A senior Scotland Yard source said yesterday that anti-terrorist officers had
been liaising with the FBI and other relevant authorities over the latest spate
of bombings. A bomb warning was received by the London branch of Planet
Hollywood within minutes of Tuesday's blast in the Cape Town restaurant.

"All our contingency plans are in place," said the source. But he said their
task was made more difficult by the fact that attacks could come from "one -off,
spontaneous groups" not known to intelligence services. The source said trying
to anticipate an attack anywhere in the world was an enormous task as the
current situation created a "target-rich environment".

The Foreign Secretary, Robin Cook, yesterday ordered the temporary withdrawal of
British staff from the embassy in Khartoum, Sudan, amid increasing speculation
that he had misgivings about last week's US missile strike on a chemical factory
in the city.

Sudan asked the staff to leave because of the Government's support for the US
attack. Mr Cook said the decision would not effect British aid operations since
relief was mainly channelled through UN agencies and charities.

Peter Hawkins, an emergency officer for Save the Children, said his aid workers
would stay in Sudan to help the 2.6 million people who required life -saving
assistance.

Meanwhile, the Conservatives last night leapt on Whitehall suggestions - first
reported in the Guardian - that the Foreign Office privately believes the US may
have bombed an innocent target in Sudan and that Mr Cook was "uncomfortable"
with Tony Blair's strong support for the US strikes. Cheryl Gillan, the shadow
foreign affairs spokeswoman, challenged Mr Cook and Mr Blair to deny such a
rift.

Asked earlier about reports that the FO thought that operations at the Khartoum
factory may have been innocent, Mr Cook replied: "I read those reports with
surprise."

He added: "We have supported action against terrorism by America and we will
continue to support action that brings home to terrorists that they cannot act
without being held responsible for what they do."

MPs are likely to raise the issue when the Commons debates the Government's
anti-terrorism package next week. Labour MP Tam Dalyell said yesterday: "It
would be extremely odd if the House of Commons were recalled and this subject
were not raised, because there are many, many scientists and others in the
country who simply do not believe that this evidence that the Government claim
to have actually exists."

Labour MP Andrew Mackinlay, a member of the Commons Foreign Affairs Select
Committee, also voiced scepticism and suggested the FO should reveal to selected
MPs the intelligence on which the Government had based its support for the US.
"There hasn't been any real indication as to what grounds there were for
attacking what we are told was a pharmaceutical plant," he said.

In an interview on Wednesday night, Dr Hassan Tourabi, the eminence grise in
Sudan, said British diplomats as individuals did not deserve to be withdrawn. He
praised the German ambassador for his view that the Shifa plant was not
producing chemical weapons precursors and said he believed that the British
diplomats more or less shared the German's views.

It also emerged that MEP Glenys Kinnock had alerted the FO six months ago that
Sudan might be involved in chemical weapons production. She met Sudanese
opposition leaders from the National Democratic Alliance during a trip to
Ethiopia and Eritrea in February. On her return, she told the FO that Iraqi
scientists were working with the National Islamic Front, Sudan's ruling party.

Arms officer quits, page 14


LOAD-DATE: August 28, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              465 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                August 28, 1998

Two face US trial for Nairobi bombing;British diplomats pulled out of Sudan

BYLINE: Cameron Simpson And Ken Smith

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 755 words


TWO men are to be put on trial in the US for mass murder after the Nairobi
embassy car bomb attack which killed 258 people, including 12 Americans.

Khalid Salim, who told the FBI the attackers intended to be martyrs, appeared in
a New York court last night after being extradited from Kenya. His co -accused,
Mohammed Saddiq Odeh, is expected to appear in court today when he arrives in
the US.

Attorney General Janet Reno said the arrests resulted from "the most extensive
overseas investigation" in US history.

"We have linked arms with law enforcement around the world, and today we have
results. A great wrong has been done . . . we are not going to rest. We are not
going to forget. We are going to pursue every last murderer until justice is
done."

Britain, which has strongly backed the US, yesterday withdrew its embassy staff
from Khartoum and warned its citizens to leave Sudan amid growing unrest ignited
by last week's US missile strikes.

There are about 220 Britons, including some 80 Scots, in the African country,
where tensions are running high after the US bombing of the pharmaceutical
factory allegedly making components for nerve gas.

The attacks were reprisals on supposed terrorist targets - the chemical weapons
plant in Sudan and an Afghan training base of Osama bin Laden, the Saudi
millionaire the US believes masterminded the attacks on its embassies in Kenya
and Tanzania.

Last night the US State Department said its embassy in South Korea has received
unconfirmed information that terrorist action may possibly be taken against US
government installations and/or personnel in that country.

It said the embassy and military installations throughout South Korea were
taking steps to increase security. They also were advising their personnel and
dependents of the potential threat and the need to exercise much greater caution
than usual.

Prime Minister Tony Blair last night strongly defended the support he gave for
the US air strikes during a question and answer session in Glasgow.

His audience, which was largely made up of young people, clearly had grave
doubts about the Government's decision, but Mr Blair insisted there was no doubt
that the bases were being used for the purposes claimed by the US.

There was also no doubt that these states were sponsoring terrorism, he said. Mr
Blair spoke of the "scourge of terrorism" and added: "In the case of the US
action, they were retaliating against countries which are specifically
sponsoring terrorism aimed at their cities.

"I supported the action because I think it is important we take action against
that type of terrorism wherever it is based and if it's based in countries where
the states themselves are allowing their bases to be used to export that
terrorism, then it is right to take action there as well."

The embassy staff were ordered out by Foreign Secretary Robin Cook, who also
renewed the advice to British citizens not to travel to Sudan, and for those
there already to leave unless they had a "compelling reason" to stay.

One Scot, Mr Alan White, from Clydebank, operations manager in Sudan for
distribution firm DHL, has already telephoned his family to say he is leaving.

Mr Cook's move comes after the Sudanese demanded that the British ambassador and
his deputy be removed in retaliation for UK support for the American strike.
Sudan claims the factory was merely making medicines and has asked the United
Nations to investigate.

Mr Cook said the embassy would not be closed but would be manned by local staff.

He said: "I greatly regret having to take this step, which has been forced on us
by the actions of the Sudanese authorities."

The Foreign Secretary himself was at the centre of speculation that he had
misgivings about the US missile strike on the Khartoum factory.

Mr Cook is reported to have been "uncomfortable" with Mr Blair's statement
giving strong support to the American missile strikes.

The Tories sought to highlight the alleged rift, with Cheryl Gillan, the shadow
foreign affairs spokeswoman, demanding Mr Cook make an immediate statement to
clear the air. However, Mr Cook attempted to dispel criticism by telling
reporters that Britain backed the Americans.

Sudan is in the midst of a humanitarian disaster, with millions facing
starvation, and only a temporary ceasefire in the civil war.

But Mr Cook insisted the decision to withdraw British staff would have little
effect on the UK's ability to help the needy in Sudan.

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1998 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              466 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                       August 28, 1998, Friday Edition 1

British staff withdrawn from Sudan embassy - Move taken with 'great regret' due
to actions of local authorities

BYLINE: By Sian Clare

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS, Pg. 14

LENGTH: 423 words


   Foreign Secretary Robin Cook yesterday ordered the temporary withdrawal of
British staff from the embassy in the Sudanese capital of Khartoum amid the row
over last week's US missile strikes.

The move comes after the Sudanese demanded that the British ambassador and his
deputy be removed in retaliation for UK support for the American strike on a
Khartoum factory. The US destroyed the plant which it insists was producing
elements for chemical weapons.

But Sudan claims the factory was merely making medicines and has asked the
United Nations to investigate.

Mr Cook, speaking outside his official residence in London, said the embassy
would not be closed but would be manned by local staff. UK-based staff would
make visits as soon as practicable.

He said: "I greatly regret having to take this step, which has been forced on us
by the actions of the Sudanese authorities. We shall remain in contact with them
through their embassy here. I hope it will not be too long before the necessary
conditions are re-established for a return to normal relations with Sudan."

The Foreign Secretary himself is at the centre of speculation that he had
misgivings about the strike on the factory.

The attacks were reprisals on supposed terrorist targets - the chemical weapons
plant in Sudan and an Afghan training base of Osama bin Laden, the Saudi
millionaire businessman the Americans believe masterminded the attacks on their
embassies in Kenya and Tanzania.

But Mr Cook is reported to have been "uncomfortable" with Prime Minister Tony
Blair's statement giving strong support to the American missile strikes, amid
fears that the Khartoum factory may have been innocent.

Yesterday the Tories sought to highlight the alleged rift, with Cheryl Gillan,
the Shadow Foreign Affairs Minister, demanding that Mr Cook make an immediate
statement to clear the air.

But the Foreign Secretary attempted to dispel criticism by telling reporters
outside his Carlton Gardens residence that Britain backed the Americans.

"We have supported action against terrorism by America and we will continue to
support action that brings home to terrorists that they cannot act without being
held responsible for what they do," he said.

Challenged about reports that the Foreign Office thought the Khartoum factory
may have been innocent, Mr Cook replied: "I read those reports with surprise.

"The papers were given a full statement that we are fully in line with the
Government's support given to the American action."

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Speculation: Robin Cook moved to dispel allegations he had misgivings
over the US missile attacks.

                Copyright 1998 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              467 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Grimsby Evening Telegraph

                                August 29, 1998

Bring MI6 agents to trial - Gadafi

SECTION: Politics: international, Pg.7

LENGTH: 260 words


Colonel Gaddafi has called on Britain to bring to trial intelligence service
agents who allegedly plotted to kill him, it emerged today.

The demand followed claims by renegade MI5 officer David Shayler that the secret
intelligence service, MI6, financed a plot to assassinate the Libyan leader in a
bomb attack.

Gaddafi told Libyan TV the 1986 bombing of Libya by US warplanes and alleged
British attempts to kill him should be dealt with in the same way as the bombing
of Pan Am flight 103 over Lockerbie, in which 270 people died.

He said: "How can they talk about Lockerbie and not talk about the massacre in
1986 of our people and children?

"How can we talk about Lockerbie and forget the assassination attempt which was
organised by the British intelligence and which has witnesses to it?"

Earlier the Foreign Office insisted there would be no negotiation over an
Anglo-American proposal to bring the two Libyan suspects for the 1988 Lockerbie
bombing to trial in The Hague before a panel of Scottish judges.

Libya has already signalled it would accept the trial of Abdel Basset Ali
al-Megrahi and Lamen Khalifa Fhimah in Holland.

In his TV interview Gaddafi alleged: "The British intelligence was involved in a
plot to kill Gaddafi. This has been confirmed and they co -operated with the
American intelligence."

He claimed Libya had proof of an assassination plot, and said Britain "protects
people who are terrorists and murderers who admit to killing".

The Libyan leader also threatened to raise the matter with the UN Security
Council.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1998 Grimsby Evening Telegraph

                              468 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           August 29, 1998, Saturday

Monitor: All the News of the World; Russia's crisis Legacy of Diana American
missile attacks Congo war Pregnant Spice Girls 'Lock, Stock and Two Smoking
Barrels'

SECTION: COMMENT; Page 4

LENGTH: 2823 words


Russian crisis, global panic

RUSSIA'S CRISIS

Reactions to the collapse of the Russian economy and President Yeltsin's sacking
of the entire government, appointing Victor Chernomyrdin as the new Prime
Minister

St Petersburg Times

Russia

THE TIMING is madness. Russia is in the middle of its worst financial crisis
since 1991 but it now faces the prospect of weeks of horse-trading over a new
Cabinet. Even if that can be quickly resolved, Chernomyrdin is not the man to
lead Russia out of crisis. It is he, after all, who more than anyone else except
Yeltsin created this mess by piling up a mountain of state debt. As one wit in
the Duma put it, Yeltsin has replaced a man who could not do anything in five
months with someone who could not do anything in five years. Yeltsin is now a
lame duck whose influence and relevance will fade. Similarities to the last days
of the Suharto regime in Indonesia are growing. It is hard to see what can now
pull Russia back from the brink.

The Washington Post

US

THE PRESIDENT said his goal was "not to allow a step backward, but to maintain
stability". But in Russia's crippled state, there can be no stability, only
progress through difficult reform or continued decline. The debt moratorium has
scared foreign investors away. Russia's young banks are teetering. There will be
a huge temptation to save them by stoking inflation, which could lead to
Weimar-like political instability.

Moscow Times

Russia

WHEN PRESIDENT Boris Yeltsin signed the decree appointing Chernomyrdin as Prime
Minister, the ailing Russian leader could well have been playing out the last
act of his remarkable political career. Giving Chernomyrdin unprecedented powers
as the heir apparent could make for a more stable government but it will also
slow attempts to take the fiscal measures needed to stabilise Russia's finances.

Financial Times

UK

IF WESTERN assistance is to make any difference, it can only be if the new
Government makes proper use of the opportunity afforded by default by tightening
the public finances sharply. This will leave Mr Chernomyrdin balanced between
destabilising political pressures at home and Western unwillingness to throw
good money after bad. The prognosis for Russia is dire.  A miracle is now
needed.

The Age

Australia

THIS MERRY-go-round of politics has also sent a ripple of panic through the
West. The rouble's difficulties were echoed in the plight of other national
currencies, in Europe, the Americas and already-troubled Asia, and played a part
in forcing the Australian dollar to a 12-year low against the US dollar.  The
financial markets' fears of a Russian collapse have led to demands that the West
stop bailing Russia out, and instead insist that the Russians learn to solve
their own financial problems. It is a solution as blind as the panic that
spawned it.

Izvestia

Russia

IT TURNS out that President Yeltsin was not changing horses in mid- course, but
changing parachutes during a jump - which, it goes without saying, is a risky
matter.

Le Monde

France

NOT A day passes without more monetary, financial or economic bad news.  After
Russia, which will be the next country to founder? One very dark scenario could
be possible: a Latin American recession which would horribly shake Wall Street
and provoke mass panic and huge withdrawals in American households.  What would
happen then, nobody knows. Psychological phenomena have taken on such importance
in contemporary economics that turnaround can never be ruled out. The world
economy is now in the hands of the markets.  The Asia crisis hasn't led to the
general ruin which some predicted.  But it has taught us that economic matter
has become explosive gas.

The New Statesman

UK

AS IT struggles to survive the worsening financial turmoil, the Russian
government is likely to be guided by the interests of its corporate giants, and
the occasional voice of a powerful regional governor, rather than by some
abstract notion of the collective good. The general interests of the people will
take second place to the need to bail out a few influential banks or to
strengthen the position of exporters, such as natural gas producers, whose main
income is in hard currency.

LEGACY OF DIANA

Opinions on the mood of the nation on the first anniversary of the death of
Diana, Princess of Wales

The Daily

Telegraph

IT SEEMED quite possible that Diana would, like Banquo, be more powerful dead
than alive. Yet, just a year later, there can no longer be any doubt that, if
one chooses to see Britain simply as a battlefield for a war be- tween
CharlesWorld and DianaWorld, CharlesWorld is winning decisively.  The Windsors
have romped home 5-0 by an innings, in straight sets. The Monarchy has
triumphed. (Paul Goodman)

The Mirror

PRINCE CHARLES has worked hard since Diana's death to be a good father, and make
himself a more sympathetic person. The public recognises that, but people are
far from being ready to forgive him. They continue to compare him unfavourably
with her, and refuse to forget the way he treated her. Prince Charles still has
a long way to go before a country that still reveres Diana's memory is willing
to accept him.

The Spectator

WHATEVER THE truth about the body, the soul is even harder to assess.  Was she a
tempter or tempted; destructive, or a healer; a superb actress or a genuine
possessor of moral depth? Would she have grown in stature if she had lived, or
was her death a necessary sacrifice to her reputation?

Daily Mail

I LIKE to think that the obvious truths about her, which most people have
silently grasped all along, will eventually come to be accepted by everyone.
She was a beautiful, rather mixed-up person, who loved her children and did some
good and had some fun, and then died in a horrible accident which certainly
didn't have to happen. Let's not always make her into someone she was not. Let's
allow her in death to be herself.

(Stephen Glover)

The Sun

AT LAST, a royal tribute Princess Diana would have treasured. The Queen admits
she has changed the way she works after re-examining how her former
daughter-in-law did things. That's why last month she went to McDonald's, where
Diana regularly took her boys. And why she now devotes quality time to the
people she meets. What a shame Diana had to die to be appreciated.

The Evening Standard

NO DOUBT in nearby Essex and those other areas where most women bleach their
hair, Diana's status as the icon of fashion, charm and beauty will never be
undone; but many a rational man will mutter to himself, and with unalloyed
relief, that Diana's oddly suitable death solved many problems for church,
state, constitution and the restless monarchy. (Brian Sewell)

The Guardian

THE DIANA effect centred not on the politicians but "the people". Suddenly the
powerful had to catch up with the streets. The Royal Family even bowed to public
pressure and returned to London. It was a crude display of people power, but
that is where British politics now resides. Judging by the impact that she has
had on our politics, Diana was, after all, the People's Princess.  (Jonathan
Freedland)

AMERICAN MISSILE ATTACKS

Verdicts on last weekend's American missile attacks on alleged terrorist targets
in Afghanistan and Sudan

La Times

US

BIN LADEN issued a fatwa, a declaration of war, against America. If Washington
is serious, Congress should declare war in return against these trans-national
terrorists. That formal declaration would allow more options, including
targeting enemy leaders for death, something peacetime restrictions preclude.
War will be costly, but so will inaction. And whatever it will be, Americans
need to think it through.

The Jordanian Times

Jordan

ALTHOUGH IT could be understood that Washington would wish to avenge the bombing
of its embassies in Nairobi and Dar es Salaam, it is difficult to comprehend the
punitive actions against targets which are not associated with these attacks.
The US must not act as judge, jury and executioner.  This is not the kind of new
international order the world is going to accept and live with.

The Oregonian

US

CARRYING THE fight to terrorists is only part of the necessary response to the
deadly bombings of our embassies. Another critical response is improving the
security of embassies and US offices around the world. There's no iron-clad
protection against every imaginable terrorist attack. But there's no excuse for
not taking all possible precautions.

The Straits Times

Singapore

A WEEK after the United States armed forces ravaged targets in Afghanistan and
Sudan, the world's Islamic governments are still locked in what seems to be
unhappy silence. It could be that if they have any quarrel with such fanatical
groups, it is over methods rather than aims, and that their profound misgivings
- alas, not unjustified - of some aspects of US policy prevent them from taking
a rational view of the threat to a civilised world order.

The New York Times

US

AMERICANS OF both parties rallied around President Clinton's decision to launch
military strikes against alleged terrorist installations in Afghanistan and the
Sudan. But the Administration's refusal to share more information about. . .
targets and timing is disturbing. By its excessive secrecy, Washington only
increases scepticism about its claim that the Shifa chemical factory in the
Sudan was producing nerve gas ingredients, and thus had to be destroyed to
prevent new terrorist attacks.

THE CONGO WAR

Comments on the dangerous situation in Africa as Congo's civil war threatens
stability in the area

El Mundo

Spain

THE WAR situation in Congo is taking such a dangerous turn that one can only
hope for a third-party country to get involved in finding a solution.
Unfortunately, domestic problems in the US and the hunt for the fundamentalist
terrorist bin Laden doesn't leave Clinton with time for peace missions abroad.
South Africa alone is persisting in the diplomatic effort to get a cease-fire
that could pave the way to negotiation. Western powers must embrace Mandela's
work.

Time

US

WITHOUT SOUTH Africa's support it is difficult to imagine any southern African
task force getting off the ground, let alone being effective in a country as
vast and complex as Kabila's Congo, where there are many dark days to come.

The Washington Post

US

WITH NEIGHBORING nations lining up on opposite sides, the conflict could pull
Congo into pieces and widen into a regional affair. . . Mr Kabila has appealed
to other African governments for help, and some of them are reportedly sending
military aid. But Nelson Mandela is conspicuously not among them.  His plea for
negotiation. . . holds out more hope than any alternative.

The Economist

UK

MR KABILA'S response to his troubles has been to retreat into Congolese
nationalism. Tutsis, regarded as suspect, have been sacked from the government
or have fled to join the rebels. The state-controlled radio urges the slaughter
of Rwandan Tutsis. All this may endear Mr Kabila to patriotic locals but. . .
could lead to genocide.

PREGNANT SPICE GIRLS

Opinion on the news that Posh Spice and Scary Spice are both pregnant,
apparently to the fury of their record company, Virgin

Birmingham Post

QUITE APART from the practical considerations of whether the girls will be able
to make records and tour the world once they have children, surely their
impending motherhood sends out the wrong signals to the band's fans, most of
whom are teenage girls. Although the women are engaged, their pregnancies only
confirm the collapse of traditional family values. They obviously feel no shame
in their condition.

The Mirror

FAR FROM being the ultimate icons of pre-pubescent girls, the Spice Girls have
finally proved what I always suspected - they're just ordinary lasses with the
same down-to-earth aspirations as your average girl in the street. In the end,
Victoria and Mel B were desperate for a way out.  They also wanted the one thing
money can't buy - a baby and a normal, settled life away from the spotlight.
(Sue Carroll)

The Times

THE SPICE Girls' record company, Virgin, is reportedly "furious" at two of its
artists' pregnancies, feeling that the "meticulously planned promotional
campaign" timed to coincide with the band's Christmas single has been thrown
into disarray. Although the Spice Girls make me feel ill, I feel more nauseated
still by the idea of men in suits telling them what they can and can't do with
their reproductive systems. I am going to buy their next single in the spirit of
outraged sisterhood. (India Knight)

The Sun

THE GIRLS each have a few squillion in the bank, so I doubt they give a tinkers
what some record company minion thinks about them. But can you imagine this
little remark being made about a male pop star facing parenthood?  So much for
Girl Power. (Jane Moore)

The Guardian

AT THIS time of joy, our thoughts should turn to the young infant safely
ensconced in his mother's womb. What music shall it first hear, what strange and
subtle rythms will guide the precious baby through its first days?

FILM OF THE WEEK

Reviews of Guy Ritchie's film 'Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels'

The Daily

Telegraph

THIS IS a hugely confident debut picture. The dialogue sizzles with a demotic
verve rarely found in English movies, and the labyrinthine plot slowly winds you
in. The farcical pay-off and gaudy violence is Tarantino- esque, but Ritchie's
film is original and witty enough to stand up as a counterpart rather than a
rip-off. (Quentin Curtis)

Evening

Standard

THE MAKERS of the movie cast people with real-life criminal convictions for some
of the roles, and treat their grotesque deeds and warped morals without the
slightest moral judgement, as if they were simply the comic meat in a
slice-of-life sandwich. It's a cold-blooded, artificial construct, feeding a
tabloid appetite for brutality, and underwriting the mindless indecencies for
violent halfwits.

(Alexander Walker)

The Times

THE SCRIPT has its share of smart lines, but offers little structural support.
Scenes bulge with too many characters, and multiple plot threads.  As the film
charges ahead its callousness grows, and it becomes less a breezy romp than a
mechanical exercise in bludgeoning audiences and being fashionable. (Geoff
Brown)

Time Out

Expect plenty of laughs and some edge-of-your seat sweats, but not a whole lot
else. Attempting to marry Oliver Twist with Trainspotting, this ends up more
like a bloody episode of Minder. (Charlotte O'Sullivan)

MISCELLANEOUS

Stories from around the world

Sydney Morning Herald

Australia

THE FEDERAL government has been accused of running a "Viagra-led election", with
claims that it has prematurely promised that the impotence pill will soon be
available in Australia.

The Health Minister, Dr Wooldridge, created intense media interest yesterday
with an announcement that the drug had been approved, subject to changes to its
product information.

Speaking from an international impotence conference taking place in Amsterdam, a
Perth specialist, Dr Bronwyn Stuckey, said colleagues had predicted that such an
announcement would be made as part of an "erection election".

Usa Today

IS A half-eaten apple a deadly weapon? A San Francisco appeals court got to the
core of that question when it considered the case of Gavin T, a student whose
tossed apple knocked a teacher unconscious. The 1st District Court of Appeal
said the assault by fruit wasn't a criminal act.

Gavin was eating lunch outside when he decided to throw a half-eaten apple at a
wall to see it splatter. By accident, the apple flew through a gap in a door and
hit a teacher who was conducting choir try-outs. The teacher was knocked
unconscious for several minutes. Gavin was charged with felony assault.
Although a lower court found that he did not intend to hit the teacher, the teen
was found guilty anyway - to set an example to other would-be apple-tossers. The
appeals court later overruled his punishment.

Chicago Sun Times

US

ALAIN AND Cheryl Doucet were divorced in 1995 after 20 years of marriage, but a
judge ordered them to live together until their youngest child turned 18.  For
three years, the couple lived in a house divided. There were separate phone
lines, separate televisions - everything separate all the way down to the
refrigerator shelves. Apparently, the judge has either never been married or is
locked in wedded bliss. Anyone who has ever gone through a divorce would know
that the couple were lucky to get out of this ordeal alive.


LOAD-DATE: September 01, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1998 Independent Print Ltd

                              469 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            August 30, 1998, Sunday

Alarm bells should be ringing

BYLINE: JOAN SMITH

SECTION: COMMENT; Page 21

LENGTH: 814 words


WHEN THE Gulf War started in January 1991, 91 Iraqis and Palestinians were
arrested and threatened with deportation from this country on the grounds that
their presence was "not conducive to the public good". They were not, however,
individuals funded by the Iraqi government; on the contrary, many were
dissidents passionately opposed to Saddam Hussein. So why were they rounded up?
The answer lies in an infamous list, drawn up by MI5 and Special Branch, which
purported to name suspected "terrorists" of Middle Eastern extraction.

Among those detained was the Palestinian writer and academic Abbas Shiblak, who
had lived in Britain for many years and was well-known - to everyone but the
police and the Security Services - as a moderate. Mr Shiblak was freed after two
weeks of internment, followed a week later by an Iraqi student who managed to
persuade officials they had got the wrong man.  Displaying the traditional
English dyslexia about foreign names, the Security Services had mixed him up
with someone else - someone who was probably as innocent as the rest of the
unfortunates.

This was confirmed in March 1991 when the then Home Secretary, Kenneth Baker,
announced there would be no deportations and no trials as a result of the
round-up. Indeed, Mr Baker was said to have been shocked by the flimsy,
anecdotal evidence used to compile the list and later ordered an inquiry into
what many observers regarded as a scandalous abuse of human rights. The Home
Office recognised that some of the Iraqi students whom MI5 and Special Branch
had fingered were genuine refugees.

What this demonstrates is that, when it comes to identifying terrorists in this
country, relying on "intelligence" gathered by MI5 and Special Branch is about
as effective as picking foreign-sounding names from the telephone directory.
(Irish accents are similarly popular with the police, as the Birmingham Six
discovered.) Not that the Security Services learnt much from their dismal
performance in 1991. In February this year, when air strikes against Iraq once
again looked imminent, they were apparently ready with another list of potential
detainees - until the Government squashed the idea.

In the wake of the Omagh bombing, and the terrorist attacks on the American
embassies in Kenya and Tanzania, all this is in danger of being forgotten.  Last
week, in an emotional speech in Northern Ireland, Tony Blair announced a package
of anti-terrorist measures the centrepiece of which is the relaxation of the
rules of evidence in the province. Once the new law is rushed through Parliament
on Wednesday and Thursday, it will be possible to convict suspects of belonging
to a proscribed organisation solely on the word of a senior police officer. This
is not strictly internment but it carries the same risks, of honest mistakes and
malicious identifications, which are credited with having recruited so many new
members to the IRA in the 1970s. The law is aimed at the Real IRA, but there is
nothing to stop it being used against members of other political organisations
in future. Panic measures, hurried on to the statute books in a matter of days,
remain in force for decades, available to governments of a quite different
stripe from the one that originally proposed them. As a separate part of the
same package, it will become an offence to conspire to commit criminal offences
abroad, a measure which Liberty described last week as "a serious threat to
human rights".

Conspiracy trials rarely turn on hard evidence, for the simple reason that
people who intend to commit criminal acts infrequently document their intentions
on paper. Convictions tend to depend on circumstantial evidence, such as
membership of political organisations - not quite the same as being put on trial
for your politics, but it comes close. It will even be an offence, according to
some reports, to collect funds for a terrorist organisation abroad - and who is
to define "terrorist" in this context, other than our old friends the Security
Services and Special Branch?

I know it's the end of August, that many MPs are still on holiday and that
newspapers are full of tomorrow's anniversary of the death of the Princess of
Wales. But I'm astonished by the muted response to Mr Blair's announcement of
such undemocratic and ineffectual measures - ineffectual because they do not
address the causes of terrorism, only its results.  They are also likely to
convert moderates, Irish Republicans and Islamists alike, into vengeful
extremists. Mr Blair appeared close to tears when he visited Omagh on Tuesday.
You do not have to doubt his sincerity to suggest that he has made a serious
error of judgement. But this country's record of imprisoning the wrong people is
bad enough, without making it worse in the heated atmosphere that follows
terrorist atrocities like Omagh.


LOAD-DATE: September 01, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1998 Independent Print Ltd

                              470 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                August 30, 1998

PM bows to rebels over terror laws;
Late deal forces annual review of conviction powers

BYLINE: BY ANDY MCSMITH CHIEF POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: The Observer News Page; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 706 words


TONY BLAIR has been forced to soften his 'draconian' new anti-terrorist laws in
the face of a threatened revolt by Labour MPs. The last-minute concession was
agreed late on Friday afternoon in a telephone conversation with Home Secretary
Jack Straw and Northern Ireland Secretary Mo Mowlam.

It means that a new law allowing members of the Real IRA, Continuity IRA, INLA
or loyalist LVF to be convicted on the evidence of a single police
superintendent could be scrapped after 12 months. Ministers will have to apply
annually to Parliament to renew the powers.

The Prime Minister had been warned that opposition to the emergency legislation
was spreading rapidly on Labour's backbenches, beyond his usual opponents on the
party's Left.

On Friday afternoon, rebel MPs obtained permission from the Commons clerks to
table at least two amendments giving Parliament greater control over the
legislation. One would have called for it to be renewed annually, the other
would have compelled the Government to seek separate approval for any departure
from the European Convention on Human Rights.

But in an article in today's Observer, Mowlam reveals that the Government has
now agreed to the rebels' main demand. She also asserts that the new laws will
be 'compatible' with the convention.

The concession flies in the face of years of Labour opposition to the ritual of
annually renewing the Prevention of Terrorism Act, brought in after the pub
bombings of the Seventies. A review of anti-terrorist law now under way was
intended to do away with temporary legislation.

Despite this concession, the Government still faces the embarrassment of a
'reasoned amendment' backed by senior MPs such as former shadow Northern Ireland
Minister Kevin McNamara, criticising the way legislation is being rushed through
and warning that it could harm the peace process by giving back the terrorist
splinter groups the popular support they lost in the Omagh bombing.

McNamara said: 'If these new powers are so necessary, why were they not invoked
at the height of the crisis by any Tory Minister?'

Harry Barnes, a Labour member of the Commons Northern Ireland Committee, said:
'There are certain areas in Northern Ireland where people have no faith in the
Royal Ulster Constabulary. There is a tremendous will to do something so that
these hideous people can be dealt with, but there is just that little concern
that it shouldn't be counter-productive.'

Labour MP Gerry Bermingham warned: 'One good thing which has come out, post
-Omagh, is a willingness of people all over Ireland to say that enough is
enough. Are we going to go recreating a sense of us and them?'

Rebel Liberal Democrat peers may also try to obstruct legislation aimed at
foreign dissidents living in Britain who are accused of planning terrorist
attacks overseas.

The measure is being brought in under pressure from friendly governments such as
Egypt, threatened by domestic terrorism, but was fiercely opposed by Labour MPs
when the Tories tried to introduce it as a Private Member's Bill.

Donald Anderson, who now chairs the Commons Foreign Affairs Committee, warned
then: 'There are many dictatorships and tyrannical governments in this world.
Are we to say that someone who has fled to this country is stopped from seeking
to overthrow that tyranny?'

Liberal Democrat peer Earl Russell said: 'I'd be very surprised if there weren't
votes against, if one thinks what this legislation would have meant to the ANC.
If you have no access to the ballot box, resistance is the only way you can
change government.'

With the Tories backing the Government, there was no serious threat that the
rebels could win a vote, but they could cause serious problems for the
Government's business managers, who have only two parliamentary days to get the
Bill through both houses by Friday.

No arrangements have been made to maximise government support by calling back
MPs who are holidaying abroad.  Mowlam is likely to miss Wednesday's Commons
session because she will be with Hillary Clinton in Northern Ireland. Tony and
Cherie Blair will be in the province with the Clintons on Thursday, when the
Bill goes to the House of Lords.


LOAD-DATE: September 2, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1998 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              471 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                August 31, 1998

We will help to find the disappeared, says IRA

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 631 words



Clear breach of civil liberties THE IRA signalled its increasing commitment to
the Ulster peace process last night.

It hinted that an investigation will be launched to reveal the location of the
'disappeared' killed during the Northern Ireland troubles.

The Provos finally acknowledged that a small number of people - possibly
including members of the British security forces - were murdered and secretly
buried in the early Seventies.

A special unit 'under the command of one of our most senior officers' had been
established to try to locate the bodies and alleviate the 'incalculable pain and
anguish' of victims' families, a spokesman told Republican News.

Changes in leadership and the death of some members had made the task of finding
the bodies extremely difficult, he said.

The republican leadership also called for the disbandment 'sooner rather than
later' of the Real IRA - the breakaway group responsible for the Omagh bombing
which has been operating under the name Oglaigh na hEireann, the official title
of the Provisional IRA.

There were also signs that Sinn Fein/IRA is ready to appoint a representative to
sit on the international body responsible for decommissioning paramilitary
weapons.

The initiatives came as Tony Blair faced the threat of a revolt by backbenchers
opposed to the tough antiterrorist laws being rushed through Parliament
following the Omagh bombing.

Labour Left-wingers say they are prepared to vote against the proposed
legislation during this week's emergency Commons sitting unless fresh
concessions are offered.

Senior Tories have also signalled their fury at the way the Prime Minister is
racing ahead with the introduction of new powers without giving MPs adequate
time to study the details.

Under the terms of the Criminal Evidence and Conspiracy Bill, members of banned
paramilitary groups will be liable to up to ten years' jail merely on evidence
submitted under oath by a senior police officer.

To stop Britain being used as a safe haven by international terror groups
including the supporters of Islamic fanatic Osama bin Laden - the legislation
will also make it an offence to conspire to commit terrorist attacks outside the
UK.

With Mr Blair writing to all Labour MPs explaining the move last night, Downing
Street insisted a vast majority would support the speedy passage of the Bill.

In an attempt to defuse Labour criticism, Northern Ireland Secretary Mo Mowlam
has promised the laws will have to be voted on once a year.

Labour backbencher Kevin McNamara said the measure should expire altogether
after 12 months.

Warning that he is considering voting against the Bill because of its 'clear
breach of civil liberties', the former Northern Ireland spokesman also expressed
anger that the legislation will not be published until Wednesday, the day the
Commons is being asked to rush it through.

'It's asking us to make a snap judgment without any proper consideration at
all,' Mr McNamara said.

Senior peers have signalled their concern that the Bill is being hurried
through, while Dr Ghayasuddin Siddiqui, leader of the Moslem Parliament of Great
Britain, wrote to Mr Blair last night attacking that part of the proposals aimed
at countering bin Laden's supporters.

He told the Prime Minister that he would 'seriously be jeopardising relations
with the Moslem community that helped install your party into office'.

Evidence is growing that Brighton bomber Patrick Magee will be among the first
terrorist prisoners freed early under the Ulster peace deal.

Officials have not ruled out the possibility that Magee - and Milltown Cemetery
killer Michael Stone - will be included in 200 jailed paramilitaries expected to
be freed by the end of October.


LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1998 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              472 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                August 31, 1998

Blair warned of confrontation with British Muslims

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 444 words


Tony Blair was warned that he could be heading for a confrontation with
Britain's Muslims if he pressed ahead with moves to hit foreign terrorists
operating in the UK.

MPs return to Westminster on Wednesday to bring in new anti-terrorism laws in
the wake of the Omagh bombing in Northern Ireland.

However the Bill is also expected to include a provision creating a new offence
of conspiring from within the UK to commit a terrorist offence abroad.

The move follows fears from some countries that London is used as the base for
foreign terrorists plotting attacks in other countries.

The leader of the Muslim Parliament of Great Britain voiced his grave concern at
legislation "aimed at Muslim dissidents on asylum in this country and the
British Muslim community at large".

Dr Ghayasuddin Siddiqui, in a letter to the Prime Minister, condemned the
proposals as "a knee-jerk reaction to the comments made by one Muslim
dissident".

He warned Mr Blair that he would "seriously be jeopardising relations with the
Muslim community that helped install your party into office.

"Confrontations and civil disobedience may well become inevitable. What would
your Government do if Britain's 1000 mosques decide to challenge collectively
the law on a particular day by raising funds against oppression in Kashmir?"

Dr Siddiqui asked if it would become an offence to support Muslims in Kashmir
and other lands where Muslims were struggling against states that were not
complying with United Nations' resolutions.

"If this is so, then the Bill that your Government is proposing would be an
attack on Jihad - struggle against oppression and injustice, which is a
fundamental tenet of the Muslim faith."

Dr Siddiqui claimed that the British Government did not have, and had never had,
any evidence that British Muslims had financed or supported any act of terrorism
abroad.

He warned that, given the powers being granted to senior police officers and the
security services, so-called "evidence" would no doubt be found against
individuals and organisations who were genuinely struggling for the rights of
Muslims abroad.

"This witch-hunt will also be extended to Muslim charities and organisations,"
said Dr Siddiqui.

He added that the fact the new provisions were being proposed without
consultation with the Muslim community "raises serious doubts as to the Labour
government's attitude towards Britain's three million Muslims".

Dr Siddiqui urged the Prime Minister to consider withdrawing the particular
sections in the anti-terrorist legislation or delay them until Mr Blair had
"properly consulted" the Muslim community.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1998 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              473 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                           September 1, 1998, Tuesday

MAGINNIS FURY AT LABOUR MP;
 MCNAMARA LAUNCHES ATTACK ON NEW ANTI-TERROR LAWS

BYLINE: Mervyn Pauley

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 712 words


ULSTER Unionist Party security spokesman Ken Maginnis yesterday rounded on a
senior Labour backbencher over his criticisms on the proposed new anti
-terrorist laws to be pushed through the Commons tomorrow.

Mr Maginnis, MP for Fermanagh-South Tyrone, has dismissed a savaging of the
proposals by former shadow spokesman on Northern Ireland, Kevin McNamara's, who,
he said, had never been very helpful to people in Northern Ireland: "He lives in
a sort of limbo world; his Irish republican sympathies are well-known," he said.

Mr Maginnis confided, however, that he had misgivings of his own about the new
legislation. "What I fear about it is that it will be inadequate and
ineffective," he said.

"Although we have to be thankful for what we have got, some very practical steps
could be taken, like wiretap evidence being included. That's much better than
the word of a senior police officer being contested."

And he suggested there would be popular backing for tough action against the
dissident terrorist groups, including the reintroduction of internment.

He believed if it came to a choice between having "a succession of Omaghs" or
the internment of a small group of well-known terrorists, the people would
accept internment. But he criticised the Labour government for removing the
power from the statute book.

At the weekend Mr McNamara questioned giving extra powers to the RUC to make it
easier to convict terrorist suspects. Any misuse of the power, he warned, could
end up generating sympathy for terrorism.

His misgivings will help to fuel a revolt by Labour left-wingers, who are
warning they could vote against the measures - part of the London- Dublin
fight-back against renegade terrorists in the wake of the Omagh bombing, the
work of the self-styled Real IRA.

Mr McNamara is tabling an amendment protesting at the lack of time being allowed
for the legislation when MPs return for the special session. The Lords debates
the package on Thursday.

One of several Labour MPs worried about its implications, he warned:
"Legislation which has gone through in a rush very often has created worse
problems than it was hoped to solve.

"We have had a succession of tough laws and tough laws and tough laws and the
horror has increased and increased and increased."

The Hull North MP said he was particularly concerned that the legislation would
deny suspects the right of silence and he suggested it could leave Britain in
breach of the European Convention on Human Rights.

"I don't believe that's the right way of dealing with this particular matter,
but I believe there are more important questions of principle involved," he
argued.

"If we are going to try to prevent the horrors we had in Omagh, and in Cape
Town, and Kenya and Tanzania, there are better ways of dealing with it than
rushing through legislation of this nature."

Downing Street insisted yesterday that a letter from Tony Blair to all Labour
backbenchers ahead of the recall was not a bid to quell rebellion.

It was a matter of courtesy to explain to the MPs why the Prime Minister was
interrupting their summer break.

No 10 has confirmed that the new anti-terror laws will be reviewed every 12
months.

Labour MP Tony McWalter, a member of the Northern Ireland Select Committee,
insisted the legislation was necessary and would be supported at Westminster.

"If we see a carefully drafted, targeted attack on the people who continue to
violate the democratic rule of the people of Ireland, and they are very small in
number, then the House of Commons will have no difficulty approving it," he
said.

Alan Beith, the Liberal Democrats' home affairs spokesman, said his party
believed that urgent legislation was needed to deal with dangerous republican
splinter groups.

MPs will see a draft of the Bill this afternoon, while the Bill itself will be
published tomorrow morning, the Home Office indicated.

"We want to give MPs an early opportunity to see what it says," a spokesman
said.

Although there has been criticism from MPs that they have not had the chance to
see the Bill's provisions earlier, the spokesman said the department was simply
clarifying publication arrangements, and that its plans had not been altered.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: KEN MAGINNIS;; KEVIN McNAMARA

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1998 Century Newspapers Limited

                              474 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                               September 1, 1998

Homing in on terror;
Paramilitaries could have houses seized under Blair's new security crackdown

BYLINE: Andrew Sparrow

SECTION: Pg. 21

LENGTH: 521 words


TERRORISTS could lose their homes as well as their liberty under the emergency
security crackdown triggered by the Omagh atrocity.

The plans published in full today include an extra sanction to allow courts to
confiscate any assets used for terrorist activity, such as houses or cars - as
already applies to convicted drug smugglers.

The Conspiracy and Criminal Evidence Bill should be on the statute book by the
end of the week following the recall of Parliament tomorrow for a special
two-day sitting.

It will ensure that terrorists who refuse to answer relevant questions can be
convicted - on the word of a senior police officer - of belonging to an illegal
paramilitary organisation.

Ministers hope that this will ensure that the Republican hardliners can be taken
of the streets even if they cannot be convicted of any attack.

The Bill is aimed at members of four splinter groups who have not signed up the
Ulster peace agreement - the Real IRA which was behind the Omagh bomb, the
Continuity IRA, the Irish National Liberation Army and the Loyalist Volunteer
Force.

Mr Blair has sought to reassure Left-wingers who fear the crackdown is too
Draconian that the measures will only be used selectively.

In a letter to Labour MPs, he wrote: 'These measures will be carefully targeted
against a small group of extremists who refuse to accept a peaceful way forward
and have no political support from any quarter.' With the Government sensitive
to charges that it is rushing the legislation through too quickly, Commons
Leader Margaret Beckett, will today chair a meeting of Ministers about the way
the special sitting will be handled. The Bill, which has only about 12 clauses,
will also be published in draft form today so that MPs can read it before voting
tomorrow. It will go to the Lords on Thursday.

Yesterday, Labour's former Northern Ireland spokesman Kevin McNamara stepped up
his attack on Mr Blair's plans.

'Legislation which has gone through in a rush very often has created worse
problems than it was hoped to solve,' said the Hull North MP.

'We have had a succession of tough laws and tough laws and tough laws and the
horror has increased and increased and increased.' He voiced fears that the
crackdown could end up generating sympathy for terrorists if the police misused
their new powers.

Mr McNamara said he was particularly concerned that the legislation would deny
suspects the right to silence and suggested it could leave Britain in breach of
the European Convention on Human Rights.

But his concerns were dismissed by the Ulster Unionist's security spokesman Ken
Maginnis, who claimed that Mr McNamara 'has never been very helpful to people in
Northern Ireland'.

In another development, the IRA yesterday demanded the disbandment of the Real
IRA, saying the Omagh attack had 'undoubtedly' damaged the Republican struggle
for Irish independence.

'They should disband and they should do so sooner rather than later,' an IRA
spokesman said in an interview with Republican News, the mouthpiece of the
Republican movement.

Comment - Page EIGHT


LOAD-DATE: September 2, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: DEVASTATION: THE OMAGH BOMBING THAT LED TO THE SECURITY CRACKDOWN

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1998 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              475 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 1, 1998

Terror trial protests cast shadow over UK proposals

BYLINE: PAUL WEBSTER IN PARIS

SECTION: The Guardian Foreign Page; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 454 words


THE trial of 138 men and women accused of associating with Algerian terrorists
will open today with defence lawyers protesting against legislation that allows
suspects to be held in custody indefinitely on the word of an examining
magistrate.

French human rights organisations have informed their British and Irish
counterparts of their opposition to a procedure similar to that proposed by the
British Government, which wants to allow judges to intern suspected terrorists
on the word of senior police officers.

In the French case, many of those going on trial today in a converted gymnasium
adjoining a prison in suburban Fleury-Merogis, to the south of Paris, were
arrested under a general accusation of associating with criminals. None of the
defendants is charged with terrorist acts.

Some of the accused have been in custody for four years during which no evidence
for their detention has been made public. Among them is the alleged leader of a
logistical team, Mohammed Chalabi, who is charged with raising money and arms
for anti-government forces in Algeria. His fellow accused include Mohammed
Kerrouche, who was extradited from Britain in December last year to face charges
of overseeing a European-wide terrorist logistical network.

The trial - expected to last two months - stems from a series of police sweeps
in which hundreds of people were arrested across the country as the French
authorities sought to break links between expatriate Algerians and anti
-government groups such as the Islamic Salvation Front (FIS), and the hard line
Armed Islamic Group (GIA).

Most have been released but many have spent months in jail without trial after
being denounced as terrorists by the head of France's anti-terrorist service,
Jean-Louis Bruguiere, after his investigators alleged that they belonged to one
of three anti-government networks.

Mr Chalabi's defence counsel, Isabelle Coutant Peyre, said no proof had been
given of her client's connection with fundamentalist groups, adding that the
only established link between the 138 accused was the Muslim religion.

Ms Coutant Peyre said the trial arose from a political decision to help the
Algerian regime after it cancelled general elections in January 1992 which it
appeared to be losing to Islamic movements. Mass arrests in France started two
years before a wave of terrorist attacks in Paris and Lyon between July 1995 and
January 1996.

A protest against the mass hearing has been signed by 42 defence lawyers who say
the trial is political and the rights of individual defence have been
restricted. Lawyers are faced with 30,000 pages of evidence while 300 gendarmes
have been mobilised to protect the temporary court.


LOAD-DATE: September 2, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              476 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               September 1, 1998

Terror Bill plan to seize homes;Draft to be issued today

BYLINE: Catherine Macleod Chief Political Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 673 words


The new anti-terrorism laws will allow the authorities to seize the property of
members in four proscribed terrorist organisations when they reach the statute
book next week.

The "property clause," which is already law in the Irish Republic, could be
applied to anyone in the Real IRA, the Continuity IRA, INLA and the LVF and in
practice will apply to hard-core members who may, for example, have used their
houses to plan terrorist attacks.

The Government will publish a draft of the Bill today, before the final Bill is
published tomorrow.  Senior MPs have complained about voting on legislation
without having the time to give it proper consideration, but a Home Office
spokesman said they had not altered their plans, and were merely clarifying
their publication arrangements.

MPs will now have 24 hours to scrutinise the 12 clause Bill before they meet in
special session tomorrow to put it on the statute book.

The Commons' legislation committee, chaired by Mrs Margaret Beckett, the Leader
of the House, will scrutinise the draft Bill this morning before it is
published, but that is expected to be a formality since most of the committee
members have been closely involved in drawing up the legislation.

Last night, Mr David Trimble, the First Minister in the Northern Ireland
Assembly and the leader of the Ulster Unionists, would not comment on the
"property clause". He said he would need time to consider it.

Its inclusion will satisfy anti-terrorist groups and grassroot sentiment in the
wake of the Omagh bombing. Many Omagh residents called for the seizure of any
property used by terrorists.

Dr Mo Mowlam, the Northern Ireland Secretary, will claim the law is another
device "to increase the isolation of a small number of individuals in groups on
either side of the border who are still engaged in violence".

The Government's plans are not without their critics. The former Shadow Northern
Ireland Minister Kevin McNamara has warned that the haste with which the
legislation is being rushed through could harm the peace process.

Speaking on the BBC's Today programme, he said: "If we are going to try to
prevent the horrors we had in Omagh, and in Cape Town, and Kenya and Tanzania,
there are better ways of dealing with it than rushing through legislation of
this nature."

Mr McNamara, who does not approve of the Government's legislation, has also
voiced concern that it could be in contravention of the European Convention of
Human Rights, but this was dismissed by Government sources.

The Prime Minister, who is personally committed to introducing "draconian
measures" to combat terrorist activity, has written to all Labour back benchers
ahead of the recall of Parliament.

A Downing Street spokesman denied it was in any way a bid to quell rebellion and
said it was simply a matter of courtesy to explain to the MPs why the Prime
Minister was interrupting their summer break.

Civil rights groups have complained about the new law in the Bill which will
give the courts the right to convict members of the four proscribed groups on
the evidence of a single police superintendent, but last night a Downing Street
spokesman said that there could only be a conviction on the say so of a police
superintendent if it was coupled with the silence from the accused person.

Courts on both sides of the border will be able to draw inferences from any
refusal by an accused to answer questions that may be relevant to the matter.

The Liberal Democrats' Home affairs spokesman Alan Beith welcomed the
Government's commitment to review the legislation on an annual basis, but voiced
some concern about the measures targeting foreign nationals based in Britain who
are suspected of plotting against other governments.

He said: "Liberal Democrats are concerned that the Home Office may be tacking on
to the Bill too many other measures relating to international terrorism which
cannot get adequate scrutiny in two days, and we will be probing these aspects
of the Bill."

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Presidential welcome: Ballybunion, County Kerry, where Bill Clinton is
expected to play golf next week, is already prepared for his visit.  Picture:
DON MacMONAGLE/AP

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1998 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              477 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                           September 1, 1998, Tuesday

Bombers will have their homes seized

BYLINE: Nicholas Watt

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 645 words


Nicholas Watt on emergency laws that will give police new powers to take
terrorists' financial assets

POLICE on both sides of the Irish border will be given powers to seize the
financial assets of terrorists outside the peace process under emergency
legislation being rushed through the British and Irish Parliaments this week.

The crackdown could lead to the seizure of the homes of the Omagh bombers. The
IRA and Ulster's two main loyalist terrorist groups will be excluded because
their political wings signed up to the Good Friday Agreement.

Four dissident terrorist groups opposed to the agreement will be listed. Members
of the Real IRA, the Continuity IRA, the Irish National Liberation Army and the
Loyalist Volunteer Force could be jailed for up to ten years for membership of a
terrorist organisation on the word of a senior police officer.

The measures to seize financial assets, which are to be included in the
anti-terrorist Bill that will be rushed through Parliament tomorrow and
Thursday, are designed to close a loophole that gives police the power to seize
the assets of drug dealers but not of terrorists.

Downing Street moved yes terday to head off a backbench revolt from Labour MPs
who are concerned that rushing through legislation is a knee-jerk reaction which
could create republican martyrs. Tony Blair wrote to every Labour MP explaining
that the measures were carefully designed to crack down on dissident terrorists
who want to wreck the peavce process.

The Prime Minister said: "The bombing was the work of an extremist republican
group opposed to the peace process and trying to destroy the Good Friday
Agreement. These measures will be carefuly targeted against the small group of
extremists who refuse to accept a peaceful way forward and have no political
support. We have not taken these steps lightly. They are tough measures and
their purpose is clear."

Downing Street also addressed the concerns of backbenchers who have criticised
the proposal to convict terrorists on the word of a senior police officer. A
spokesman made clear that terrorist suspects could not be convicted solely on
the word of a police officer.

Judges in Northern Ireland's non-jury Diplock courts will consider other
evidence, such as drawing inference from the refusal of suspects to co-operate
and answer questions.

In another concession, Downing Street also announced a change to the section of
the Bill which is designed to crack down on terrorists, mainly from the Middle
East, who use Britain as a base to plot attacks abroad. Under the Bill, a
conspiracy to commit a terrorist crime abroad will be triable in Britain and
anyone who plotted to kill and succeeded would be jailed for life.

Downing Street said last night that as a "safeguard" the Attorney General would
have to approve such prosecutions. But Kevin McNamara, the party's former
Northern Ireland spokesman, said he would table a "reasoned amendment"
protesting at the lack of time being allowed for the legislation. The MP for
Hull North said: "Legislation which has gone through in a rush very often has
created worse problems than it was hoped to solve. We have had a succession of
tough laws and the horror has increased."

Another senior Labour backbencher who is loyal to the leadership also expressed
concern. Bruce George, who is chairman of the Commons defence select committee,
said he supported the legislation but was anxious that it should be properly
scrutinised.

The MP for Walsall South told Radio 4's Today programme: "Legislation that is
introduced rather swiftly and drafted fairly swiftly does have the seeds of its
own problems. While I support the legislation, I'm really hopeful that my
colleagues in the Commons and in the Lords will do a very good job in the short
time available and will try to put it in shape."


LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1998 Times Newspapers Limited

                              478 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                          September 2, 1998, Wednesday

ADAMS IN WAR OF WORDS

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 535 words


As they make their way back from foreshortened holidays to their respective
Parliaments today, the politicians of Britain and Ireland will be weighing very
carefully last night's statement from Mr Gerry Adams.

He deserves their close attention. He took immense care, after all, to choose
his words with precision.

"The violence we have seen must be for all of us now a thing of the past. Over,
done with and gone."

Crafted as it was, on the eve of a reinforced, pan-Irish pledge of determination
to confront any continuing threat of terrorism, and 48 hours before the visit of
President Clinton, it is a statement which appears to be timely and momentous.

Perhaps it will, indeed, prove to usher the peace process into a new phase,
later this week.

But of course, there are more straightforward words which Mr Adams could have
chosen. He could have said this: "On behalf of the Provisional IRA, I declare
that the war is over and will not be resumed."

Presumably, Mr Adams was advised that his statement of reconciliation and peace
could be made up to a point, but no further.

How are we to judge it, then, especially in the light of the remarkably swift
and enthusiastic endorsement from Downing Street that it should be treated as
"significant and welcome"?

The words of Mr Adams ought to be viewed, first of all, in the light of the
democratic decisions which will have to be taken today, as a consequence of the
hideous shattering of the peace at Omagh by those who, renegades though they
might be, share his o wn long-term Republican aspirations.

A short time ago they might have been said to be comrades-in-arms, and not
merely in a figurative sense.

Mr Adams vows that he condemns their action without equivocation; but equivocate
he will, when pressed to commit his organisation completely to the important,
underlying principles of peace.

It is barely a week, for example, since Sinn Fein made clear their opposition to
the draconian anti-terrorist laws which the Dail and Westminster politicians
will have little choice but to vote on to the statute books today.

And before that, even in the immediate aftermath of the outrage at Omagh,
neither Mr Adams nor his cohort Mr Martin McGuinness would acknowledge their
duty - incumbent upon them as human beings, you might think, let alone ambitious
politicians - to pass on to the security services any information they possessed
about the breakaway gang known as the Real IRA.

It was not within the Republican tradition, Mr McGuinness had the affrontery to
state, to act as informer.

Added to these instances is the continuing equivocation which now hampers the
peace process - the refusal of Sinn Fein/IRA to sign up to the Good Friday
accord and then to begin to decommission terrorist weapons.

It is entirely possible that the politicians of Ulster are now preparing to take
a considerable step forward.

The arrival of President Clinton, and the re-emphasis of pressure from
Washington, might prove to be the catalyst which brings about a meeting, at
last, between Sinn Fein and Mr David Trimble's Unionists.

At that point, Ulster deserves words from Mr Adams which are indeed unequivocal.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1998 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              479 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 2, 1998

Chaos as France tries 138 Islamic terror suspects;
Paul Webster reports from Paris on a case with implications for planned changes
in British law

SECTION: The Guardian Foreign Page; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 787 words


THE trial in Paris of 138 men and women for alleged links with Algerian Islamic
terrorism began in chaos yesterday when several defendants and their lawyers
staged a walk-out.

None of the accused is specifically charged with the 1995 bombings in Lyon and
Paris which left 11 dead, although the prosecution claimed that their arrest had
thwarted attacks in France.

Jean-Jacques de Felice, one of the 60 or so defence lawyers, denounced the trial
as a "masquerade" and an "injustice".

The defence lawyers claimed that the hearing, which is being held in a specially
converted gymnasium attached to Fleury-Merogis high-security prison south of the
city, was a "political trial".

Many of the accused failed to turn up yesterday and of those that did, many did
not have a lawyer.

The large number of defendants, confined behind bullet-proof glass, caused
chaos. A roll-call of the accused lasted three hours.

The defence lawyers said the catch-all accusation of criminal association with a
terrorist movement was unfair to dozens of defendants who had done nothing more
than lodge Algerian relatives and friends or help with their travel
arrangements.

A attempt to have the trial delayed was opposed by the prosecutor.

France's handling of the case, in which 27 of the accused have been in custody
for up to four years, will be reported to British human rights organisations by
their French counterparts as Tony Blair's government prepares to clamp down on
expatriate freedom movements.

The defence says that laws similar to those being discussed in Britain enabled
the French anti-terrorist squad to break up a legitimate opposition movement
fighting a dictatorship and that there was no evidence of plans to attack French
interests.

The prosecution's case is largely restricted to an accusation that the 138
belonged to "a vast network of logistical support for armed Islamic groups with
its headquarters in the Paris region".

They were arrested following surveillance of a Muslim educational association,
Amef, whose Koranic school in Paris was said to be an arms depot and a fund
-raising unit.

Among those held in a raid in November 1994 was Mohamed Chalabi, now 43, who
police say has a record of violence and drug dealing. In 1991 he joined the
Islamic Salvation Front after a stay in Algeria.

He is alleged to have provided hideouts for Algerian terrorists, but the
prosecution has been unable to link him to the discovery of an arms cache.

The defence will argue that the publicity given to the arrest of Mr Chalabi and
another raid in 1995 was intended to show that the then Gaullist-led government
supported Algeria's repressive regime.

Police claimed to have found active members of the Armed Islamic Group, which is
accused of a long campaign of atrocities in Algeria. A raid on a flat

in Paris led to the arrest of a team forging official documents.

Some of the accused are alleged to have had guerrilla training in Afghanistan,
while others are said to have fought alongside Muslims in Bosnia.

Road to court

How the uneasy relationship between France, the Algerian government and its
opponents has unfolded since the Algiers regime cancelled the December 1991
general elections because Islamic movements were winning.

February 1992 Nationalised and private French banks raise $ 1.5 billion to help
the Algerian military regime.

July 1993 France's Gaullist foreign minister, Alain Juppe, formally promises
Algeria help in combating "extremism and terrorism".

Summer 1993 France delivers anti-terrorist equipment to the Algerian security
forces.

October 1993 Three French diplomats kidnapped in Algeria and released eight days
later. Defence lawyers in current Paris trial allege intimidation by Algeria's
security forces to force France to arrest expatriate opponents.

November 1994 Round up of 110 alleged extremists, including Mohamed Chalabi, who
has been in custody ever since. Only five are detained.

June 1995 Arrest of 170 men and women for alleged logistical links with Algerian
terrorism. About 30 are released after months in jail.

July 1995 Imam Sahraoui, aged 85, a founder of the Islamic Salvation Front, is
murdered in Paris. Defence lawyers say the killers were Algerian government
agents.

July 1995 A bomb in a Metro train kills seven and injures 83 at Saint-Michel
station. Four people are killed and scores are injured in other attacks in
public places, including the Arc de Triomphe and the Port Royal Metro in the
next few months.

December 1997 Britain deports Mohamed Kerrouche, alias Salim, whose alleged
organisation of a European logistical network will be key evidence in the
current trial.


LOAD-DATE: September 2, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              480 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          September 2, 1998, Wednesday

Terror Bill re-drafted in concession to backbenchers

BYLINE: ANDREW GRICE Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Page 2

LENGTH: 515 words


TONY BLAIR last night offered further concessions to Labour critics of his
emergency anti-terrorist laws, in the hope of limiting a backbench rebellion
when MPs approve the measures tonight.

The Government insisted that a suspected terrorist could not be convicted on the
basis of uncorroborated evidence from a police officer, as its critics have
claimed, and promised that the courts would also require other evidence.

The Criminal Justice (Terrorism and Conspiracy) Bill, which is being rushed
through Parliament in two days during its three-month summer break following the
Omagh bombing, was hastily redrafted yesterday in an attempt to allay the fears
of rebel MPs.

Although only a small number of Labour MPs are expected to oppose the bill or
abstain, ministers are bracing themselves for strong criticism that the
legislation is being approved without a proper debate.

"It is just treating Parliament as a rubber-stamp," Tony Benn, the former
cabinet minister, said last night. "Its like the Supreme Soviet. But even Boris
Yeltsin has to face the Duma, so perhaps there should be some fire here."

Labour rebels remain concerned that the courts would be heavily influenced by
evidence from a police officer that a terrorist suspect was a member of a banned
group, such as the Real IRA, which could not be corroborated because it was from
intelligence sources.

Robin Corbett, (Lab., Birmingham, Erdington) warned the Government might be
repeating the mistakes made after the 1974 Birmingham pub bombings, which led to
a rushed Prevention of Terrorism Act.

But Jack Straw, the Home Secretary, insisted that the ''tough but necessary"
bill would safeguard the rights of the accused. He said the burden of proof
would remain with the prosecution, which would have to prove terrorist activity
"beyond all reasonable doubt".

He said that no inference could be drawn from a suspect remaining silent until
he had first had the opportunity to consult a solicitor.

The Liberal Democrats announced last night they would support the Government,
after winning concessions in talks over unsupported evidence and a promise that
the law would be reviewed annually.

William Hague's Shadow Cabinet decided last night to support the bill but will
seek to table two amendments.

One would ensure a full review of how the new law is operating within 12 months.
The other would allow evidence from a police officer to send back to prison a
terrorist released from jail under the Good Friday agreement. The Sentence
Review Commission is considering 429 applications for early release and
ministers promised yesterday that victims of the violence of Ulster and their
families would be kept informed about the release of those who inflicted their
suffering. Muslim organisations criticised the provisions in the bill to crack
down on groups in Britain which conspire to carry out terrorist activities
abroad.

Some Labour MPs share their concerns, arguing that the measure could hamper the
work of opponents of Saddam Hussein or Colonel Gadaffi.


LOAD-DATE: September 02, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1998 Independent Print Ltd

                              481 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                               September 3, 1998

Protest at rush over new law

SECTION: Politics: National, Pg.9

LENGTH: 338 words


SIX North MPs joined angry Commons protests last night over the way the
Government is rushing through its new anti-terror law.

Two Labour members defied Government whips to vote against a timetable motion
giving MPs just six hours to consider details of the crackdown.

Dundee East MP John McAllion and Falkirk West MP Dennis Canavan joined SNP
leader Alex Salmond, MP for Banff and Buchan, Tayside North SNP MP John Swinney,
Gordon Liberal Democrat Malcolm Bruce and Ross, Skye and Inverness West Liberal
Democrat MP Charles Kennedy to oppose the rush.

The bill will allow courts to jail people accused by senior police officers of
being members of banned terror groups - if the charge is "corroborated" by their
refusal to deny it.

But it also makes it a criminal offence for terrorist groups to conspire in
Britain to commit attacks abroad.

Mr McAllion said afterwards: "It was a protest. I do not think sufficient time
has been given to consider such important legislation.

"The first time the bill was available to me was 9.30 in the morning - and then
only in draft form.

"I think if you are changing the law and denying people important civil
liberties, you should take that decision with proper caution."

He also attacked the clauses against international terrorism, insisting there
was no evidence of a need to rush in these provisions now instead of later this
year.

Mr McAllion claimed the provisions could mean British police could arrest groups
in this country plotting to overthrow Saddam Hussein.

Mr Bruce, whose party opposed the guillotine, attacked the Government for adding
provisions against conspiracy to commit offences abroad.

He said: "We are happy to support in principle a bill designed to take out the
people who perpetrated atrocities like Omagh."

Aberdeen North Labour MP Anne Begg said she supported the Government "because
there is a feeling that there has to be a response to Omagh and the fact that a
similar measure is going through the Irish Parliament at the same time".

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                   Copyright 1998 Aberdeen Press and Journal

                              482 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 3, 1998

Leading Article: Liberty eroded;
A rushed, flawed law

SECTION: The Guardian Features Page; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 639 words


IN the aftermath of the Omagh bombing, Mo Mowlam insisted that her government
was not in the business of using "a sledgehammer to crack a nut". At the time,
the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland was discussing the merits of
internment as a solution to the problem of the so-called Real IRA. And yet the
last 24 hours have seen the Government rush through Parliament a bill that is
nothing if not a mighty, oversized sledgehammer - one that is hardly certain to
crack the nut of dissident republicanism, but which is bound to take a large
chunk out of our fundamental civil liberties.

The Criminal Justice (Terrorism and Conspiracy) Bill comes in two key parts, the
first dealing with the threat of violence in Northern Ireland, the second with
foreign plotters hatching wicked schemes on UK soil. The former contains several
alarming erosions of liberty. It allows the word of a senior police officer to
count as evidence of a suspect's membership of a proscribed organisation. If the
officer is asked to substantiate his hunch, he can refuse, claiming that to
reveal intelligence matters would damage national security. He can hide behind
the dreaded Public Interest Immunity certificates, a tool of the state routinely
abused for political ends. A suspect has lost further rights: he cannot remain
silent to avoid self -incrimination and nor can he have a solicitor by his side.
These are basic human rights, removed with barely a day's reflection by our
elected representatives.

Of course, the Government insists that such draconian measures are essential.
Tony Blair's sombre reminder of the havoc wrought in Omagh last month was
designed in part to hush all critics into submission, as if to object to the new
bill is to stand with the Real IRA. That is nonsense. We object to these
measures because they eat away at the very liberty and democracy terrorism seeks
to destroy. Moreover, there are strong grounds to believe that crackdowns of
this kind do not work. When they were tried before, chiefly in the 1970s, they
only served to create a political grievance - and constituency - for hardline
republicanism. The real response to terror is political, the kind of steady
peacemaking which leaves extremists isolated and irrelevant. These last two days
have seen proof of how a peace process - not the elmination of civil liberties -
brings results: Gerry Adams has declared violence "over, done with and gone" and
his deputy, Martin McGuinness, has said he will sit as Sinn Fein's
representative on the body supervising the decommissioning of weapons. This is
how the war against terror is won. In Britain of all places, with the precedents
of the Guildford Four and Birmingham Six still fresh, we should know where legal
corner-cutting leads.

The measures designed to foil terrorist plots overseas are just as dangerous.
Under the new law, an activist working against a vile regime abroad could be
arrested here, so long as the politicians have decided he is a terrorist - just
as Margaret Thatcher branded Nelson Mandela in the 1980s. The long line of
dissenters who have found a haven in London - from Garibaldi to the French
resistance - would find themselves in the sights of the Metropolitan Police.
Moreover, the Blair Government risks a diplomatic nightmare. In the past it
could refuse pressure from foreign dicatorships to pick up troublemakers
harbouring in Britain, claiming that our law simply did not cover their actions.
Now it will - so the Cabinet will have to decide which emigres are "terrorists"
and which are "freedom fighters", offending a long line of foreign governments
in the process. Watch as India demands Britain takes action against Kashmiris or
Tamils in the UK. This is a bad bill: it is rushed, flawed and should never have
been tabled - let alone passed into law.


LOAD-DATE: September 3, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              483 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          September 3, 1998, Thursday

Blair is right to join Dublin in an anti-terror crackdown; Ahern described the
legislation as 'draconian', but without it the violence will return

BYLINE: Peter Cunningham

SECTION: COMMENT; Page 4

LENGTH: 1093 words


IN THE days after the Omagh bomb, Tony Blair, in consultation with the Irish
government, decided on today's recall of Parliament in order to push through
sweeping anti-terrorist measures. Blair's critics have not been slow off the
mark. They accuse him of making a selective attack on terrorism, in this case
Irish, and for a misguided abandonment of reliance on existing domestic law,
which, they claim, is already adequate.  More, Blair is accused of fitting
Britain with a noose of emergency powers that will lead in jig time to a choking
of civil liberties. But with his eye unwaveringly on the Irish problem as it has
been since he came into power, Blair knows that by far the greater risk will be
to ignore the rare opportunity which has arisen as a result of the Omagh
atrocity.

These are times of rapid change in Ireland. In a political landscape notorious
for its dogged lack of change, the speed of the current transformation is awe
inspiring. The hope over long years by a committed few, sustained in the face of
odds beyond imagination, has finally found fertile opportunity in a confluence
of factors: an American President who has been persuaded to make peace in
Ireland a priority of his administration, and a British Prime Minister who,
uniquely, is both interested in solving the problem in Ireland once and for all,
and who has the political means to do so.

Once and for all. Or, "over, done with and gone". The words of resolute men and
women, they ring with the finality of the utterly determined.  Gerry Adams used
just this language two days ago in drawing a line under the violence of the
past, and whether or not his motivation sprang from expediency dictated by the
prospect of his meeting at last with David Trimble, the leader of the Ulster
Unionists and Northern Ireland's first minister, or from a wish to ingratiate
himself further with Bill Clinton who comes to Omagh today, or because Sinn Fein
thought such a statement might head off Britain's emergency legislation, or for
all or none of these reasons - the fact remains that he said it. Add that to
Sinn Fein's unique and unequivocal condemnation of Omagh, and the speed of
change in current Irish politics becomes apparent.

The problems of Northern Ireland are not solved, of course, but the dreadful
events in Omagh on the afternoon of 15 August may just have tipped the scales at
a crucial moment. On the following morning, I drove half the length of Ireland,
listening on the car radio to seasoned reporters speak in breaking voices of the
scenes of desolation all around them. I went that afternoon to Croke Park in
Dublin with 50,000 others to watch Waterford play Kilkenny in a hurling match.
We stood for a minute's silence before the game. Men and women wept. The silence
could have lasted 30 minutes and no one would have been the first to speak. This
was the Irish heartland come to Dublin - and it was shocked and shamed and
heartsick to a man.

But mood is ephemeral. Five years ago, in the wake of the Warrington bomb when,
in a British newspaper, I called for Ireland to confront the ghost in its psyche
and repeal those articles of its constitution repugnant to Unionists, going on a
popular Irish radio programme to defend my case, my voice was in a minority of
one. Callers to the programme were overwhelmingly opposed to my suggestion,
despite Warrington and the deaths of children.  Militant Irish republicanism is
deeply entrenchedand its followers are never on the back foot for long,

But they are a tiny minority. Moderate republicanism in Ireland is a proud and
honourable tradition, but where England is concerned, one which is rooted in
mistrust. What has there been in the canon of history between the two countries
which might persuade the Irish that England or its justice can be trusted? Not a
lot. The cases of the Guildford Four and the Birmingham Six were spectacular
failures in the responsibility which the justice system of one sovereign country
is obliged to extend to the citizens of another. Trust is slow to grow in such a
hinterland.

Bertie Ahern understands this. A canny political operator, already backed by a
massive 94% vote in last May's referendum which at last jettisoned Ireland's
constitutional claims over Northern Ireland, Ahern has now seized the new mood
of revulsion which has swept Ireland and has moved ruthlessly into territory
which before, due to the historical lack of trust, would never have allowed him
a safe passage. Ahern was the first to use the term "draconian" to describe the
new legislation, also being debated in Dublin this week in tandem with that at
Westminster. The Irish courts will be girded with new powers.  Terrorists from
now can be arrested on the word of a police officer of, or above, the rank of
superintendent and brought to trial on such a basis. The courts may order the
seizure of the assets of those so convicted, similar measures to those already
successfully introduced in Ireland to curtail drug smuggling. Omagh, designed by
the executioners of 28 people to destroy the Good Friday Agreement, has been a
tactical disaster for the terrorists. Far from shaking Ahern, the taoiseach's
hand has been strengthened even more.

But for Ahern to have attempted such legislation alone would have been a
nonsense. If terrorists could skip across the border to a safe haven in Northern
Ireland or in England, finding a sanctuary within the very body politic they are
sworn to destroy, then Ahern's new legislation would have been toothless. And
without Ahern's measures, when the mood of Omagh eventually ebbed, the men and
women, for whom no greater ideal exists than the blood sacrifice of 1916, would
rise up, or crawl out, again, and the cycle of violence would be resumed.

Like Blair, Ahern is a man for his time. The time is now and it is for a final
end to the misery. Over, done with and gone. The people of Ireland have spoken
and although only some of them are his people, Blair believes in the integrity
of the argument and is prepared to take risks for what he believes in.
Recalling parliaments and giving laws both sides of the border a sound footing
is another step in the new era of trust between the countries. Anything less
from Britain at this moment, and Ireland, a young country with a long memory,
will never reach the promised land that the overwhelming majority of her people
north and south wish for.

Peter Cunningham's new novel, 'Consequences of the Heart', will be published at
the end of this month by Harvill


LOAD-DATE: September 03, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1998 Independent Print Ltd

                              484 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                          September 3, 1998, Thursday

Major raises fears on 'haste' over terror laws

BYLINE: Nicholas Watt, Political Correspondent

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 1139 words


JOHN MAJOR last night voiced doubts about the Government's decision to rush
through the Northern Ireland anti-terrorism legislation and to tack on measures
to crack down on Middle East terrorists based in Britain.

The former Prime Minister pledged his support for the Criminal Justice
(Terrorism and Conspiracy) Bill, but warned that it "showed the signs of haste"
and might eventually prove to be defective.

The Bill is designed to toughen anti-terrorist measures by making it easier for
a court to convict a suspected terrorists of membership of one of four groups
opposed to the peace process. The evidence of a senior police officer would be
admissible as evidence and courts would be able to draw inference from the
refusal of suspects to answer questions.

The Bill would also crack down on terrorists, mainly from the Middle East, who
use Britain as a base. A conspiracy to commit a terrorist crime abroad could be
tried in Britain.

During the Second Reading of the Bill, Mr Major said: "We are being asked to
endorse a policy the Government has speedily brought together. It is almost
bound to have loopholes. It would be a miracle if it did not have loopholes."

The haste was understand able because of the atrocity at Omagh. "However worthy
the motives of the Government we do have a duty to ensure workable, practical
and credible legislation going through this House," he added.

Mr Major said the provision in the Bill targeting groups which plot overseas
attacks was "a very difficult and complex area to define". He added: "The
objective is laudable and I thoroughly support the objective. But the definition
of these groups is very tricky. We should legislate here with very great care.
It would have been better if we had done so with more time for consultation and
consideration because we would, I believe, have produced more effective
legislation."

Mr Major's intervention came after MPs from every political party rebelled
against the Government's handling of the Bill. At the end of a debate on the
time-tabling of it, 88 MPs voted against the Government, with 317 MPs in favour,
a Government majority of 229.

Those voting against included 16 Labour MPs, 39 Tories, including the former
Prime Minister Sir Edward Heath , 19 Liberal Democrats.

Richard Shepherd , the Conservative MP for Aldridge-Brownhills, said that
Parliamentary procedures had been corrupted by the Government's decision to rush
through the legislation. Speaking during the debate on the business motion, Mr
Shepherd said: "This is no way for the House to do its business. The Government
is acting manipulatively. We have been knee-jerked here. We have to have pride
in our processes because in our processes we defend our liberties in the face of
these terrorists."

Tony Benn , the Labour MP for Chesterfield, said that by publishing the Bill in
draft form on Tuesday night the Government had given MPs no time to consult
their constituents and outside experts. He said: "We are being used to
rubber-stamp what the Government has decided to do. What a way to treat
Parliament, as if we're the Supreme Soviet just summoned to carry out the
instructions of the Central Committee."

Donald Anderson , the Labour MP for Swansea East who is chairman of the Foreign
Affairs Select Committee, called for the clauses dealing with conspiracy to
commit offences abroad to be deleted. He said: "I accept the symbolism that the
Dail (Irish Parliament) and our own Parliament march together in respect of
terrorism. I am less happy to accept the symbolism that we have to rush our
proceedings through because of the visit of the President of the US to Ireland."

Margaret Beckett , the Leader of the House, insisted that the Government was not
dealing with the Bill in an unprecedented manner. Frontbenchers from the three
main parties had all signed the motion setting out the time-tabling arrangements
for the Bill, she said.

At this point Paul Tyler , the Liberal Democrat Chief Whip, interrupted Mrs
Beckett to say that he had decided to remove his name from the motion .

Jack Straw , the Home Secretary, said the "tough but proportionate" Bill was
intended to respond to the carnage in Omagh and to the threat posed by
international terrorism. Opening the Second Reading of the Bill, Mr Straw said:
"The peace process is moving forward with the overwhelming support of both
communities in the North and of the people of the Republic. But small splinter
groups have shown them selves ready to resort to appalling and indiscriminate
destruction in a desperate effort to throw that process off course."

The Home Secretary added that the "devastating" bombings of the United States
embassies in Kenya and Tanzania and the bombing of the Planet Hollywood
restaurant in Cape Town were further reminders of the wider threat. Mr Straw
said: "We have to send the clearest message to international terrorist groups
that we in the United Kingdom will not allow this country to be used as a basis
for plotting and supporting terrorist operations abroad."

He said that the United Kingdom had strong powers to combat terrorism, but added
that it was important to remedy practical deficiencies which come to light. He
told MPs that the Bill specifically attacks four terrorist groups - the Real
IRA, the Continuity IRA, the Irish National Liberation Army and the Loyalist
Volunteer Force - which either have no ceasefire or have declared ceasefires
which have not been tested.

The Bill would also give courts new powers to seize the assets of convicted
terrorists if they had been used for crime. Mr Straw said: "I believe this new
provision offers a valuable reinforcement: emphasising the gravity of the
offence and pulling away the practical props these groups need to support their
evil work." He reassured MPs that the judicial process remained "paramount".

Sir Norman Fowler , the Shadow Home Secretary, welcomed the legislation because
it was up to the House of Commons to ensure that the Omagh bombers did not
succeed. Sir Norman acknowledged that it was not the "ideal way of making law"
because Parliament had "precious little time" to subject it to proper scrutiny.

He criticised the Government's decision last year to remove the power of
internment without trial, particularly after the decision by the Irish
Government to maintain the power.

David Trimble , the Ulster Unionist leader and Northern Ireland's First Minister
Designate, welcomed the recall of Parliament because the Government had to
respond to the Omagh bombing in the same way as the Irish Government. However,
the MP for Upper Bann voiced fears that the legislation would not work because
similar measures in the Irish Republic in the 1970s became ineffective.

* Leading article, page 21

* Letters, page 21


LOAD-DATE: September 3, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1998 Times Newspapers Limited

                              485 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                          September 3, 1998, Thursday

New Bill will deal with 'evil men who seek to wreck peace'

BYLINE: Polly Newton, Political Reporter

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 657 words


NEW anti-terrorism laws put forward by the Government were "a proportionate and
targeted response" to the violence of the Omagh bombers, Tony Blair said
yesterday.

In a statement to the House of Commons, the Prime Minister said that the aim of
the legislation was to make it easier to prove membership of illegal
organisations such as the Real IRA. Speaking as Parliament began its two-day
emergency sitting, Mr Blair said that the Bill would deal with "small and evil
groups of violent men who seek to wreck the hopes for peace which the great
majority yearn for and have voted for".

He said the attack in Omagh was a deliberate attempt to wreck the Good Friday
peace agreement by a small group of extremists with no moral or political
support.

"The aim of the bombers was not just to kill innocent people but was to strike
at the heart of the peace process. The best response we can give is not
therefore to abandon the Good Friday agreement but to carry it forward
vigorously, to deny them the very objective they seek, and to continue to work
for a better future for Northern Ireland that puts the past behind it."

In a direct message to the bombers, Mr Blair said: "You sought to wreck the
agreement, and you failed. You sought to divide the community, and you failed.
You sought to win new support, and you failed. You failed because violence and
terror represent the past in Northern Ireland, and democracy and peace represent
the future."

He said that the Bill would also enact "long-held plans" to outlaw conspiracy
within the UK to commit offences in other countries. The recent "horrific" bomb
attacks on the American embassies in Kenya and Tanzania, and the explosion at a
restaurant in Cape Town, had proved that terrorism was an increasing threat
worldwide.

"Britain must play an active part in (the) international battle against
terrorism and avoid becoming any kind of haven for international terrorists and
their supporters," Mr Blair said.

The Conservative leader, William Hague, expressed his party's support for the
Bill, but warned: "We do inevitably worry about the effectiveness and the
operation of any legislation that is so hastily conceived and executed." He
called on the Government to publish a review of the effectiveness of the new
measures before they came back to Parliament to be renewed in a year's time.

Mr Hague said that it had been a mistake for the Government to give up its
reserve power of internment - a power still retained in the Irish Republic. Mr
Blair said that he had not ruled out the re-introduction of internment, but
believed that such a step could provoke a backlash in parts of the Northern
Ireland community.

He told Mr Hague: "I believe that ... as a result of having targeted this very
carefully, we have actually steered the right course, which is between a
knee-jerk reaction that introduces measures that aren't really thought through,
and measures that will give us practical help and assistance in trying to deal
with those people who are members of the relevant proscribed organisations."

Paddy Ashdown, the Liberal Democrat leader, said that his party would maintain
the 25-year-old tradition of cross-party unity on Ulster. "Perhaps out of the
horrors of Omagh, we are at last going to see a real and historic opportunity
for the people of Ireland to come together to build a peaceful future."

Chris Mullin, Labour MP for Sunderland South, called for measures requiring the
Royal Ulster Constabulary to tape-record interviews with suspects and ensuring
the presence of a solicitor during interviews. "If we get this wrong, we shall
end up creating a political base for a tiny isolated sect that at the moment has
no political base."

Mr Blair said that it would become a legal requirement to tape-record police
interviews and the European Convention on Human Rights stipulated that suspects
must have access to a solicitor.


LOAD-DATE: September 3, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1998 Times Newspapers Limited

                              486 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               September 4, 1998

New antiterrorism measures become law

BYLINE: David Shaw

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 199 words


EMERGENCY anti-terror measures became law in Britain and Ireland early today
when Tony Blair's "draconian" action finally cleared the Lords and Commons,
writes David Shaw.

As President Clinton arrived in Dublin to lend weight to the push for peace, the
baton now passes to the police to bring the remnants of hardline terrorism to
justice.

Just as a cross-party alliance of MPs had criticised the speed with which the
legislation was brought in so, too, did it come under fire in the Lords.

One peer expressed amazement that someone could find themselves con- victed on
the word of a policeman plus corroboration which could be as slim as relying on
a suspect's silence.

The Bill, described by Mr Blair as a "proportionate response to deal with small
and evil groups of violent

men" trying to wreck the Good Friday peace deal, nevertheless gained its Lords
second and third readings without a vote after an 11-hour emergency session.

Hours earlier the Republic's toughest yet attack on terrorism also passed into
law.

Liberal Democrat Lords spokesman Lord Holme said the Bill could have been
handled in "a more measured way" but he acknowledged it was needed.


LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1998 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              487 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 4, 1998

The Peace Process: Anti-terrorist bill has bruising passage;
Peers, like MPs, have voiced grave doubts. Michael White and Lucy Ward report

BYLINE: MICHAEL WHITE AND LUCY WARD

SECTION: The Guardian Home Page; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 679 words


THE Government's anti-terrorist bill will receive the Royal Assent today after a
gruelling passage through both Lords and Commons that generated new levels of
mistrust towards Tony Blair's style of government.

Completion of the Criminal Justice (Terrorism and Conspiracy) Bill within 48
hours of its publication is likely to trigger the arrest of suspected members of
newly-proscribed republican organisations on both side of the Irish border, in
line with even tougher legislation passed by the Irish parliament.

After the bill cleared a 16-hour Commons session at 6.50am yesterday, peers of
all parties set about repeating their elected colleagues' questions and
complaints about the speed and the global scope of the measure. A bid to
postpone detailed discussion for a week failed to win support.

The bill got its second reading in the Lords at about 9pm, without a vote. Peers
then went on to the committee stage line-by-line consideration of the measure.

The Tory spokesman in the Lords, Lord Henley, said he had misgivings about the
bill but backed it for the sake of the peace process, as did the Liberal
Democrats' elder statesman, Lord Holme.

It could have been managed in "a more measured way," said Lord Holme after a
protest by his party chief whip, Lord Harris, aide to Lord Jenkins, who as Home
Secretary in 1974 put the original anti-terrorist package through Parliament
after 19 died in Birmingham.

"We are asked to give the executive almost absolute power to put the legislation
on the statute book without detailed debate in the normal manner," said Lord
Harris.  Lord Cranborne, Tory leader in the Lords, expressed "deep unease" and
said the bill had been introduced in an "extraordinary hurried and ill-prepared
way".

Some of the MPs who had condemned the Goverment's approach took comfort
yesterday from a pledge by the Home Secretary, Jack Straw, to speed up the
introduction of taped police interviews in Northern Ireland. Mr Straw also
accepted Opposition calls for an annual report to Parliament on the bill's
effect.

Lord Holme and his fellow Lib Dem, Lord Russell, were outraged that ministers
had "tagged on" to the Irish component of the bill measures to make it easier to
convict those conspiring in Britain to commit terrorist acts elsewhere in the
world. The measures were cast so widely "they could destroy Britain's reputation
as a home for liberal groups in exile from authoritarian governments", Lord
Holme said.

A bid to remove this clause from the bill was defeated in the Commons by 220
votes to 24, and the bill was then given an unopposed third reading.

Ministers again insisted there was a "clear and present danger" - not only in
relation to Northern Ireland but in light of the Islamic bombing atrocities in
Africa and American retaliation.  But Lord Holme insisted: "The timing is
disreputable. It is as if the Home Office thought it could push something
through in populist haste which really requires careful consideration at
leisure."

The former Ulster Unionist leader Lord Molyneaux of Killead (Ind) cautioned
peers against regarding the Real IRA, which carried out the Omagh bombing, as a
tiny rump. He said the group, which had not been penetrated by the security
forces, could be every bit as deadly as the body to which its members formerly
belonged.

The Bishop of Hereford, the Rt Rev John Oliver, said he understood the desire to
take all possible steps against terrorist groups, but the bill raised ethical
questions about civil liberties and human rights.

The Tory former Northern Ireland Secretary, Lord Mayhew of Twysden, acknowledged
that the Government had come under "overwhelming pressure" to bring forward
legislation after the Omagh bombing.

He supported much of the Bill but warned that parts of it were "law that may
turn out to be dangerous law".

* The Irish Republic's toughest-yet clampdown on terrorism formally became law
last night after the legislation was approved without a vote by the senate, the
upper house of the Irish parliament.


LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              488 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               September 4, 1998

Robertson pledges robust action on terrorism

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 331 words


Terrorists - the "modern storm-troopers of hate" - must pay a severe price for
their crimes, Defence Secretary George Robertson demanded last night.

The perpetrators of violent crime across the world had to be "relentlessly
pursued" and it was crucial to take "robust action" against them, he said.

At the 40th annual conference of the International Institute of Strategic
Studies at Oxford University, Mr Robertson delivered a blistering attack on the
men and women whose actions "reach out from havens far from international
policemen".

And, as Parliament continued to debate tough new legislation to stamp out
terrorist attacks in the wake of the Omagh bomb, Mr Robertson said: "It requires
little imagination to contemplate the inevitable, yet horrifying consequences if
today's vicious terrorist organisations thought they could slaughter and maim
and face no more than anguished paralysis from the decent world community."

He told the conference: "Terrorism requires a multi-faceted response. The
atrocities of this last bloody month in Nairobi, Dar-es-Salaam, Cape Town and
Omagh demonstrated clearly the savage and indiscriminate suffering that
terrorist attacks can cause.

"Governments must act robustly and decisively where there are known and explicit
and direct threats to innocent citizens on the one hand, or to initiatives for
peace, like the democratically-endorsed Northern Ireland peace process on the
other."

The Defence Secretary said military options must be taken where right and
appropriate.

"Terrorists must not be allowed to strike with impunity," he added. "We must
always ensure that our responses are within the rule of law and consistent with
the values of democracy."

That had been the context for the emergency legislation introduced in Britain
and Ireland this week and why the US Government placed its actions against
terrorist sites in Afghanistan and Sudan in the context of Article 51 of the UN
Charter, he said.

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1998 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              489 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           September 4, 1998, Friday

Parliament & Politics: Lords attack on 'rushed' terror Bill

BYLINE: Sarah Schaefer Parliamentary Reporter

SECTION: NEWS; Page 8

LENGTH: 912 words


THE GOVERNMENT'S emergency anti-terror legislation was set to become law today
despite further attacks by peers about the lack of time to consider the measures
with proper scrutiny.

While peers broadly supported the Criminal Justice (Terrorism and Conspiracy)
Bill, they warned during a Lords debate last night that the legislation could
contravene the European Convention on Human Rights.

Peers followed MPs in complaining about ministers' insistence to push the Bill
on to the statute book in less than 48 hours, but agreed to pass it in one
session.

The measures, drafted in the wake of the terrorist atrocities in Omagh, Nairobi
and Dar es Salaam, are mirrored by legislation passed in the Dail, Ireland's
Lower House.

The Bill will make it easier to prosecute people for membership of outlawed
terrorist groups - the Real IRA, which claimed responsibility for the Omagh
massacre, the Continuity IRA, the INLA and the LVF. It will also outlaw UK-based
groups that conspire to commit offences abroad.

Leading the protests in the Lords against the Government's timetable, the
Liberal Democrat chief whip, Lord Harris of Greenwich, said: "We are invited to
abandon our role as a revising Chamber.

"We are asked to give the executive almost absolute power to put the legislation
on the statute book without detailed debate in the normal manner."

The Opposition peers' leader, Viscount Cranborne, joined the protest, voicing
"deep unease" about the manner in which the Bill had been introduced.

Lord Cranborne said the "extraordinarily hurried and unprepared way" it had been
brought in was evident in its drafting and called for reassurances about being
able to review the legislation later to ensure it was in good order.

Labour's Lord Stoddart of Swindon said there was absolutely no reason why the
Bill's clause dealing with conspiracy to commit crimes abroad needed to be
introduced with this Bill. He said: "We understand the need to have legislation
to deal with terrorism, but it should be the right legislation and correct
legislation that will do good."

Responding, the Leader of the House of Lords, Baroness Jay of Paddington,
promised that Parliament would have the opportunity to review the Bill on an
annual basis and assured peers that the Government's Chief Whip was already
looking at the issue of dealing with emergency legislation.

"We take these matters very seriously and the substantive points raised will be
addressed," she said.

Peers then approved without a vote the Government's motion to enable the Bill to
go through the Lords in just one sitting.

Opening the Bill's second reading debate, the Home Office minister Lord Williams
of Mostyn reminded critics of the legislation that it had been created in
response to the murders in Omagh and to the "clear and present danger" of
terrorism.

The Bill, aimed to stop terrorist groups from derailing the Good Friday
Agreement, makes admissible in court the opinion of a senior police officer that
an individual is a member of such groups, allows a suspect's failure to answer
questions to be be taken into account, and gives the police the power to seize
their property.

The Liberal Democrat spokesman on Northern Ireland, Lord Holme of Cheltenham,
said the Bill could have been introduced in a "more measured way".

The Bishop of Hereford, the Rt Rev John Oliver, said the Government's failure
over the past two years to introduce audiotaping of police interviews in
Northern Ireland proved that the Bill was "fraught with danger".

But the former Ulster Unionist Leader, Lord Molyneaux of Killead, warned that
the Real IRA was as deadly as the body to which they formerly belonged.  He
stressed that the renegade republican group had transferred much of its weaponry
from the IRA and warned that it was likely to have built up a formidable armoury
by early next year. "I cannot regard the Bill as totally adequate to contain
such a threat," he said.

Lord Lloyd of Berwick, one of Britain's most senior law lords and the judge
chosen to review the law on terrorism in 1996, said that Bill would contribute
nothing to the fight against terrorism. He added that any conviction that
stemmed from the Bill would not stand up in the European Court of Justice. "No
judge anywhere in the world could convict solely on the say so of a police
officer."

Lord Lloyd added that even Lord Diplock had considered and rejected the idea of
drawing inferences from a suspect's silence, as long ago as 1973.

Lord Mayhew of Twysden, the former Secretary of State for Northern Ireland,
acknowledged that there had been "overwhelming pressure" on the Government to
introduce anti-terrorist legislation after the Omagh bombing.  "But we have to
be careful that this Bill does not turn out to be dangerous law," he said.

He opposed the power to allow the Home Secretary to overrule the Attorney
General's refusal to prosecute a case, claiming "I find that quite
extraordinary".

Lord Avebury, former chairman of the all-party human rights group at
Westminster, tabled amendments opposing the entire conspiracy abroad provisions.

Earl Russell urged for a restriction of the conspiracy provisions to countries
which have free and fair elections.

"Moral outrage, however justified, confers no dispensation from the immutable
law of politics, that measures must be capable of producing the desired effect,"
he said.


LOAD-DATE: September 04, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1998 Independent Print Ltd

                              490 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           September 7, 1998, Monday

LIBYA'S 'NO' TO PAN AM TERROR TRIAL;
 COLONEL GADDAFI REJECTS LOCKERBIE TRIAL IN HOLLAND

BYLINE: Louise Anderson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1, 2

LENGTH: 362 words


LIBYAN leader Colonel Gaddafi has said "No" to a trial of the Lockerbie bomb
suspects in Holland.

But yesterday, the Scots lawyer representing the pair said reports that Gaddafi
has rejected out of hand the British and American offer should be taken with a
pinch of salt.

The Libyan leader is said to have rejected the proposal that Abdel Basset Ali
al-Megrahi and Lamen Khalifa Fhimah - who are accused of the 1988 bombing of the
Pan Am jet which killed 270 people - are tried in the Hague.

In what is thought by some to be a bargaining ploy, Gaddafi has accused Britain
and the US, of trying to use Holland as "a transit point" in the case.

Edinburgh lawyer Alistair Duff yesterday said Colonel Gaddafi's comments
highlighted concerns from within Libya over some aspects of the agreement to
hold the trial in the Hague.

Mr Duff said: "It sounds to me as if he is saying that in principle the idea of
a trial in the Hague is not unacceptable, but that there needs to be clear
guarantees and assurances about the risk of extradition - passing the two
accused on to some other country once they are in The Hague."

Gaddafi, speaking in

Tripoli, said: "We are prepared to go tomorrow to the Netherlands, provided that
the Netherlands is the last stop in case of acquittal or conviction."

Mr Duff added that he and the suspects' defence team had not rejected the offer
out of hand, but also had some concerns.

He is due to fly to Libya this week and said the Libyans will be looking for
assurances on extradition before the two men will decide whether the package as
a whole is acceptable.

Dr Jim Swire, speaking from Skye on behalf of the victims' families, said: "It
sounds to me as if the Libyans are looking in some depth at what's on offer.

"In some ways this is an encouraging thing."

He added: "They have realised that if their citizens are found guilty under
Scottish Law they would serve life imprisonment in a Scottish prison."

Dr Swire, whose daughter was killed in the crash, added: "I would have no truck
with anyone who suggested anything other than those men, if found guilty,
serving their sentences in Scotland."

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: REJECTED: Gaddafi

                            Copyright 1998 MGN Ltd.

                              491 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 8, 1998

Comment: Democracy at work;
Unreported in the small hours, the genuine experts in the Lords turned up their
noses at Blair's Terror Bill last week - but then nodded it through

BYLINE: ANDREW ROTH

SECTION: The Guardian Features Page; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 754 words


THERE were twelve hours of virtually unreported overnight debate in the Lords
last week on the "emergency" Terror Bill, now law. What was said by those peers
was remarkable.

Lord (Patrick) Mayhew, Attorney General before becoming John Major's Northern
Ireland Secretary 1992-97, insisted: "We are invited to make law which may turn
out to be dangerous and therefore bad law, and for a purpose which will not be
achieved in practice . . . People ought not to be convicted on hearsay evidence
backed by straws in the wind.

"A judge could prefer the evidence of a senior police officer simply because he
was a senior police officer. That would be human, but not exactly judicial." He
preferred to reinstate the power to intern.

Lord Bridge of Harwich, the judge who put away the Birmingham Six for 16 years,
until the convictions were overturned, said: "Perhaps that makes me unduly
sensitive about the possibility of miscarriages of justice . . . I retain a
sense of unease about the provision in the Bill that would make the opinion of a
senior police officer, that a man charged with membership of a prescribed
organisation, is such a member admissible in evidence."

The Law Lord who overturned the Birmingham Six convictions, Lord Lloyd of
Berwick, Chairman of the Security Commission, who produced a report in 1996 on
anti-terrorist measures at the request of the then Home Secretary, Michael
Howard, said: "I just do not see how it could work. A police officer's opinion
is worth only what his sources will support. If he simply says, 'That is my
opinion', that is worth nothing in a court of law.

"No judge in Northern Ireland - no judge anywhere in the world - will be
convinced beyond reasonable doubt on the say-so of a policeman . . . that is why
I say that there will not be any convictions as a result." This ridicule was
strongly supported by Liberal Democrat peers Holme, Russell, Wallace, Thomas of
Gresford and Lord Avebury, voice of Amnesty International, who predicted the
legislation would be overturned in the European Court.

Lord (Peter) Archer of Sandwell, Labour's own former Solicitor General 1974-79
and Chairman of the British Section of Amnesty 1971-74, derided the legislation
as a "charade".  New peer Baroness (Helen) Kennedy, who appeared in many of the
leading Irish cases during her 15 years at the Bar, warned: "To change the rules
(of evidence) because we are dealing with people we abhor is to corrode the
system for us all."

ALTHOUGH referred to delicately as "a present to offer to President Clinton when
he arrives in Belfast" (Lord Hylton), there was widespread fury at the
piggybacking of clauses aimed at international terrorists, fraudsters and drug
-runners onto the Bill.

Ministers half-admitted they were trying to appease Washington by saying ten
times as many people had been killed in the Nairobi bombing of the US embassy as
in Omagh.

The clauses were difficult to defend because they were hastily and clumsily
adapted from Tory MP Nigel Waterson's 1996 Private Member's Bill against
international terrorists. That had the backing of both frontbenches but fell
because the Tory Whips could not round up a quorum.

In response to the anti-US bombings, the Home Office broadened the international
conspiracy clauses to apply to drug dealers and fraudsters. But they narrowed
its impact by requiring the Attorney General's authority to prosecute.

Peer after peer attacked the clauses.  Past support for the ANC was cited, with
its 'terrorist' attacks on electricity pylons. Peers also cited their past
backing for Kurdish (Avebury), Sudanese (Avebury, Cox), and Kosovo
insurrectionaries. Lord Hylton mentioned his help for the breakaway dissidents
of Ngorno-Karabakh, Trans-Dneistra, the Chechens and Abkhasia.

There was no mention of the role of Tory ex MP Winston Churchill in providing
missiles for the Afghan rebels against Soviet occupation.

Labour's Lord Kennet, often a strong critic of Washington, recalled how the
CIA's "terrorists" had laid mines in a Nicaraguan harbour in the 80s, sinking a
British ship. Lord Desai, who spent August in Islamabad, warned that the
international conspiracy clauses identified Britain with the US policies loathed
by the Muslim world.

Despite such widespread and pointed opposition, because no one wanted to throw a
spanner in the Irish peace process, the legislation was passed without a vote.

Andrew Roth's Parliamentary Profiles; the new A-D section, is published this
week.


LOAD-DATE: September 9, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              492 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Nottingham Evening Post

                               September 8, 1998

World and national news

SECTION: World And National News, Pg.8

LENGTH: 1673 words


Terrorists say 'no ceasefire'

THE prospects of a ceasefire by the one remaining active group of Irish
Republican terrorists remained doubtful today.

A group called the Continuity IRA contacted Dublin's Irish Times yesterday and
said it would not be laying down its arms.

The group also said it carried out an attack on the Northern Ireland security
forces in Armagh at the weekend.

The announcement came shortly before the group which bombed Omagh - the Real IRA
- announced a ceasefire.

The Continuity IRA member who spoke to the Irish Times said "the struggle goes
on" when asked if the organisation was considering a ceasefire.

The caller, who used a recognised codeword, said his group had fired on a Royal
Ulster Constabulary vehicle in Armagh last Friday.

And he said there would be further attacks "on British crown forces".

The RUC later said it had no record of any attacks on its vehicles and none had
been in the area of the alleged incident at the time.

Opposed

Although the position of the Continuity IRA could change in the light of overall
developments, security personnel fear it could attract members of the Real IRA
opposed to that group's ceasefire.

The ceasefire only came after a bitter debate within the group, and some of its
more hardline activists are unhappy.

Irish police today said they would continue to monitor the movements of all
known sympathisers of the breakaway faction.

So far, however, there have been no major moves against the dissidents under the
terms of tough new anti-terror legislation rushed through the British and Irish
parliaments last week.

The Government welcomed the Real IRA ceasefire but said police would still
pursue the Omagh bombers.

In a statement the Northern Ireland Office said: "We welcome any ceasefire,
including that of the Real IRA, providing that it is complete and unequivocal.

"We shall be watching carefully to see if the ceasefire is matched by word and
deed.

"As the Taoiseach (Bertie Ahern) said last week, the Real IRA needs not just to
talk but to convince the Irish people that their violence is at an end for good.

"The police will continue to seek those responsible for the Omagh atrocity and
other crimes."

In Omagh, the ceasefire was greeted with wholehearted relief.

Joe Byrne, the town's SDLP councillor, said: "All I can say is thank God that at
long last the people involved in the Real IRA have called a ceasefire."

Blair's 'supernurses' bid

Tony Blair will today unveil his proposal for new "consultant" nurses, who could
be paid more than their colleagues, and might have their own clinics and patient
lists.

The Prime Minister hopes to counter the problem of nurses hitting a ceiling in
their profession, above which the only way they can get promotion or increase
their pay is by going into management.

Under his proposal, a new career path would open up for nurses who want to carry
on looking after patients. The aim is to encourage retention of experienced
staff.

Mr Blair will also announce plans today for 15,000 extra nurses - about 2,000 in
place by April - and 6,000 more training places over the next three years.

Speaking at the Nurse of the Year awards, he will also announce an extra GBP 60m
in the year 1999/2000 on top of GBP 800m already set aside for training.

'Spice' baby boom fears

A WAVE of teenage pregnancies could sweep the country as youngsters copy the
Spice Girls, a teachers' leader warned today.

Judith Mullen, new president of the Secondary Heads Association, fears girls may
decide to get pregnant because of publicity surrounding mothers-to-be Posh and
Scary.

Mrs Mullen feared there could be "a generation of Spice babies born to teenage
mothers".

But she said politicians were partly to blame, accusing Labour and the Tories of
over-emphasising exam results.

"There are a lot of young women whose self-esteem has been knocked because they
don't feel they have achieved the magic five A* to C grades at GCSE," she said.

"For some, pregnancy might be a way of feeling success."

Mrs Mullen is warden of Melbourn Village College in south Cambridgeshire.

The missing minutes

The flight-data recorder recovered by divers near the wreckage of Swissair
Flight 111 contains no information for the final crucial minutes before the
crash.

The setback offset good news when a Canadian navy submarine detected a signal
from the plane's other "black box" - the cockpit-voice recorder.

Chief crash investigator Vic Gerden said the recorder retrieved on Sunday was in
good condition and should provide more than 100 types of information.

But there was no data for at least six minutes before the jet plunged into the
ocean off the Nova Scotia coast last Wednesday, killing all 229 people aboard.

Gerden said recording stopped once the plane dipped below 10,000ft.

It was a strong possibility the plane lost electrical power at that stage.

Meanwhile, the plane's manufacturer acknowledged that much of the plane's wiring
was insulated with aromatic polyimide tape, known by the trade name Kapton,
which has been banned from use in US Navy planes - because of its poor
performance, reported Air Safety week.

The Geneva-bound Swissair plane crashed 16 minutes after the pilots reported
smoke in the cockpit and decided to attempt an emergency landing more than an
hour after leaving New York's Kennedy International Airport.

Tug sinks

A FIRE service diving team was today searching for a crewman missing after a
tugboat capsized in a harbour at Milford Haven, Pembrokeshire. A major rescue
operation was launched. The alarm was raised when the tug Trijnie heeled over
and sank about 200 yards from the quay while towing an oil vessel.

Star's son dies

A son of leading Irish golfer Christy O'Connor Jnr was one of three men killed
in a road crash last night. Darren O'Connor, 17, died in a collision between a
car and a four-wheel drive vehicle near Galway, in the Irish Republic.

Press funeral

The funeral of press baron Lord Rothermere was being held today at St Bride's,
in Fleet Street, London. The proprietor of the Daily Mail, Mail on Sunday and
the London Evening Standard, died last week aged 73.

Dated teaching

Britain has a sixth form and university education system that is in need of
urgent reform, says one of the UK's leading scientists, Prof Colin Blakemore,
president of the British Association for the Advancement of Science. He says
Britain is still working within a further and higher education framework shaped
in the 1940s.

Union boost

Women and black workers are to be given an extra voice in the giant Transport
and General Workers' Union with an extra six seats on the executive for women
and an extra seat for black workers.

Fagged out?

Britain is leading the world in the war against disease and death caused by
smoking. Over the past 25 years, the number of middle-aged British men and women
killed each year by tobacco has been halved from 80,000 to 40,000, said Richard
Peto, professor of medical statistics at the Imperial Cancer Research Fund's
unit at Oxford University.

Cleaning up

Friends of the Earth have backed plans for European law to force electrical
manufacturers to clean up broken or unwanted goods. EU recycling experts meeting
in Brussels are drafting the proposals.

Cyber backchat

Conscious computers which talk to - and even argue with - their owners will be
common in 40 years, says Prof Igor Aleksander, a leading expert in artificial
intelligence at Imperial College London today.

Antarctic blow

The whirlpool-like wind in the stratosphere above the South Pole is very strong
this year, threatening a large "ozone hole," say the World Meteorological
Organisation.

Jets strike

Israeli jets twice attacked suspected guerrilla hideouts in southern Lebanon,
today. Lebanese officials said in the first raid two Israeli jets each fired an
air-to-surface rocket on targets in the hills between the villages of Mlita and
Louweizeh in the Iqlim al-Tuffah province. Two jets returned to fire a rocket on
Louweizeh. In Israel, the army said air force planes attacked "terror bases"
scoring "precise hits" and returning safely to base.

Disaster alert

UNITED Nations agencies today appealed for GBP 32m to help refugees fleeing
fighting in Kosovo. The UN High Commissioner for Refugees and other UN relief
agencies say more than 400,000 people are expected to need help through the
winter. Sub-zero temperatures are expected to take hold in October and continue
until March or April. The agencies warned of a humanitarian catastrophe in the
province.

Six shot

SIX people were shot dead by "two kids wearing bandanas" who barged into their
homes, police said today. The suspects entered the luxury home in Aurora,
Colorado, and shot dead a woman and two teenagers. More victims were found at a
nearby house.

Death sentence

SEVEN people were sentenced to death for their involvement in a kidnapping ring
that snatched 110 women and two children. The High Court in south-eastern
Fujian, China, province ordered the seven to be executed shortly after
sentencing. Most of the victims were sold as wives.

Poison attack

A SCHOOLGIRL has admitted poisoning a 15-year-old boy in Japan. The girl, whose
name was not disclosed, admitted filling vials marked "diet medicine" with a
poisonous disinfectant and sending them to students and to a teacher in her
school.

Jobless down

THE German jobless rate has fallen again but not below the magic 4 million mark
Chancellor Kohl was hoping for before this month's general election. The
unemployment rate sank to 10.6%, or 4.10 million, in August, from 10.7%.

Fatal fall

A TOURIST fell to his death from a lookout at the Grand Canyon in Arizona. Gyula
Tamas Szakallas, 32, of Budapest, Hungary, fell 300ft at Bright Angel Point.

Rower rescued

US rower Tori Murden was picked up by a cargo ship when Hurricane Danielle
wrecked her chances of crossing the Atlantic.  Murden had less than 1,000 miles
of the ocean to cross when her boat was capsized 11 times by the hurricane.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: FLOOD FIGHT: Workers from the Dhaka embankment protection department
use sand bags to try to save the city from flood water. A devastating flood has
already claimed more than 800 lives and is affecting 30 million people in
Bangladesh

                     Copyright 1998 Nottingham Evening Post

                              493 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                          September 9, 1998, Wednesday

FEARS THAT LATEST CEASEFIRE MAY SPAWN SPLINTER GROUP

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 720 words


THE REAL IRA ceasefire leaves just one republican group still active, the small
- and at present relatively ineffectual - Continuity IRA.

But amid the relief that the Real IRA has called a permanent halt there was some
concern that their ceasefire could spawn yet another breakaway group.

Another fear among security personnel on both sides of the border is that any
Real IRA members still opposed to the peace process will centre themselves
around the Continuity IRA.

Throughout the history of militant republicanism there have always been active
armed terror groups. Splits have constantly created new groups and one ceasefire
after another has almost inevitably spawned the emergence of a new organisation
dedicated to continuing "the war" to see Britain forced out of Ireland.

Security forces on both sides of the border will now keep a close watch on known
terrorists to try and ensure the Continuity IRA does not take up the mantle .

It is believed by security sources that the Continuity IRA at present have a
membership of only a score or so.

But just hours before the Real IRA called their ceasefire the Continuity IRA
contacted a Dublin newspaper declaring their fight would continue.

They said "the struggle goes on" and said there would be further attacks on
"British crown forces". A caller, using a recognised code word, claimed
responsibility for a gun attack on an RUC Land Rover in Armagh last Friday.

The RUC, however, said it had no record of any such attack taking place.

The group has carried out small bomb attacks in Belfast and more successful
attacks in Co Fermanagh where they destroyed the Killyhevlin Hotel at
Enniskillen in 1996 and a nightclub in the town in January this year.

When the Northern Ireland violence broke out in 1969 there was just one
republican group - the Official IRA, descendants of the organisation that had
fought the British down the decades.

But by early 1970 a split in the ranks gave birth to the Provisional IRA which
swiftly took on the mantle of the main republican group. The Official IRA called
a ceasefire in 1972 and with the exception of occasional inter -republican feuds
has been largely inactive since.

In 1975 the Irish National Liberation Army was set up, its initial strength
drawn from within the old Official IRA and from members in the ranks of the
Provisional IRA opposed to a short-lived ceasefire that year.

The group quickly gained a reputation for ruthlessness. It carried out the
murder of Conservative shadow Northern Ireland Secretary Airey Neave with a
booby trap bomb in the House of Commons car park in 1979 and the 1982 Droppin'
Well pub bombing in Ballykelly, Co Londonderry, in which 17 died, 11 off-duty
soldiers and six local people.

Many years of internal feuding and power struggles resulted in numerous deaths
and left the group largely inactive.

Last December it was INLA men in the Maze Prison who shot dead LVF leader Billy
Wright sparking weeks of bitter sectarian killing that nearly brought the peace
process to its knees. They finally called a ceasefire last month.

The Provisional IRA ceasefire of 1994 led to the emergence of the Continuity
IRA. It was set up as the reputed military wing of the splinter political group
Republican Sinn Fein, which broke away from the mainstream movement in 1986.

They were opposed to Gerry Adams' decision to lead Sinn Fein in the more
political direction that eventually led to the ceasefire and the current peace
process.

The Provisional IRA's latest ceasefire, called in July last year, led within
months to the emergence of the Real IRA.

Four months after the ceasefire, and with Gerry Adams inside the peace talks
process, a group of hardliners walked out of the IRA to continue the armed
struggle. They included the IRA's quartermaster with access to weapons and
explosives and a number of skilled bomb-makers.

Before carrying out the Omagh bombing, the worst single atrocity in the bloody
history of Northern Ireland violence, they were involved in a series of attacks
along the border.

Markethill, Portadown and Newtownhamilton in Co Armagh, as well as neighbouring
Moira and Banbridge in Co Down, were all devastated in a wave of bombings this
year, although miraculously no-one was killed until Omagh.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SCENE OF DEVASTATION: the Omagh bombing was the worst single atrocity
in Ulster's bloody history

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1998 Century Newspapers Limited

                              494 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                     September 10, 1998, Thursday Edition 1

World roound-up

SECTION: INTERNATIONAL NEWS, Pg. 18

LENGTH: 326 words


   CANADA: Former world boxing champion Jake LaMotta - the Raging Bull - has
filed a £30m lawsuit against airlines and aircraft manufacturers after the death
of his son in the Nova Scotia air disaster.

UNITED STATES: A microbiologist who had been recently caught in an international
child pornography raid has been found dead in his bath with his wrists slashed.
Heinz Schaeffers, 35, of New Britain, Connecticut,was one those arrested in last
week in co-ordinated police raids around the world, including Britain.

ISRAEL: The empty seat on the flight to Paris revealed what the security check,
the short bus ride and the trip down the airplane aisle had not - an Israeli
couple had forgotten their two-and-a-half-year-old girl during a shopping spree
at Jerusalem's Ben Gurion International Airport's duty free stores. The family
was reunited in time to leave on schedule for its holiday

BANGLADESH: Disaster officials are preparing to evacuate 600,000 people from the
outskirts of Dhaka, fearing collapse of an embankment protecting the capital
from rising floodwaters. Half the capital is already under knee-deep water.

FINLAND: Thousands of minks caused havoc on roads after they were released from
a fur farm in the early hours of the morning. Police believe that animal rights
activists were behind the action.

INDONESIA: Opposition leaders vowed to intensify mass protests against strongman
Hun Sen, even as riot police shot Buddhist monks and used clubs, guns and water
cannon to scatter rock-throwing demonstrators demanding his overthrow.

UKRAINE: Rejected by its natural parents, a newly-born tiger in a Ukrainian zoo
is being raised by a stray dog that treats the cub as a puppy.

FRANCE: French police have arrested a German believed to be a former accomplice
of Carlos the Jackal and wanted for a bloody 1975 terror attack. Hans-Joachim
Klein, 50, is wanted for a 1975 attack against Opec oil ministers in Vienna.

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 1998 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              495 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                      September 11, 1998, Friday Edition 1

First terrorists freed from jail - Seven are released under Ulster peace pact
deal

BYLINE: By RUTH O'REILLY

SECTION: BRITAIN TONIGHT, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 401 words


   SEVEN paramilitary prisoners were being released from Ulster jails today to
mark the start of the two-year programme to release all terrorist inmates.

They were three unidentified republicans and three loyalists held in the Maze,
near Lisburn, and one held in Magilligan jail in Co. Londonderry.

They were being freed early under the Tony Blair/Gerry Adams Good Friday peace
pact, which guaranteed freedom by summer in the year 2000 for the groups on
ceasefire at the time the agreement was reached.

Threat

More that 400 inmates affiliated to the IRA, Ulster Defence Association and
Ulster Volunteer Force qualify for accelerated release, the vast majority being
in the Maze.

Other inmates involved are in Maghaberry prison, near the Maze, and Magilligan.

Up to 200 are expected to be freed by the end of October and most of the rest
will probably be out by Christmas, according to the Sentence Review Commission,
set up to process the releases.

That will leave only a handful of terrorists in Northern Ireland's jails
affiliated to the Irish National Liberation Army and the Loyalist Volunteer
Force which declared ceasefires after the agreement.

The subject of early releases is easily the most emotive part of the pact, with
anti-agreement campaigners branding it a sop to terrorism and claiming it will
increase the threat to public safety.

People bereaved and injured in paramilitary attacks have also protested that
those responsible for their suffering are escaping justice for the sake of
political expediency.

Among those set for release in coming months are UFF commander Johnny "Mad Dog"
Adair; cemetery killer Michael Stone, and Brighton bomber Patrick Magee.

Sean Kelly, whose bomb attack on Belfast's Shankill road five years ago killed
nine Protestants, and Harry Maguire, convicted of killing two Army corporals at
an IRA funeral in 1988, are also to be freed.

The Government has set up a telephone hotline for victims which is to run in
parallel with the scheme.

Under the Early Release Information programme, relatives of those killed or
injured can find out when the perpetrator will be freed.

Today's releases also herald the closure of Northern Ireland's infamous Maze
prison, which houses an exclusively paramilitary prisoner population.

It is to be rapidly run down over the next two years, possibly ending its life
as a museum.

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PEACE MAKERS - Tony Blair and Gerry Adams

                Copyright 1998 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              496 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 11, 1998

Defence review 'puts UK at risk'

BYLINE: MICHAEL WHITE POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: The Guardian Home Page; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 383 words


THE Government's Strategic Defence Review has concentrated so much on the role
of global policeman that it has failed to address the growing threat of
terrorist attack against Britain, MPs warned last night.

Weeks after the United States Secretary of State, Madeleine Albright, warned
that terrorism, hostage taking, chemical and biological warfare would be "the
war of the future", the all-party Commons defence select committee warned that
the Ministry of Defence has "ignored the questions of protection against such
weapons, of troops at home and . . . protection of the civilian population."

The committee chairman, Labour's Bruce George, last night called them
asymmetrical threats in which crude weapons and tactics are "what the weak may
chose to deploy against the strong" - a clear reference to the Osama bin Laden's
declared aims to attack the US and its allies.

In the committee's report on the strategic review of defence needs - published
in July before the Islamic bombings in Africa and the US retaliation - the MPs
praise Defence Secretary George Robertson's sweeping vision of the post-cold war
world but suggest it may be "too outward-looking".

The MoD's concern for protection against biological and chemical weapons has
been confined to the needs of expeditionary forces envisaged to tackle local
crises, leaving the risk that strategic nuclear weapons could be "our only, or
our first, line of defence against such threats".

The select committee admits that choices had to be made with a declining defence
budget, but says the review's foreign-policy orientation means that "it may have
led to the neglect of certain aspects of the fundamental duty of the defence of
the UK's territory, its constitution and way of life".

In particular, it condemns plans for swingeing cuts to the Territorial Army as
"shortsighted". The review called for the TA to be cut from 59,000 to 40,000. It
urges ministers to think again.

The report admits the Soviet collapse has dramatically reduced any threat to the
UK, and says it would take 10 years for a rightwing nationalistic Russia to
rebuild its military might. Yet Nazi Germany took only six years to move from
bankruptcy to becoming "a force capable of unleashing political chaos and the
havoc of war".


LOAD-DATE: September 12, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              497 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               September 11, 1998

Meeting marks rapid progress in Ulster;Leaders swop compliments and stress
commitment to new era of peace

BYLINE: Denis Campbell;Political Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 628 words


NORTHERN Ireland's rapid emergence from its political Jurassic Park was
highlighted yesterday by the first face-to-face meeting between the leaders of
Ulster Unionism and Irish republicanism.

Mr David Trimble and Mr Gerry Adams met, talked, said nice things about each
other, and stressed their commitment to making the new era of peace benefit
everyone in the North.

Both described their get-together as cordial and constructive.

Mr Trimble, the Ulster Unionist Party leader and Northern Ireland's inaugural
First Minister, said meeting his long-time enemy had proved "civilised and
workmanlike". For years, he had refused to even acknowledge, much less talk to,
his republican counterpart.

For his part, Mr Adams, who leads Sinn Fein, was just as enthusiastic. "He's a
man who I can do business with, he's a man I have to do business with," said the
republican leader. "We are now dealing with the crisis in the way it should be
dealt with - by direct dialogue."

Recognising the historic nature of the encounter, Mr Adams continued: "I put it
to Mr Trimble that he and I had been cast in these positions and we had to
narrow the gap. We had to find ways for him to help me and me to help him."

Although there was no handshake - Mr Trimble believes such a symbolic gesture is
still premature - both men spoke the language of reconciliation and compromise.
The handshake, which some thought might happen before President Clinton's visit
to Northern Ireland last week, will occur some time soon.

After yesterday, meetings between the two men, whose parties both have a
significant number of MPs in the new Assembly, will gradually become
commonplace. "Given the mood of the two men, it won't be long before we see them
together in public," predicted one senior republican source.

Committee room 120 at Stormont's Parliament Buildings was the venue where Mr
Trimble and Mr Adams conducted their discussions. It was a private meeting,
however, and no television cameras actually recorded the two men working
together.

The UUP leader said he had impressed on Mr Adams the need for progress on the
vexed issue of decommissioning paramilitary weapons. Mr Trimble had previously
refused to meet the Sinn Fein leader until the IRA had started surrendering its
arsenal.

Mr Adams repeated his stock response when questioned on the issue: that Sinn
Fein itself had no guns and only the Provos had arms and guns to give up.

The meeting, which served as yet another reminder of the remarkable speed of
progress being made in Northern Ireland, came as it was confirmed troops were
being withdrawn from the streets of Belfast because of the greatly-reduced
terrorist threat.

Mr Paul Murphy, the Northern Ireland Political Development Minister, welcomed
the encounter: "Meetings like this can contribute to breaking down barriers
between the communities in Northern Ireland and will, I hope, lead to the
building of new relationships and structures."

Renewed controversy is expected today when the first round of terrorist
prisoners are freed as part of the Good Friday Agreement. Seven paramilitaries,
including three republicans and three loyalists, will walk out years before the
end of their sentences. One is a life prisoner.

Up to 200 inmates will be freed before the end of October, while around 400
prisoners in all will be let out gradually over the next two years.

Meanwhile, police chiefs from Britain, Northern Ireland, and the Irish Republic
met in Dublin yesterday for talks on the continuing threat posed by
anti-agreement republican terror groups. They viewed cautiously the total
ceasefire announced earlier this week by the Real IRA, which carried out last
month's Omagh bombing, killing 29 and injuring 200.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: First Minister David Trimble passes a statue of Lord Craigavon, the
first Prime Minister of Northern Ireland, at Stormont, yesterday, on his way to
meet Sinn Fein president Gerry Adams, who took a moment to ponder the historic
occasion.  Pictures: PA/Reuters

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1998 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              498 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                      September 11, 1998, Friday Edition 1

Army to pull out troops

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 248 words


   The army is set to pull troops out of Northern Ireland following a decision
to end military patrols in Belfast.

RUC Chief Constable Ronnie Flanagan said the ending of the patrols would
"ultimately" have an impact on the number of troops needed in the province.

But the Government said cut-backs were dependent on a continuing reduction in
the terrorist threat and capability - a clear sign they are looking for a
decommissioning of paramilitary weapons before major reductions in levels are
made.

Mr Flanagan insisted he was not involved in a "trade-off" between
demilitarisation and decommissioning.

The RUC Chief Constable announced the ending of patrols from the weekend because
of the significantly reduced terrorist threat.

However he said that in no way meant there was no threat and army patrols would
continue in other parts of the province.

But republicans swiftly attacked his announcement as "insufficient and
inadequate".

Mitchel McLaughlin, the Sinn Fein chairman, said the army should be immediately
withdrawn from Northern Ireland.

He added that the RUC was equally unacceptable to the nationalists and
republicans and should be taken out of their areas.

"With all but one of the armed groups on cessation there is now no excuse for
hilltop posts or other British/RUC military installations, or for British troops
in the north," he said.

The Army has returned 1,500 troops to their bases in Britain or Germany
following the peace accord.

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 1998 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              499 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               September 11, 1998

Army set to pull out the troops;
 JUST WEEKS AFTER OMAGH, ULSTER SEEMS SAFER

SECTION: News, Pg.13

LENGTH: 412 words


THE Army is set to pull troops out of Northern Ireland following a decision to
end military patrols in Belfast.

RUC Chief Constable Ronnie Flanagan said the ending of the patrols would
''ultimately'' have an impact on the numbers of troops needed in the province.

But the Government said last night cuts were dependent on a continuing reduction
in the terrorist threat and capability - a clear sign Ministers are looking for
a decommissioning of paramilitary weapons before major reductions in troop
levels.

Mr Flanagan insisted he was not involved in a ''trade-off'' between
demilitarisation and decommissioning as he announced the ending of patrols from
this weekend because of the significantly reduced terrorist threat.

But he said that in no way meant there was no threat and Army patrols would
continue in other parts of the province.

Republicans swiftly attacked his announcement as ''insufficient and
inadequate''.

Mitchel McLaughlin, the Sinn Fein chairman, said the Army should be withdrawn
immediately from Northern Ireland.

The RUC was equally unacceptable to the nationalists and republicans and should
be taken out of their areas.

He said: "With all but one of the armed groups on cessation there is now no
excuse for hilltop posts or other British/RUC military installations, or for
British troops in the north.''

The Chief Constable and the Army are keeping under active review the number of
troops needed in the province.

But Mr Flanagan said the security forces had to keep up their guard. It was only
a few weeks on from the worst terrorist atrocity in its history - the Real IRA
bombing of Omagh.

The Army currently has 17,000 troops in its Northern Ireland Command, but since
the ending of the parades disorder 1,500 have been returned to their bases in
Britain or Germany.

The Chief Constable was speaking at a Belfast news conference to launch his
annual report for 1997.

Mr Flanagan insisted that his security reduction in Belfast had nothing to do
with efforts to encourage IRA decommissioning, and said demilitarisation was a
security matter while decommissioning was a political matter. He was
operationally independent and ''there can be no trade-off. I have a duty to care
and protect the people''.

The Lord Mayor of Belfast, David Alderdice, welcomed the removal of troops from
the streets.

He said the move, coupled with the threat reduction, took the province closer to
lasting peace.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1998 Bristol United Press

                              500 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               September 14, 1998

Tony Blair and the brothers

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 762 words


MR Tony Blair has little love for trades unions, and still less for their
influence upon the Labour Party. One of his principal private objectives in
government is to weaken the historic bonds between Labour and the TUC as much as
he dares, in pursuit of his dream of redefining the allegiances of British
politics. The unions know all this, and thus there is unlikely to be much real
warmth for Mr Blair's administration at the TUC Conference which opens in
Blackpool today.

There will be plenty of grousing about manufacturing shutdowns in the north, the
gap between public and private sector pay, and the Government's dilution of the
Social Chapter. Mr Peter Mandelson's latest public remarks in his new role as
Trade and Industry Secretary will offer more encouragement to the CBI than to
the TUC, as he seeks to soothe employers' fears that Britain will swallow
European social and workplace legislation wholesale. Yet this Labour Government
is the only one the trades unions are going to get, and most of their leaders
grudgingly recognise that they must make the best of it, and count their
blessings. Mr Blair has done as little for the unions as he thinks as he dares,
without causing serious trouble within his own party.

But he has already given them concessions on employment legislation which
thoroughly alarm employers. It is all very well for Mr Gordon Brown - rightly,
in our view - to argue that the problems of British manufacturing industry stem
as much from poor productivity as from high interest rates.

We cannot too often remind ourselves that the French, for all their hopelessly
inefficient nationalized industries, are still more productive than the British.
But Mr Brown is a senior member of a government which has imposed further
burdens upon British industry, by making it harder and more expensive to sack
workers, introducing a minimum wage and now a maximum 48-hour week. In a
newspaper interview today, Mr Mandelson makes sympathetic noises to employers,
and shows no enthusiasm for increasing the consultative rights of factory
workforces. But the concessions already granted can only increase costs. If
government ministers tell the TUC the truth in Blackpool this week, the message
from New Labour will be: "We have paid all our political debts to the brothers,
and more. From here on, if you're serious about saving industrial jobs, you'll
help keep costs down and your own noses clean, instead of pleading for more
concessions that will make British manufacturing even less competitive." In the
real world, those things will be said behind closed doors, rather than in the
conference chamber. But the bottom line is that the unions today matter much
less to New Labour than does keeping the British economy on course, and the
middle classes happy. If the TUC's leaders look like getting in the way of those
objectives, they will find Mr Mandelson and his colleagues banging the door on
their fingers.

Ridiculous

RIDICULE and contempt are far more dangerous to leaders than hatred. After a
weekend of turmoil, President Clinton is exulting in opinion polls which suggest
that the American public still has little appetite for his impeachment. It is
too early to be sure, but there seems a real chance that he could survive in
office to the end of his term, two years hence, if no further major revelations
are forthcoming. Given the national mood, even the uncovering of another White
House intern or two may not sink him. But for the world at large, the prospect
is grim indeed. Since the inception of this presidency, the Clintons have seemed
to many people a tawdry pair. But from here on, with the Starr Report common
property around the globe, how can this President speak for his country without
inviting mockery and derision? His dignity and credibility are shot to pieces.
It is understandable that many people recoil from seeing the leader of the
world's only superpower destroyed by a dalliance with an exceptionally silly
young woman. But it is a grim outlook indeed, that the great political and
economic issues and crises of the next two years must be addressed by a man
rendered absurd in the eyes of people everywhere. It is widely believed that he
launched cruise missile attacks against alleged international terrorist centres,
to deflect attention from his own difficulties at home. Whatever he does at home
or abroad from here on in will be measured not against the demands of global
politics, but those of the Starr Report. He may survive, but he can never be
taken seriously again.


LOAD-DATE: September 16, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1998 Associated Newspapers Ltd.



---- End of Request ----
Download Request: Select Items: 1501 - 2000
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  21:01:38

